May 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Overly concrete Bengaluru is the reason behind record number of uprooted trees||Every time it rains, the immediate thoughts in any Bengalurean’s mind are waterlogging, fallen trees and related damage and power cuts. Well, maybe not in that exact order, but there is no denying that falling trees are a big worry, what with over 150 having been uprooted in different parts of the city due to heavy pre-monsoon rain and gusty winds in May alone. With the monsoon almost upon us and the Meteorological Department predicting more rains, environmentalists are concerned about road side trees, many of which may get uprooted considering that the concrete around them has left no space for water penetration or aeration to the trees. ‘Bengaluru is 81% concrete, which is bad for trees’In an earlier interaction with Bangalore Times, Prof TV Ramachandra, Head of Centre for Ecological Science, Indian Institute of Science, had said, “In 1973, 59% of Bengaluru was green, while only 7% was concrete structures. Today, 81% of the land is concrete structures, which leaves little scope for water percolation after a good rain.” ‘Trees fall because they have no breathing space’Tree doctor Vijay Nishanth explains, “When there is not enough space for roots, they rot, which, ultimately weakens the trees. For instance, on Lalbagh Road, trees are still healthy because they have enough breathing space.” Environmentalist Vasanthkumar Mysoremath adds, “The rules of Indian Road Congress are never followed by road construction authorities. Trees need sink pits around their base, not hot bitumen or concrete.” Experts want Gulmohar, officials differOfficials in Bengaluru and Mysuru have said that softwood trees like the Gulmohar are a hazard and that they would not plant newer saplings. “You need trees like Gulmohar to beautify the city. Yes, they are prone to get uprooted, but that doesn’t mean they need to be chopped. Regular pruning and more space for them to grow should solve the problem,” says Vijay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/overly-concrete-bengaluru-is-the-reason-behind-record-number-of-uprooted-trees/articleshow/76096936.cms||Vinay Lokesh
May 30, 2020||Bareilly||#LifeInTheLockdown: Bollywood and Sufi singer, Kavita Seth keeps herself busy with live music sessions on social media, meditation, riyaaz and cooking during lockdown!||The lockdown time is an opportunity for singers and artistes who are known to do lot of live shows and concerts all over the world, to utilize this period in creating new compositions and get back in touch with the audience and their fans via digital platform. And one such Bareilly-based Bollywood and Sufi singer, Kavita Seth of Iktara song (Wake Up Sid) fame and Jeete Hain Chal (Neerja) is keeping herself full-on busy with her music with daily live sessions on Facebook, Instagram for all the music lovers. In an interaction with us, Kavita Seth shares, "Music is my way of life and during such tough times where the entire world is suffering, music is something that soothes, relaxes and is like a treat to ears. Music kills boredom, reduces stress, refreshes instantly, gives inspiration, brings in positivity and rejuvenates us completely. And while being at home throughout the day, I am making most of it by creating new compositions, doing riyaaz and sharing the same with my fans and music lovers via live sessions on social media on daily basis. This way, even being confined to our homes, I feel connected to everyone." Kavita Seth, who recently sang an inspiring and motivating song of hers 'Jeete Hain Chal' from the film Neerja for the heroes of Corona #CoroanKeHeroesKoSalaam, adds, "Besides music, I do daily riyaaz with my son, indulge myself in meditation, yoga and cooking." Speaking about the tough times going, the Bollywood and Sufi singer says, "Be positive. Stay home. Stay indoors. Ye waqt bhi guzar jayega." Watch LifeInTheLockdown: Bollywood and Sufi singer, Kavita Seth keeps herself busy with live music sessions on social media, meditation, riyaaz and cooking during lockdown!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lifeinthelockdown-bollywood-and-sufi-singer-kavita-seth-keeps-her-busy-with-live-sessions-on-social-media-meditation-riyaaz-and-cooking-during-lockdown/articleshow/75328145.cms||Manyaekta Gugliani
May 30, 2020||World||Trump says US to quit WHO, announces mild sanctions against China||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Friday announced on Friday he is terminating Washington's relationship with the World Health Organisation and imposing a range of sanctions against China for its deception with regards to the coronavirus pandemic and its actions in Hong Kong. In a statement he read out from a teleprompter in the White House, Trump said he will also initiate a ban on Chinese researchers studying in the US who are considered potential security risks and will seek action against Chinese companies listed in U.S stock exchange whose practices are inconsistent with U.S laws. The US will also withdraw special trade and travel status and privileges given to Hong Kong in lieu of its violation of its treaty obligations with Great Britain, which he said Beijing has now violated. https://t.co/mljmx2o0G7— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1590781575000Trump blamed his predecessor administrations and presidents for allowing China to rip off the U.S. and said he will not allow it. The immediate reaction of critics on both Democratic and Republican sides was the so-called sanctions against China were mostly token and mild. Trump did not mention the tensions between India and CHina. The US President did not take any questions and turned on his heels and walked away after his statement, although a pool of a dozen reporters sought to ask him follow-ups, including on the situation in Minnesota and other states where black protests have erupted over the alleged murder of an African=American man by a white police officer. Critics are blaming Trump for fanning the flames of civic unrest by echoing the exact words used by George Wallace, a white supremacist-segregationist-racist – “When the looting begins, the shooting begins” – to convey a strong response to rioting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-us-to-quit-who-announces-mild-sanctions-against-china/articleshow/76099312.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
May 30, 2020||Delhi||Five Delhi luxury hotels made extended Covid hospitals||NEW DELHI: To ensure sufficient beds to deal with the increasing coronavirus cases, the Delhi government on Friday directed that five luxury hotels in the city be converted into extended Covid hospitals, attached with five hospitals. In an order, Health and Family Welfare Secretary Padmini Singla attached Hotel Crown Plaza in Okhla with the Batra Hospital and Research Centre, the Hotel Surya in New Friends Colony with the Indraprastha Apollo hospital, Hotel Siddharth in Rajendra Place with Dr B.L. Kapur Memorial Hospital, Hotel Jivitesh in Pusa Road with the Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital, and Hotel Sheraton in Saket with Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital. The order said the decision has been taken to augment Covid hospitals facility by 1,000 beds. "The hotels be requisitioned by the District Magistrate and given to attached hospitals for converting them into extended Covid hospital wherein the medical services shall be provided by the attached identified Covid private hospital," the order said. It said the attached private hospital should admit Covid-19 positive patients in their extended Covid Hospital as per the patient's medical condition and in case, such patients turn severe at any point of time during their stay in the hotel, "he/she shall be transferred/admitted in the attached private hospital at its scheduled rates." The attached private hospital is required to provide sufficient manpower (nurses and doctors) as per the norms. "Further, the attached hospital is also required to provide oxygen supply, either in the form of oxygen concentrator or oxygen cylinder, in the extended Covid Hospital in case a patient requires oxygen support." The order said the attached hospital should provide all consumables like PPE kits, N-95 Mask, gloves, medicines and equipment like pulse-oximeter, thermometer, oxygen concentrator/cylinder, etc. "They shall also make necessary arrangements to provide resuscitation services -- equipment, drugs and medical consumables -- in the extended Covid Hospital in case there is a rapid deterioration in the clinical condition of the patient. "The linked private Hospitals are required to take over full Hotel indicated against their name as requisitioned by the concerned District Magistrate, Delhi Government under the DDMA. The hotel shall provide regular hotel services including rooms housekeeping disinfection and food for the patients etc at the price not greater than Rs 5,000 for five star hotel and Rs 4,000 for four and three star hotel per day per person," it added. The linked hospital should be paid an amount, not greater than Rs 5,000 per patient per day for their medical services to Covid-19 patients, inclusive of all consumables, services of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and nursing staff etc as per the norms. "However, investigation charges, if any, shall be charged by the linked hospital as their scheduled rates and for oxygen support, the linked hospital is allowed to charge at the hotel at Rs 2,000 per bed per day basis." The medical services provided by the attached hospital at their facility will be charged at their respective scheduled rates, the order said. All charges shall be collected by the linked hospital, which make payment to the hotel,it said. Further, the linked hospital may accommodate their doctors and staff at the hotel at their own expense, if required, the order added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/five-delhi-luxury-hotels-made-extended-covid-hospitals/articleshow/76099053.cms||---
May 30, 2020||World||Trump to curb China students, strip Hong Kong privileges||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said Friday that the United States will restrict Chinese students and start reversing Hong Kong's special status in customs and other areas, as Beijing imposes a controversial security law. Trump said the Chinese government has been "diminishing the city's longstanding and very proud status." "This is a tragedy for the people of Hong Kong, the people of China, and indeed the people of the world," Trump told reporters. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday told Congress that the Trump administration would no longer consider Hong Kong to be separate under US law but did not spell out the consequences. Trump also was light on specifics but said: "I am directing my administration to begin the process of eliminating policy that gives Hong Kong different and special treatment." "This will affect the full range of agreements, from our extradition treaty to our export controls on dual-use technologies and more, with few exceptions," he said. Trump also said he would restrict the entry of some graduate students from China -- the largest source of foreigners to US universities -- but did not immediately give numbers. "For years, the government of China has conducted elicit espionage to steal our industrial secrets, of which there are many," Trump said. "Today I will issue a proclamation to better secure our nation's vital university research and to suspend the entry of certain foreign nationals from China who we have identified as potential security risks."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-to-curb-china-students-strip-hong-kong-privileges/articleshow/76099876.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Immigration fraud: 27 FIRs in Ambala, Kurukshetra||AMBALA: Police registered 11 cases of immigration fraud in Ambala and another 16 in Kurukshetra on Thursday against several immigration agents, including one who is an Ambala-based functionary of BJP, for allegedly duping 27 people from the two districts who were deported from the US on May 19. The FIRs have been registered on complaints either by the deportees or their families. One of the complainants has accused an Ambala-based BJP worker, Makhan Singh Lobana, and his brother Surinder Singh alias Chhinda of committing fraud with him. Surinder has been booked in several cases at both the districts. Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal said of the 11 persons from Ambala who were deported from the US recently, three had tested positive for Covid-19 on their arrival in Panchkula, where all US deportees had been quaratined in Haryana. "They are undergoing treatment at the designated Covid-19 hospital. Those who tested negative have been quarantined at facilities in Panchkula district." "Investigations into these immigration fraud cases have been initiated and action as per law would be taken against accused agents as per the facts and findings. Makhan, a BJP worker, has been booked. There are several cases registered against his brother and we are investigating their roles. Makhan was earlier with the INLD," Jorwal said. About 16 residents of the Kurukshetra district, Kurukshetra SP Astha Modi told, "A total of 16 persons were deported from the US recently. Out of these, four persons had tested positive for Covid-19 at Panchkula district, and the remaining are quarantined at the facilities in Panchkula only. The positive patients are isolated and under treatment. We are collecting the evidence and action would be taken soon against accused agents." The cases have been registered against accused agents under Sections 24 (offences and penalties) of the Emigration Act and 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at different police stations in both the districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/immigration-fraud-27-firs-in-ambala-kurukshetra/articleshow/76100401.cms||Jaskaran Singh
May 30, 2020||Business||Jan-March expansion at 40 quarter low of 3.1%, 2019-20 GDP growth at 11-year low of 4.2%||NEW DELHI: The country’s economic growth in the January-March quarter of 2019-20 expanded at its slowest pace in 40 quarters at 3.1%, dragged down by the manufacturing and construction sectors and some impact of the national lockdown in late March. Only the farm sector and government spending stayed firm. Data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Friday also showed overall GDP growth in 2019-20 slowing to an 11-year low of 4.2%, lower than the earlier estimate of 5%. Several major economies which had imposed lockdowns earlier have witnessed a contraction in their January-March quarter growth while a handful of countries led by India have managed to post expansion during the period. The NSO said that both the quarterly as well as annual GDP growth numbers are likely to undergo revision as data flow from “economic entities had been impacted.” Economists say the lockdown, which has crippled economic activity, will have an impact on growth in the coming quarters with several research houses, investment banks and brokerages estimating a sharp contraction. Several key sectors of the economy such as the services sector, which accounts for nearly 60% of the economy, have suffered due to the lockdown and led to large job losses. The government has unveiled a relief package to nurse growth but experts say more needs to be done to help revive growth. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has also cut rates sharply since the lockdown and has unveiled massive liquidity injection to help the economy gather momentum but it has estimated growth to contract in 2020-21 due to the impact of the lockdown in the country as well as across the globe. The IMF expects India and China to be the only economies to register growth while other economies around the globe are expected to contract sharply, a view not shared by several other economists who expect the Indian economy to contract. The manufacturing, construction and services sectors contracted in the March quarter which economists attributed to the impact of the lockdown. The trade, hotel and transport and manufacturing sector saw growth drop to the lowest level since 2011-12 in Q4 FY20, according to Care Ratings. The farm sector posted a robust near 6% growth in the March quarter while overall expansion was at 4% for 2019-20.The sector is expected to provide some support to overall growth in the quarters ahead as farm production is expected to remain strong. “Private consumption which is a driver of the economy (accounting for 60% of GDP) witnessed a notable decline in growth rates in Q4 FY20 from year ago (2.7% v/s 6.2%). On the other hand, government consumption witnessed near stable year on year growth (14%). The fall of private consumption in the quarter gone by highlights the demand destruction that has been caused by the pandemic,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. He said investments witnessed a sharp contraction of 6.5% in Q4 FY20, adding that as a percentage of GDP, investments (as measured by the Gross Fixed Capital Formation) at 26% in Q4 FY20 was the lowest under the new series (2011-12). Economists said they estimate a further deterioration in the health of the economy in the months ahead as the impact of the lockdown becomes more pronounced and some said the prospects for Asia’s third largest economy appear to be grim. The chief economic adviser in the finance ministry Krishnamurthy Subramanian expects a V-shaped recovery once the pandemic gets over, relying his projection one the recovery that the economy staged post the Spanish flu in 1918. “The further extension of the lockdown till the end of May 2020 amid graded relaxations, and the expectation of substantial delays in getting the full supply chain operational, especially given the likelihood of enduring labour mismatches following the return of migrant workers to their home states, would further dampen economic activity,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ratings agency ICRA. “We expect Indian GDP (at constant 2011-12 prices) to contract by 25.0% and 2.1%, respectively, in Q1 FY2021 and Q2 FY2021, which implies that a recession is underway. Subsequently, we anticipate muted GDP growth of 2.1% and 5.0%, respectively, in Q3 FY2021 and Q4 FY2021, which still entails a full year contraction of 5.0% in FY2021,” said Nayar. Watch GDP growth in India hits 11 year low of 4.2% in 2019-20||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jan-march-expansion-at-40-quarter-low-of-3-1-2019-20-gdp-growth-at-11-year-low-of-4-2/articleshow/76100528.cms||---
May 30, 2020||India||Corona expresses leading to Bengal spike: CM Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Terming Shramik Special trains “Corona Expresses”, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday blamed the railways for the sudden spike in the state’s Covid numbers, while laying out a detailed blueprint for a gradual revival of the economy from June 1. Mamata criticised the railways for ferrying migrant workers home in “cramped train compartments, often without food or water”. She took particular exception to the manner in which social distancing rules were being flouted on the trains. “Two to three people are having to share a seat when it is the state government which is paying for passengers on 235 trains,” she said. “Tell me why the railways is not maintaining social distancing… These trains are spreading terror among citizens. Villagers are saying, ‘Corona Express is coming, bhaag jao’.” “When I was the railway minister, I increased the number of bogies on each train to 25,” Mamata said. “I know that the railways has a huge number of bogeys, which is why it can run special trains during festivals. The railways could have run more trains instead, allotting a berth per passenger. They could have given them food and water,” she added, saying the “unhealthy and inhuman” conditions in which migrants were being sent to the state had caused the uptick in its Covid numbers. Mamata also spelt out the post-lockdown roadmap for Bengal: from June 1, public and private offices, places of worship and shops can all open in a phased manner, but educational institutions will remain shut till June-end. She also eased the 20-passengers only restriction on private buses. From June, the maximum number of passengers, for each bus, is its seating capacity. No one would be allowed to stand, the CM specified. The CM spoke about infrastructural constraints the state was facing with the twin challenges of Covid and Cyclone Amphan. “We have a certain capacity for health screening. How can we manage things if one lakh people are sent in a day?” In her attempt to balance life and livelihood, Mamata said Bengal would allow shops to open, hawkers to set up stalls and tea gardens and jute mills to start operating in full swing from June 1. From June 8, government and private offices are free to reopen, but with restrictions. State government offices, she clarified later, would operate with 70% workforce (up from 50%), while in the private sector, she left it to the managements to “decide on workforce capacity and act accordingly”. She urged everyone in the private sector to stay safe and “work indoors as much as possible”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corona-expresses-leading-to-bengal-spike-cm-mamata-banerjee/articleshow/76100699.cms||---
May 30, 2020||India||Covid 19: Star hotels to add 2,000 beds for viral fight||NEW DELHI: With the number of coronavirus cases on a surge, Delhi government on Friday decided to take over five starred hotels for conversion into temporary hospitals to augment the beds available for Covid-19 patients. The hotels will be linked with the nearest private hospital designated as a Covid hospital. The government has also enlisted 10 other hotels for paid isolation stay for people with mild and pre-symptomatic Covid-19 signs. Officials said using hotels would add around 2,000 beds to available facilities. Some hotels so requisitioned are Crown Plaza in Okhla Phase-I, Surya in New Friends Colony, Siddharth in Rajendra Place, Jivitesh on Pusa Road and Sheraton at Saket District Centre, to be, respectively, attached to Batra Hospital Centre and Research Centre, Indraprastha Apollo, Dr BL Kapur Memorial, Sir Ganga Ram and Max Smart Super Specialty hospitals. In Delhi government’s three-tier health setup for Covid patients, asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms are advised home quarantine, those a degree higher are sent to Covid health care centres, while patients with existing ailments who require proper care are admitted to the hospitals. The government has so far identified 13 hospitals, two run by state government, three by the Centre and eight private ones as dedicated Covid facilities. The addition of the five hotels will take the total number of beds available for Covid-19 patients in Delhi to over 11,000. While the 13 Covid hospitals collectively have around 4,500 beds, the facility at GTB Hospital with 1,500 beds will be up soon. In addition, around 117 private hospitals have also been asked to keep 20%, or 200 beds, for Covid cases. Delhi government had earlier assured of 12,000 beds in hotels and banquet halls by the time the Covid count reached 30,000. According to Friday’s government order, patients will pay up to Rs 5,000 in five-star hotels and a maximum of Rs4,000 in 3/4-star facility per day. The patient may also have to pay up to Rs5,000 daily for medical services and consumables. The hospital will also be allowed to charge Rs2,000 per day for oxygen support, apart from the scheduled rates for tests and investigations. “The attached private hospital is required to provide sufficient manpower (doctors and nurses) as per norms. It is also required to provide oxygen supply, either in form of oxygen concentrator or cylinder in the extended Covid hospital,” said the order issued by health and family welfare secretary Padmini Singla. The order adds, “… in case such patients turn severe at any point of time during their stay in the hotel, he/she shall be transferred/admitted in the attached private hospital at its scheduled rates”. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier said that many Delhiites preferred private health facilities instead of government-run hospitals. Those recommended for home quarantine can now opt for starred hotels on payment basis. On Friday, Delhi government released a list of 10 private hospitals with total capacity of about 1,900 rooms at pre-decided rates on single, twin and triple sharing occupancy. Covid-19 positive people with mild or pre-symptoms are eligible to be quarantined at home. Of the current 17,000 positive cases, more than 4,600 were in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-star-hotels-to-add-2000-beds-for-viral-fight/articleshow/76100771.cms||Atul Mathur
May 30, 2020||India||Rajnath Singh discusses border situation with US def secy||NEW DELHI: India will need to firmly keep up its guard against China’s creeping cartographic aggression in eastern Ladakh, sources said on Friday, even as defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed his US counterpart Mark Esper about the ongoing confrontation between Indian and Chinese troops in the high-altitude region. Sources said Singh told Esper, in a telephonic conversation initiated by the latter, India wanted to “resolve” the military face-off with China through “existing bilateral mechanisms” in accordance with laid-down protocols. An official statement said Singh and Esper “exchanged views on regional developments of shared security interest (read China)”, apart from discussing the extensive defence cooperation between India and the US. “They expressed commitment to further promote the bilateral defence partnership,” it said. This is the first high-level contact between New Delhi and Washington since People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers intruded around 1-3 km into what India considers to be its territory in the Galwan Valley region, northern bank of Pangong Tso and Demchok in eastern Ladakh. Another round of talks between brigadier-level officers of India and China on Friday failed to break the deadlock with the two sides sticking to their respective stands. India wants the PLA soldiers to withdraw and restore the status quo, while China is pushing for India to stop its road and bridge construction activities near the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. With the three-day Army commanders conference coming to an end in New Delhi on Friday after a review of the overall security situation, sources said China was actively resorting to its “old strategy” of nibbling away territory in eastern Ladakh to consolidate its hold on Tibet. “The PLA, for instance, is now pushing its claim lines in the Galwan Valley region,” a source said. “India has been caught on the wrong foot several times in the past. But it is no longer the India of 1962, or the 1980-1990s, when China got away with nibbling away at our territory. We have more than adequate forces as well as the requisite infrastructure in eastern Ladakh now,” he added. But the battle of nerves remains tense. Neither side is willing to cede ground after strengthening their entrenched positions at the face-off sites, and backing them with thousands of additional soldiers, tanks and artillery guns in their own territories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajnath-singh-discusses-border-situation-with-us-def-secy/articleshow/76100788.cms||Rajat Pandit
May 30, 2020||World||Donald Trump says spoke to family of man who died in Minneapolis arrest||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump said Friday he had expressed condolences to the family of George Floyd, the African American man who died while a policeman kneeled on his neck during an arrest, sparking riots. "I spoke to members of the family, terrific people," Trump said at the White House. "I just expressed my sorrow. That was a horrible thing to witness," he said. "They were grieving. I could see very much that they loved their brother." Trump has been criticized for earlier comments on Twitter that called protesters in Minneapolis "THUGS" and warning that "When the looting starts, the shooting starts." In his latest comments, Trump said he supported peaceful protests but "we can't allow a situation like happened in Minneapolis to descend further into lawless anarchy and chaos." "I understand the hurt, I understand the pain. People have really been through a lot. The family of George is entitled to justice and the people of Minnesota are entitled to live in safety," he said. "You had a lot of people out there that were protesting out of sorrow and then you had people that got out of control," he said. "That won't happen again, it can't happen again." Asked about the racially charged overtones to the phrase "when the looting starts, the shooting starts" -- well known during the tense years of the civil rights era -- Trump said he wasn't aware about the words' origin. "I've heard that phrase for a long time. I don't know where it came from," Trump said. "I wouldn't know a thing like that."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/donald-trump-says-spoke-to-family-of-man-who-died-in-minneapolis-arrest/articleshow/76100795.cms||---
May 30, 2020||India||No threat to urban areas from locusts: FAO expert||NEW DELHI: Extent of locust invasion may get wider and swarms may reach as far as Bihar and Odisha in June-July before it would eventually return to Rajasthan with progress of the monsoon. Its impact in cities, including Delhi, will, however, not be felt as the locust simply overfly urban areas without troubling humans. India was informed by the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) this week that “several successive waves of invasions can be expected until July in Rajasthan with eastward surges across northern India as far as Bihar and Odisha followed by westward movements and a return to Rajasthan on the changing winds associated with the monsoon”. Referring to the FAO’s latest locust status bulletin, the agriculture ministry on Friday said the swarms were, however, less likely to reach south India, Nepal, and Bangladesh. “Locusts don’t like urban areas. They simply overfly these areas where they don’t have much to eat. They don’t attack humans,” said Keith Cressman, senior locust forecasting officer with the FAO on Friday. He also indicated that the swarms, currently noticed in different states in north and central India, would eventually move to western part of Rajasthan with the progress of monsoon as they find desert as their most appropriate breeding ground. Cressman was responding to a question of environmentalist Sunita Narain who during a webinar on the issue, organised by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), asked him specific question on threat to Delhi while referring to advisories issued by the city government on possibility of locust attack in the Capital. Unlike its usual period of invasion during monsoon, the locust swarms entered border districts of Rajasthan and Punjab in April and then gradually moved with wind direction to interior districts of different states. Category-wise, it has already passed the ‘outbreak’ stage and now reached the higher stage of ‘upsurge’ in terms of intensity and extent. Cressman said there was no need to panic as it would reach the stage of ‘plague’ (considered devastating for standing crops and vegetation) only at the end of this year if it is not controlled effectively before that. Expressing his confidence in India’s ability to deal with it, Cressman, who had visited Rajasthan in January to see the preparedness, said the country has one of the best locust control mechanisms and it had successfully controlled the invasion in the past. He said, “India is well equipped and has the oldest national locust programme in the world.” As India has already stepped up its locust control efforts in affected states, Union agriculture secretary, Sanjay Agarwal, held a meeting with officials of civil aviation ministry, National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and the Pawan Hans regarding use of aerial spraying of pesticides for locust control by using helicopter / aircraft / drones. Besides, the home ministry has written to chief secretaries of all the states and gave necessary instructions to streamline the inter-state movement facility for the personnel engaged in locust control works. Usually, the locust swarms enter India through Pakistan for summer breeding in the month of June/July with the arrival and progress of monsoon. Its incursion this year, however, happened early because of presence of residual population of locust in Pakistan which the neighbouring country couldn’t control during last season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-threat-to-urban-areas-from-locusts-fao-expert/articleshow/76100829.cms||Vishwa Mohan
May 30, 2020||Vadodara||Engineers take innovative route||Vadodara: Engineers are taking innovative route in Covid times. Two freshly passed out graduates of city-based Parul University (PU) have come out with a range of models to reduce risk to human health in public spaces in the times of Covid-19 pandemic. Arjun Raghuraj Shekhawat and Hitesh Rathod, who did their mechanical engineering from PU’s Institute of Engineering and Technology, have designed and developed specific UV germicide lamp. UV light is a proven technology when it comes to reducing bacteria, viruses and other harmful micro-organisms that pose a risk to human health. “Ultraviolet (UV-C) light kills or inactivates micro-organisms by destroying nucleic acids and disrupting their DNA, leaving them unable to perform vital cellular functions. For many years, UV germicidal lamps have been used for disinfection of air and surfaces within hospitals, care homes, laboratories and many other organizations where hygiene and cleanliness are of utmost importance,” said Ajay Barot, who along with Jay Sudani mentored the two Surat-based engineering students. Using the technology, the students have customized the UV system to control the spread within hospitals and public spaces. With guidance of his mentors, who are also PU’s entrepreneurship coordinators, Shekhawat utilized the lockdown period and founded - The Research Lab as an initiative of innovators. The mechanical engineering graduates have developed UV-C array as a model that can be used in hospitals, banks, supermarkets, railway stations, airports, offices among others to sterilize spaces with maximum footfalls. Similarly, they have designed UV tower to sterilize large public spaces like wards and OPD of hospitals and UV boxes for keeping small units like mobiles, wallets, key chains, gloves, masks and edible items among others. “There is also a currency box to sterilize currency notes and it proves handy for shopkeepers and small grocery shops,” he said. “We are not only collaborating with our current students, but also involving our alumni so as to provide best possible solutions in these challenging times,” said PU president Dr Devanshu Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/engineers-take-innovative-route/articleshow/76097193.cms||Prashant Rupera
May 30, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi doesn’t listen to anyone, says Manjhi||PaATNA: HAM (S) president and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi on Friday said leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav did not keep other opposition parties in loop and his protests were centred around a single incident. Manjhi said Tejashwi does not listen to anyone and he would continue to face questions on his leadership abilities, if he fails raise issues concerning masses. “Law and order has deteriorated in Bihar and it is the responsibility of the opposition to raise its voice on such issues. Murders and rapes have occurred at many places over the past few weeks. All such incidents should be opposed together, rather than singling out one incident,” Manjhi said. He added: “Had all opposition parties been consulted, we would have marched to Raj Bhavan on Friday and submitted a memorandum to governor, demanding prompt action on all issues. The people guiding Tejashwi are the same people who sent his father (RJD chief Lalu Prasad) to jail.” RJD has taken a strong exception to Manjhi’s statement. RJD spokesperson Shakti Singh Yadav said Manjhi is looking for excuses to change sides. “Everybody knows how frequently he changes sides,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-doesnt-listen-to-anyone-says-manjhi/articleshow/76097505.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 30, 2020||Agra||Railways staffers throw biscuit packs towards hungry migrants & hurl abuses also, CIT suspended||Agra: A 4-minute video footage showing railways staffers throwing biscuit packets towards hungry migrants and hurling abuses at those asking for their share prompted the department to order a probe and suspend chief inspector of ticket (CIT) of Tundla station where the alleged incident took place three days ago.One of the railway employees even cracked a joke that the biscuits were being given as part of birthday celebrations of the CIT, even as all the food items came from government funds.The video was shot on May 25 at Tundla junction in Firozabad by railway staff involved in throwing edible items towards workers. Later, the footage was shared in railway staff WhatsApp group, which later went into public domain.Amitabha Kumar, divisional railway manager (DRM) of Praygraj division, told TOI, “Tundla CIT D K Dixit has been suspended and inquiry has been initiated. This was unacceptable behaviour. Proper arrangements should have been put in place to serve the passengers. Railways have been doing great work amid Covid-19 pandemic, but the uncivilised act is not part of it.”In the video, the railway staff team, led by CIT checking staff (admin) D K Dixit, was found throwing biscuits at workers and also some inside coaches via window. “Aaj sir ka birthday hai, ishliye de rahe hain (Today is sir’s birthday, that’s why we are offering this),” said one of the railway staff in the video, while Dixit continued to throw biscuits. Later in the video, Dixit was heard confessing of using slur against a migrant worker, who was demanding biscuits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/railways-staffers-throw-biscuit-packs-towards-hungry-migrants-hurl-abuses-also-cit-suspended/articleshow/76097800.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 30, 2020||Patna||33 trains reach Bihar with 50,000 passengers||PATNA: Approximately 50,000 migrant workers and other people stranded in Delhi and eight other states returned to Bihar by 33 Shramik special trains on Friday. Since May 2, nearly 18 lakh people have been brought back to different parts of the state that fall under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR). Chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said, “Special trains from the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus and Borivali in Maharashtra reached Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Patna and Danapur with 7,000 passengers. Besides, trains from Dorah, Chandigarh and Ludhiana returned to Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Jamui and Supaul.” Special trains from Jaipur and Bhilwara in Rajasthan as well as Delhi reached Purnea on Friday where the district administration and the railway officials had made arrangements for thermal screening of all passengers and their safe transportation to other places or quarantine centres. “With 3,700 people, special trains from Hosur in Tamil Nadu and Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh returned to Muzaffarpur and Barauni,” the CPRO said, adding that 16 other trains ferried passengers to Darbhanga, Bettiah, Madhubani, Supaul, Buxar, Gaya, Gopalganj, Barauni, Aurangabad, Saharsa, Katihar and Bhabua on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/33-trains-reach-bihar-with-50000-passengers/articleshow/76097896.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Patna||Reopen courts, say Bhagalpur lawyers||BHAGALPUR: Lawyers under the aegis of District Bar Association (DBA) staged a symbolic dharna on the premises of Bhagalpur civil court on Friday demanding physical opening of courts and making them fully functional from June 1. The district courts are virtually closed due to lockdown since March. DBA general secretary Sanjay Kumar Modi said only 5-10% of extremely important judicial work, especially bail matters, are being carried out through videoconferencing. “Normal court cases related to civil and criminal matters are getting hampered. We urge the Chief Justice of Patna high court and authorities concerned to consider physical opening of the courts like other essential establishments. Lawyers and their family members are completely dependent on professional fee from the clients,” Modi said. DBA president Abhay Kant Jha said the presiding judges would ensure social distancing as per government norms and guidelines of World Health Organisation. “Normal functioning of courts should resume in the interest of legal fraternity as well as their clients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/reopen-courts-say-bhagalpur-lawyers/articleshow/76097837.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Business||Customers define essentials: Amazon||Digbijay Mishra & Madhav Chanchani | TNN Bengaluru: Amazon India is seeing a “high rate” of growth in new customers trying its platform for essentials during the pandemic, while existing users — especially Prime subscribers — are shopping more, according to Amit Agarwal, India head for Amazon. In an interaction with TOI, he said the local arm of the Seattle-based e-tailer has now expanded its grocery service — Pantry — “significantly” to more than 10,000 pin codes across 110 cities from just 3 cities before the lockdown. This has been done to cater to consumers looking for more essentials to be delivered at their doorstep via online shopping. It is close to two weeks now since the government finally allowed all goods to be sold online in all three zones — red, orange, and green. Agarwal said characterisation of ‘essentials’ is “very ad hoc” and that it changes from customer to customer. Till May 17, in red zones — largely all the big cities — sale of only essentials such as grocery and medicine was allowed online, which had upset e-commerce platforms as offline retailers were allowed sale of non-essentials weeks before them. “It’s important to note that characterisation of essentials is very ad hoc, what is priority for a customer is best determined by that customer. For a customer who doesn’t have a gas stove working, that’s an essential need to fix. We are obviously seeing significant demand since we have opened up,” he said. For instance, demand for robotic vacuum cleaners has increased 31 times and for dishwashers 23 times on the platform. “We have a high rate of trial by new customers. Pantry, for example, is a high driver of new customer growth because customers needed essentials. We have enabled payment-on-delivery, except in red zones. So, we see more trials. Similarly, Prime subscribers are shopping more,” said Agarwal. Amazon has invested over $6 billion in building its online commerce business in India already. E-commerce companies like Amazon and Flipkart are seeing a surge in demand for work-from-home equipment, personal care, and home & kitchen appliances as consumers spend more time online for work and stay indoors during the lockdown. Agarwal said the rise in demand resulted in the company creating 50,000 new temporary positions in its supply chain and delivery network.The e-commerce industry is also set to get competitive, with last month’s announcement of Reliance Industries’ retail unit entering the space along with Facebook-owned messaging application WhatsApp after a $5.7-billion investment. Recent reports have also suggested that Google is looking to pick up a 5% stake in Vodafone Idea. When asked if Amazon is also considering a telco investment, Agarwal said, “We are always looking at investments where it makes sense. I don’t have anything to speculate on that front.” Amazon has in the past invested in retail chains like Future, More and Shopper’s Stop in India. On government regulations for online commerce during the first three phases of lockdown, he said local policy changes, which happen in every country, were only a hurdle or “small variations” that don’t matter when one has a long-term view for a market like India. “Even India is trying to adjust and adapt itself to new technology, and whenever there is disruption it will conflict with legacy laws. It is bound to happen,” Agarwal said.Apart from consumers, it is also seeing a “dramatic increase” in the number of sellers signing up on Amazon India. “This is a clear indication that businesses realise they need to supplement their footfalls with an online presence, if they are to make sure they can serve customers,” Agarwal added. Recently, the company said it had on-boarded 5,000 local shops on its platform. According to Agarwal, more local shops are coming online amid the virus outbreak, even to serve in their local catchment area amid a drop in footfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/customers-define-essentials-amazon/articleshow/76099062.cms||Digbijay Mishra
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Work locked-down, charity too drying up now for alms seekers||Nagpur: Urmila Londhe pedals a tricycle cart under the blazing sun. Her three children, including a toddler, sit behind as she pulls her way back home after seeking alms in front of a shop at Shraddhanandpeth. Sitting there from 10am till around 4 in the afternoon, she has been able collect Rs60. Living in shanties built of plastic sheets, Urmila and her husband made a living by selling scrap before the lockdown. The cart she was pulling used to be loaded with scrap when times were better. With no work after the lockdown, she and other families living in an open ground near Jaitala Bazar have somehow managed, for some days, with doles from do-gooders. After the charity stopped coming, the women folk have taken up begging to sustain the families. Many others like Urmila can be seen begging on the streets. Most of these are daily wagers who have now turned to begging. There is no work after lockdown, and even charity from do-gooders has dwindled after two months. Groups of women along with children start early in the morning, begging for food items like a kg of rice, some dal, or a packet of cooking oil. They accept cash too, but more passers-by respond when they ask for help in kind, like groceries or food stuff. The men sit at home. “People have sympathy for a woman with a child, nobody takes pity on men, so we go out. They have been the bread winners till now, it’s time for us to support the family,” says Urmila. TOI followed Urmila to her house, some 3km away. On the way, her nine-year-old son took over the pedals while she pushed the cart. Heaps of plastic bottles and other scrap is lying in front of the shanties, with four to five persons crammed in each. “We collect scrap and sell it to the dealers. There is no work after the lockdown. Since a fortnight, those distributing food packets have stopped coming too,” says Barik Ugade, the group leader. “None of us have ration cards to get PDS grains, nor a bank account,” he said. Earning Rs200 to 300 a day earlier, their income has come down to less than Rs100 now. Another group was seen on the nearby main road. “We roam around throughout the day asking for some grains,” said Kavita Bangre. At a similar hutment near the Mental Hospital, a youth smiles and says thing are fine. “It’s tough but nobody has taken up begging,” he says, just as a group of women return home. “We have been to Sadar seeking alms,” said one them. “Someone gave us some fruits,” said another, showing a bag full of overripe bananas, peels turned almost black. The families here are engaged as daily wagers on building sites and some also work as domestic helps. At Gokulpeth market, the shopkeepers say these people seeking alms are all new faces. “I have never seen them before. The women sit in front of the shops and ask customers to buy them food. Some oblige,” said Pankaj Khubnani of Pankaj Stores at Ram Nagar. The people TOI met look upon other slum dwellers as better off people, saying at least they have brick homes. For these people living under plastic sheets or in mud huts, their mobile phones, brought during good times, are among the precious few possessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/work-locked-down-charity-too-drying-up-now-for-alms-seekers/articleshow/76098840.cms||Shishir Arya
May 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: 44 cops recover from Covid-19, discharged||VIJAYAWADA: Forty-four cops who were infected by the novel coronavirus have recovered and been discharged from their isolation wards across the state on Thursday. In a press statement, director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang said that forty-five persons had contracted the disease on the job in the last two months. So far, one police personnel–assistant sub-inspector of police Habibullah attached to Hindupur police station in Anantapur—succumbed to the disease. Sawang had personally handed over an ex-gratia cheque of Rs 50 lakh to Habibullah’s family members. The DGP had also written a letter to all police personnel’s family acknowledging the cops’ sacrifice. The cops’ direct family members, who were primary contacts, have also been quarantined. Officials explained that the essential needs of the cops’ families were fulfilled during the 14-day period. Considering the present conditions, DGP has ordered all police units to ensure senior officers who were above the age of 55 years to be kept out of patrol or guard duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/44-cops-recover-from-covid-19-discharged/articleshow/76102660.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 44 cops recover from Covid-19, discharged||VIJAYAWADA: Forty-four cops who were infected by the novel coronavirus have recovered and been discharged from their isolation wards across the state on Thursday. In a press statement, director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang said that forty-five persons had contracted the disease on the job in the last two months. So far, one police personnel–assistant sub-inspector of police Habibullah attached to Hindupur police station in Anantapur—succumbed to the disease. Sawang had personally handed over an ex-gratia cheque of Rs 50 lakh to Habibullah’s family members. The DGP had also written a letter to all police personnel’s family acknowledging the cops’ sacrifice. The cops’ direct family members, who were primary contacts, have also been quarantined. Officials explained that the essential needs of the cops’ families were fulfilled during the 14-day period. Considering the present conditions, DGP has ordered all police units to ensure senior officers who were above the age of 55 years to be kept out of patrol or guard duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/44-cops-recover-from-covid-19-discharged/articleshow/76097821.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Let lockdown continue, but with malls, gyms, eateries open: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that he hopes the Union government accedes to his request to allows the state to open malls, gyms and restaurants if the lockdown continues beyond May 31. Sawant made the request to the Centre during a telephone conversation with Union home minister Amit Shah. “We want the Union government to consider our request, but let us see what relaxations they give,” Sawant said. “The MHA guidelines will come out on Saturday, and we will accordingly decide (what opens), but we have not taken any decision yet.” The CM also said that his government would take the call after consulting with industry. Sawant told TOI that the government wouldn’t allow hotels, bars, and pubs in the state to open. He said the proposal to open restaurants is in the interest of the public. “When most establishments are open, where will they (employees) eat? Hence, we want to allow restaurants and tea shops to open, but follow social distancing norms.” Bars and pubs, however, will not be allowed to open, he said. Sawant said that as per his conversation with Shah, it appeared that the lockdown as it stands now will continue for another 15 days. “Looking at the rise on Covid-19 cases, I think there should be an extention of lockdown,” he said. Sawant said that at present, all establishments in Goa are open except for malls, restaurants, hotels and gyms. He said that a lot of people are now requesting that gyms and malls in the state be allowed to open. “We have requested the MHA to let us open these,” Sawant said. “But let us see... based on MHA guidelines, we will come out with our own guidelines.” Also, when asked if there would be any relaxation in the current 7pm to 7am restriction on movement, Sawant said that that was for the MHA to decide. Before Lockdown 4.0, the state government had suggested to PM Narendra Modi that the interstate movement of people should continue to be restricted. He said that if interstate public transport is allowed, there is a possibility of many Covid-19 positive cases entering Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-let-lockdown-continue-but-with-malls-gyms-eateries-open/articleshow/76100375.cms||Murari Shetye
May 30, 2020||Rajkot||Eight booked for firing on ex-BJP MLA in Una||RAJKOT: Eight persons, including seven from the same family, were booked for criminal conspiracy and attempting to murder three persons including former BJP MLA Kalu Rathod in Una town of Gir Somnath district on Friday. Three motorcycle-borne assailants had fired at Rathod (55), former BJP MLA from Una (2007-2012), Anantrai Thakar (60) and Lokesh Khattar (35) in the parking lot of MK Park Society on Thursday. Rathod received a bullet injury on his chin, while a bullet pierced Thakar’s stomach. Khattar was also injured in the shooting. “It is believed that the trio were attacked due to political rivalry,” said V M Chaudhary, inspector with Una police station. The attack took place when Rathod, who is currently president of Una municipality, had gone to attend a condolence meet of Geeta Chag, a member of the municipality who had died recently. Police said that the accused are members of Congress party and had contested against Rathod during municipality elections. The accused include Yashwant Bhambhaniya, Mahesh Bhambhaniya, Ravi Bhambhaniya, Sanjya Bhambhaniya, Manu Bhambhaniya, Yogesh Bhambhaniya, Bhikabhai Bhambhaniya, and Chintan Gadhiya. In the FIR, Rathod has stated that he too had fired five rounds from his gun in self-defence. Two of the rounds were fired in the air, Rathod has stated in his statement. While the police records has no mention of any injury caused due to Rathod’s firing, a police inspector involved in the investigation has claimed that three accused — Yashwant, Mahesh and Ravi — had suffered bullet injuries. It is believed that all three are admitted in a private hospital in Rajkot. However, no arrests have been made in the case so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eight-booked-for-firing-on-ex-bjp-mla-in-una/articleshow/76097764.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Rajkot||Kutch cops announces Rs 10,000 reward for info on rape accused||RAJKOT: The Kutch police on Friday announced reward of Rs 10,000 for any information on the accused who had allegedly raped a four-year-old girl in Bhachau town of the district a week ago. The parents of the girl are native of West Bengal and are under depression, according to the advocate from and NGO who visited them on Thursday. The little girl’s parents have been residing in labour colony of Bhachau since last three years. According to police, an unknown person had abducted the girl and then raped her on May 21. The girl was found bleeding profusely and was rushe to hospital by her mother on May 22. D B Parmar police inspector of Bhachau said, “We still don’t have clue about the accused. The main reason being that the rape survivor is just four years old and she does not understand local language.” A team of Kutch Mahila Vikas Sangathan (KMVS), a voluntary organization working in this district had visited the family of rape survivor on Thursday. Malshree Gadhvi, an advocate working with KMVS said, “The girl’s parents are in depression because of this incident. We met the superintendent of police also and demanded quick justice for this little girl.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutch-cops-announces-rs-10k-reward-for-info-on-rape-accused/articleshow/76097809.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Patna||Traders rue losses amid negligible footfall in Patna||PATNA: Despite the Patna district administration giving several relaxations in terms of economic activities, most shops in the city are incurring losses, claim traders. They have attributed the “poor business” to “lower customer footfall” amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Prince Raj, the manager of a garment showroom near New Patliputra Colony, pointed out that there was a lot of chaos among the customers because of the odd-even formula being followed to open shops. “Most customers do not know which shop will open when,” he added. Shops with odd numbers have to operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays and those with even numbers on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Besides, stand-alone shops selling electrical goods and automobiles remain open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays whereas those selling jewellery, utensils, sports items and textiles function on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. However, the scenario at Hathwa Market and Maurya Lok Complex is slightly better as shopkeepers have been witnessing a significant increase in footfalls for the last two days. Maurya Lok Shopkeeper Kalyan Samiti president Rajesh Kumar Dabloo told this newspaper, “One of the main reasons for better customer response is the upcoming wedding season. A lot of people have visited different shops in the complex for buying jewellery and clothes during the last two days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/traders-rue-losses-amid-negligible-footfall/articleshow/76097814.cms||Archi Rani
May 30, 2020||Rajkot||Liquor-laden SUV turns turtle, driver dead||RAJKOT: A driver of a liquor-laden SUV died after the vehicle overturned near Ghatila village in Maliya-Miyana taluka of Morbi district early on Friday morning. The deceased was identified as Suresh Sharma (27), a native of Rajasthan who lived in Halvad town of Morbi. According to police, the accident took place near Ghatila village on the Ahmedabad-Kutch highway. The driver believed to be moving at high speed, lost control of the SUV and went off road before the vehicle turned turtle. The deceased got crushed under the SUV and died on the spot. Police said that the SUV was loaded with liquor bottles. Only 126 bottle were intact, rest all got damaged in the accident. It is suspected that liquor cache was being brought from Rajasthan for distribution among local bootleggers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/liquor-laden-suv-turns-turtle-driver-dead/articleshow/76097950.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||No decision yet on CU PG end-sem tests||KOLKATA: The Calcutta University Post Graduate Board of Studies on Friday could not reach any decision regarding holding the terminal seme-ster examinations in the PG programmes. “Though we intended to draw up a plan about the examinations and draft modalities specifying a formula, none has materialized so far,” said a senior CU official. The heads of the departments (HOD) opined that a plan to hold the examinations can only be made after classes reopened. “There is a problem in the PG departments as many are yet to complete the syllabus, based on which questions will be framed,” added a source. However, most HODs have suggested taking a written examinations with reduced weightage. UG Council meetings had earlier been held in humanities and science streams in CU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-decision-yet-on-cu-pg-end-sem-tests/articleshow/76098692.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 1.4 lakh return home by 83 special trains||PATNA: Altogether 1.4 lakh people stranded in 10 states, including migrant workers, reached Bihar by 83 Shramik Special trains on Friday. Of these, 40,000 were from Gujarat alone. Chief public relations officer (CPRO) of the East Central Railway (ECR), Rajesh Kumar, told this newspaper that 30 trains from Jamnagar, Ahmedabad, Godhra, Mehsana, Surat, Bharuch, Bhuj, Rajkot, Porbandar, Gandhidham, Udhna, Palanpur and Vadodara returned to Banka, Kishanganj, Madhubani, Purnea, Chhapra, Muzaffarpur, Khagaria, Gaya, Biharsharif, Ara, Danapur, Sasaram, Anugraha Narayan Road, Katihar and Nawada with 40,000 people on Friday. “Besides, 14 other trains carrying 21,000 people came back to Bhagalpur, Banka, Saharsa, Supaul, Araria, Purnea, Jehanabad, Barauni, Madhubani, Sitamarhi, Danapur and Chhapra from Delhi. Two special trains from Nagalpalle in Telangana reached Katihar and Bhagalpur mostly with migrant workers on Friday,” the CPRO said, adding that trains from Dindigul (2), Tiruchirappalli (1), Coimbatore (1) and Tirupur (1) in Tamil Nadu reached Hajipur, Motihari, Darbhanga and Sitamarhi with 6,300 people. Three trains from Hisar, Ambala and Faridabad in Haryana brought back 3,700 migrant workers to Kishanganj, Muzaffarpur and Barauni. Four others from Bengaluru City and two from Hubli in Karnataka reached Madhubani, Samastipur, Araria, Darbhanga, Chhapra and Danapur on Friday. Two more trains from Jaipur and Udaipur in Rajasthan returned to Jehanabad and Barauni with 2,500 people. “Special trains from Thane, Bhiwandi, Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Panvel and Bandra in Maharashtra brought back 6,300 people to Darbhanga, Madhubani, Danapur and Motihari. Four other trains ferried stranded migrant workers from Buxar to Danapur from where they were taken to other places in the state,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-4-lakh-return-home-by-83-spl-trains/articleshow/75901705.cms||Kumod Verma
May 30, 2020||Patna||SuMo lashes out at RJD||Patna: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Friday launched a frontal attack on RJD for the decision of leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to march to Gopalganj over the triple murder issue by violating the lockdown norms. While Modi did not take the name of Tejashwi in his tweet that he issued having an indirect bearing on the day’s developments involving Tejashwi and other parties in the Grand Alliance, BJP’s spokesman Nikhil Anand assailed Tejashwi by taking his name. However, the ruling JD(U) refused to comment on the issue. “A party that was till recently campaigning to protect the Constitution has now been giving illogical reasons for violating the lockdown norms. A party that could not muster the confidence of its alliance partners (Congress, RLSP, HAM-S and VIP), how can the people of the state have faith in it (sic),” Modi tweeted. He accused the RJD of reacting only on selected issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-lashes-out-at-rjd/articleshow/76097549.cms||Abhay Singh
May 30, 2020||Varanasi||Five teenagers drown in Ganga in Ramnagar||Varanasi: In a tragic incident, five local boys drowned in Ganga while bathing in the river in Ramnagar area on Friday. All the bodies were fished out and sent for postmortem. The deceased have been identified as Tausif (19), Fardeen (14), Shaif (15), Rizwan (15), and Saki (14), all residents of Barigadahi locality in Ramnagar. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the death of the five teenagers and directed the district magistrate and SSP for quick rescue operation by engaging NDRF. According to reports, the boys had gone to Sipahiya ghat of Ramnagar for bathing. One of them slipped into deep waters while making a video. Seeing him drowning the others jumped into the river to save him. All five drowned while trying to save each other. Meanwhile, after hearing their screams, some boatmen on the river bank rushed to save them. But, all five friends had drowned by the time they could reach the midstream. The police and administrative officials reached there after getting information and started the search operation. People also gathered at the ghat in a large number. After a two-hour toil the bodies could be fished out. Bodies were brought to Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital in Ramnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/five-teenagers-drown-in-ganga-in-ramnagar/articleshow/76096940.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Patna||‘Seek explanation from university officers before their removal’||PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan has directed the vice-chancellors (VCs) of all the universities in the state not to send any proposal to his secretariat for termination of service of any officer without seeking an explanation from the latter and making their own comments on the response submitted to them. In a recent directive, Chauhan said, “If a VC is not satisfied with the working of an officer and considers his termination to be in the academic or administrative interest of his university, he should first seek an explanation from the latter. The officer should be given not less than a week to submit the explanation.” He added, “If the VC is not satisfied with the explanation, he may send the proposal regarding termination of appointment of the officer along with his own comments.” The chancellor is empowered to make the appointment of officers like financial advisers, finance officers and registrars under section 9 (7)(ii) of the Bihar State Universities’ Act, 1976 and sub-section 7 of section 10 of the Patna University Act, 1976. Of late, the VCs of some universities were reportedly sending direct proposals for termination of services of officers duly appointed by the chancellor without fulfilling legal obligations. New financial advisers appointed: Chancellor Phagu Chauhan has appointed new financial advisers and finance officers in different universities of the state. The financial advisers include Indra Kumar (Purnea University), Dilip Kumar (L N Mithila University), Madhusudan (Magadh University), and Kailash Ram (K S D Sanskrit University). The newly appointed finance officers are Shiv Dayal Singh (Patna University), Durga Prasad Mandal (Purnea University), Ram Kishore Singh(Jayaprkash University), Ram Kishore Prasad (Munger University), Vikash Kumar Charan (Nalanda Open University), Syed Mozaffar Hussain (Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University), Shankar Sharan Ambastha (Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University), Kauleshwar Prasad Sah (Patliputra University), Syed Fazle Rahman (L N Mithila University) and Kalyan Prasad (B R A Bihar University).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/seek-explanation-from-university-officers-before-their-removal/articleshow/76098069.cms||B K Mishra
May 30, 2020||Business||NCLT clears Takata India and KSS Abhishek Safety Systems merger||Chennai: The Chennai division bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has cleared the merger of Gurugram based KSS Abhishek Safety Systems with Takata India. The new amalgamated entity will now be called Joyson Anand Abhishek Safety Systems. As part of the deal, Takata India reduced its equity share from Rs 174.4 crore to Rs 40.4 crore by ‘cancelling and extinguishing’ paid up share capital worth Rs 134 crore which will be set off against accumulated losses of Rs 134 crore. All employees of KSS Ashishek Safety Systems will now become employees of Takata India.The merger is part of a tri-party joint venture announced in 2019 by auto component major Anand Group. The tri-party merger involved merging the two joint ventures of Joyson Safety Systems (JSS). JSS' joint venture with Abhishek Group is KSS Abhishek Safety Systems and its JV is with Anand Group is Takata India. Anand Group will now merge KSSA and Takata India to form a tri-party JV called Joyson Anand Abhishek Safety Systems.When the merger was announced last June, the merged entity was looking at hitting Rs 1,000 crore turnover by 2023.Abhishek Auto Industries has a long association with Takata Corporation, the Japanese seat belt, airbag and security systems major. In 2000, it formed a 70:30 JV with Takata which was dissolved 6 years later. In 2007 it formed a JV with Key Safety System Inc USA to become KSS Abhishek Safety System.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nclt-clears-takata-india-and-kss-abhishek-safety-systems-merger/articleshow/76098651.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
May 30, 2020||Business||Google buy report lifts Voda Idea 13%||TNN Mumbai: The Vodafone Idea stock rallied over 30% on Friday on the back of a report the previous evening, which said that the tech giant Google was eyeing a stake in the company. However, the stock pared its gains and closed nearly 13% higher after the telco said there was no definite proposal from the US-based tech major for the Indian company to evaluate and that it was considering several proposals. On the BSE, the Vodafone Idea stock touched an intra-day high at Rs 7.9 and closed at Rs 6.6, up 12.7% from its previous close at Rs 5.8. On the NSE and the BSE together, nearly 273 crore shares were traded on Friday. Market players believe the Vodafone Idea stake buy proposal from Google is a positive development for the banking industry. This is because for long, the telecom major’s huge pile of debt had been weighing on some of the banking stocks, which include SBI and PNB. Some estimate that Indian banks together have lent about Rs 29,000 crore to Vodafone Idea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/google-buy-report-lifts-voda-idea-13/articleshow/76099080.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||RPF Covid warriors sans defence||Lucknow: Adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols improved a bit among Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel at Charbagh railway station on Friday, but Railway Protection Force (RPF) cops were found to be lacking in a TOI reality check. About 245 GRP and 110 RPF personnel are deployed at Charbagh station. GRP manages law and order at railway stations, while RPF enforces law both on moving trains and at stations. So far, 10 railway cops— nine of GRP and one of RPF—deployed to manage migrants coming via Shramik trains have been diagnosed with Covid-19. RPF senior commandant Abhishek Kumar said, “Two protective coveralls have been allocated for each train and 20 at the station. They are used when personnel enter passenger coaches or mingle with people for crowd management. Besides, each jawan deployed for other jobs at the station has been given three reusable masks, a hand sanitizer and soap. Initially, disposable hand gloves were also provided.” However, TOI found that RPF personnel at the station were wearing only face masks. None had face shields and hand gloves as given to their GRP counterparts. They were also seen mingling with each other without following physical distancing. “The RPF constable found positive on Thursday was deployed at the station for crowd management, hence jawans need to take precautions all the time, be it on train or at a platform,” said a health officer. Kumar said that about 1,000 face shields and reusable hand gloves for entire Lucknow Division, which covers several railway stations, will be provided by next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rpf-covid-warriors-sans-defence/articleshow/76100374.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Business||Sebi warns TCS over $940m fine||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Sebi has warned Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) to be “careful” in dealing with disclosure of material information and to ensure that disclosures provide “accurate, adequate and timely information” to investors. The warning comes after Sebi noticed that TCS failed to mention the $940-million (over Rs 7,100-crore, at latest conversion rate) penalty imposed on it in the intellectual property infringement case against Epic Systems of the US. “The damages are substantial, more so when seen in comparison to the Rs 24,292-crore net profit of TCS for fiscal 2016. The disclosures made by TCS to stock exchanges on April 16, 2016 should have prominently displayed the extent of damages to enable investors to assess the impact of the verdict on the financials of the listed entity,” read the two-page ‘warning letter’ signed by Sebi’s Pradeep Ramakrishnan. “This goes against the spirit of listing rules that requires entities to ensure that disseminations made by them are explicit and timely.” TCS, India’s second-most valued company with a market capitalisation of Rs 7.4 lakh crore, has 8.6 lakh non-promoter shareholders. Sebi observed that TCS’ April 16, 2016 disclosure failed to mention the damages, but after two days it showed the damages as part of contingent liabilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-warns-tcs-over-940m-fine/articleshow/76099203.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Residents for stricter curbs, industries want relaxations||PATNA: With just two days left for the fourth phase of lockdown to end, many people from cross sections of society are in favour of another lockdown with fewer relaxations. Industry bodies, businessmen and daily wagers, however, want easing of lockdown so that economic activities could gather pace. “Covid-19 cases have doubled in the state following relaxations in lockdown. The government should enforce strict rules to contain the spread of the virus. Only those unable to earn livelihood should be given relaxations,” said Anand Singh, a resident of Boring Road. D M Diwakar, a social scientist and professor of economics at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said a lockdown without preparation is equivalent to no lockdown. “Almost all activities have been resumed. As a result, Covid cases have jumped in the state,” he said. Even schools are in favour of continuation of lockdown. Fr Armstrong Edison, principal of St Michael’s High school, said lockdown is very important to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “Even if the government decides to reopen schools, we are prepared for it. The authorities should, however, enforce different rules for educational institutions by decreasing the number of students attending school at a time,” he said. Industry bodies, however, said the government should consider giving more relaxations. Bihar Industries Association president Ram Lal Khaitan said all industrial units outside the containment zones should be given permission to resume normal operations. “The employees and workers should definitely follow social distancing norms and other precautionary measures,” he said. Health experts said new methods should be introduced as lockdown is not preventing the spread of the virus. Dr Satyendra Narayan Singh, head of microbiology department at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), said the need of the hour is to change testing method. “The government should introduce antibody testing in the state in order to detect more cases. According to findings of Journal of American Medical Association, antibody testing, which is done by two methods – rapid antibody test and ALISA test – has achieved 100% success in detecting positive corona cases worldwide,” Dr Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/residents-for-stricter-curbs-industries-want-relaxations/articleshow/76097676.cms||Archi Rani
May 30, 2020||Patna||Met predicts rain in parts of Bihar||PATNA/GAYA: People across the state got slight respite from the scorching heat following plunge in mercury column on Friday. Temperatures at most places in the state went below 40 degrees mark and similar weather condition is expected over the next few days. Patna Metrological Centre has predicted that some districts in north and east Bihar would receive rainfall with thunderstorm over the next three days. The daily bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre stated that light to moderate rainfall occurred at one or two places in north-east and south-west Bihar during the last 24 hours. Besides, day or maximum temperature is expected to hover in the range of 33-38 degrees C at most places in the state at least till the end of this week. Patna, Bhagalpur, Purnia and Chhapra are likely to witness maximum temperature in the range of 33-35 degrees C. Gaya was the hottest place in the state on Friday with a maximum temperature of 37.4 degrees C and similar temperature level is expected to prevail till June 1. As the sun God went soft, Gaya administration eased the restrictions imposed on the movement of people and shop opening. On Tuesday, Gaya had recorded a maximum temperature of 45.8 degrees Celsius and DM Abhishek Singh had banned all outings except in the case of medical emergency between 12 noon and 4pm. However, the order was revised on Thursday evening and the Gayaites are now permitted to go out any time between 7am and 7pm. According to the revised order issued by the Gaya DM, different category of shops will now remain open between 10am and 5pm as per the notified category of the shops. Most shops will open thrice a week in a staggered manner. Such shops have been divided into two categories. One category of shops like footwear, hair dressing, utensil will open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and shops selling construction material, sanitary fittings and hardware will operate on six days a week (Monday to Saturday).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-predicts-rain-in-parts-of-state/articleshow/76097628.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||‘MP Pragya Singh Thakur missing’: Posters prop up in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Posters declaring BJP Lok Sabha member from Bhopal, Pragya Singh Thakur, as missing amid the Covid-19 crisis have now come up in many places in the state capital. The BJP has lodged a complaint with police for legal action in the matter. The posters claimed that while residents of Bhopal were facing difficulties during Covid-19 spread, Thakur is “nowhere to be seen among the sufferers”. The posters questioned her disappearance and read, "Where has MP Pragya Thakur gone missing.” Over the last few months such “missing posters” of both BJP and Congress leaders have come up across the state with both the parties attacking each other over it. BJP, meanwhile, have pointed fingers at Congress over the latest posters. “This is fight between Sadhvi (saint) and Shaitan (devil). Shaitan has nothing to do with the poor health of Sadhvi and thus, trying to malign her image,” said BJP MLA from Huzur (Bhopal) constituency, Rameshwar Sharma. Former minister Vishwas Sarang said, “The Congress is trying to malign the image of Sadhvi Pragya. This is understood that Congress is playing dirty game and responsible for putting up posters in Bhopal. Sadhvi Pragya is unwell but Congress is more worried about its political gains ahead of bypolls in the state.” The Congress leaders however, said that it was the people of Bhopal who have put up posters of Pragya Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-pragya-missing-posters-prop-up-in-bhopal/articleshow/76098807.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Rajkot||School principal upset over his promotion kills self in Gujarat||RAJKOT: In a bizarre case, a financially well-off school principal in Morbi town committed suicide, apparently because of he was mentally disturbed over being promoted to the post. Mansukh Vashiyani, 52, was found hanging from the ceiling in the room on the first floor of his house in Yadunandan Park early on Friday morning. According to police, Vashiyani being the senior-most teacher of the government school was recently given charge as principal even as he did not want to take up the post. The reasons for his reluctance were not immediately known, but his family members also told police that he remained extremely disturbed ever since he was give nthe charge. Police said that on Friday morning, when Vashiyani’s wife went to call him for tea, she found him hanging. The deceased is survived by his wife, a son who owns a factory and a daughter who is married. His younger brother also lives with him. Police said that Vashiyani was financially stable and owned agriculture land in his native village of Lunsar near Wankaner. There was no suicide note found in the house, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/school-principal-upset-over-his-promotion-kills-self/articleshow/76097911.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Shutters up, Burrabazar textile hub starts afresh||KOLKATA: Eastern India’s biggest textile hub in Burrabazar, which generates millions of direct and indirect employment opportunities, reopened on Friday after more than two months of lockdown. Wholesalers and retailers selling saris, dress materials, hosiery items, readymade garments and other apparel opened their establishments on Friday after receiving permission from the administration on Wednesday. The business was lukewarm on the first day of trade but traders seemed cheerful and optimistic. “At least a start has been made. Even till a month ago, everything was so uncertain. We had no clue when we would be able to reopen our shops. It is a big relief to at least start the process today. Once the lockdown restrictions are eased, customers will start coming in too,” said Sanjay Bihani, a wholesaler of hosiery products on Jamunalal Bajaj Street in Burrabazar on Friday morning. Traders expect 100% of the establishments to reopen by Monday when the situation of public transportation improves. Burrabazar is the biggest textile hub in the eastern region, catering to all the states, including the Northeast. The reopening of the industry has sent out a signal that the business may witness some activity in the coming weeks. According to the senior members of the Chamber of Textile Trade and Industry, the industry is one of the worse impacted sectors along with aviation, travel and tourism and food and beverage. They said several small- and medium-level businessmen may be forced to exit the trade if there is no revival in demand. “The textile industry is one of the worse-hit industries. Business has been zero and it will take us some time to revive the industry,” said Mahendra Jalan, secretary of the Chamber of Textile Trade and Industry, an umbrella body that also includes affiliates. Purchase of clothes, linen and other home décor have slipped down the priority list of a big section of the population due to cash crunch and bad economy. Moreover, with restaurants, malls and multiplexes not reopening any time soon, people will not have the need to purchase new clothes. “We are banking on the festive season preparations to provide some impetus to our trade,” said Jain. The industry generates 2 million direct employment opportunities in the state, said Jain. Other ancillary industries, like packaging, paper and cardboard, courier and stitching generate further 2 million jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shutters-up-burrabazar-textile-hub-starts-afresh/articleshow/76098676.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 30, 2020||Patna||Patna high court relief for agitating sanitation workers||PATNA: The Patna high court has stayed the urban development and housing department’s order to outsource the work being done by daily-wage sanitation workers across the state. This will come as a huge relief for the workers who have been protesting against the decision as well as demanding regularisation of their job. The court also directed the department to maintain status quo. A bench of Justice Rajeev Ranjan Prasad passed the order while hearing a writ petition filed by Bihar Local Bodies Employee Federation. The state’s standing counsel Pankaj Kumar had submitted that he was unable to argue the case as brief of the matter was not made available to him. He had urged the court that the matter be taken up for hearing on June 2 or June 3. However, senior counsel Yogesh Chandra Verma appearing for the federation, submitted before the court that the department’s order of outsourcing work would affect about 25,000 daily-wage sanitation workers across the state and they would be removed from their jobs from June 1. Accepting Verma’s plea, the court ordered to maintain status quo and directed the department to file a counter affidavit and not to implement its order till the next hearing on June 3. Verma said on the basis of the Lokayukta’s order, the department had issued the order for outsourcing the work done by daily wage workers in 142 municipal bodies across the state. “The order passed by Lokayukta was beyond its jurisdiction. Court was apprised of the order too,” he said. Verma further said that these bodies had made no regular appointments in group-D category for the past 20-25 years while the daily wagers were agitating for regularisation of their jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-relief-for-agitating-sanitation-workers/articleshow/76097593.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Surat||SMC anticipates spike in Covid-19 cases after 43 test positive in Surat||SURAT: Surat city has been witnessing over 40 Covid-19 cases daily for the last two days. On Friday, 43 Covid-19 cases were recorded which took the tally to 1,476 in the city. Jubela Memon, 73, a resident of central zone, succumbed to the virus at New Civil Hospital on Friday. This took the Covid-19 toll in the city to 66. SMC officials said she was suffering from comorbidity. "For the last two days, over 40 new Covid-19 cases are being reported daily in Surat. Coronavirus cases may increase in the coming days and we need to be cautious after giving relaxation in lockdown rules,” municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said. "More cases have been reported from Limbayat, Udhana and Katargam zones in the city. Limbayat zone, a Covid-19 hotspot, accounts for about 50 per cent of total cases in the city. On Friday, 11 new cases were reported from Limbayat zone, seven from Udhana zone, seven from Katargam, nine from Varachha (A) zone and five from central zone,'' Pani added. "Surveillance is in full swing where we are identifying aged people and those with comorbid conditions. We have asked them to report to their nearby hospital immediately if they develop any symptom of coronavirus. Early treatment can help them fight off coronavirus,'' Pani said. "We held a meeting with members of Indian Medical Association’s Surat Branch in the presence of mayor Dr. Jagdish Patel. We are of the opinion that early identification of cases and following a certain treatment protocol will help fight the pandemic. Doctors have assured us their full help,” Pani added. Meanwhile, another 28 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Friday. Thus, the total number of discharged patients in the city has gone up to 1,013. Thirteen patients were discharged from Covid Care Centre and 15 from New Civil Hospital. The civic body continued its drive to enforce social distancing norms. It shut down 146 paan parlours and 153 salons for violating norms announced to prevent spread of coronavirus. 63-year-old woman tests positive for Covid-19 Surat: After remaining free of Covid-19 for long, there has been a sudden spike in the cases in Valsad district. On Friday, a 63-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19. She is a resident of Dev Prayag Apartment on Halar Road in Valsad town. Health officials said she has been referred to Tristar Hospital in Surat for treatment. "Till now, a total of 35 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Valsad district. The virus has claimed life of one patient even as 14 patients have been discharged so far after their recovery,” an officer said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-anticipates-spike-in-covid-19-cases-after-43-test-positive-in-city/articleshow/76097558.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Surat||60% small industrial units in state in red zones: GPCB||SURAT: The Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) has made several relaxations for small industrial units to help them smoothly restart their activities. Addressing industries in webinar Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) on Friday organized by GPCB member secretary AV Shah said that there are nearly 35,898 small industrial units across Gujarat who have to comply with the norms, out of which close to 21,388 units are in various red zones. Shah on addressing on the subject ‘Mutual Role of GPCB and Industries to Combat Corona Challenges’. SGCCI president Ketan Desai said that industry in general has to comply with 21 laws related to environment, health and safety, and after partial lifting of lockdown, these will throw up new set of challenges for the units. Shah stated that GPCB will not give enviromental clearance (EC) to any unit located in municipal zones which are not ‘industrial zones’ as per the corporation declared zoning of areas. “I request all industries to shift their units to industrial zones as per the SMC’s zoning criteria if they want to obtain EC from GPCB,” he said. Shah said that in order to provide partial relief to the entitites under lockdown, GPCB has made several relaxations. Those units whose consolidated consent and authorization (CCA) certificates expires on March given extention for renewals up to June30. Units served closure notices with 15 days time limit have been given additional time till May 31 to comply with norms. “All CCA renewal applications granted extensions till September 30, 2020 without additional scrutiny. We have also extended the number of days to hold hazardous waste to 180 days provision of 90 days,” he added. Extension of environmental audit start date from April 1, 2020 to June 1, 2020 has been given a leverage of 90 days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/60-small-industrial-units-in-state-in-red-zones-gpcb/articleshow/76097489.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Surat||Three containment clusters removed, 15 reduced in size||SURAT: In a major relief to over four lakh people living in three ‘Covid-19 clusters in Ugat, Rander and Athwa areas of the city, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has re-structured the ‘Covid-19’ clusters and removed these areas from the cluster zones. These areas are now under ‘Red Zone’. The SMC has re-structured its clusters and changed their the status. Three clusters have been put under red zone. Besides this, at least 15 clusters have been reduced in size in different parts of the city. There were a total of 58 clusters in the city, of which three clusters have been removed. According to an estimate, over four lakh people living in the clusters zones are now free from these zones and restrictions in these zones have been relaxed. Most importantly, textile market, industrial area, Mahidharpura and Hira Bazaar located in the central zone and Limbayat zone have been removed from the cluster zones. However, businessmen and traders have been asked to follow SMC’s Covid-19 guidelines. “The clusters will be changed as per the status of the Covid-19 in a particular area or a cluster. If cases continue to increase, the cluster will remain there. If new cases get reported from the area, the cluster will be imposed once again with restrictions,” said SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-containment-clusters-removed-15-reduced-in-size/articleshow/76097515.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Rajkot||‘Positive’ mom gives birth to healthy baby||RAJKOT: A 25-year-old Covid positive woman gave birth to a healthy baby in a government hospital of Surendranagar on Friday. This is the first incident of successful delivery of Covid positive woman in Surendranagar district. Till now, such cases were referred to Rajkot Civil Hospital. Official sources said that Sonal Poyla, resident of Danawada village of Muli taluka, was admitted to the hospital on May 22. She was traced during the community surveillance and as per the guidelines, her samples were sent for testing on priority basis. Poyla gave birth to a baby boy at 7am on Friday. The baby weighs three kg and both mother and child are healthy. The boy’s samples will also be sent for Covid test as per the protocol. Surendranagar collector K Rajesh said, “We have called our government gynaecologist and took service of private doctor too and prepared a separate room as per the guidelines. Now. we are confident that we don’t need to refer pregnant women testing positive to Rajkot hospitals and deliveries can be performed here itself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/positive-mom-gives-birth-to-healthy-baby/articleshow/76097623.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Rajkot||Fertilizer racket busted in Amreli, four booked||RAJKOT: A racket of illegal sale of fertilizer meant for agriculture purpose was busted on Friday in Khambha in Talaja taluka of Bhavnagar district. A five-member team led by Amreli deputy director of agriculture raided a shop on bus station road in Khambha on Thursday evening when a truck was unloading the stock of fertilizer. The team also seized 410 bags of 50kg each valued at Rs 3 lakh and seized the stock from the spot. According to district administration, the main accused, Rajendra Parmar, was selling fertilizer directly to the farmers in the villages at a rate of Rs750 per bag without any license to sell fertilizers. He also paid the mediators Rs 100 per bag. Interestingly, the same bag of fertilizer costs Rs400 at the registered licensed shops and taluka outlets. All the accused including Parmar, Mukesh Jitiya, Nayan Siyar and Kishan Yadav, who are conduits in the illegal trade, have been booked under Chemcial Fertilizer Control Act and Essential Commodities Act in Khambha police station. The officers sent samples of the seized fertilizer for laboratory testing. According to law, fertilizer is regulated and license is required for storage and sale. Only a licensee is allowed to sell fertilizer at the subsidized rate. Amreli district collector Aayush Oak said “Once the test reports come we will know if it is adulterated or not. But as he did not have license to sell fertilizer in Amreli and was selling it illegally at a much higher price than a licensee, we have initiated legal proceedings against all of them.” He also added that the team came to know of the illegal trade when they questioned the people found selling it. Oak urged farmers to buy fertilizers only with invoice and from legal licensees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fertilizer-racket-busted-in-amreli-four-booked/articleshow/76097841.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Rajkot||Piling logs, liquidity crunch crush Kutch timber makers||RAJKOT: Timber logs worth at least Rs 450 crore, which could have made at least three million wooden beds of standard size (6ft X 7ft), have piled up at the custom-bonded warehouses in Kutch as local importers are refraining from taking their stock due to severe liquidity crunch. The importers, who own saw mills and plywood factories, have to pay 18% international GST (IGST) and 10% import duty on ready-to-use timber like swan timber and 5% on other varieties to get the goods released from the warehouses. According to industry sources, nearly 2.5 lakh to three lakh cubic metre (cbm) timber unloaded from eight ships at Deendayal Port Trust (DPT), Kandla and Mundra Port has piled up in eight warehouses over the last two months. Kandla alone accounts for 70% of India’s timber import and the processed wood is sold to various industries including building construction and furniture makers. Navneet Bansal, a timber importer in Gandhidham, who has 900 cbm timber lying in the warehouse, says he has no money to pay duty and taxes to get his goods released. “Government collects IGST in advance, but doesn’t issue refund of GST in the prescribed time. Huge amount of refund is also held up with the government.” Timber is imported from New Zealand, Malaysia, African countries, Latin America, Uruguay and European countries. President of Kandla Timber Association, Navneet Gujjar said, “We pay 25% amount of letter of credit (LC) to the bank over and above the IGST and import duty. We have to invest more then 50% amount before we start processing raw material. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, we have been facing liquidity crunch and have no money to get our goods released by paying this hefty amount.” “We have repeatedly requested the government to reduce GST to 5% from 18% to save our industry,” said Gujjar, adding that the industry is saving the environment, and also that wood is not a luxury item. Vice-president of Kandla Timber Association and also a customs house agent, Hemchandra Yadav said: “Stock of nearly 125 importers are piled up in the bonded warehouse. The importers get credit of 90 to 120 days to pay remaining purchase amount of imported goods to the bank. We fear that most of the importers will default that payment also.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/piling-logs-liquidity-crunch-crush-kutch-timber-makers/articleshow/76097435.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
May 30, 2020||Business||SC to take up SP’s plea for Tata Sons board presence||MUMBAI: The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to hear Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group scion Cyrus Mistry’s appeal, seeking representation on the board of Tata Sons proportionate to the equity interest held by the diversified enterprise. SP, which has a relationship with Tata Sons since the 1920s, owns 18.4% in the holding company of the Tata Group. The apex forum tagged Mistry’s appeal with the application filed by Tata Sons — both arising out of the December 18, 2019 NCLAT judgment — and said that all pleadings should be completed within four weeks. It is expected that the matter will be heard in July or August. Mistry, who filed the appeal through Cyrus Investments, said although the NCLAT had ruled in favour of SP in the oppression and mismanagement claim against Tata Sons, he is seeking proportionate representation on the board of the parent of the Tata Group, given that SP owns a significant minority stake in the company. Though there is no agreement between Tata Sons and SP that requires the former to appoint an SP member on its board, the latter held a director’s position in the company for more than three decades. But, after the boardroom battle between Mistry and Tata Trusts — the controlling shareholder of Tata Sons — in October 2016, the latter removed him from the director’s position. Mistry wants SP’s equity interest in Tata Sons to be protected. He has also sought the deletion of onerous elements in the Articles of Association of Tata Sons that give full veto on all board items to Tata Trusts’ nominee directors, or extend the same veto rights to the directors representing the minority shareholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sc-to-take-up-sps-plea-for-tata-sons-board-presence/articleshow/76099152.cms||Reeba Zachariah
May 30, 2020||Patna||Mukhiya survives murderous attack||PATNA: A youth was thrashed by a mob when he attempted to kill a mukhiya, considered close to controversial JD(U) MLA Amrendra Kumar Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, in Gopalganj district on Friday. A country-made pistol and four live cartridges were seized from the possession of the youth, Zakir Mian, who has been admitted to the sadar hospital at Gopalganj for treatment. Mian along with his associate intercepted mukhiya of Bikrampur panchayat Shailesh Ojha at Lachhpur village and tried to open fire, but was overpowered by his supporters and subsequently thrashed. A police team from Gopalpur rushed to the spot and rescued Mian from the clutches of the irate mob. SHO of Gopalpur police station Ajit Kumar said Mian is a native of Takiabari village in Gopalganj district. Meanwhile, the mukhiya has demanded security for him and his family in the wake of abortive attempt on his life. Meanwhile, SP Manoj Kumar Tiwary on Friday said raids were on to arrest those involved in the recent Gopalganj killings. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mukhiya-survives-murderous-attack/articleshow/76097484.cms||Ramashankar
May 30, 2020||Patna||Two more children test positive for AES||PATNA: With two more children testing positive for acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) on Thursday, the number of affected kids undergoing treatment at Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH), Muzaffarpur, has touched six. Doctors, however, said all the six children were out of danger. SKMCH superintendent Dr Sunil Shahi said the reports of the two kids came on Thursday. “They are from Sheohar. In fact, all six AES patients at the hospital are out of danger,” Dr Shahi added. Altogether 36 AES cases have so far been recorded in the state this year – 20 from Muzaffarpur and 16 from other districts. According to Muzaffarpur district administration, five children have so far died due to AES, including four from Muzaffarpur, and 25 have recovered from the disease. At least 150 kids had died due to AES last year with majority of them succumbing to the disease in June. Dr Shahi, however, said the situation was much better this time. “Asha and Anganwadi workers are working at peripheral level, sensitising people and telling them to give food to kids before they go to sleep. In many cases, people immediately rush to primary health centre with the kids if they show AES symptoms,” Dr Shahi added. The health department had earlier terminated a doctor posted at Runnisaidpur community health centre on charges of dereliction of duty after a child showing AES symptoms died at SKMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-more-children-test-positive-for-aes/articleshow/76097309.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal Inc lauds office-reopening nod, promises to act responsibly||Kolkata: Industry captains and leading chambers in the state have hailed chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s advice to “stay safe and work indoors as much as possible” and pledged to act responsibly while deciding on workforce capacity before reopening offices from June 8. A lot of offices that have been operating with 50% capacity since May 15 will now shift gears with utmost precaution. A few corporate houses have, however, decided to review the situation on Monday. ITC, the biggest corporate firm from the region with 1,200 employees working in the city, has been operating with a skeletal workforce of just 40-50 for the last few weeks. Storage battery major Exide has been functioning with 33% workforce and a majority of employees are working from home. “The company has, for now, left the decision about staff strength to individuals and group heads,” added a senior executive. IT sector sources said that as most employees have been working from home and the process has reasonably stabilized, any disruption could create a problem and there could be a huge chance of getting infected. “Hence, keeping both factors in mind, we shall take small steps forward without making hurried decisions which may prove detrimental in the long run. We shall first ensure that all precautions are taken,” said Kalyan Kar, VP of the Sector V Stakeholders’ Forum. He, however, added, “It is great that the freedom to work how we choose has been restored.” From June, Elogix Software will work from office with about 40% staff, who will have to arrange their own transport. “We will take a call on this in July,” said CEO Pradip Chanda. Umesh Chowdhary, the vice-chairman of Titagarh Group, felt that one has to learn to live with Covid-19. “Hence, the balance of life and livelihood is essential and, to that effect, the economic activities have to be resumed,” he said. Patton MD Sanjay Budhia added that during the complete lockdown, export orders had been getting cancelled and failure in commitments had resulted in loss of overseas customers. Merlin Group MD Saket Mohta praised the decision. “The time has come to shift focus on livelihoods because it is affecting people at the bottom of the pyramid and the middle-class. We have decided to hire private buses to collect employees from various points in the city,” he added. Bharat Chamber president Ramesh Kumar Saraogi stated that the chief minister has taken a bold decision to rejuvenate the economy. Bengal Chamber president B B Chatterjee also welcomed the CM’s decision to restart economic activities, but with proper safety. However, all telecom majors, like Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio and Vodafone Idea, whose network teams have been working 24x7 across the Kolkata circle to revive connectivity after Amphan, are sceptical about reopening their offices to the entire workforce. “Our headquarters will probably take a decision on the resumption of pan-India operations from office,” said a top HR official at a cellular service operator in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-inc-lauds-office-reopening-nod-promises-to-act-responsibly/articleshow/76098659.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
May 30, 2020||Business||Rural demand may power revival of two wheelers post lockdown||Chennai: It’s the green and orange effect. Demand from rural and semi urban markets — most of which are green and orange zones — is driving two wheeler sales and will power the segment’s bounce back as well. A bumper rabi harvest (winter crop) and some government schemes which have increased money in the hands of consumers and two wheeler companies as well as financiers are already seeing positive signs.Two wheeler financiers say that despite lower cash flows, rural is doing better in the first two weeks of showroom reopening. “Our loan disbursal in smaller towns and cities has begun. We have so far released more than 30000 loans (as against 90000 earlier). The collections are also better. In April, a complete lockdown month we managed 54% collections and in May, so far we have collected 60%,” said YS Chakravarthy, MD& CEO, Shriram City Union Finance.“While we continue to lend 70%-75% loan to value (LTV), the absolute amount of loan may be lesser as vehicle cost has increased post BS6 and also insurance has become costly. In some cases, where we normally lend for 24 months, we have increased it to 30 months as cash flows may be a problem for some sections,” he added. Shriram City is India’s largest two wheeler financier by volume. “Rural demand for two wheelers is expected to be comparatively better than its urban counterpart on account of better rural income sentiments. With water levels in reservoirs above average in 2019 a bumper rabi harvest is expected, which is estimated to increase overall rabi profitability by around 6%, due to the 10% increase in sowing for the winter crop. Furthermore, with expectation of a normal monsoon, the upcoming kharif season is also expected to fare well,” said Hetal Gandhi, director, Crisil Research.Already, two wheeler companies are seeing some pick up. “While one weekago, daily average retails at our open dealers was around 50% of pre-lockdown levels, this figure is today close to 70% level. Rural sales contribution today stands unchanged at 28% to our pan-India retails. Not only are most urban touch points which drive two-wheeler sales in red zones and are yet to open; but the status of opened network too is changing on weekly basis. But our internal study on enquiry customers shows that 55% to 60% of our customers are those who enquired earlier while around 50% of those who enquired pre-lockdown are willing to purchase within 1 month even now,” said Yadvinder Singh Guleria, director, sales & marketing, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India:According to the just-released Crisil report two wheelers will be down 21%-23% in the current fiscal while passenger vehicles are 24%-26% and trucks and buses down 26%-28%. However, analysts are already factoring in the rural demand while reporting numbers. For its Q4 results, analysts said TVS will do better despite COVID pressure due to the rural footfalls. TVS Motor, which sold 2.8 lakh motorcycles in the January-March quarter (as against 3.75 lakh units the year before) sells 55% of its two wheelers in rural markets compared to 45% in urban markets. In its latest report equity research firm Motilal Oswal Financial Services noted that two wheelers are seeing resurgence in inquiries ( upto 50% of normal at operational dealerships). "Demand is returning driven by preference for personal vehicles rather than the public transport, and higher disposable income in rural market due to good harvest," said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rural-demand-may-power-revival-of-two-wheelers-post-lockdown/articleshow/76098683.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
May 30, 2020||Business||HC notice to Franklin, Sebi over closures||TNN Mumbai: Madras HC has issued notices to the troubled Franklin Templeton MF, markets regulator Sebi, the fund house’s debt scheme head Santosh Kamath and others in a PIL filed by the Chennai Financial Markets and Accountability (CFMA), an investors’ organisation. CFMA has alleged huge losses to investors in the six funds that are being closed. In the petition, CFMA said that there’s a chance a major part of the Rs 28,000 crore worth of funds managed by these six schemes may never come back to the investors. It is now asking affected investors to join them in their fight against the fund house. Nithyaesh Natraj, the counsel for CFMA, said that June 23 is the next date of hearing in the case. In a release, CFMA said that the fund house has recently admitted that the recovery of funds across the six schemes shall be in the range of 5% to 81% over the next five years. “Given the fact that the six schemes had Rs 28,000 crore worth of assets under management, average loss to the unit holders, taking 20% as average realisation, would be around Rs 22,400 crore. This is the size of the hole in the pocket of common man where the principal amount is wiped off,” the investors’ society said. Late on April 23, Franklin Templeton MF had said that from April 24, six of its debt schemes will be closed for subscription and redemption as the fund house will wind up these schemes. At that time, the MF had said the schemes together were managing about Rs 25,900 crore worth of funds, and not Rs 28,000 crore. A spokesperson for Franklin Templeton MF said the fund house was examining the matter and will take appropriate steps as may be required. “We continue to follow due process, both in making investment decisions and in the winding up of these schemes. We have acted in the best interest of our investors and in accordance with all regulations,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hc-notice-to-franklin-sebi-over-closures/articleshow/76099112.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Rupee bank gets another extension||Pune: The Rupee Cooperative Bank has got yet another extension to operate under restrictive conditions up to August-end. The RBI had first placed the bank under directions in February 2013. Since then over half-a-million depositors of the bank, mostly from the low-income households, have not been able to access their own funds. The administrators of the cooperative bank said its merger proposal with Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank was pending approval from the RBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rupee-bank-gets-another-extension/articleshow/76099843.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Patna||Open units in Bihar: Industries minister Shyam Rajak writes to 24 industrialists||PATNA: State industries minister Shyam Rajak has written to 24 leading industrialists in the country, inviting them to set up their units in the state. In his letters, the minister has stated that there is vast scope in Bihar for industrial units in food processing sector, agriculture equipment manufacturing, healthcare, IT & ITes, energy, chemical, leather and textiles. Letters have been sent to Nestle India Ltd, Finolex Industries Ltd, Khadim India Ltd, GRM Overseas Ltd, Hindustan Food Ltd, Relaxo Footwears Ltd, KRBL Ltd, L.T. Food Ltd and Bata India Ltd, among others. The minister has informed industrialists that there is no dearth of land in Bihar for setting up industrial units. “Bihar Industrial Area Development Authority (BIADA), a wing of industries department, was recently transferred 2,484 acres of land from Bihar State Sugar Mills Corporation. Besides, BIADA has 346-acre industrial land in its possession,” Rajak told TOI. He has written in his letters that the state government has started skill mapping of migrant workers at the quarantine centres so that their database could be prepared. “Around 7 lakh migrant workers have already returned to the state and 20 lakh more are expected to follow suit. We have also prepared IT solutions for matching supply side of labour with demand side,” Rajak said. The minister claimed in his letters that Covid-19 has not affected food processing, fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG), healthcare, agriculture, IT, ITes, telecommunication, oil and gas, power, chemical and retail sectors much. “Bihar offers strong opportunities in these sectors,” he said. Rajak said since Bihar is located centrally in eastern India, it can emerge as manufacturing base for markets of eastern Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha and north-eastern states. Emphasizing on food processing sector, Rajak said many major food processing companies, including ITC, Britannia, Coca Cola and Pepsi are running multiple plants in Bihar. Rajak said Bihar has common application form (CAF) and single-window clearance system in place. He added that the state also has separate investment promotion agencies for large industries and micro, small & medium enterprises (MSMEs). The industries minister has invited each industrialist or company to visit Bihar, experience it, and then draw opinion about investing in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/open-units-in-bihar-minister-writes-to-24-industrialists/articleshow/76097673.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Four women give birth to babies in railway hospitals, train coaches in 16 days||PATNA: Union railway minister Piyush Goyal on Friday urged people suffering from serious ailments, pregnant women, children and those above 65 years of age to travel by Shramik special trains “only when necessary”. During the last 16 days, four women have delivered babies at different hospitals falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR). According to Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar, 30-year-old Asha Kumari gave birth to a baby girl at the Sheikhpura sadar hospital on Thursday morning. “The woman began having labour pains on Wednesday when the Shramik special train (04610) by which she was travelling passed through the Kiul-Gaya section of the Danapur division. Her family members dialled the helpline number 138 and the train was stopped at Sirari station. She was shifted to the hospital immediately,” Sunil told this newspaper on Friday. Another woman, Minaz Khatoon, went into labour while travelling with her husband, Alam Ansari, from Surat to Sitamarhi by a Shramik special train on May 19. The DRM said, “As soon as the train reached the Danapur station, a team of doctors and nurses helped the 27-year-old woman deliver a boy inside her coach.” ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar recalled two similar incidents. “While returning to Bhagalpur from Mumbai with her husband, Mohammad Ashraf, Lily Khatoon (31) gave birth to a boy inside her train’s coach with the help of railway doctors and paramedical staff on May 13,” Rajesh said and added that the woman had labour pains at the Barauni Junction. Similarly, 30-year-old Anita Devi, who was coming back to Motihari from Surat with her husband, went into labour when her train reached Samastipur on May 25. “Railway doctors rushed to the station and helped her deliver a baby girl,” the CPRO said. Danapur’s senior divisional commercial manager Adhar Raj pointed out that a special cell had been set up to receive calls and provide medical assistance to passengers at the nearest station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-women-give-birth-to-babies-in-railway-hospitals-train-coaches-in-16-days/articleshow/76097872.cms||Kumod Verma
May 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar pays tribute to Ajit Jogi, Veerendra Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar has mourned the deaths of former Chhattisgarh CM Ajit Jogi and former Union minister from Kerala Veerendra Kumar. In his tribute to Jogi, Nitish said, “He was an eminent politician and leader. His death is an immense loss for the nation," Nitish said, recalling his contributions to Chhattisgarh as well as to the nation as a parliamentarian. The Bihar CM recalled Jogi's role as the first CM of Chhattisgarh after the new state was carved out of Madhya Pradesh in 2003. Jogi also became Rajya Sabha member twice and represented his constituency in the Lok Sabha four times. Nitish also paid his tribute to Veerendra Kumar. “He was a seasoned politician, an eminent social worker, journalist and writer. His death is an immense loss to the country’s national, political, social, journalistic and literary lives,” Nitish said, wishing his family members and well-wishers strength to bear the grief. Paying homage to the departed soul, Nitish recalled the contributions of Veerendra, a contemporary of socialists such as Jayaprakash Narayan (JP) and Ram Manohar Lohia. “JP himself had given membership of the then Socialist Party to Veerendra Kumar. Later, he suffered incarceration during the Emergency,” Nitish said. Recalling his association with journalism and journalistic contributions, Nitish said Veerendra was also associated with Indian Newspaper Society (INS). On his literary works, Nitish said Veerendra wrote on politics, philosophy and economics and was conferred the Sahitya Akademi award as well as the Kerala Sahitya Akademi award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-mourns-death-of-jogi-veerendra/articleshow/76097987.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘I will try to pass Class X exams with flying colours’||DARBHANGA: Jyoti Kumari, the face of tenacity, who paddled her sick father Mohan Paswan from Delhi to her village Sirhulli in Darbhanga amid nationwide lockdown, talks to Binay Kumar Jha about her journey of hardship and fame: What prompted you to take up the arduous journey from Delhi to Darbhanga?My father surrendered the e-rickshaw, which he used to run in Gurugram, after the lockdown. There was acute shortage of funds. We were finding it difficult to buy food and the landlord was also asking us to vacate the rented accommodation. As my father was recently injured and I had gone to Delhi to look after him, we bought a bicycle for Rs 1,000 and I told him to sit pillion while I rode it as there was no other option left. How did you figure out the 1200km-long route and what hardship you faced during the journey?The major hardship was crossing the big bridges remaining aware about the vehicles coming from behind. Cycling in the scorching sun and taking care of my father was very difficult. The silver lining during the strenuous cycle journey was petrol pump owners who allowed us to rest on their premises. Some good Samaritans also fed us. How are you handling attention from people from cross sections of the society?I am very happy in getting attention and appreciation. It has bolstered my self-respect and encouraged me to set higher goals. I seek blessing from everyone who comes to my house to praise me. Is the limelight affecting your daily routine?Limelight is definitely affecting my routine, but not in a big way. Believe me, I still have pain in my hands and legs. In spite of getting books from the district administration after my enrolment in Class IX, I do not find time to read them. Are you able to follow the home isolation norms despite meeting number of people every day?I am following all home isolation norms in the best possible manner. I maintain social distancing even as people come to meet me. What have you thought about invitation from cycling federation?I have asked the federation to give me two-month time for deciding on their proposal. Presently study is my top priority. What about your studies? What do you want to become?I will continue my studies and try to pass Class X exams conducted by Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) with flying colours. Based on my performance in the exam, I will try to shape my career. Many say your journey also showed failure of government as you had to face such hardship. What is your take?The lockdown occurred suddenly. I would have been happy had the government helped people like me in getting back home. A filmmaker has said that he will make a movie on you. How do you feel about it?Yes, a filmmaker has approached us for making film on me. My father has signed an agreement with him. I don’t know when filming would take place. I will be happy even if a documentary is filmed on my cycling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/i-will-try-to-pass-class-x-exams-with-flying-colours/articleshow/76097952.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||Varsities look at academic session start from October in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Vice-Chancellors’ Council has sent a proposal to the state, suggesting that colleges and universities remain closed till June 30. Because of this, several VCs estimate that the first-year classes in the undergraduate and postgraduate programmes can only begin from October, delaying the academic session further. Many VCs claimed universities, which had planned to evaluate the terminal semester students based on assessments, projects, CGPA and online viva in the last week of June, will have to push back the assessments. “Beginning the session from October will also mean curtailing the syllabus. There is no clarity on the subject yet as the UGC is yet to make any suggestions regarding the syllabus,” said a VC, adding, “We will also have to re-frame the academic calendar of 2020-2021. Holding the semester examinations according to schedule won’t be possible in the upcoming semester since it will begin later.” Students, on the other hand, are afraid of losing a year. “There won’t be parity among universities across the country. If the academic session resumes from September in other states, as suggested by the UGC, I won’t be able to apply outside without the terminal semester marksheet, which is unlikely to arrive in time due to the delay in the examinations in Bengal universities,” said a student. A higher education department official pointed out that in such a scenario, the VCs will have to write to the UGC seeking intervention to allow provisional admission to students from Bengal. Educationists also predicted that owing to the delay in the terminal semester examinations in UG, there will be less migration to other states at the Masters’ level. “There will be more students enrolling in the PG seats in Bengal,” he said. Education minister Partha Chatterjee expressed interest to meet the VCs to finalize the examination dates and formulae in the UG and PG terminal semester examinations, along with other pending semesters. “We have given the universities autonomy to take a call on reopening and conducting examinations,” he said. “We have also requested the VC council to provide us with a draft guideline of the choice based credit system, which will be implemented uniformly by the education department,” Chatterjee added. “If we are permitted to return to campus in July, then we will have to sanitize the campus within a week, followed by classroom teaching in batches to complete the syllabus. We will also have to hold the examinations and prepare for admissions,” a VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/varsities-look-at-academic-session-start-from-october/articleshow/76098643.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 30, 2020||Surat||Lockdown drives businessman to end life in Gujarat||SURAT: The financial losses due to the ongoing lockdown claimed the life of a businessman in Adajan locality of the city on Friday morning. Police said the deceased, identified as Sanjay Botani (42), was found hanging from the ceiling of the room of his residence in Abhinav Apartment of Adajan on early Friday morning. Botani used to work as an agent in textile market in the city which has been shut for the past two months. “Botani’s family members said that Botani had been under mental stress after he suffered heavy financial losses incurred during the lockdown period enforced due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” said an official from Adajan police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lockdown-drives-bizman-to-end-life/articleshow/76097980.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two youths arrested for robbing man||PUNE: The Mundhwa police on Thursday arrested two youths for assaulting a man with a sickle and robbing him of Rs1,100. The incident took place behind the Hadapsar railway station at Mundhwa on Wednesday evening. Those arrested were Swapnil Bangale (19) from Shewalwadi and Mukesh Salunkhe (19) from Mundhwa. Senior inspector Sampat Bhosale, "The suspects threatened them with a sickle and demanded money from them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-youths-arrested-for-robbing-man/articleshow/76099851.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 30, 2020||Bareilly||Priest, son, 17, found dead under mysterious circumstances in UP's Sambhal||BAREILLY: A 60-year-old priest and his mentally-challenged son were found dead under mysterious circumstances inside a temple in Nakhasa area of Sambhal district on Friday. Local police suspected that the priest had committed suicide after killing his son. Priest Amar Singh used to live in a temple in Rasoolpur Sarai village with his son Jaiveer, 17. Singh was suffering from tuberculosis and his condition was deteriorating. He used to remain tense about his son’s future after him, sources said. The bodies were sent for post-mortem examination to ascertain the cause of the death. It comes a month after alleged murders of two priests inside a temple in Bulandshahr district. After initial investigation, police believed that Singh first strangulated his son to death and later committed suicide by hanging himself with a piece of cloth. Since it was a sensitive matter, senior administrative and police officials also visited the temple to take the stock of the situation. SSP Sambhal Yamuna Prasad, who also inspected the temple, said, “Prima facie it looks like the priest, who was stressed due to his chronic illness, had killed his mentally ill son and later committed suicide.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/priest-son-17-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-sambhal/articleshow/76097825.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: As borders open up, cracks in public health infrastructure show||PANAJI: Functional problems in the system surfaced as the new standard operating procedure (SOP) for interstate travellers came into effect this week. The situation reached a tipping point on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday at the North Goa district hospital in Mapusa as agitated travellers who had been waiting in queue for hours nearly came to blows with the staff and police had to be called. The single counter at the hospital, tasked with the job of collecting swabs, was unable to keep pace with the number of travellers coming for the Covid test after submitting the self-declaration forms and paying Rs 2,000 for it. An official said more than 550 people entered Goa by road from North Goa checkposts and all were referred to North Goa district hospital triggering panic among the staff due to the surging numbers. An official present at the hospital said, there were about 300 travellers waiting at the counter till 9pm and diversion of travellers to other centres — sub district hospitals in Ponda and Chicalim and district hospital in Margao — started only after the problem surfaced. Since the change in the system, there has been an increase in the number of people coming to Goa. Earlier around 350 to 400 people used to enter the state daily from the North Goa checkposts. The official said earlier they had some control over the situation as swabs were collected from quarantine centres, while now they (visitors) come directly after submitting the self-declaration forms at border checkposts. “People had to wait for hours together without food and water. The situation escalated after hospital staff did not permit the travellers to use the hospital washroom,” said a ground staff. The diversion of travellers to other hospitals happened too late. “A group of ten travellers were escorted to Chicalim hospital in Vasco after midnight, but they were told that it would open only in the morning. They were then taken to Margao district hospital,” said a police personnel. Payment by cash has created new problems for ground staff at check posts. Many travellers were in for a shock on being asked to pay cash and argued at length as some were not carrying big amounts in cash. “We have a big problem with such people as they keep arguing,” he said. The travellers after submitting the self-declaration forms, he said, have to deposit cash in the box kept at the counter. “Money is not physically counted by the revenue staff and passengers are told to deposit it in the box. On the first day, Rs 500 was short when we tallied the total amount at the end of the day. Somebody must have deposited Rs 500 less,” he said. A senior official said it was decided not to install card swipe machines in view of some problems. But considering the practical difficulties, changes in the system will have to be made immediately since the number of people entering the state will increase henceforth, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-borders-open-up-cracks-in-public-health-infra-show/articleshow/76100380.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Seven more Shramik trains scheduled for today||Ludhiana: As local administration demanded more Shramik trains to different districts of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh to ferry the rest of the stuck the migrant labourers, railway authorities have decided to run seven more special trains from city railway station on Saturday. Railway authorities have already issued the schedule for all seven trains. The trains will carry around 1,600 passengers each. The local railway officials have started making preparations for the passengers with the help of railway protection force, who have tightened security cover at the station premises to ensure that no one enters from any back doors. The trains are departing to Katni (halts at Gwaliar and Bina), Barkakhana (halts at Dhanbad and Daltonganj), Katihar (halts at Purnea, Gonda and Begusarai), Ara/Bhojpur (halts at Patna, Hardoi, Lucknow and Buxar), Aurangabad (halts at Gaya, Hardoi, Lucknow, Sultanpur and Bhabua), Darbhanga (halts at Madhubani, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarpur and Smastipur) and Khagaria (halts at Saharsa, Etwah, DDU, Chapra and Hajipur). Senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) of Firozepur Division, Vivek Sharma, said, “District administration will have to ensure that the passengers reach the city station. Local ticket checking staff will seat them according to standard protocols and it will be mandatory for every passenger to wear face cover. Meals and drinking water will be provided to passengers at originating station.” Meanwhile, a large number of migrant labourers had gathered outside Guru Nanak Dev stadium to register themselves for trains. Ram Manohar, who had just registered to go back to Bihar, said, “For the last two days, I have been coming to Guru Nanak Dev stadium, only today I manage to register. I have lost my job as a driver of a business man after the enforcement of lockdown. I have been working for him for 10 years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/seven-more-shramik-trains-scheduled-for-today/articleshow/76099852.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Varanasi||UP: 30 new Covid-19 cases in Kashi, 3 other districts||VARANASI: The number of Covid-19 cases continued to surge as 30 new coronavirus positive cases were reported in four districts — Varanasi, Azamgarh, Ballia and Bhadohi on Friday. While four persons were confirmed Covid-19 positive in Varanasi, 19 cases were reported in Azamgarh, five in Ballia and two in Bhadohi. At the same time, in a good turn of events 33 patients got cured of the infection and were discharged from hospitals in Varanasi and Ballia. From Varanasi hospitals, 21 patients were discharged while 12 were discharged from hospitals in Ballia. According to Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, with the detection of four new cases in Varanasi, the total number of positive cases rose to 166 in the district. Among the four positive persons three are migrants. Meanwhile, 21 patients recovered from illness of which 15 are natives of Varanasi and six are residents of Chandauli district. In Azamgarh, the total number of positive cases rose to 88 with the detection of 19 new cases, said Azamgarh chief medical officer Dr AK Mishra. Presently, there are 77 active cases in Azamgarh after the discharge of nine patients and death of two patients. Among the 19 new cases, 17 are migrants and two are the employee of a local hotel, where a staff of the government medical college was quarantined. In Ballia district, the total number of positive cases rose to 40 with the detection of five new infected persons. However, 12 patients were discharged from the hospital after getting cured completely. Ballia DM SP Shahi and other officials also reached the hospital to know the well-being of the discharged patients and give them a warm send-off. In Bhadohi district, two persons including a lab technician were tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. With the detection of new cases the number of total positive cases rose to 39 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/30-new-covid-cases-in-kashi-3-other-dists/articleshow/76097020.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘No need for test nod before surgery; inform government’||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday asked the state government not to insist on prior approval for Covid-19 tests by private laboratories as a pre-operative procedure and said that mere intimation to the government through e-mail would serve the purpose. The HC issued directions in response to a petition filed by the Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) telling the court that the government policy for mandatory approval for Covid-19 test from the Sola Civil Hosptal for private hospitals and laboratories for a patient waiting for surgery is a cumbersome process and results in delay. There is no guideline on basis of which the state government has formulated the policy through a notification on May 17. The judges said that the complaint made by the association is “really disturbing”. The AMA argued that due to the government’s policy everybody suffers – be it patients or doctors who are treating the patients. There are doctors who have fallen victim to Covid-19 because of the failure to get the testing done due to this policy. Moreover, there is an anxiety among the medical fraternity for themselves since the government is not quick in granting the approvals. Upon hearing the issue, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala questioned why such a restrictive policy has been adopted. Besides, another PIL has raised an issue of reduction in testing by the government and restricting private labs from carrying out tests. The government has been defending its position saying that conducting tests of asymptomatic persons is not in current guidelines issued by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). Moreover, the government has also said that it apprehends that fear psychosis would be created if more tests are conducted, particularly on asymptomatic persons. The state government also submitted a report by a three-doctor committee on the current testing policy. The HC observed that the report was in line with what ICMR has advised on testing. However, it was submitted on part of the AMA that the Delhi high court has done away with this ICMR guideline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-need-for-test-nod-before-surgery-inform-government/articleshow/76099034.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||Swab samples of 85 GRP,RPF cops sent for testing||Lucknow: With a threat of Covid-19 outbreak looming over ranks of railway cops — GRP and RPF — health authorities on Friday launched a massive testing drive. Swab samples of 85 constables deployed at Charbagh railway station to manage migrant workers were sent for testing to KGMU. Deputy CMO Dr Ravi Panday said, “Samples of 70 GRP jawans and 15 RPF constables have been sent for testing. Reports would come on Sunday.” Ten railway cops, including nine GRP and one RPF, have tested positive since Sunday. All were deployed to manage migrants arriving at Charbagh railway station through Shramik Specials. As many as 59 GRP jawans have been quarantined and 89, including families, have been tested. Meanwhile, after TOI highlighted how GRP jawans were ignoring safety norms at the station, officers swung into action and visited Charbagh railway station to ensure implementation of rules for protection against infection. On Thursday, TOI had found that only a few cops at platform one were wearing face shield, masks and gloves. The same was seen on Friday when TOI visited the place around 2.30pm. However, things changed after ADG, GRP, and other senior officers visited the railway station on Friday evening. TOI went back at 5.45pm and found all cops wearing face shields, gloves and masks when a Shramik Special arrived. Most cops also followed social distancing and were avoiding assembling at one spot. A few were still seen mingling without physical distancing. SP, GRP, Saumitra Yadav said senior officers told cops that following safety protocols is for their well being and of their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/swab-samples-of-85-grprpf-cops-sent-for-testing/articleshow/76100384.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: 50,000 migrants stay back as industries open up||PUNE: At least 50,000 migrant workers, a majority of them from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have stayed back in the district to resume work instead of going back to their home states. These were the estimates drawn by the Pune rural police and revenue officials from the enrolments for travel passes and feedback from industrial units. Superintendent of Police, Pune Rural, Sandeep Patil said the representatives from the industries and villagers convinced them to stay back. “They got assistance from local gram panchayats in rural pockets like Ranjangaon MIDC, Baramati, Kurkumbh, Paud, Khed, Jejuri and Walchandnagar in Indapur in the district. They have got jobs in the industries. This shows they are no longer desperate to return to their home states,” Patil added. Most are engaged in housekeeping and helpers jobs in industrial units across Pune district. The authorities have requested the companies to provide them adequate food, healthcare and counseling services. District collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI on Monday, “We have told the companies to help the migrants. A major concern relates to payment of contractual workers. Companies must pay their pending salaries at the earliest so that they can look after themselves and their families.” Ram said he got requests on Twitter and other forums from some workers/employees to cancel their train reservations. “This is positive for us and the industries which need workforce for smooth operations,” he said. “These employees have gone through a tough time and industries must help them cope with new changes and challenges around them,” he added. Tehsildar Vivek Jadhav, deputy in-charge of the migration cell, said, “We book trains for 1,200 workers usually but for the last one week around 100 to 200 workers do not turn up even though their names are on the list. Most said they now have work in the industries and will not leave.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/50k-migrants-stay-back-as-industries-open-up/articleshow/76099855.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Ireland returnee tests positive for Covid-19||Mysuru: Two men – one of whom had returned from Ireland— have tested positive for Covid-19, thus taking the tally of the disease in Mysuru to 92. The other youth had come from Rajasthan and was under institutional quarantine. The 28-year-old youth who came back from Ireland was rushed to a private hospital in Mysuru, soon after he arrived in Bengaluru on Wednesday. He came in an ambulance after getting permission from the authorities for health reasons. He was suffering from a kidney ailment, and was taking treatment for the same even in Ireland. He directly came to a private hospital in Kuvempunagar early on Thursday, and was kept in a separate facility. After he tested positive for the novel coronavirus, he was sent to a Bengaluru hospital. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said within 24 hours of his arrival in Mysuru, he was rushed back, following the advice of health authorities. The patient hasn’t come in contact with any of his relatives here, since his arrival, the DC said. Another 26-year-old man who was in institutional quarantine has tested positive for Covid-19. He had come here from Rajasthan. With this, the number of active cases have gone up to three in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/returnee-from-ireland-tests-positive/articleshow/76097824.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj Singh Chouhan awaits Delhi’s nod, says cabinet expansion soon||BHOPAL: Even as the BJP has not officially announced the date of cabinet expansion due to increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, the proposed rejig of Shivraj Singh Chouhan team is believed to have got stuck amid preparations to mark the first anniversary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government at the Centre. Chouhan, however, reiterated on Friday that the cabinet expansion would be held shortly. “There is no trouble in the cabinet expansion. It will be done sooner,” said Chouhan in Umaria on Friday, when asked over the delay in cabinet expansion. Discussion over the cabinet expansion in state have been going on for about a month, but have remained stuck — first due to differences of opinion over who would be inducted in the team and later when it was decided that the list of names will be approved by the national leadership in New Delhi. Chouhan, who was likely to visit Delhi this week, could not get a go-ahead from the high command reportedly due to various reasons including increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases across the state and the country, decision on the status of the nationwide lockdown and the proposal plan to observe the first anniversary of NDA government, said highly placed sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-awaits-delhis-nod-says-cabinet-expansion-soon/articleshow/76098825.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||With increased outlay, VMRDA looks to fast track development||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has pegged its 2020-21 budget at Rs 1,707 crore. This represents an increase of Rs 421 crore and Rs 606 crore compared to the projected estimates (Rs 1,286 crore) and revised estimates (Rs 1,101 crore) of 2019-20. The budgetary allocations seem to have outlined the priorities of the urban development authority for the next one year. The capital receipts are estimated to be around Rs 1,585 crore while the revenue receipts are projected to be at Rs 115 crore. The VMRDA has allocated Rs 94 crore for the ongoing NAD flyover project. A major thrust under the expenditures category has been given to several new projects taken up by the VMRDA in recent times. The major heads under the expenditure include multi-level car parking facility (Rs 30 crore), Kailasagiri renovation (Rs 56 crore), master plan roads (Rs 47 crore), an initial amount for national history park and museum (Rs 10 crore), an initial amount for planetarium on Kailasagiri (Rs 10 crore), conversion of de-commissioned Sea Harrier into a museum (Rs 10 crore), Integrated Museum and Tourism Complex (Submarine Heritage Museum) (Rs 10 crore), etc. The Kailasagiri Hilltop Park will get a complete makeover with the funds devised under the AP Disaster Recovery Project and the project is in the tendering stage. While the capital expenditure (administration, planning section, engineering section, etc.) is pegged at Rs 1,254 crore, the revenue expenditure is kept at Rs 452 crore. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that the foundation stones for nearly Rs 380 crore worth of works were laid last year. “The increased budget allocations are in tandem with the recently launched works and priorities of the state government and the VMRDA. The NAD flyover works will be completed in the next few months,” said Koteswara Rao. The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority had lost about 1,628 square kilometres area in Srikakulam district when the state government constituted the Srikakulam Urban Development Authority (Suda) in 2019. However, the VMRDA allocated Rs 83 lakh for the Srikakulam district for completion of the spill-over works. Rs 8 crore was earmarked for the civil and greenery works in Vizianagaram district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-increased-outlay-vmrda-looks-to-fast-track-development/articleshow/76097845.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||YAD protests outside Cong office against school fees, electricity bills||Ludhiana: The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) workers, led by district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, protested against school fees and electricity bills on Friday. The protest was started from Jagraon bridge and ended outside Congress office as the police had blocked the gates, barring entry into the office. At the protest Gosha was beating the dhol, to symbolically “wake up” the Congress government. He said Congress president Sunil Jakhar demanded that the Centre should deposit Rs 10,000 in every account and Priyanka Gandhi is demanding from UP government to waive off electricity bills, but the Punjab government is doing nothing for the people. According to him, before preaching, senior Congress leadership should ask their chief minister Amarinder Singh to waive off electricity bills during lockdown and that an allowance should be given to every person. “Parents are protesting outside schools, but the government has not initiated any action to resolve the issue. In Punjab, people were given help by NGOs and social workers, as the government has failed to provide any,” added Gosha. The workers gathered at Jagraon bridge and marched towards Congress office, raising slogans against the government. The protesters demanded that there was need to give relief to people because many are left jobless and they had no money to pay bills or school fees of the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/yad-protests-outside-cong-office-against-school-fees-electricity-bills/articleshow/76099856.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Military hospital nurse, soldier positive||AMBALA: Three new positive cases of Covid-19 came to light in Ambala district, including one of a staff nurse at Military Hospital in Ambala Cantonment, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. Dr Kuldeep said the patients included a 30-year-old man from Salimpur Dera village, who came from Mumbai on May 22. His sample was collected on Wednesday. The nursing officer is a aged 27. “The third patient is a 33-year-old Army soldier from Fatehabad who is posted in Ambala Cantonment,” he said. Patients empployed in defence services have been isolated in military facilities, while the Salimpur man has been isolated at the designated Covid-19 hospital in Ambala district. “The contact tracing of Salimpur man is being done by Ambala health teams, while that of military officials by their own staff,” he added. He added the case of a 29-year-old pregnant woman from Dappar in Mohali district had been transferred to Punjab. she tested positive on Thursday. Now, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Ambala district has reached 50. Of them, two have died, 40 have been discharged, and eight are active, including the woman from Mohali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/military-hosp-nurse-soldier-ve/articleshow/76099849.cms||Jaskaran Singh
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: AHNA agrees to 10% cut in rates for private hospitals||AHMEDABAD: After challenging the Gujarat high court’s orders for fixing a cap on rates charged for treating Covid-19 patients by private hospitals, which orders also asked them to further lower the rate ceiling, the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Friday agreed to 10% further reduction in rates as fixed by the state authorities. AHNA filed the application to join as a party in the proceedings on the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala asked the private hospitals to continue to offer their humane services for Covid-19 patients. The judges said that they will get a chance to earn in the future, but this is no time to look for profit. People should continue to offer their services even at if they bear some losses at this moment, said advocates involved in the proceedings. The issues regarding allocation of lands to private hospitals and their charging of exorbitant rates for private Covid -19 patients were raised during the hearing. After agreeing to the 10% reduction in price cap for patients in ward and ICU, AHNA president Dr Bharat Gadhavi gave an undertaking that the government can take action against private hospital, if any of them charges beyond the price cap, said AHNA’s advocate Amit Panchal. Senior advocate Saurabh Soparkar requested the high court to reconsider its order to private hospitals not to take advanced deposit and admit patients merely on furnishing information of Aadhar and PAN. He argued that recovery of charges after a patient’s discharge is not possible. The high court had earlier this month ordered the authorities to fix the ceiling of rates for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals after taking cognizance of exorbitant rates being charged. The authorities placed a cap on rates for different categories of beds and services. The HC later asked for reduction in the rates charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahna-agrees-to-10-cut-in-rates-for-private-hospitals/articleshow/76099032.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown violators pay hefty fines in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: Police in Visakhapatnam city and rural have imposed crores worth of fines for traffic violations during the lockdown, between March 23 to May 26. In the city, police have seized 8,009 vehicles and imposed fines worth Rs 5.65 crore. In Visakhapatnam rural, police have imposed fines worth Rs 3.77 crore. Most of these fines have been imposed on two-wheeler riders. Now, after a statement by director general of police (DGP) Gautam Sawang, the cops have started releasing seized vehicles. Vizag city cops have already released 7,800 of the 8,009 vehicles seized, while Visakhapatnam rural cops have returned 50% of the seized vehicles. The number of cases registered for lockdown violations has already touched 5,000 in the city. In rural parts, the number is higher, at 6,800. Visakhapatnam city police commissioner, RK Meena said on Friday, “We have almost released all vehicles. Most of the vehicles belong to youngsters who flouted lockdown rules. People should understand the situation and cooperate with cops.” The number of cases registered for violating traffic rules stands at 2.55 lakh. Of these, 87,000 were registered in Visakhapatnam rural. Visakhapatnam rural SP Babujee Attada said, “We are maintaining lockdown rules strictly and violation of rules is proving costly for violators. Our sincere request to everyone is stay safe and follow government’s guidelines. We have to take safety precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-violators-pay-hefty-fines-in-vizag/articleshow/76097870.cms||Siva G
May 30, 2020||Amritsar||Man caught for bootlegging positive in Punjab's Bathinda||BATHINDA: Four persons, including a woman aganwari worker and a man arrested for bootlegging, tested positive in Bathinda district on Friday, raising the count of active cases in the district to five. The bootlegging accused was in the custody of Dayalpura Bhaika police station after being arrested on May 23. The resident of Bhagta village was tested on May 25. Policemen who came in his contact are being sent in for quarantine and their samples taken. The anganwari worker is aged 52 and is from Rampura Phul, and so are the patients with travek history. Two more peopel tested positive .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/man-caught-for-bootlegging-ve-in-bathinda/articleshow/76099863.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||39 found positive, two deaths in Punjab; 23 infected outside state||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 39 fresh cases of Covid-19 and two deaths on Friday, taking its tally for infected people to 2,197 and casualties The source of infection in 23 cases is outside the state and 11 are contacts of patients. In Amritsar, 12 people tested positive, of whom 10 came from outside the state. In Jalandhar, eight people tested positive and seven of them were contacts of positive cases. In Pathankot, five people tested positive, four in Ludhiana, three each in Mohali and Gurdaspur, and one each in Patiala and Ropar. Two cases more were reported from Patiala and one from Sangrur, but these were yet to be added to the state bulletin. The deaths took pace in Ludhiana and Amritsar, and have been added to the number of coronavirus cases. While eight of the new patients in Amritsar returned from Mumbai, one each came from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. In Gurdaspur, two patients are fromm Khushalpur village and the third from Talwandi village. They had returned from Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. So far, there have been seven deaths each in Amritsar and Ludhiana. Jalandhar has reported six casualties Amritsar has recorded 366 cases, Jalandhar 241, Ludhiana 180, Tarn Taran 156, Gurdaspur 136, Patiala 116, Hoshiarpur 114, Mohali 107 and Nawanshahr 106. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said three new patients in the district included an 18-year-old man from Hari Majra village, a 42 year-old man from Lanja, and a man from Patiala city who tested positive in Mohali. He came in a flight Mumbai. The Ropar case is of a 27-year-old man from Nangal, He recently returned from Delhi with five persons whose sample reports are awaited. In Sangrur, a 62-year-old man from Jahangir village tested positive. (With inputs from Amritsar and Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/39-found-ve-2-deaths-in-pb-23-infected-outside-state/articleshow/76099860.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||NDA’s passing out parade to be a low-key affair||Pune: The National Defence Academy’s (NDA) passing out parade on May 30 will be a low-key affair in view of the social distancing norms required to be maintained to check the spread of Covid-19. The parents of the passing out cadets will not be able to attend the parade owing to the nationwide lockdown, the academy said in a release on Thursday. An NDA release stated, "As a training institution, the academy has quickly adapted to the new normal and has been able to complete the spring term. But there are still a lot of end-of-term activities which form a part of passing out of a cadet from the academy after three years of rigorous training.” “As the new normal takes precedence over all activities, the end-of-term events are suitably modified as per government and higher headquarters guidelines," the release stated. "The parade will be held at the Lieutenant Arun Khetrapal drill square. Only selected cadets of junior terms and passing out cadets will participate. There will be no fly past of Sukhoi 30 and no special programmes like air show of Indian Air Force helicopter and aircraft organised on the day," an NDA officer said. Last year, at the parade of the 136th course, 291 cadets passed through the hallowed portals of the Khetrapal Parade Ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ndas-passing-out-parade-to-be-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/76099864.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Meerut||Stranded migrants using ‘jugaad’ vehicles to ferry family back home||Meerut: A family of eight to 10 people huddled together on a locally-assembled vehicle -- a motorcycle or a scooter attached to a trolley-- is a common sight on highways and arterial roads across western UP now. When public transport system failed them, people turned towards these ‘jugaad’ vehicles to take them home.One of the most cost-effective transportation solutions in rural and semi-urban areas, ‘jugaad’ had also made an entry into big metros like Delhi, as people used them to transport goods and vegetables.Thousands of migrant labourers have been crossing into UP from Saharanpur, Shamli and Baghpat from Haryana through roads or via Yamuna river. But those with family, especially toddlers, have to look for more “robust” options.Two such families which had started from Kurukshetra in Haryana two days ago reached Meerut on Thursday morning.With essential items dumped in the enclosed container and some tied around, the family had adjusted the children precariously on the top of the heap.Migrants from Sambhal district in UP, families told TOI they had run out of resources and it was hard to make a living. “I used to work as daily-wage labourer. But the work dried up due to lockdown. We had no option but to return home,” said Chirangi, a labourer who was returning with wife and six children from Kurukshetra.Most of these families did stock some food and ration for the long journey home.But all complained that they received no help on the way. “It is not that we are dying of hunger, but it has been hard to manage. with we are left. Children travelling with us are the most affected,” a woman travelling with the family said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/stranded-migrants-using-jugaad-vehicles-to-ferry-family-back-home/articleshow/76097855.cms||Piyush Rai
May 30, 2020||Varanasi||Bats died of heat stroke, in UP's Gorakhpur: Report||GORAKHPUR: A large number of bats found dead in Belghat and and Gola areas of the district on May 26 had died of heat stroke and not of any disease as feared earlier. Giving this information on Friday, DFO Avinash Kumar said this fact has been established by the autopsy report of the dead bats released by Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly. On Tuesday morning, carcasses of bats were found in Belghat and Gola, trigging panic among the locals due to coronavirus spread. DFO Avinash Kumar said that although he has not receive the postmortem report so far, he has talked to the concerned doctor at Indian Veterinary Institute (IVRI), Bareilly. “Doctor at IVRI has said that both corona and rabies test report of the bat samples are negative and they are considering heat stroke as the reason behind the death. Many bats fell from the tree due to heat and received head injury, and it is also a cause of death. However, doctors are saying that the main reason behind the death is heat stroke,” the DFO said. He added, “On Monday, the temperature of Gorakhpur was 42.4 degree Celsius and waterbodies like ponds and small lake in the area have also dried. Their skin was burnt due to heat stroke.” One Pankaj Shahi of Belghat area said, “ It is a relief that the bats were not suffering from coronavirus as was initially feared. Most of us were worried about spread of virus in the village.” Bats were also found on and under the mango tree of one Panjah Shahi’s garden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bats-died-of-heat-stroke-in-gorakhpur-report/articleshow/76097032.cms||Arjumand Bano
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Vernacular schools want to shift to English medium||NAGPUR: In the higher echelons of state education department, a proposal to convert vernacular medium schools to English is being considered. Though just a proposal, principals of such schools say this is the only way out of falling enrolment problem. Madhusudan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (Nagpur district), spoke on behalf of hundreds of vernacular aided schools in the district, saying the decision needs to be expedited. Mude said, “Our Marathi schools are barely getting any admissions. For every parent the aspiration to give their child an English medium education surpasses everything else. Since we are all financially aided schools, changing the medium of instruction is a long drawn bureaucratic process.” The state government has schools which are run through local self governing bodies and almost all of them are not English medium schools. A term called “lower English” was coined for schools where certain subjects (like maths) were taught in English. Mude said “Lower English is not a good idea because there a student learns neither Marathi nor English. Enrolment is falling fast across our schools and due to it teachers are becoming surplus, and in danger of losing their job.” State government approves posts and pays their salaries, but the position is based on number of students in a school. “The pupil-teacher ratio (PTR) determines how many teachers can be hired for a set number of students. So, if student numbers fall, the teacher’s post is in jeopardy,” said Mude. The HA has decided to follow up with the education minister and lobby for conversion of vernacular schools to English medium. “Whichever schools wants, should be able to apply for this change. Else, private English medium schools that are popping up everywhere will threaten the existence of our old institutes,” said Mude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vernacular-schools-want-to-shift-to-english-medium/articleshow/76098886.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 30, 2020||Amritsar||39 found positive, two deaths in Punjab; 23 infected outside state||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 39 fresh cases of Covid-19 and two deaths on Friday, taking its tally for infected people to 2,197 and casualties The source of infection in 23 cases is outside the state and 11 are contacts of patients. In Amritsar, 12 people tested positive, of whom 10 came from outside the state. In Jalandhar, eight people tested positive and seven of them were contacts of positive cases. In Pathankot, five people tested positive, four in Ludhiana, three each in Mohali and Gurdaspur, and one each in Patiala and Ropar. Two cases more were reported from Patiala and one from Sangrur, but these were yet to be added to the state bulletin. The deaths took pace in Ludhiana and Amritsar, and have been added to the number of coronavirus cases. While eight of the new patients in Amritsar returned from Mumbai, one each came from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. In Gurdaspur, two patients are fromm Khushalpur village and the third from Talwandi village. They had returned from Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. So far, there have been seven deaths each in Amritsar and Ludhiana. Jalandhar has reported six casualties Amritsar has recorded 366 cases, Jalandhar 241, Ludhiana 180, Tarn Taran 156, Gurdaspur 136, Patiala 116, Hoshiarpur 114, Mohali 107 and Nawanshahr 106. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said three new patients in the district included an 18-year-old man from Hari Majra village, a 42 year-old man from Lanja, and a man from Patiala city who tested positive in Mohali. He came in a flight Mumbai. The Ropar case is of a 27-year-old man from Nangal, He recently returned from Delhi with five persons whose sample reports are awaited. In Sangrur, a 62-year-old man from Jahangir village tested positive. (With inputs from Amritsar and Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/39-found-ve-2-deaths-in-pb-23-infected-outside-state/articleshow/76105336.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||39 found positive, two deaths in Punjab; 23 infected outside state||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 39 fresh cases of Covid-19 and two deaths on Friday, taking its tally for infected people to 2,197 and casualties The source of infection in 23 cases is outside the state and 11 are contacts of patients. In Amritsar, 12 people tested positive, of whom 10 came from outside the state. In Jalandhar, eight people tested positive and seven of them were contacts of positive cases. In Pathankot, five people tested positive, four in Ludhiana, three each in Mohali and Gurdaspur, and one each in Patiala and Ropar. Two cases more were reported from Patiala and one from Sangrur, but these were yet to be added to the state bulletin. The deaths took pace in Ludhiana and Amritsar, and have been added to the number of coronavirus cases. While eight of the new patients in Amritsar returned from Mumbai, one each came from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. In Gurdaspur, two patients are fromm Khushalpur village and the third from Talwandi village. They had returned from Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. So far, there have been seven deaths each in Amritsar and Ludhiana. Jalandhar has reported six casualties Amritsar has recorded 366 cases, Jalandhar 241, Ludhiana 180, Tarn Taran 156, Gurdaspur 136, Patiala 116, Hoshiarpur 114, Mohali 107 and Nawanshahr 106. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said three new patients in the district included an 18-year-old man from Hari Majra village, a 42 year-old man from Lanja, and a man from Patiala city who tested positive in Mohali. He came in a flight Mumbai. The Ropar case is of a 27-year-old man from Nangal, He recently returned from Delhi with five persons whose sample reports are awaited. In Sangrur, a 62-year-old man from Jahangir village tested positive. (With inputs from Amritsar and Patiala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/39-found-ve-2-deaths-in-pb-23-infected-outside-state/articleshow/76105333.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hubballi||61 from Maharashtra test positive for Covid-19 in Kalaburagi||KALABURAGI : A total 61 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Kalaburagi on Friday. While the morning bulletin said 15 people tested positive, the evening bulletin had 46 more cases. The total number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 266 in the district. All of those who tested positive were returnees from Maharashtra, and were at a quarantine centre, after which they were shifted to the isolation ward at ESIC hospital.  As many as 11 people quarantined at various quarantine centres at Chittapur, tested positive and were shifted to the Covid-19 ward at ESIC hospital here. On Friday, 10 Covid-19 patients were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/61-from-maha-test-ve-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/76097856.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Industries to hold virtual job fairs to hire staffers||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram has asked private industries to hold virtual job fairs to recruit skilled workers and tackle their human resource shortage. “Many industrial representatives told us at a recent meeting that they were facing manpower crunch as workers who left for their native places are unlikely to return any time soon,” Ram told TOI. “We have asked them to go for virtual job fairs — a few private organizations, through recruitment agencies, have already done this to draw workforce from Ahmednagar and Solapur,” he added. “Companies have hired agencies to recruit employees. This strategy is helping several firms save time and get qualified candidates,” Dilip Batwal, secretary of Federation of Chakan Industry, said. “There are vacancies in multiple sections in several companies. This is a huge opportunity for local youths,” Shriram Satpute, the founder of a city-based job portal, said. Pravin Desai, senior manager (HR and admin) at Badve Engineering, said, “Our firm is ready to provide transport to ferry them to the company plants, where their accommodation and other things will be arranged with the help of our contractors and due care will be taken,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/industries-to-hold-virtual-job-fairs-to-hire-staffers/articleshow/76099861.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Back from the dead, says Goan sailor who battled Covid in Italy||Panaji: It was a near-death experience for Roosevelt Bosco Fernandes, a 43-year-old Goan seafarer who spent over a month in a Covid-19 hospital in Italy fighting for his life. Fernandes was in the ICU for weeks together and on ventilator support. He drifted in and out of consciousness while his friends and family in Goa prayed fervently for his recovery. It all began with a simple fever on March 17 on board the cruise vessel where he worked in the F&B section. The last guests on board had disembarked on March 15. “The doctor prescribed 1,000mg paracetamol four times a day. The fever would dip for two hours and then shoot up again. I was always healthy and never had diabetes or other sicknesses. The only symptom I had was fever, but I told the doctor and nurses that there was something strange about this fever,” Fernandes, who arrived in Goa on Friday morning, told TOI. Ten days later, on March 27, when a rapid test showed he was Covid-19 positive, he was taken in an ambulance to a hospital. Things only got worse there. “I didn’t have any problem breathing when I was admitted. But since there were so many Covid-19 patients in the hospital and the viral load was high, I got infected even further. I was put on ventilator support,” he said. Besides the regular updates from his company, MSC Cruises, and the Indian embassy, a priest and nun in Italy came to his family’s rescue and kept them informed about his progress in the ICU. When he would regain consciousness, he would see bodies of those who hadn’t made it, zipped up in bags and taken away. Fernandes says he feels fortunate as a foreigner to have received a bed in the ICU and a ventilator at a time when the pandemic was at its worst and when the situation was overwhelming in Italy. “Only when I was out of the ICU did I realise how bad my situation was. I was brought back from the dead and I feel God gave me a second life. I pray that no one gets this kind of a disease and no one suffers the way I did. I hope a vaccine is found soon,” he told TOI. Although cured, the virus took a toll on him. Out of the ICU, he needed support to walk and was only discharged on April 30. He was put in quarantine for 14 days and then placed in a hotel while he waited to be brought back to India. Sailing for 20 years now, the experience certainly changed his life, he said. “I would be sailing for eight to nine months of the year and there was not much time for family. I would like to spend more time with my family now. I have realised that it is family and not friends and those on social media who will take care of you when calamities come your way. This has sunk deep into my mind after this experience,” Fernandes told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/back-from-the-dead-says-goan-sailor-who-battled-covid-in-italy/articleshow/76100400.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 30, 2020||Goa||On Centre’s prod, 47-day fishing ban from June 15||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that the state government would follow the 47-day fishing ban decided by the central government. Thus, the ban will begin on June 15 instead of June 1, and end on July 31. The Union ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, in an order dated May 25, had reduced the monsoon ban from 61 days to 47 days. The order stated that the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) had banned fishing in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) owing to the nationwide lockdown, and that the reduced number of days was to compensate for the loss incurred by fishing boat owners. Last week, the state government had issued an order stating that the annual 61-day fishing ban would commence from June 1. The directorate of fisheries had prohibited fishing till July 31 along the sea coast and the territorial waters of Goa. Now, following the Centre’s decision to reduce the number of days from 61 to 47, the state too has decided to abide by it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-centres-prod-47-day-fishing-ban-from-june-15/articleshow/76100393.cms||Nida Sayed
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Strategy in place to neutralise locust attack in the region: PAU||Ludhiana: As the threat of locusts loom large in the region, comprising Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and parts of Jammu and Kashmir, scientists at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) are working overtime to devise a strategy and advise the state government on how to tackle the problem. TOI talked to the head of department of entomology (study of insects), Pardeep Chuneja, about how serious the threat was for the region. What will be the impact of locusts in the northern region? The locust can impact Punjab as it may enter in search of vegetation as farmers in south-west Punjab have sown cotton and also paddy is being grown, so risk is there. Three small groups of locusts had tried to enter the state earlier this month but were neutralised the same night at Roop Nagar, Bareka, Diwan Khera, Koel Khera in Fazilka areas. Food and Agriculture Organisation suggests that locusts have been breeding enormously this spring — some are coming from Iran and Pakistan and some are expected next month from Horn of Africa (Kenya, Ethopia etc) to Indo-Pakistan border. A lot will depend on the wind direction, vegetation and breeding of the insect. However, there is need for awareness about the control and alertness on part of officials. How serious is the problem? As of now it is not that serious but since insects are still breeding, it cannot be taken lightly. In monsoon, vegetation is there, soil is moist and there is transformation from immature to adult, so the population of locust may increase. We don’t face risk from the swarms that might come from Rajasthan as we have enough time to lock them down and decimate those. But those coming directly from Indo-Pakistan border can be a risk. However, in Punjab, we have comprehensive action plan to tackle the problem. Do you recall any such threat of locusts attacks in the past? From 1959-62 there was this plague wherein locusts bred in large numbers for around four years. In 1993, it came again from Pakistan and there was upsurge. We along with the state government had tackled 172 incursions from across the border that time. In 2010, there was breeding on small scale which was localised. What does it indicate? It indicates that we were busy in management of Covid-19 whereas we couldn’t pay that much focus to the locust problem as was required. Locusts bred because of cyclone in horn of Africa and even in winters there was rain there. Even in south western Arabian countries it bred because of similar reason as it got moisture and vegetation. In March, there was breeding of locusts in Iran, south west Pakistan and Arabian countries. So because of breeding, we have large number of population now which as scattered in parts of Uttar Pradesh, Madya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat. What are the strategies to eliminate it? The locust settles in the evening near the border and flies early morning after temperature rises beyond 17 degrees (covering a distance of 100-150 kilometres or more depending on vegetation and wind direction) then causes damage to vegetation after spreading. So we need to make efforts to kill them at the first place of stay in the late evening. There are sprays recommended for that, which are being widely publicised. We have come up with e-brochures with detailed information about the locust and it’s management and two audios have been released for awareness of farmers. What kind of impact it will have on farmers? It can have large-scale impact as locusts can consume any type of vegetation, including crops. Farmers will face huge loss if not tackled. For cities like Ludhiana, how much of a threat? Since Punjab has vegetation and is open, so it may not settle on buildings like it did in some parts of India. Instead of settling on buildings and entering those where it can die, it will prefer to settle on vegetation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/strategy-in-place-to-neutralise-locust-attack-in-the-region-pau/articleshow/76099867.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||Five persons hurt in leopard attack in Uttarkashi||UTTARKASHI: Four locals of Purola block in Uttarkashi district sustained injuries in a leopard attack on Friday. One of them has been referred to a higher medical facility in Dehradun due to critical injuries while the other four were administered primary treatment at the community health centre, said CHC in-charge Dr Pankaj. According to TOI sources, two locals — Lokesh Bisht, 28, and Arvind Lal, 21 — were attacked by the leopard on Friday morning near Rama village. After much struggle, both the villagers somehow managed to shoo away the leopard. Subsequently, other villagers came to their rescue and rushed them to the nearby CHC. Later in the evening, the big cat attacked three other villagers — Vishnu Semwal, 30, Bachchan Singh, 60, and Naresh Chauhan, 27. Meanwhile, the forest department has sent their teams to the region and has installed a cage there to trap the leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-persons-hurt-in-leopard-attack-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/76097888.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
May 30, 2020||Goa||3 more cured, state’s active Covid count drops to 28||Panaji: Goa’s active Covid-19 tally dropped to 28 on Friday after three patients were cured and discharged. The patients were placed in facility quarantine for seven days, after which they will be home-quarantined for another seven. Out of the 69 Covid-19 positive cases Goa has seen, 41 have recovered. Health secretary Nila Mohanan said that out of 1,455 samples tested, 984 came negative, while 471 reports were still awaited. Over 300 travellers were quarantined in various facilities, and one suspect was admitted in an isolation ward. She said that the state has so far conducted 15,670 tests, and is trying to further enhance its testing capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-more-cured-states-active-covid-count-drops-to-28/articleshow/76100403.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 30, 2020||Vijayawada||AP Leads The Way in Covid-19 Fight With More Tests: CM||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday said that Andhra Pradesh is way ahead of others in containment of Covid-19 as they have worked overtime to build the system to tackle the emergency situation. The CM said that the state government was determined to develop all public healthcare institutions on par with corporate hospitals to provide best healthcare to the poor in the state. Speaking at a meeting on reforms initiated in the health sector in the last one year on Friday, the chief minister said that the proactive measures initiated to handle Covid-19 has helped the state become the best in the country. The chief minister further said that the Covid-19 positivity rate in the state is just 0.97% while it was 4.71% in the country. He said that recovery rate was also very high in AP with 65% against the country’s rate of 42%. “We are screening 6,627 people per million which is highest by any state in the country. We could ready 70 labs to conduct Covid-19 tests in a span of just 70 days as we have a clear vision and dedication to handle the situation,” said the chief minister. He said that there was an urgent need to create better awareness among the public about Covid-19 management for better results as they would be entering a new phase after lockdown. The CM said that making people come forward for screening is very important. He said that more than 98% people fully recovered from the disease of which 85% recovered by staying at their homes. Jagan said that five-state level hospitals and 65 district-level hospitals were fully geared to handle the Covid-19 situation in the coming days. He said that nearly 5,400 beds were in ICUs in which 1,350 have ventilators for emergencies. “About 24,000 doctors and 22,500 paramedical staff are also ready for the battle against Covid-19,” said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-leads-the-way-in-covid-19-fight-with-more-tests-cm/articleshow/76097893.cms||Samdani MN
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||201 cases, 11 deaths in Ahmedabad district outside AMC limit||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad district outside Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation limits reported 17 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday. Currently the tally in the district outside AMC has reached 201 cases and 11 deaths. Of these, two people died on the day of testing positive on Friday. These were reported from Gokulanand Society in Kanbha and from Panchakala in Viramgam. Officials said that it is still not clear whether they were under treatment or were admitted on Friday only. The two deceased were a 52-year-old man from Kanbha and a 60-year-old man from Viramgam. Of the 17 fresh cases, six were from Daskroi taluka, including four cases from Gokulanand Society in Kanbha. These four cases included a 12-year-old boy, a 52-year-old man, and two women aged 37 and 63, respectively. Of the fresh cases, five were from Dholka and three from Sanand. Of the three Sanand cases, one was from Sanand city and two were from Modasar village. The Dholera taluka reported its first case on Friday, while one case each was reported from VIramgam and Dhandhuka. Of the 201 cases from the district areas outside AMC, 76 cases each were from Dholka and Daskroi talukas and 25 cases from Sanand taluka, with the remaining cases from Bavla (10), Dhandhuka (6), Viramgam (5), Mandal (2) and Dholera (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/201-cases-11-deaths-in-abad-district-outside-amc-limit/articleshow/76099030.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Jagraon Bridge flyover project on shaky ground||Times News Network Ludhiana: Completion of construction of a flyover on one side of the Jagraon Bridge may be delayed as sand is caving in under part of the bridge which is old. This has made the spot prone to accidents. Civic officials have stopped work on the affected side and have sought help from experts at Guru Nanak Engineering college. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said they could not decide on a future course of action without consulting experts. Officials said sand started caving in on Saturday, making it impossible to continue construction activity. However, work is being continued on the other side of the bridge. This scuttles chances of the work being completed before the June 30 deadline. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said they have asked the GNE team to inspect the site and a decision will be taken based on the feedback they obtain from them as well as other experts. He said preliminary findings suggest they need to change the design of the structure. Meanwhile, members of various NGOs which have been demanding completion of this project for the past three years said they will observe the “death anniversary” of the flyover on July 4 if the MC failed to complete work. Rahul Verma from Sambhav Foundation said, “The MC assured that the project would be completed by the end of June and now this problem has come up. If the project is not completed on time NGO members will be forced to observe its fourth death anniversary.” One side of the flyover was closed to traffic on July 14, 2016 after railway authorities declared it unsafe. Railway officials estimated that expenditure of Rs 24.30 crore would be incurred on repairs but the MC took more than one year to arrange funds from the state government. The payment was made to the railways but removal of encroachments, tender process and other formalities consumed a lot of time. In 2019, railways finally started work on the flyover, which is almost complete. The civic body also initiated its part in the beginning of this year. The MC is constructing retaining walls and approach roads on both sides to connect the flyover with main roads. Earlier project was supposed to be completed in April but due to lockdown work was stopped and now its deadline was estimated to June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jagraon-bridge-flyover-project-on-shaky-ground/articleshow/76097904.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Residents startled as boy, 15, is taken to Covid hospital alone||MANGALURU: Tension prevailed at Darandabagilu in Pilar near Thokkottu on Friday after police and health workers arrived to shift a 15-year-old boy to Covid-19 hospital. Residents of Pilar in Someshwara Town Municipality in Mangaluru taluk were taken by surprise when they saw police and health workers arriving with an ambulance to shift the boy. Though health officials had communicated about the boy’s throat swab testing positive to his parents, neighbours were startled to see the child being taken alone in an ambulance. In fact, Pilar area was declared as a containment zone after a woman (P-947) tested positive on May 13. As many as 430 people residing in 95 houses in the area were forced to stay inside the containment area. Later, the area’s status was changed after the woman was cured and discharged on May 27. Residents, who were already annoyed with the restrictions these days due to containment, raised objections when officials arrived. They questioned police and health officials for taking the boy alone in the ambulance. Later, Dakshina Kannada ZP member Dhanalaxmi Gatti convinced residents and helped health department staff shift the boy to the designated hospital – District Wenlock Hospital. Though the boy was tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, neither the state nor the district bulletin made mention of the case. In fact, both bulletins showed no positive cases in Dakshina Kannada district while Udupi recorded 15 cases. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy told TOI that the boy was a secondary contact of P-947. He said the boy’s case will be mentioned in Saturday’s bulletin since reports were sent twice a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/residents-startled-as-boy-15-is-taken-to-covid-hosp-alone/articleshow/76097902.cms||Vinobha K T
May 30, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Trader attacked outside his shop over property dispute||PRAYAGRAJ: A 30-year-old trader dealing in construction material was attacked by two unidentified men outside his shop in Kaurihar Bazaar, under the limits of Nawabganj police station, on Friday morning. The trader was identified as Anurag alias Monu Singh. ASP (Soraon) Ashok Venket K said the attack follows an old dispute over a piece of land between two rival groups. He added that two members of one of the groups, including one Mamood, reached the trader’s shop on Friday and got into an argument with him. Things turned ugly, when the trader raised an alarm and the accused opened fire in the air to keep a crowd from assembling on the spot. One of the accused hit the trader with a stone on the latter’s head and escaped. Anurag was rushed to hospital for treatment and his condition is stated to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/trader-attacked-outside-his-shop-over-property-dispute/articleshow/76097480.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Patient flees from Samras hostel||AHMEDABAD: A 22-year-old man from the Bapunagar area of city late on Thursday night fled from a Covid-19 care centre set up at Gujarat University Samras boys hostel, four days after he tested positive and was admitted in the makeshift corona care centre in the Navrangpura area. Inspector Harit Vyas of Gujarat University police said that the patient, Samir Ansari, resident of Gareebnagar near Panna Estate in Bapunagar, was admitted to the Covid-19 care centre on May 25. He was tested positive on May 26. He was not admitted to any hospital but made to stay at Samras hostel as he was asymptomatic. His treatment was going on at the centre. On Friday night, a doctor named Mehul Mehta, who was on duty along with his collague Dr Shabbir Sabuwala, came to know that Ansari was missing, said Vyas. The security personnel at the Covid-19 care centre failed to find Ansari. The authorities also called up a cellphone number given by Ansari which was picked up by Ansari’s relative who was unaware of his whereabouts, said Vyas. Vyas said that a team of Gujarat University police went to search for Ansari near his home but they are yet to find him. Dr Mehta later filed a complaint with Gujarat University police alleging that Ansari’s negligent act may endanger lives of others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/patient-flees-from-samras-hostel/articleshow/76099026.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||Confusion on revised timings on day 1, shops closed at 4pm in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: Amidst confusion among traders over chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s order that allowed shops to remain open between 7 am and 7 pm from Friday onwards, the shopkeepers in Dehradun were asked to close their shops at 4 pm on Friday. The decision over new market timings across the state was taken during a meeting chaired by CM Rawat on Thursday. The timings were increased to encourage business activities that have been severely hit during Covid-19 lockdown. Pankaj Mason, president of Doon Valley Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal, said “Business owners were confused over revised timings. However, district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava had told us that the shops will have to be closed at 4 pm till further orders.” The officials have clarified that the shops were asked to close by 4 pm on Friday as they had not received any official order by then. Later in the evening, DM Srivastava received the order and cleared that shops can now remain open till 7 pm. Manvedra Singh, a salon owner told TOI, “Since the news about the revised timings was making rounds since Thursday, we were prepared to keep our shops open till 7 pm on Friday. But at around 3.50 pm, cops asked us to shut shops. Thankfully, we had not given any appointments to clients.” In other parts of state as well, including Haridwar and Nainital, the shop owners closed their shops at 4 pm. Mridul Kaushik, president of Chandra Charya Chowk Vayapar Mandal, told TOI, “Even if the timings are increased, there is not much business at present. The traders also fear the risk of getting infected.” Traders in Nainital echoed the sentiment saying that there is not much pressure from the district administration and police to close shops early but there aren’t enough customers in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/despite-cm-order-on-revised-timing-shops-shut-at-4-pm/articleshow/76097905.cms||abhijeet singh
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: All hospitals with 20+ beds must keep 50% for Covid-19 cases||GANDHINAGAR: Following a high court order, the state government has issued a government resolution to force all private and trust-run hospitals with a capacity of 20 or more beds to reserve 50% of the beds for Covid-19 patients. In Ahmedabad city, one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the country, the state government and the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) have already begun calculating the total bed capacity of private and trust-run hospitals. The entire city has 12,978 beds capacity as revealed to the AMC by 985 registered hospitals within the municipal limits. Of these, there are 117 hospitals which have 20 beds or more and if these hospitals reserve 50% of their beds the number adds up to 2,828 beds. There are 10 hospitals in the city which have revealed to the AMC that they have 100 beds or more, according to the reply to a recent RTI application made by a Kalupur resident, Pankaj Bhatt. The largest number of beds are with GCRI (750). But a bulk of the hospitals, almost 88% of the hospitals — that is 867 hospitals of the 985 registered within the AMC limits — have a capacity of 20 beds or less. This capacity adds up to 7,322 beds. Just recently, since May 15, the AMC was in the process of signing MoUs with 42 major hospitals in the city and has managed to ensure the addition of close to 1,500 beds to the existing capacity of civil hospitals in Asarwa and Sola and the AMC-run SVP hospital. This was by far the largest drive for adding beds to the existing capacity. Hospitals which did not agree or were delaying in their response to requisition requests, almost 17 of them, were issued show-cause notices by the AMC and AUDA. The hospitals were asked why criminal or civil charges should not lodged against them. “We had arranged 40 buses for staff members of these private hospitals who were coming from various areas of the city during lockdown,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-hospitals-with-20-beds-must-keep-50-for-covid-cases/articleshow/76099023.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Smaller locust swarms damaging veggie, fruit crops||NAGPUR: The relief from locusts was short-lived for farmers and state’s agriculture department officials. On Thursday, a swarm was headed towards Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh from Gondia leaving Vidarbha in the afternoon. Late Thursday night, however, another swarm was seen in Ramtek and at Mouda by Friday evening, said the department’s officials. It is expected that earlier spraying took a major toll on the pests and the swarms have split, said sources in agriculture department. The officials geared up to spray pesticide at the villages in Mouda where the pest was last spotted after sundown, said the joint director agriculture (JDA), Ravindra Bhosle. The swarm near Ramtek was around 1km in length and 500 metres in breadth. Another swarm was headed towards Narkhed in Nagpur district from Warud in Amravati district. This was 2km long, said an official. This locust is expected to enter Wardha district and find a resting place near the upper wardha irrigation project. The pest prefers marshy areas to settle, they said. At Narkhed, the pest devoured leaflets of orange and sweet lime trees. The losses to orchards were marginal, but vegetable crops were almost completely eaten, said an official. Asha Daga from Nagpur who has a farm at Nagalwadi in Saoner said on Thursday there was an attack on her farm too. “We could see locusts on our entire 24 acres holding. They were hovering over other farms also,” Daga told TOI. She said her crop of apple ber, bananas, lady’s finger and cow pea were affected. Other farmers have been affected too, she said. A team of experts of Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV) visited the sites that could be possible areas for egg-laying. However, no traces were of locust eggs were found. The experts said temperature has to be around 37 degrees for egg-laying, and its over 46 degrees now, a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/smaller-locust-swarms-damaging-veggie-fruit-crops/articleshow/76098927.cms||Shishir Arya
May 30, 2020||Vadodara||Accused tests positive for Covid-19||Vadodara: An accused held by Vejalpur police in Panchmahal district tested positive for Covid-19 and had to be rushed to the Godhra civil hospital for treatment. Those in contact with the accused are being identified. According to the police, the accused Saddam Yusuf Vejaliya was held while transporting cattle in a cruel manner on Monday. It is believed that the bovines were being taken for slaughter. As per the procedures, a Covid-19 test was conducted on the accused before arresting him formally and he was kept in quarantine. The results of the test on Thursday night revealed that the accused was suffering from Covid-19. An official said that the health department of the district will now take a call regarding the steps to be taken for those from the police station in close contact with the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/accused-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76097214.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||Entry points at Indo-Nepal border opened for movement of stranded workers||PITHORAGARH: Two entry points between India and Nepal were opened for four hours on Thursday and Friday so that people stranded on both sides can return to their home land. The development came after nod from ministry of external affairs in India. Notably, all entry points between India and Nepal were closed after imposition of country-wide lockdown in both nations to prevent spread of coronavirus. “We opened Jhulaghat suspension bridge at Indo-Nepal border for four hours on Thursday and Friday after order by ministry of external affairs,” said Vijay Kumar Jogdande, Pithoragarh district magistrate. On Friday, 282 Nepalese and 10 Indian workers used the entry point in Pithoragarh. Similarly, Champawat district administration opened Banbasa entry point for movement of people. “As many as 2,450 Nepalese and 220 Indians used the Banbasa entry point,” said VC Pant, circle officer, Tanakpur “I walked 36 kilometres from Pithoragarh to reach Jhulaghat. I hope to reach my village after being quarantined in my country,” said Chandra Ram Bhoj, Nepalese worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/entry-points-at-indo-nepal-border-opened-for-movement-of-stranded-workers/articleshow/76097919.cms||Prem Punetha
May 30, 2020||Chennai||Video calls, GPay: Sex workers turn to tech to earn a living in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: For the past two months, Lakshmi* has hardly stepped out of her home. But every night, after her children go to bed, the 35-year-old sex worker puts on makeup before wandering up to the terrace to make surreptitious calls to her clients. "I have hardly earned any money since the pandemic began. When you can’t even shake hands how are we supposed to do our work," she asks. "A few weeks ago, one of my friends told me that she has been making video calls to her clients. It doesn’t pay much but something is better than nothing." The Covid-19 pandemic has had a huge impact on sex workers. Left without an income overnight, they are struggling to make a living. Those who have access to mobile phones and internet are now turning to phone sex and virtual sexual encounters to keep the regular clientele interested while others are trying to find other means to earn a living. "Many clients make WhatsApp video calls to the sex workers. If they like her, they strike a bargain," says Gajalakshmi, former peer educator. Money is transferred into the sex worker’s account, using GPay or any other digital platform. "If the sex worker doesn’t have enough balance, they also recharge the account for her. Many clients are men who are alone during the pandemic." Why turn to sex workers virtually when there is plenty of pornography available online? "People think sex means just ‘body’ but actually some people want to just talk dirty or even romantically with someone," says a sex worker, adding that the money paid varies. "If the customer finds the sex worker beautiful, they can charge higher. It also depends on the time spent on the call." Phone or virtual sex does pay less. Also, female sex workers in TN find it difficult to pursue it during lockdown, says Shyamala Nataraj, executive director, South Indian AIDS Action Programme (SIAAP). "Most of the sex workers in TN are ‘hidden’ as there is no designated red light area. Some women we are in touch with say that they find it inconvenient as they are in their own homes with their partners, or children," says Nataraj. "So, though some of them are resorting to phone sex, others are trying to find alternate sources of income. In Kanyakumari, these women are raising hens and selling organic eggs. You need only Rs 5,000 as investment and can make about Rs 80 a day as they get Rs 10 for one egg. But obviously, that’s not enough to sustain them. In Theni, women are setting up small eateries." Transgender sex workers are able to turn to phone sex more easily as they live in their own communities and also have more access to technology, says Nataraj. "A survey we did about four years ago showed that more than 90% TG sex workers in TN had smartphones, while only 30% female sex workers had access to it," she says. Rajesh Uma Devi, executive director of Sangama, an NGO, says loss of livelihood has caused anxiety and fear among sex workers. "Women’s access to technology is less. Trans people have more access to internet. Younger sex workers do have better access and some have begun using phones. But with video calls, there are issues of privacy as people can record it," he says, adding that since sex work is ‘informal labour’, the government needs to provide social security schemes. For the time being though, sex workers like Lakshmi are relying on technology. "Some NGOs have given us rations but it is not enough. I also don’t want to lose touch with my clientele," she says. "I don’t know what the future will bring, but I need to look after my family." (*name changed) Watch Sex scenes need to be choreographed like a Bollywood dance sequence: Amanda Cutting||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/video-calls-gpay-sex-workers-turn-to-tech-to-earn-a-living/articleshow/76099883.cms||Priya Menon
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||GMR moves HC over cancellation of airport modernization contract||Nagpur: Infrastructure major GMR has approached Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court challenging annulment of bidding process for modernization of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport here. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor on Friday issue notices to the respondents including Mihan India Limited (MIL) and secretary of administrative reforms and special projects at the State General Administration Department (GAD). RM Bhangde received notice on MIL’s behalf. While adjourning the hearing till June 12, the bench clarified that if any fresh tenders are invited, those would be subjected to the result of this petition. The petitioners — GMR Airports Limited and GMR Nagpur International Airport Limited — prayed for quashing MIL’s letter issued to them on March 19 annulling the airport bidding process without awarding the contract. Through senior counsel Jugalkishor Gilda and Charuhas Dharmadhikari, the petitioners demanded directives to the respondents on not undertaking any steps as per the March 19 letter that would be detrimental to their interests and also not to create third party rights in the project by issuing fresh tenders. According to them, after acceptance of their bid on March 7 last year, the contract has already started. “The MIL asked us to increase revenue sharing percentage, which we were not legally required to do. However, we increased it by almost three times. Still, without assigning any reason, show cause notice or opportunity, the MIL arbitrarily cancelled the bid,” the counsels contended. Pointing out that the bidding process cancellation defeats the government’s objective of socio-economic development of Vidarbha region, they argued that the MIL’s action was arbitrary, illegal and deserved to be quashed. “The petitioners were allotted space in the airport and also their bank guarantee was twice extended. Hence, MIL’s move is contrary to Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India,” the lawyers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmr-moves-hc-over-cancellation-of-airport-modernization-contract/articleshow/76098953.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 30, 2020||Allahabad||More facilities for migrants travelling via special trains||Prayagraj: North Central Railway’s (NCR) Prayagraj division started providing drinking water, food packets, medicines and other facilities to migrants travelling in special trains halting at Prayagraj Junction on Friday. The passengers were asked to remain seated and were told that the facilities would be delivered to them on their seats itself. For the purpose, railway employees put the food packets and water bottles on the platform well before the arrival of the train and the same were distributed among the passengers Meanwhile, in an appeal to all passengers, NCR general manager Rajiv Chaudhry said, “We appeal that persons with co-morbidities,pregnant women, children below the age of 10 years and persons above 65 years of age avoid travelling by rail, unless it is essential.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/more-facilities-for-migrants-travelling-via-special-trains/articleshow/76097586.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Private lab giving false report stopped from corona testing||KANPUR: Taking action against for giving an allegedly false report of a Covid-19 patient by a private lab, the district administration on Friday directed the lab to stop testing of patients till further orders. Chief medical officer, Kanpur Nagar, Dr Ashok Shukla said that a private lab of the city, which had been permitted to test Covid -19 samples, released a false report which created panic. The lab within just 57 minutes reported the patient as Covid-19 positive. It has been prohibited from conducting further tests, and the government has been informed for further action, he added. The state government had permitted the private lab in front of LLR hospital to test samples of Covid- 19 patients. A private medical practitioner on Wednesday morning g sent a man to give his sample to the private lab for Covid-19 test. The man got himself registered in the lab at 11.40 a.m., his sample was collected and placed in the machine for processing at 12.31 pm and the report was released at 1.28 pm. After a sample was collected, the total time taken for its processing was just 57 minutes after which his report was handed over to the man which declared him Covid-19 positive, said a source. Since the patient had been declared positive, the matter was reported in the office of the chief medical office. The CMO, after examining the report, found that the private lab had tested the sample in just 57 minutes. According to lab experts of GSVM medical college, the total processing time taken for a Covid-19 sample is around 7 to 8 hours after sample collection because RNA is separated from the virus in around 7 hours after the processing. Since the matter was sensitive, it had been reported to the administration .The CMO has recommended action against the private lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pvt-lab-giving-false-report-stopped-from-corona-testing/articleshow/76099333.cms||Anant Chandak
May 30, 2020||Mangaluru||WFH may go on till year end for tech companies, start ups||MANGALURU: While reports suggest that tech giants like Google, Facebook are expected to let most of its employees work from home (WFH) for the remainder of 2020, there are several start-ups in the state that are expected to follow this trend. Springworks, a HR Tech startup based out in Bengaluru has decided to give up a portion of its office space and move to WFH till December. Kartik Mandaville, CEO and Founder of Springworks told TOI, “Last week we made a tough decision to move to WFH till December 2020. It was a difficult decision to give up two out of three floors of our office space. Lot of hard work went into growing that space,” he said. WFH comes with its own challenges. “To tackle the issue of loneliness and inability to mingle with colleagues in-person, we have started ChaiTime calls every day at 5.30pm. On some days we play pictionary using Zoom’s whiteboard or someone creates a quiz and the participants vie for the title of Quizzard. The quizzes we did on Zoom were fun, but we went ahead and created our own app that virtually allows you to play hundreds of quizzes right inside Slack, “ said Kartik, alumnus Manipal Institute of Technology. Meanwhile, they have also created a common pool of leaves so if someone needs extra leaves due to kids and parents at home or just due to increased housework, colleagues who are relatively free can donate leaves for the other colleagues who might need it more. “Apart from this, we do virtual mindfulness sessions every day, celebrate birthdays over Slack and Zoom, do meme-sharing and chit-chats on random channels, “ he said. They have recognized colleagues who have power and internet issues, for whom an Rs 10,000 per person WFH set up reimbursement has been done. They are also shipping monitors, keyboards, other accessories, and a few office chairs to folks within Bengaluru. Swaroop Chand, CEO, Lemonop, a platform for young people to explore short-term gigs and first jobs with companies, said, “For the time being WFH will be in place till June first week, but we are prepared to go longer, even till year end if needed. For us, WFH works! We have been able to stay productive due to the Internet and collaboration software. We have channelled our efforts to the things we can actually accomplish. For example, how the crisis will impact our young users who are starting their careers is not fully understood yet and we have a responsibility to help them navigate this. We have been focusing on strengthening our software products keeping this in mind.” Further, he explained, when we include the immense cost benefits to companies due to WFH, it looks likely that more such companies will embrace remote work. HR leaders will think about what ‘team building’ and ‘employee engagement’ will mean in the future. In order to handle data privacy and productivity questions, more products for securing WFH devices and for measuring team productivity are going to emerge and they are opportunities for start-ups. We may see a boom around home-office furniture as well, “ Swaroop, an NITK alumnus said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/wfh-may-go-on-till-year-end-for-tech-companies-start-ups/articleshow/76098992.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 30, 2020||Hubballi||23-year-old youth tests positive for coronavirus in Chitradurga||DAVANAGERE: A 23-year-old youth from Sakkara village in Dharmapura Hobli of Hiriyur taluk in Chitradurga district tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. He had gone to Delhi to take coaching for the civil services examination a few months ago, and had returned to his village on May 15, after the lockdown was relaxed. He was quarantined in the Morarji Desai Residential School of Dharmapura, said Chitradurga deputy commissioner Vinoth Priya R. With this, the total Covid-19 cases has risen to 38 in the district, of which five patients have been discharged, and there are 33 active cases in Chitradurga at present. Five Covid-19 patients discharged in DavanagereFive patients were cured and discharged from the designated Covid hospital in Davanagere on Friday evening, said deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi. The total Covid-19 patients discharged from the hospital in Davanagere is 84 so far, he said. Four more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Davanagere on Friday, and the total cases has risen to 146 in the district. Four patients have succumbed to the disease in Davanagere so far, and there are 58 active Covid-19 cases in the district, said the DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/youth-tests-ve-in-chitradurga/articleshow/76097942.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur girl, Dubai boy tie nuptial knot in ‘virtual nikah’||Kanpur: Marriages are mostly solemnized when both the bride and bridegroom are physically present but Tuba of Kanpur and Asim of Dubai tied the nuptial knot in virtual ‘marriage mandap” on May 28 due to the lockdown in India. The experience for the two families was unique as they enjoyed the marriage ceremonies in Kanpur and Dubai in the virtual presence of each other, and it was a simple marriage which was attended by only 20 family members from each side. Leather merchant Asad Iraqi, who is also general secretary of Leather Industries Welfare Association, had fixed his daughter Tuba’s marriage with Asim, son of Wakeel Ahmad, a businessman of Dubai. Their marriage was to be solemnized on April 12, but had to be postponed due to the lockdown in India. Asad Iraqi said that he had booked Zubera Madina, the five state hotel of Dubai, for marriage and reception. Around 300 guests had to join the ceremony from India and more than 150 persons had even got the confirmed flight tickets but due to four consecutive lockdowns, the marriage had to be postponed, but later it was decided to solemnize it through video conferencing in a virtual marriage mandap. “We were going to dispatch our wedding cards to the family members and friends but had to postpone it at the last moment due to the spread of corona virus and lockdown in India”, he added. This week Asad Iraqi and Wakeel Ahmad in a telephonic conversation discussed the issue and considering the present situation in India and Dubai, decided to solemnize the nikah through video conferencing . Rukhsati (Bidai) would take place later when the situation eases. “We got the nikah ceremony solemnized after our children gave their consents”, Iraqi said. The ceremony, which began around 2 pm IST and 12.30 pm Dubai time at Asad’s house in Jajmau finished within half an hour. ”The maulvis, present on both sides, completed all the formalities through video conferencing. The bride and groom both were happy along with their family members”, he said. It was a very simple ceremony with no show off. “Infact, we ( Asad and Wakeel Ahmad) have decided that the money to be spent on the marriage would be used for some other noble work”, Asad said. “Infact May 28 brought double happiness in Wakeel Ahmad’s house as he had married his daughter on the same day in the presence of same guests”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-girl-dubai-boy-tie-nuptial-knot-in-virtual-nikah/articleshow/76099454.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Eyewitness in Lodhi Club case surfaces, writes to DC, seeks protection||Mohit.behl@timesgroup.comLudhiana: In a major development in the case of Lodhi Club office-bearers allegedly holding a party on Sunday, club security supervisor Harvarinder Singh, an eyewitness who was missing till recently, has resurfaced. Singh lodged a complaint with deputy commissioner (DC) and club president Pradeep Agrawal. In his letter, Singh claimed that office-bearers did organise a party inside the club premises on May 24 and consumed liquor. He sought protection saying that his life is under threat from the influential office-bearers he has exposed. He also demanded guaranteed job security saying that his expose could cost him his employment.Singh said office-bearers of the club took out liquor cases out of the club illegally and stuffed them into their cars.In a letter to the deputy commissioner, Harvarinder said, “On the afternoon of May 24, these office bearers arrived in the club and sat in the family hall after which they asked peon Sonu to bring food from their car after which their party started. After this Dhan Singh the F&B in-charge of club started serving them drinks and their party continued till 5PM. During their party only they ordered peon Sonu and Dhan Singh to keep some cases of liquor in their cars through the back gate of the club. When I saw this happening I realised that there was no bill or no gate pass and neither was there order conveyed to me by my superiors about this. I started recording this incident in my mobile. When the office bearers came to know I was recording, they summoned me inside the family hall and started abusing me, snatched my phone and deleted the recording. The cars belonged to three office bearers"He alleged that two office-bearers asked Dhan Singh why he did not beat him (Harvarinder) up when he was recording the video. “I was asked not to report for duty from now onwards and when I called up my security officer he also told me that there is no work for me. I have recording of the entire conversation. I was honestly doing my duty for the club and if any wrongdoing takes place in front of my eyes I will not let it happen. I have given my statement as Club's general secretary told me that I should give all the statement in the writing,” he wrote. Seeking help, Harvarinder wrote, “I request you (DC) that since they are very influential people and my life is in danger. You can get my phone examined and if it's possible to retrieve the old video recording it may please be done so that truth is established. I request you to please restore my job back to me and also ensure the security of life and job to me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/eyewitness-in-lodhi-club-case-surfaces-writes-to-dc-seeks-protection/articleshow/76097970.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai a challenge, Covid under control in Tamil Nadu: EPS||CHENNAI: Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases as the fourth lockdown approaches its end, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday said the virus spread has been contained in the state, excluding the densely populated Chennai which remains a challenge. District collectors were instructed not to resort to suo motu relaxations and seek permission from the chief secretary. Addressing collectors through video conferencing, the chief minister cautioned that the virus spread was due to the returnees from other states. "The infection is found more among them. The collectors should remain cautious and subject workers and others returning to testing, and extend treatment," he said. Palaniswami said people need not panic since recovery rate in the state increased to 54%. The CM indicated that there was a possibility of opening more economic activities in the coming days. Collectors can ignore online registrations of migrant workers to go home if they were willing to stay as several industrial units have opened. At least 2.47 lakh guest workers have been sent home in 170 trains so far. The chief minister is scheduled to meet health experts on Saturday before taking a call on further relaxations, including transport, and announcement on extending the lockdown on Sunday. "Lockdown will continue in Tamil Nadu. Relaxations depend on the Union government’s framework and the ground reality. The inputs received from collectors and health experts will be considered by the chief minister," chief secretary K Shanmugam told TOI. The CM sought explanations from administrators of top 10 districts with active cases -- including Chennai, Chengalpet Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur. The collectors said arrivals from other states, especially Maharashtra and from Chennai, were the reason for the spurt. Tiruvannamalai collector K S Kandasamy said passes issued by the Maharashtra government were valid up to the destination instead of the state border. Kancheepuram collector P Ponniah informed that the industries are under watch after cases emerged from the units. Workers with mild temperature will be sent to government hospitals or primary health centres. "The containment zones are disinfected even at night. Mattuthavani and Paravai markets have been decentralised," Madurai collector T G Vinay said. The collectors were told to allow uninterrupted movement of construction material and strict vigil on check posts and industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-a-challenge-covid-under-control-in-tn-eps/articleshow/76099893.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||People under quarantine to be given magazines||DEHARDUN: The district administration has decided to provide people at quarantine facilities with weekly and monthly magazines for their entertainment. The decision by Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava comes after several people, who were put under quarantine after their return to the state, suggested such a move. Notably, DM Srivastava has been taking feedback from the people at quarantine centres on a daily basis. On Friday, the district magistrate inspected several quarantine centres, including Agrasen Hotel, Hotel Garhwal Terrace in Mussoorie, GMD Hotel, and Guru Ram Rai Public School, and took feedback from people quarantined at these facilities. “We are immediately resolving any difficulty faced by people at quarantine centers. I have also asked other officials to take feedback from these people and ensure their convenience. In addition, we are also providing them with necessary supplies, including toothbrush, paste, soap, and handwash, among others. Besides, nutritious diet is being ensured to people, especially children, at these quarantine centers,” said DM Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/people-under-quarantine-to-be-given-magazines/articleshow/76097957.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 17-day-old baby discharged after intestine surgery||AHMEDABAD: When Savita Pattani (name changed), a resident of Meghaninagar, tested positive before delivering a child at Shardaben Hospital, the doctors were apprehensive about the newborn. But the baby tested negative. When the child started developing complications, he was kept under observation and was tested again. This time, the result came positive. “It was then that the hospital authorities decided to send the child to Civil Hospital for a surgical procedure,” said Dr Rakesh Joshi, the head of paediatric surgery at Civil Hospital. “ The child was diagnosed with mid-jejunal atresia, a congenital anomaly of the small intestine where its end is not developed and causes obstructions.” The doctors weighed the pros and cons of immediate surgery before the child recovers from Covid-19 and it was decided that it was a necessity to save the child from further complications. A team of experts including Dr Jaishri Ramji, Dr Jolly Vaishnav and Dr Charul Purani oversaw the surgical procedure and the follow-up. The child was kept under observation for 13 days before discharge on Friday. Officials at Civil Hospital said that so far the hospital has witnessed four surgical procedures on toddlers with Covid-19. While one of the children could not survive after the procedure, two were discharged on Friday whereas one is still under observation. The other child that was discharged on Friday was two-year-old boy from Bapunagar. He was initially admitted to Shardaben Hospital with high-grade fever and abdominal cramps. The ultrasound showed a large liver abscess (collection of puss) of about 100ml, said doctors. “The team of doctors addressed his internal bleeding and carried out an operation on May 21,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/17-day-old-baby-discharged-after-intestine-surgery/articleshow/76099017.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||LBSNAA staffer found Covid-19 positive in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: A 29-year-old staffer of Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA), who returned to the state from Bulandshahr (Uttar Pradesh) on May 17, tested Covid–19 positive on Friday. He was put under quarantine at LBSNAA campus after his return. The man was taken to Doon Hospital after he complained of ill-health earlier this week. Ashutosh Sati, nodal and executive officer of Mussoorie Municipal Council, told TOI that four people who had come in contact with the coronavirus positive person have been sent to institutional quarantine and their samples have also been taken. Additionally, 20 other people have also been kept under home quarantine as a precautionary measure. Officials of LBSNAA could not be contacted for comment. Notably, this is the third coronavirus positive case in Mussoorie. Earlier this month, a woman and her son, who returned from New Delhi, had tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lbsnaa-staffer-found-covid-19-ve-in-mussoorie/articleshow/76097976.cms||Anmol Jain
May 30, 2020||Kanpur||26 more test Covid-19 positive||Kanpur: With as many as 26 Covid cases in a single day, Kanpur saw the steepest rise in coronavirus caese on Friday. The total covid tally of the disrtrict now stands at 365, while the number of active cases reached 53. The health department and the administration are on tenterhooks to see this unprecendented single-day rise in coronavirus cases. This time, all 26 cases have been reported from new areas of the city which include Dipti Padao, Barra, Lal Bangla, Fattehpur, Govind Nagar, Ishwariganj, Laxmipurwa, Saket Nagar, Munshipurwa and Ghatampur. This has left city residents anxious and fearful. The new affected areas have been made hotspots, and their residents have been asked not to move out of their homes. The contact history of the affected people is being traced. The health department collected 327 swab samples for Covid test on Friday, whose results are awaited.  The department officials said the team visited 1,480 houses in Colonelganj area on Friday and apprised families about all precautions that are required to be taken. So far, 301 patients have been recovered and discharged from hospital and 11 patients have died. Lockdown violation: On Thursday, hundreds of people came out on the street to meet MLA Irfan Solanki, who was there to take stock of the situation, and demanded upliftment of restrictions imposed in the Chamanganj area. The area where people assembled comes under hotspot zone. Soon the video of the incident went viral on social media showing people violatong lockdown norms. SSP Anant Deo said that they had taken cognizance of the incident from the videos shared on social media and investigations are on in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/26-more-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76099360.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
May 30, 2020||Kanpur||Min: Govt prepared to deal with Covid-19 pandemic||Kanpur: UP minister for medical education Suresh Khanna said that the state government was prepared to deal with Covid-19, and there was need to create awareness among the people instead of creating any panic to fight the pandemic. The minister while inspecting the Covid-19 hospital of LLR hospital and the other wards on Friday said that more focus should be given to non-Covid patients and those who are suffering from serious diseases should also be treated like Covid patients. During the inspection he met patients and sought their suggestions. After inspecting the hospital, he told the media that the state government was ready to counter pandemic .”We have achieved success in containing the pandemic in small zones and checking the spread of virus” he said. The government was monitoring the daily progress of the state and taking measures according to the situation, he added. He also visited the neuroscience hospital of LLR hospital. He expressed grief over deaths of several persons and said that efforts were being made to check the spread of pandemic. When asked about apprehensions during monsoon which was near and what would be the effect of corona, he said nothing could be said right now because it was a new virus. He said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath himself was visiting hospitals randomly and had even asked his ministers to make visits to hospitals and meet patients. “There are around 74 beds In the city’s Covid-19 hospital and 70 beds in the holding area, therefore there is no need to be panicky. Around 77,000 are ready in various hospitals of the state”, he said. All efforts are being made to contain the spread of this deadly disease , he added. Dr Arti Lalchandani, principal, GSVM medical college, Sudhir M Bobde, divisional commissioner , DM Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari and other officers were present during inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/min-govt-prepared-to-deal-with-covid-19-pandemic/articleshow/76099499.cms||Anant Chandak
May 30, 2020||Hubballi||Petrol pump dealers continue to suffer as sales fail to pick up||HUBBALLI: Though the lockdown has been eased to restart the engines of the economy, petrol pumps in Hubballi-Dharwad are witnessing a drop in sales by around 50%. Sales have slightly improved from lockdown 1.0 to 4.0 but business is not picking up at the expected level. The state has 5,800 PSU fuel stations including HPCL, IOCL and BPCL as per Karnataka State Federation of Petroleum Dealers. Many dealers are facing a financial crunch as regular expenditure and bank loan interest will burn their pockets, said GV Hiregoudar, a petrol pump owner in Haveri. Demand for fuel is not picking up fast as people are not keen on getting out of their homes like before. There are restrictions on movement between 7pm and 7am and movement is completely banned on Sundays. This is the main reason for sales not taking off, said Veeranna Sajjanar, vice-president, Dharwad District Petroleum Association (DDPA). He said he used to sell 10,000 litres of fuel every day before the lockdown but now daily sales have come down to 5,000 litres. Ashwin Kotambari, secretary of Karnataka State Federation of Petroleum Dealers, said, “Reduction in sales has broken the chain of rotation. Owners have fixed expenditures like salary of the staff, electricity, maintenance and others. So, if we used to place an order, say in 10 days for fuel, now it takes 15 or 20 days to place fresh orders. This is causing additional burden on the owners.” Shantraj Pol, president of DDPA, said that since trade and businesses have not resumed properly and many offices have asked their employees to continue to work from home, movement of vehicles is still restricted. Schools and colleges are closed. Tourism sector has suffered a severe blow. All these factors have affected our sector, he said. However, he expressed confidence that economy will begin to look up after June 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/petrol-pump-dealers-continue-to-suffer-as-sales-fail-to-pick-up/articleshow/76097975.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Drizzle and cool breeze cool off sweltering city||Times News Network Ludhiana: A drizzle and breeze gave city residents much-needed respite from the sweltering heat. The light rain and breeze started on Wednesday and continued on Friday. The meteorological department predicts rainfall for a few more days. The met department said the city received 0.4 millimetres of rain from 8.30am on Wednesday to the same time on Thursday. The impact of the drizzle, wind and cloudy weather could be gauged by the maximum temperature, which dropped by as much as seven degrees to be recorded at 33.1 degrees Celsius. On Thursday, day temperature in the city was witnessed at 38.7 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal. Minimum (night) temperature in Ludhiana on Friday was also recorded on the lower side at 23 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal and 2.8 degrees less than a day before. The met department has more good news on the weather front. “Light to moderate rainfall is expected for a few more days. High speed winds might also blow in Ludhiana during these days. Rainfall may be recorded between 10 to 30 millimetres whereas wind speed is expected be around 50 kilometres per hour. During this period, both day and night temperature is expected to fall,” said director, Met department, Chandigarh Surender Paul. The met department website suggests that day temperature might fall to 33 degrees Celsius till Sunday before rising to 37 degrees Celsius by next Wednesday whereas night temperature might fall to 22 degrees Celsius till Sunday and then rise to 25 degrees Celsius till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/drizzle-and-cool-breeze-cool-off-sweltering-city/articleshow/76097959.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||Pythons entering human settlements in Terai due to lockdown, opine experts||RUDRAPUR: As two nests of Indian rock pythons have been found in densely populated areas of Udham Singh Nagar within a week’s time, wildlife experts opine that big serpents are finding it easier to lay eggs and crawl into abandoned places due to the ongoing lockdown and the consequent dip in movement of humans. The experts, however, add that their significant breeding is a good sign for the environment. Earlier, nests of venomous snakes were found in a city-based godown and in Barwala village of Bazpur town. Wildlife expert Dr Sunil Thokal told TOI "Terai region and the plains stretching till Shivalik Range in Haridwar are the most suitable habitats for pythons as the area has sufficient number of animals — rodents, mammals, lizards, deer, and birds — to prey on. Breeding of snakes in the area will help the farmers as they eat rodents which spoil the crops. They have entered human territories because of the lockdown and absence of much human movement due to it. Even leopard families have been spotted several times in Terai region during lockdown period.” Meanwhile, city-based veterinarian Dr Sarpreet Singh Thind said, “Nesting of pythons inside cities is alarming as these reptiles can feed over any living being.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pythons-entering-human-settlements-in-terai-due-to-lockdown-opine-experts/articleshow/76097939.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 30, 2020||Delhi||After lockdown, carpocalypse? Why Delhi may see a spike in congestion, pollution||NEW DELHI: Is Delhi staring at a carpocalypse? As the city gradually moves towards normalcy, experts predict massive road congestion and longer commuting time with the fear of infection and drastically reduced capacity of public transport pushing more people towards personal vehicles. “Covid-19 is going to stay here for some time and so will the fear because personal safety is of prime importance. People will tend to prefer private transport,” says Ashok Bhattacharjee, urban planner and former director of Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning & Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC). He believes reduction in capacity of public transport, due to social distancing, will push more people towards personal vehicles. More cars and two-wheelers will take up space on roads, leading to more congestion and pollution. Delhi Metro, the capital’s lifeline, used to ferry about 30 lakh passengers a day before it stopped operations. “Instead of 1,800-2,000 passengers, a Metro train will now carry 350 to 400 passengers to ensure social distancing,” points out S Velmurugan, senior principal scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI). Delhi Transport Corporation (DMRC) and the Cluster scheme, with a combined fleet of 6,348 buses, used to ferry 42 lakh passengers a day before the lockdown. While the buses are back on the road, only 20 passengers are being allowed at a time. “We will need around 18,000 buses now in Delhi. Many people are working from home, all industries are not open and at least five lakh people have left Delhi. That is why we are not facing any congestion right now but this is going to become a real problem soon,” he warns. “There are two type of commuters - choice users and captive users. Those with a choice will now opt for a car or two-wheeler,” says PK Sarkar, former head of Transport Planning at School of Planning and Architecture. “The captive user has no option, but where are the buses? We need 20,000 buses in Delhi now. These users will be forced to buy two-wheelers or cheaper options like mopeds, leading to more congestion and the city will collapse,” he says. “Private transport will increase and so would usage of auto rickshaws and cabs, apart from cycling trips,” Velmurugan said. “This is going to be a menace not only in Delhi but in all metropolitan cities.” Bhattacharjee says those who can’t afford personal vehicles will suffer the most. “Those who can’t afford private or hired modes and prefer to use cycle in absence of public transport would be deprived of the same due to unsafe road traffic conditions. This is of immediate concern and the government is not ready to deal with that,” he remarks. “Bicycle sales have gone up dramatically around the world and protective lanes are being provided for cyclists,” says Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment. She says the present crisis can set the foundation for an improved walking and cycling infrastructure. Sarkar points out that Delhiites tend to avoid cycling for distances beyond 5-6 km and the city needs a master plan for a cycling infrastructure. Both Bhattacharjee and Velmurugan believe that given the limited number of buses, dynamic route rationalisation is needed. “I notice DTC buses on routes like 460 and 534 arriving at a frequency of five to 15 minutes while other routes don’t have the same frequency. This is an improper and ridiculous way of scheduling,” he says. All experts are unanimous in saying that in the present scenario, as many people should work from home as possible. “We need to restrict travel requirement and have a combination of work-from- home and staggered office timings. We need to reduce the load on the current system since otherwise there will be more personal vehicles on roads,” says Roychowdhury. “The concept of office has to disappear and people have to work from home,” suggests former joint commissioner of police Maxwell Pereira. “The public transport in Delhi was never enough and that’s why those who could afford went for personal vehicles and others took to cycling. A further increase in number of private transport is a valid concern at the moment,” he says. “Increased congestion would mean that mass transport like buses, which are needed to move the majority, will become slower as cars and two-wheelers, which carry less people will occupy more space on roads,” says Roychowdhury. “The government has to intervene right now. Bengaluru is doing bus priority lanes and Delhi should look into that to maximize utilisation.” “People who cannot afford personal mobility will use shared transport. Period,” says Amit Bhatt, director of integrated transport, WRI India. “The cities will come to a grinding halt if choice users and people with affordability shift to private transportation,” he says. Both Bhatt and Roychowdhury say it is important to restore trust and confidence in shared mobility, be it buses, Metro or auto rickshaws. Bhatt says the government could introduce a Covid-19 safety labelling for transport services. “People need to ask themselves that if they can go to their office or market, what’s wrong with taking public transport if the social distancing norms are being met?” she asks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-lockdown-carpocalypse-why-city-may-see-a-spike-in-congestion-pollution/articleshow/76100471.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||HM & son help 33 Gadchiroli, Bhandara women get home||Nagpur: Home minister Anil Deshmukh and his son Salil, a Zilla Parishad (ZP) member, played key roles in the rescue and safe passage of 24 women from Gadchiroli and another nine from Bhandara who were stuck at Vapi in Gujarat for more than two months. The women, who have been quarantined at their respective districts after reaching on Friday, were hired to work at Vapi by a city-based agency through a central government scheme, it is learnt. The women had been trying to return but there was no assistance for them until some of them contacted Baramati’s Member of Parliament Supriya Sule, Gadchiroli’s former ZP president Bhagyashree Atram and Rashtravadi Yuvati Congress state president from Osmanabad Sakshana Salgar who too catalysed the rescue process. Atram, daughter of Aheri MLA and former minister Dharmaraobaba, said the agency that had sent the women to Vapi was not able to bring them back. “We were constantly getting calls and had been trying to bring them back but getting permission was an uphill task,” she said. “At this point home minister intervened. He took it up at government level to ensure the permission was granted following which buses were arranged on Wednesday evening,” she said. Gujarat government had dropped the women at Acher near Palghar in Maharashtra from where SP DT Shinde arranged two buses for them to travel home. Atram had sought assistance from Salil whose team helped the women get food, sanitizers and snacks from Palghar to Nagpur. “We decided to let them halt at Nagpur as it was not safe to travel in the night to Gadchiroli,” said Salil. City NCP’s senior vice-president Nutan Rewatkar and a woman constable Vandana Dumbhare from Ganeshpeth police stayed with the women at ST bus stop where rooms were made available. The women left city on Friday morning and reached their districts. City’s yuvati president Poonam Rewatkar too was present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hm-son-help-33-gadchiroli-bhandara-women-get-home/articleshow/76098988.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard mauls 4-year-old in Chamoli||DEHRADUN: A leopard mauled a four-year-old boy in Bhyadi village of Chamoli district late on Thursday night. The big cat reportedly attacked the boy at some distance from his house. The body was recovered 500 metres away from the spot on Friday morning. According to district forest officer Amit Kawar, local administration has already sanctioned an initial compensation of Rs 30,000 for the bereaved family. Meanwhile, two teams of forest officers and tranquiliser experts have been deployed in the area to catch the big cat. The forest department is also installing CCTV cameras to track the movement of the leopard in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-mauls-4-year-old-in-chamoli/articleshow/76097964.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Noted astrologer Bejan Daruwalla dead at 88||Ahmedabad: Acclaimed astrologer Bejan Daruwalla breathed his last at a private hospital in Gandhinagar on Friday. He was 88. Daruwalla had tested positive for Covid-19, according to Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation records but his family vehemently denied that he had contracted coronavirus. Daruwalla was being treated for pneumonia and brain hypoxia for the past few days. His name featured on the list of Covid-19 positive patients declared by the AMC on May 22, but his family members denied that. “My father was not Covid-19 positive. He was a fighter and he fought bravely till his last breath,” said Nastur Daruwalla, the son of the astrologer. “He predicted that coronavirus will soon go away. India, despite its poverty and joblessness, will rise like a phoenix. Next year will be the best year for India and the country will soon emerge as a superpower.” The news of Daruwalla’s death left his friends and followers saddened. Behram Mehta, whom Daruwalla called his dearest friend, said: “He treated me like his son. He always told me that when he expired, he wanted a grand farewell. Unfortunately, with the lockdown in place, that will not be possible.” Mehta went on to say: “I am saddened beyond words and pray that his family will be consoled.” Hemang Pandit, the founder of GaneshaSpeaks, said that the news of Daruwalla’s death was shocking and traumatizing. “We will ensure that Bejan Daruwalla’s legacy will continue through GaneshaSpeaks,” Pandit said. In a video posted on an online platform in the second week of April, Daruwalla had predicted that the challenges of dealing with coronavirus will remain in the month of April and May. “After May 21, this disease is expected to go away with Lord Ganesha’s blessing,” said Daruwalla who is joined by astrologer Dharmesh Joshi. Born on July 11, 1931, and hailing from Ahmedabad, Daruwalla once taught English literature at HA Arts and Commerce College before moving to Mumbai. His interests spanned sports and literature. In his astrologer’s avatar, his jolly nature and easy accessibility won hearts of people around the globe. Last year, he was admitted to a hospital in Ahmedabad after he suffered from a brain stroke from which he seemed to have recovered, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/noted-astrologer-bejan-daruwalla-dead-at-88/articleshow/76099011.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Five ways ahead as Tamil Nadu crosses 20,000 positive cases||As Tamil Nadu crossed 20,000 positive cases on Friday, here are five measures that can help the state overcome the coronavirus crisis.Testing, isolation, protectionThere are no vaccines or drugs of choice for Covid-19 yet. “There are many things we still don’t know about SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 illness,” said WHO chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan. “There is no escaping from widespread testing and isolation of positive cases. The only way of beating the virus by knowing where it is,” she said. National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur had told TOI that the state government must test at least 10,000 people in Chennai and 8,000 more across the state every day. Also, all incoming people should be tested. When tested positive, symptomatic cases and those above 60 or with comorbidities must be hospitalised. Young, asymptomatic cases can be isolated at home or isolation units. “Use home quarantines sparingly. If allowed, volunteers or health staff should visit patients at least twice a day,” said public health expert Sundararaman T, former executive director of National Health Systems Resource Centre. But Tamil Nadu’s contact tracing has been weak. “There are no visible geographical containments in some areas,” he said. Dealing with caseloadsVellore-based senior virologist Dr T Jacob John says relaxations may increase caseload. For instance, the cluster of returnees testing positive is growing. “The disease is already within the community and is likely to spread more. You may not be able to eradicate it now, but it is important to bring in behavioural change among the healthy and protect the vulnerable,” he said. Social safety nets for vulnerable groups must be expanded and attention must be given to help people with diabetes and hypertension keep the conditions under control, said senior diabetologist Dr V Mohan. Infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan said a large number of people who died in Tamil Nadu are in the middle-age group. “More than two out of five people who died were aged between the 40 and 60. We have kept mortality below 1%, but we have high premature deaths,” he said. Sharing experiencesExtraordinary circumstance needs extraordinary measures. “Amidst a pandemic, we don’t see discussions among doctors on success and failures. Everyone needs to know about the drug of protocol that helped one hospital increase recovery rate or the one that pushed many into complications. We must do more than notifying numbers. We must upload and discuss case sheets,” said senior nephrologist Dr Rajan Ravichandran. “Despite having a large number of doctors compared to many other states, not everyone’s expertise is utilised. Doctors who aren’t treating patients can run clinical trials, peer through effects of repurposed drugs used by physicians and post relevant medical literature from the internet,” he said. Clarity, transparencyArming patients with vital information is necessary. The state should display treating hospitals with real-time information on the number of isolation and ICU beds so patients who want private hospitals can go to, says a senior public health official. “We have been receiving complaints that private hospitals treat only asymptomatic patients. Symptomatic patients are made to run from one hospital to another. In addition, the portal should give a range – minimum and maximum cost of treatment -- so they can take informed decision,” he said. Scientists warn against fudging cases or death records. A senior ICMR scientist said that like many states, TN has been declaring zero deaths for many infectious and communicable diseases. “Accurate and complete recording of its causes will strengthen public health and disease profiling,” National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research director Prashant Mathur had told TOI. Public responsibilityCommunication and public participation are vital. “We know there are some things that can prevent, delay and reduce the spread of the virus. Ask everyone to wear a mask when they’re going out. Ensure they adhere to physical distancing norms. Disinfection of frequently used surfaces, respiratory etiquette and hand washing will help, especially in work places and public spaces,” Dr Soumya Swaminathan said. Behavioural change is important and it may be possible for the government to ensure this is followed for a long time. “NGOs can be roped in to bring in public awareness. We should also have community leaders and role models explaining the facts,” she said. The Chennai police have the uphill task of enforcement. Commissioner A K Vishwanathan said the force has to be protected from the virus. Not just sanitisers, masks and tablets, the department is in the process of boosting up the morale of the force. “A lot depends on public cooperation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/five-ways-ahead-as-tn-crosses-20k/articleshow/76099907.cms||---
May 30, 2020||India||First anniversary of Modi 2.0: In letter to citizens, PM hails India’s collective resilience to corona||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi, in a letter to citizens on completion of the first year of his second term on Friday, said the collective strength and resolve of people could be seen in the way India has dealt with coronavirus, as despite the “tremendous suffering” of the people, massive efforts ensured that “inconvenience” didn’t turn into “disasters”. “You have proven collective strength and potential of Indians is unparalleled compared even to the powerful and prosperous countries of the world. In a crisis of this magnitude, it can certainly not be claimed no one suffered any inconvenience or discomfort. Our labourers, migrant workers, artisans and craftsmen in small scale industries, hawkers and such fellow countrymen have undergone tremendous suffering,” he said. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThe PM also gave a detailed account of his government’s performance. “The list of such historic actions and decisions taken in national interest would be too long to detail in this letter. But I must say that every day of this year, my government has worked round the clock with full vigour, taking and implementing these decisions,” he said. Modi expressed satisfaction over bold decisions like "surgical" and "air" strikes inside Pakistan, highlighted the unanimous Ram Temple verdict of the Supreme Court, and termed triple talaq as a “barbaric practice”, which was made illegal last year. He also referred to the decision regarding Article 370, saying " it furthered the spirit of national unity and integration". Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageThe PM projected his two terms as a continuum, saying the people renewed the mandate because they wanted the government to build the foundation that had been laid in his first innings. “From 2014 to 2019, India's stature rose significantly. The dignity of the poor was enhanced. The nation achieved financial inclusion, free gas and electricity connections, total sanitation coverage and made progress towards ensuring 'Housing for All',” wrote the PM. “India demonstrated its mettle through surgical strikes and air strike. At the same time, decades old demands such as OROP, One Nation One Tax, better support price for farmers were fulfilled," he added. Coming to the 2019 polls, he said, "In 2019, people of India voted not merely for continuity but also with a dream of taking India to new heights, to make the country a global leader." More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  Referring to India’s fight against Covid-19, he said, “While on one hand there are powers with great economic resources and state-of-the-art healthcare systems, on the other hand is our country besieged with problems amidst a vast population and limited resources. Many feared that India will become a problem for the world when corona hits India. But today, through sheer confidence and resilience, you have transformed the way the world looks at us.” He further said, “However, we have to take care to ensure that inconveniences that we are facing do not turn into disasters. Hence, it is very important for every Indian to follow all rules and guidelines.” Modi said the country had displayed patience so far and should continue to do so. “This is one of the important reasons for India being safer and in a better state than many other countries. This is a long battle but we have started traversing on the path of victory, and victory is our collective resolve,” he added. The PM referred to the debate on how economies will recover as he exuded confidence that India will set an example in economic revival too. “In the economic domain, through their strength, 130 crore Indians can not only surprise the world but also inspire it,” he said and reiterated that the need of the hour was to become become self-reliant and referred to the recent Rs 20 lakh crore package as a major step in this direction. He recalled some of the prominent decisions of his government like nullification of Article 370, which he said had furthered the spirit of national unity and integration. “The Ram Mandir judgment, delivered unanimously by the Supreme Court, brought an amicable end to a debate persisting for centuries. The barbaric practice of triple talaq has been confined to the dustbin of history. Amendment to the Citizenship Act was an expression of India’s compassion and spirit of inclusiveness,” he added. Read full text of PM Modi's letter on his government's first anniversaryWatch PM Modi addresses nation on first anniversary of Modi 2.0||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-anniversary-of-modi-2-0-in-letter-to-citizens-pm-hails-indias-collective-resilience-to-corona/articleshow/76100855.cms||Akhilesh Singh
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana governor seeks detailed reports from state varsities||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the new academic session, state governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has sought a detailed report from all the state universities regarding funds, vacancies, syllabus and plans on transitioning to the new learning models. Addressing a virtual press conference on Friday, Soundararajan, who is also the chancellor of all the state universities, said that the idea of seeking a detailed report from all the universities is to come up with a blueprint on education in times of Covid-19. “I have prepared a questionnaire of 41 questions that heads of all the state universities have to answer. This includes financial budget, land details including disputes and court cases, syllabus, online classes, action plan and initiatives on training and placements, tapping alumni network among many others,” said Soundararajan. The governor is set to hold a meeting with all the state universities every alternate day for the next two weeks. “The idea is to identify strengths and weaknesses of all the state universities and then make a blueprint that will help us overcome the issues,” said Soundararajan, promoting the mantra of enjoy, educate and employ among all the educational institutions. She acknowledged having received multiple representations from teachers on delay of payment of salaries by private schools and colleges and said that she is pursuing the matter with the state government. On appointment of vice-chancellors for all state universities, she said that search committees were formed before the lockdown. She added that once normalcy is restored, she will take up VC appointments and filling up of vacant teachers posts in universities on priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/governor-seeks-detailed-reports-from-state-varsities/articleshow/76099928.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kanpur||KMC’s house meeting at Motijheel lawn||KANPUR: Following corona scare, Kanpur Municipal Corporation, for the first time, will be conducting its house meeting in an open ground on May 30 instead of the assembly auditorium. Preparations in this regard have been made at the Motijheel lawn where seating arrangement would maintain social distancing. Due to prevailing heat conditions, mayo Pramila Pandey has convened the house meeting at 9 am. The mayor, corporators, the municipal commissioner and other officials, besides wearing masks, will have to follow social distancing rules . Only authorized persons would be allowed to take part in the meeting which might discuss about corona disease and its prevention. Thermal screening would also be held at the entry gate. The mayor will announce the names of six elected members of the working committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kmcs-house-meeting-at-motijheel-lawn/articleshow/76099551.cms||Anant Chandak
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||39 home quarantined in Haridwar after attending event with Covid-19 positive man||HARIDWAR: As many as 39 people, including several BJP functionaries and the councilor of Haridwar Municipal Corporation, were home quarantined as they all participated in a ration distribution event which was attended by a man who has now tested Covid-19 positive. Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar told TOI, “After contract tracing, around 39 people were home quarantined by the health department. Other locals who participated in the event have also been asked to remain under isolation for the next 14 days. I have asked the health department to monitor all those who have been quarantined and take samples of people who display symptoms.” The official added that the local administration has urged all social and religious outfits to take proper precaution and follow social distancing rules while distributing ration or other essentials. The development has brought to the fore the risk associated with events where ration is distributed or Corona Warriors are felicitated as social distancing norms are hardly followed by participants during these ceremonies. In many such events, functionaries of political parties have also been seen taking selfies with health workers posted in hospitals dedicated for Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/39-home-quarantined-in-haridwar-after-attending-event-with-covid-ve-man/articleshow/76098010.cms||MS Nawaz
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||RPF Assn accuse seniors of negligence||Ludhiana- After the death of a head constable of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) due to Covid-19 in a city hospital, members of all Indian Association of Railway Protection Force have accused divisional level officials of the RPF of not taking requisite preventive measures. Members of the All India RPF Association have taken up the matter on social networking sites after tweeting a complaint to senior officials and railway minister. They demanded registration of a murder case against the local RPF commander and divisional level officials who called the Delhi-based battalion to the city station despite knowing that one of their officials was infected in Delhi. Senior officials of the railway protection force directed divisional officials to conduct a fair inquiry and take action against those responsible. Association member Gurdial Singh said, “We have urged senior officials of the northern railways to conduct a detailed inquiry into the case of death of a railway protection force official who was infected with Covid-19 while serving at the city station. We have raised the issue that despite knowing that one of the officials of the Delhi-based battalion was infected, local officials called the same battalion to manage local security without taking any preventive measures. Because of this, several members were infected and a local RPF official died a few days back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rpf-assn-accuse-seniors-of-negligence/articleshow/76098026.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||53-yr-old +ve man dies||tnnLudhiana: A 53-year-old Covid-19 patient from Chowni Mohalla died on Friday evening. He was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, medical superintendent, DMCH, said the patient was admitted to Deep Hospital three days ago and shifted to DMCH on Thursday night. He was a diabetic for the past five years and also had urinary tract infection for which he was admitted to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/53-yr-old-ve-man-dies/articleshow/76098049.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Central team in Gir to examine lion deaths||AHMEDABAD: A three-member team with experts from the Wildlife Institute of India, the ministry of environment, forests and climate change and the Indian Veterinary Institute will be visiting Gujarat to assess the recent deaths of lions in eastern part of Gir sanctuary. Sources in the ministry said it had taken notice of the frequent reports of lion deaths in the area and had directed Gopinath, the joint director, wildlife, an expert from the WII and another from the IVI to visit Gir and check the ground situation. In last three months, 30-odd lions died in the Gir east region. In last two months, five lions died in Jasadhar range and 18 in the Khamba-Tulshishyam range. Officials, said nothing was unusual and said the cub deaths were due to fighting, and adult deaths were from babesia, a tick-borne disease.The unusually large number of deaths seemed to follow a pattern similar to the CDV outbreak in 2018, which killed 27 lions in a similar time frame. Wildlife experts say that all the present symptoms, coughing, fever, salivation followed by death in four to five days, point to the re-emergence of CDV. While many lions may be infected with babesia, the tick-borne pathogen alone cannot claim so many lives unless they are also infected with CDV, experts said. Officials in Delhi said that the team has been asked to check all postmortem and investigation reports. The forest department had caged some 30 lions which were later released in the wild. Sources said WII expert Y V Jhala was asked to accompany the team but backed out and another researcher has been deputed to be the part of the team. Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary, environment and forests, said this was a routine visit and was not related to any deaths in the area. We have taken all precautions. The deaths reported are only due to babesia. There is no CDV outbreak in the state,” he said. “The last time lions were captured like this was in 2018 during the CDV outbreak. Those animals have not been returned to the wild,” said a wildlife expert. Also expert pointed out that the 2008-batch Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Anshuman Sharma was transferred as DCF, Gir (East) division. He had been specially deputed in 2018 to manage the CDV outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/central-team-in-gir-to-examine-lion-deaths/articleshow/76099036.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||Sanitise office premises, follow distancing: Order||DEHRADUN: As all government offices are set to open between 10am and 5pm from June 1 (Monday) onwards, Dehradun district administration on Friday issued guidelines that must be followed by state employees. However, it has been cleared that the offices situated in containment zones will remain closed. The guidelines detail the precautions that must be followed by employees like maintaining social distancing norms, thermal screening of employees, among other preventive measures. It has also been mandated that spraying of sodium hypochlorite should be conducted at office entrances, open spaces, staircases, office furniture, and enquiry counters twice a week. In addition, washrooms, wash basins, sinks and other such spaces should be sanitised on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sanitise-office-premises-follow-distancing-order/articleshow/76098024.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Restaurateurs shut outlets even as industry looks to govt for survival||PANAJI: The Covid-19 pandemic has hit the hospitality sector hard, prompting several niche fine-dining restaurants to shut shop permanently. The two-month long shutdown has made it extremely difficult for restaurants and pubs to pay the Rs 1-2 lakh monthly rent along with wages of speciality chefs, sources said. The sector has sought government support to ensure that businesses sustain themselves for the next six months till normalcy returns to some degree. An industry insider said Navtara has shut its Patto outlet while boutique restaurant, The Black Sheep Bistro, has also closed its outlet in view of the shutdown. “As of this moment, the biggest challenge we face is uncertainty. What makes the most sense is to conserve cash, consolidate and reopen may be in a year,” said Prahlad Sukhtankar, co-owner of The Black Sheep Bistro. “It costs us more to open right now, so we would prefer to remain shut.” With many more proprietors likely to wind down operations, Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Goa Hotels and Restaurants Association have sought the state government’s intervention. GCCI has written to chief minister Pramod Sawant and asked the government to consider allowing operations of roadside eateries, hotels, bars, restaurants and malls from June 1 since Goa has not seen community transmission of Covid-19. The restaurant industry is one of Goa’s largest employers and contributes a significant amount in taxes to the state exchequer. “Many high-end restaurants are operating out of rental premises. Due to the lockdown, they are finding it difficult to service the high rent and continue to pay high salaries to their specialist cooking staff. We have confirmed reports that due to the uncertainty about the future, some high-end restaurants are considering closure,” GCCI president Manoj Caculo, said. President of Goa Hotels and Restaurants Association, Gaurish Dhond, also confirmed that many restaurants were struggling to pay rents and salaries with no revenue coming in. “There are a few hotels that have closed and are looking to shift elsewhere. Iconic restaurants can’t look to continue to pay rents of Rs 1.5-2 lakhs,” he said. However, Dhond feels that opening up restaurants and malls will not yield too much result, as the sector is largely dependent on tourists who are no longer there. This, coupled with the fear of contracting the virus in public spaces, will keep patrons away, he said. Dhond suggests that that the time is ripe for the state government to crack down on unregistered hotels, guest houses and eateries that do not pay any taxes. Putting all operators on a level playing field will help the government and allow registered hoteliers and restaurants to compete properly. “The industry is struggling, the rents are unaffordable and the government has not come out with any policies to reduce excise duty, taxes and electricity charges. The sector is not asking for a financial package but at least for automatic renewals of licences this year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restaurateurs-shut-outlets-even-as-industry-looks-to-govt-for-survival/articleshow/76100475.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||At Radha Soami Satsang kitchen, stress is on hygiene||Nagpur: The rustle of leaves from big trees standing on both sides of the Kalmeshwar Road is easily audible as a warm wind blows. A 15-km drive from Zero Mile takes one to the Radha Soami Satsang Beas’s sprawling 190-acre campus on this otherwise busy road where traffic has reduced during lockdown. Under a huge shed, a community kitchen is bustling with activity. A group of 150 sevadaars (volunteers) are industriously preparing over 2,000 lunch packets for the seven quarantine centres run by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) within the city. Inside, the rustle is replaced by sounds of stirring cauldrons, chimneys, chopping of vegetables, continuous cleaning and polite calls from coordinators in the unusually spic and span large kitchen. “The kitchen area is completely clear of any pests,” the Satsang area secretary affirms before inviting NMC officials and TOI inside the restricted area on Friday. Photography, movement of outsiders and publicity are banned here. An exception has been made in the wake of allegations over quality of food coming from mega kitchen. “The kitchen caters to one lakh followers of Guruji during our annual congregation. Since 1998, there hasn’t been a single complaint of either quality or hygiene,” says the secretary, requesting not to name anyone. He shows an image of dal container which quarantine centres purportedly received with worms and insects after NMC handed over the job of providing food to the Satsang since May 26. “The sevadaars did feel bad about allegations but it doesn't matter,” he says, showing the seamless process of daily cooking three meals for free. Besides their service, the sevadaars are also sponsoring each item. The day starts at 3am for Sevadaars who are businessman, in-service professionals and housewives. Managing their own families, the sevadaars work in three shifts at the kitchen. They work in small teams on different aspects of cooking. Breakfast is dispatched at 6.30am, lunch 11.30am and dinner at 6pm, says the secretary. A group of women is engaged in baking chapatis on seven firewood chullahs out of 40, set up in burrows. Another group, their faces and head covered, is spreading ghee on chapatis before packing them in foils. The chimneys ensure there is no ash or smoke inside the kitchen. The canteen incharge, a city businessman, says no sevadaar other than those assigned the specific job is allowed near the cooking area. “Hygiene is paramount to us. Unused chullah burrows too are covered to prevent pest infestation,” he says. Seven cooking sevadaars make rice, dal and vegetables in large cauldrons. They pass it on to another team that starts packing it. Satsang has 15 days’ supplies stocked in storerooms. Despite the pace of work, hardly any thing is seen littered on floor. The food packet crates are meticulously loaded on trolleys and ferried to a rear gate, away from the kitchen where a NMC contractor’s van takes them to quarantine centres. The emptied crates are sanitized before returning to the kitchen service area. These measures point to possible foul play with packets on way to the centres. "Our job is complete once we deliver the packets," says the secretary as he receives another image of worms in food. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi says the kitchen has been personally inspected by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and district collector Ravindra Thakare. The secretary says, “We pray this pandemic gets over soon. Yet, as long as it is needed, we will continue to serve the people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-radha-soami-satsang-kitchen-stress-is-on-hygiene/articleshow/76099942.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||On runway, Halwara airport set to take off by year-end||Ludhiana: As the Airport Authority of India (AAI) is likely to get land acquired by Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) for Halwara airport soon, domestic flights may start operating from there by year-end. The authority is willing to shift operations from Sahnewal to the Halwara airport. On Friday, Glada got the mutation of land done in favour of the agency. On May 23, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, in the presence of Glada additional chief administrator Bhupinder Singh, had said, “The 161.2703 acres have been acquired for the construction of the civil terminal. Farmers have been paid a compensation of Rs 20,61,314 per acre, besides each eligible family would also be paid Rs 5.5 lakh as rehabilitation and resettlement amount.” Bhupinder Singh said they have written to the AAI, asking them to come on Tuesday for discussion on various aspects of the project and on the same day the land might be transferred to it. “However, as the AAI officers have to come from Delhi, the process may be slightly delayed,” said Glada officials.A senior AAI officer said they were anxiously waiting for transfer of acquired land and if all goes as per plan, they would shift the operations from Sahnewal to Halwara by this year-end for domestic flights. “Once they issue mutation notification of acquired land at Halwara and Sahnewal Airport (which is already with the state government) in the name of AAI, we will start work. We have already awarded the work for soil testing and environment impact assessment. Once the state government transfers land to AAI, we will put up file, which has already been prepared by the executive director, planning, before the AAI board for approval and then invite tenders for construction of the terminal’s building,” said a senior AAI officer. “As per the blueprint of the project, we will first make the cargo shed and construct the boundary wall, which will be done by state public works department for Rs 3 crore. After the cargo shed is constructed by year-end, we will shift operations from Sahnewal to Halwara. We expect the entire project to complete in two to three years. After starting domestic operations, we can construct international terminal,” he said He added that the whole complex would involve an expenditure of Rs 300 crore to Rs 500 crore, as it would be state-of-the-art with latest equipment, including common user interface terminal (CUTE) system, inland baggage and face recognition system for walk-through identification facility. Officials said visibility of 1,500 metres was a must for a flight to land or take off, and the Halwara airport, unlike Sahnewal, would have CAT-II landing system to enable flights to land even at the visibility of 350 metres. “The Halwara airport has a runway of 3,000 metres and Sahnewal of 1,400 metres. So, at Halwara, even Boeing 737 can land. Once the domestic flights start, even private fliers will be attracted to the industrial city and start services within a year,” an AAI officer said.Residents are anxiously waiting for the start of airport operations. “As of now, only a Ludhiana-Delhi flight operates and that too gets cancelled in fog. But if operations start at Halwara airport, there will be no such issues and it will be very good for the industrial city,” said Gautam Kumar, a city-based trader. Long-pending demand The district administration had earlier said with the construction of this international airport, long-pending demand of the Ludhiana residents would be fulfilled. “The Punjab government is making efforts to ensure that this airport becomes operational. In the first phase, the project will include development of a new international civil terminal over 135.54 acres for full-fledged operations up to Code-4C type aircrafts,” it had added. Project through JVC The DC had informed that the project will be implemented by way of a Joint Venture Company (JVC) formed with majority stake of 51% of the Airport Authority of India and 49% of the state government thorough the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/on-runway-halwara-airport-set-to-take-off-by-year-end/articleshow/76098038.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Gang making fake currency notes busted with arrest of 4||Times News NetworkLudhiana: The police on Friday claimed to have busted a gang involved in making fake currency notes, with the arrest of four from Rahon Road.Bhupinder Singh of Tajpur Road, Gurdeep Singh of Bhamiya Khurd, Amar Singh of Kakowal village and Tajinder Singh of Kakka village on Rahon Road were travelling on two bikes, which were intercepted at a checkpoint on Rahon Road. During checking, fake currency notes of face value Rs 1.7 lakh were recovered from their possession. The seizure was in the denomination of Rs 200, Rs 100 and Rs 2,000.Jodhewal police station SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal said, “Bhupinder is the kingpin of the gang. He was earlier lodged in Ludhiana Central Jail after 10g heroin was found on him. There, an inmate, Vicky, taught him the technique of making fake currency notes.” About eight months ago, Bhupinder and Vicky came out on bail. “Vicky helped him purchase machines to print fake notes. Bhupinder then asked his friends to join him.”Initially, the gang was printing notes at a rented accommodation on Rahon Road. “Later, Bhupinder shifted the entire set-up to his house. In the past few months, they have used fake currency of Rs 50,000. They claimed that they were themselves using these for shopping. It is being probed if they sold them,” the SHO added.Police are checking the criminal background of the other accused.A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gang-making-fake-currency-notes-busted-with-arrest-of-4/articleshow/76098029.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Vadodara||SRP constable hangs himself from balcony||VADODARA: A constable posted in Group 9 of state reserve police (SRP) committed suicide at his residence on Makarpura Road early on Friday morning. Jayendrasinh Jadeja, 45, was found hanging from his second floor apartment. The cops have registered a complaint and begun investigations into the cause of the suicide. Jadeja was on duty all night and had returned home on Friday morning. His wife was out for some work and his two children were sleeping in their room. He walked into the balcony and hung himself with a rope. The neighbours were shocked to see Jadeja’s body hanging from the balcony and immediately called the police. He was recently transferred to Group 3 in Palanpur and relieved of his duty on Thursday evening. “Jadeja didn’t leave any suicide note. It seems he was upset over his transfer but we are investigating the case to find out exact reason. Jadeja was also ill,” said Rakesh Patel, Makarpura police inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/srp-constable-hangs-himself-from-balcony/articleshow/76097236.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: FGF launches Nirbheek revolver with 50m range||KANPUR: Named after Delhi’s Nirbhaya gang rape victim, Nirbheek 7.65 revolver has been upgraded to mark IV to hit targets up to a distance of 50 metres. The Field Gun Factory (FGF), Kanpur has relaunched the unscaled light-weight revolver which could be easily carried by women in handbags, on Friday. After Delhi’s Nirbhaya gang rape that shook the nation in 2012, wherein a 23-year-old girl was raped and murdered, FGF as a mark of tribute came out with this light-weight revolver, especially designed for women. It was named Nirbheek, meaning “without fear”. “Not only its range has been increased from 10 mtr to 50 mtr, but we have reduced its weight to 0.5 kg by using titanium alloy metal in all its major parts including body, barrel and cylinder against its previous weight of 525 gm. Titanium alloy metal is rust-proof and easy to maintain,” Anil Kumar, senior general manager of FGF informed TOI on Friday. He added, “It’s trigger pull has also been reduced to 4 kgf from 7 kgf. It will cost Rs 1,00000 (28% GST extra) for dealers and Rs 1,10,000 (28% GST extra) for retailers.” FGF sources told TOI the revolver has seen overwhelming response. “Since, its launch about seven years ago, it has witnessed sales of over more than 2,500 units. Also, its modified firing system eliminates chances of misfire. Besides, it’s grip is also being modified for better holding.” A senior official added, “This product is being manufactured under Make in India mission and its trial has been successful. We expect to get a positive esponse from dealers as well as buyers..” FGF of Kanpur, in coordination with a private company, has also invented a smart biometric firearm holster using 3D printing technology to prevent misuse and theft of firearm. “One cannot open the lock of the holster, named Kavach, without the fingerprint impression of its owner,” said an official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/fgf-launches-nirbheek-revolver-with-50m-range/articleshow/76099580.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 30, 2020||Delhi||‘AIIMS, Delhi government need to coordinate on Covid-19 treatment’||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court observed that there seemed to be a lack of communication between the AAP government and AIIMS after it found that several Covid-19 positive patients were shifted to other hospitals instead of the dedicated facility at the premier healthcare institution. While ordering that amenities at a night shelter in AIIMS be improved immediately, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar directed the premier hospital and Delhi government to appoint nodal officers to communicate and coordinate with each other over Covid-19 patients and their treatment. The bench made the observation after noting that over 20 patients being treated at AIIMS for non-Covid ailments were transferred to Delhi government hospitals after they tested positive for coronavirus while staying at the night shelter. The government alleged that AIIMS was not accessible by the common man and it was turning away Covid-19 patients unless they were well-connected and influential, a charge hotly denied by the hospital’s lawyer. Meanwhile, the court also ordered Delhi government and DUSIB to ensure that night shelters near government hospitals only have patients awaiting treatment and all occupants found Covid-19 positive be quarantined so that they don’t infect others. “It is well-known that patients travel hundreds and thousands of kilometres to avail treatment facilities at places such as AIIMS. Many of them are poor and cannot afford to rent any accommodation in Delhi. It is for people like these that night shelters are created in areas around hospitals,” the court observed, while directing DUSIB to ensure that only patients and their immediate attendants be permitted to occupy the night shelters at AIIMS and other such facilities in the vicinity of government hospitals. The court’s direction came after it discovered that only 51 people in the night shelter at AIIMS were tested, while their kin or attendants were allowed to go without testing.“We direct the health department of the government to look into this aspect so that such situations do not recur in future,” the bench stated. It also took note of the shortcomings at the night shelter at AIIMS brought out during its inspection on court orders by a volunteer, Rachna Malik, in relation to lack of water, unhygienic sanitation conditions, and having no record of visitors. “A system should be put in place where sufficient checks and vigilance is maintained with regard to maintenance of facilities at the night shelter in question and other facilities being run and managed by DUSIB,” the court directed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aiims-govt-need-to-coordinate-on-covid-treatment/articleshow/76100473.cms||Abhinav Garg
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Teachers’ plaint to governor over salaries||HYDERABAD: Members of the Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association (TTIEA) submitted a written complaint to the governor on partial payment/non-payment of salaries by 85 technical institutions affiliated to various state universities. In the complaint, the teachers alleged that many engineering and pharmacy colleges in the state have either partially paid salaries during the lockdown period or have pending salaries for March and April. While teachers are being asked to deliver online lecturers, prepare online modules, monitor attendance and submit reports, the management’s failure to release salaries has left many distressed. “In spite of doing all this, most of the faculty have not yet received salaries for what they have worked...,” read the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-plaint-to-guv-over-salaries/articleshow/76099949.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||After tiff with vendors, guard ends life||Times News NetworkLudhiana: Following a fight with vendors of Hambran Road vegetable market, a security guard committed suicide outside a vend in the area early on Friday.Amrish Kumar, 38, a resident of Pavittar Nagar, Haibowal, worked as a security guard in the market and at a nearby ATM kiosk.His brother, Anand Kumar, said, “A few days ago, some vendors had a fight with Amrish. After he went for duty on Thursday evening, Amrish did not return home. In the morning, some vendors called me up and said that Amrish was hanging outside a vend in the market.” Anand sounded the police, who found a suicide note in Amrish’s pocket.Haibowal police station SHO inspector Mohan Lal said, “On the basis of the suicide note and statement of Anand, an FIR has been lodged against five accused. It was found during initial inquiry that the accused humiliated Amrish over an issue. The reason of their fight is yet to be ascertained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-tiff-with-vendors-guard-ends-life/articleshow/76098064.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hubballi||Demand for fancy masks up in Haveri||HAVERI: While people are getting accustomed to carrying on life around a pandemic situation, the humble mask is all set to evolve as the latest fashion accessory. The mask has become everyday wear and is slowly becoming a glamorous addition to outfits. Hence, colourful and different types of masks are attracting people in the market. The trend is a race especially among youths in cities and it is expected to grow once colleges reopen. Many brands are cashing in on the demand and are making masks not just for daily wear but also for party wear. Youngsters have been searching for fancy masks on e-commerce portals and many of them are buying masks that match their dress. College girls are wearing masks with different designs and colours instead of makeup. Fashion designers too are coming up with trendy designs for people of different ages and gender. People are buying different masks for daily wear and outings. Most young women and college girls are asking for masks that match their dress. Demand for maks with Polka dots, stripes, zig-zag and other designs is increasing. Currently, we have received good business from fancy masks,” said Ranjan Bhandari, owner of Bhandari Cloth Stores in Hubballi. Vrushab Jain, who runs a fancy store in Haveri, said the trend of fancy masks will increase after schools and colleges reopen. “Most youngsters are buying fancy face masks from our shop. Sometimes, we face a shortage of masks,” he added. The price of masks ranges from Rs30 to 300. As the government made wearing face masks mandatory, we are searching for different types of masks. Most of my friends are making such masks, in order to prevent the spread of the pandemic and also look good," said Vidya Bidaragaddi, who is pursuing BSc in GH College, Haveri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/demand-for-fancy-masks-up-in-haveri/articleshow/76098074.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Despite state nod, confusion prevails over GU exams||AHMEDABAD: Even as the Government of Gujarat has given its nod to all universities to conduct exams from June 25, confusion continues to linger at Gujarat University. Gujarat Technological University (GTU) and North Gujarat University have already announced the schedules of their exams. Sources said that in absence of a full-time vice-chancellor at GU, decisions are not being taken. After Himanshu Pandya’s term as the GU VC ended, Jagdish Bhavsar was appointed as the varsity’s in-charge VC. Sources said that getting students is a big challenge for the exams because university hostels have been converted into Covid care centres. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama had announced that a decision may be taken after assessing the situation locally. Meanwhile, a student body of the varsity raised concerns over maintaining social distancing and making seating arrangements. Sources said there is absolutely no clarity whether colleges will be empowered to do so or whether the university will separately appoint a team to oversee this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/despite-state-nod-confusion-prevails-over-gu-exams/articleshow/76099047.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||3 more test positive for Covid-19||tnnLudhiana: Three Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district on Friday. Of these, two are Ludhiana residents and one of Patiala. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “As many as 264 samples were collected on Friday and 217 on Thursday. Of 216 samples sent to Government Medical College, Patiala, on Thursday, 196 tested negative and 20 reports are pending. One sample was sent to DMCH, which too is negative. Of five pending reports received from Patiala, one is positive. It is of a 27-year-old Samrala man, who had travelled to Delhi on May 20.” The other two are a 57-year-old man and a 33-year-old NRI woman. The woman’s sample was taken at PGI as she returned from Mumbai after a two-month stay there. She is admitted to Mother and Child Hospital, Vardhman.”With this, the case tally has increased to 273, including 90 patients from outside the district. There are 30 active cases in Ludhiana.Meanwhile, three persons, who have recovered from the disease, were discharged from DMCH on Friday. They include two RPF jawans from Daya Basti, Delhi, and a 40-year-old woman of Chander Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-more-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76098077.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Udaipur||Male leopards seek safer haven in Thar||UDAIPUR: Lower competition, availability of food and water, increase in agricultural and forest coverage in the Indira Gandhi Canal Command area are luring the vulnerable leopard (Panthera pardus) to the congenial pockets of the Thar, suggests a research study in the latest edition of the National Academy of Sciences. Over the past decade, wildlife experts have recorded range extension and persistent movement of the leopard from its established habitat in the western range of Aravalli evergreen forests towards the Thar desert. ‘Increase of green cover in Thar a major reason’Udaipur: Fourteen cases of the presence of male leopards in five Thar districts such as Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Barmer, Bikaner and Churu have been reported between 2010 and 2018. The study has been done jointly by Satish Sharma, a retired assistant conservator of forests (ACF); Shravan Rathore, senior veterinary doctor from Machiya Biological Park, Jodhpur; and assistant professor Vijay Koli of the wildlife research laboratory of the zoology department of Mohanlal Sukhadia University. “Since the western limit of the leopard runs alongside the Aravalli range (running diagonally from plains of north Gujarat to Delhi), data were collected from all districts on the western side from January 2010 to December 2018. Villagers who first detected the leopards and the forest department rescue teams were interviewed,” said Shravan Rathore, who was also a member of rescue operations. The researchers recorded the habitat, located sites, pug marks and other data for species verification. “We recorded 14 cases of leopard presence in five districts of the Thar desert nearby human settlements. All sighted animals were male and located at a distance of 55.4–413.4km from their known species distribution range,” Satish Sharma said. In 10 cases, animals were rescued by the forest department. While three big cats disappeared after detection, at one place, the local residents killed one. The leopard range extension and the repeated movement in Thar desert area are seen to have been caused by three reasons. Leopards being territorial, all observations of stray males indicate that the female of the species has kept within their distribution limit. But males have been forced to face greater resistance from other aggressive or competitive males during territorial fights, thereby, possibly forcing 'loser' males to move towards no resistance and safer zones. The increase of green cover in Thar after the Indira Gandhi canal opened up and the availability of open drinking water sources throughout the canal’s entire command area are cited as another reasons for the 'migration'. Thirdly, the presence of a large population of cattle, goats, sheeps, dogs and wild animals has also attracted the male leopards. “Only male leopard movement has been currently reported, but if the female leopards too move into this area, Thar may prove to be a new haven for them. However, this could also lead to increased instances of human-leopard conflicts in the region, which has been unheard, so far," a researcher said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/male-leopards-seeksafer-haven-in-thar/articleshow/76102759.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||Male leopards seek safer haven in Thar||UDAIPUR: Lower competition, availability of food and water, increase in agricultural and forest coverage in the Indira Gandhi Canal Command area are luring the vulnerable leopard (Panthera pardus) to the congenial pockets of the Thar, suggests a research study in the latest edition of the National Academy of Sciences. Over the past decade, wildlife experts have recorded range extension and persistent movement of the leopard from its established habitat in the western range of Aravalli evergreen forests towards the Thar desert. ‘Increase of green cover in Thar a major reason’Udaipur: Fourteen cases of the presence of male leopards in five Thar districts such as Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Barmer, Bikaner and Churu have been reported between 2010 and 2018. The study has been done jointly by Satish Sharma, a retired assistant conservator of forests (ACF); Shravan Rathore, senior veterinary doctor from Machiya Biological Park, Jodhpur; and assistant professor Vijay Koli of the wildlife research laboratory of the zoology department of Mohanlal Sukhadia University. “Since the western limit of the leopard runs alongside the Aravalli range (running diagonally from plains of north Gujarat to Delhi), data were collected from all districts on the western side from January 2010 to December 2018. Villagers who first detected the leopards and the forest department rescue teams were interviewed,” said Shravan Rathore, who was also a member of rescue operations. The researchers recorded the habitat, located sites, pug marks and other data for species verification. “We recorded 14 cases of leopard presence in five districts of the Thar desert nearby human settlements. All sighted animals were male and located at a distance of 55.4–413.4km from their known species distribution range,” Satish Sharma said. In 10 cases, animals were rescued by the forest department. While three big cats disappeared after detection, at one place, the local residents killed one. The leopard range extension and the repeated movement in Thar desert area are seen to have been caused by three reasons. Leopards being territorial, all observations of stray males indicate that the female of the species has kept within their distribution limit. But males have been forced to face greater resistance from other aggressive or competitive males during territorial fights, thereby, possibly forcing 'loser' males to move towards no resistance and safer zones. The increase of green cover in Thar after the Indira Gandhi canal opened up and the availability of open drinking water sources throughout the canal’s entire command area are cited as another reasons for the 'migration'. Thirdly, the presence of a large population of cattle, goats, sheeps, dogs and wild animals has also attracted the male leopards. “Only male leopard movement has been currently reported, but if the female leopards too move into this area, Thar may prove to be a new haven for them. However, this could also lead to increased instances of human-leopard conflicts in the region, which has been unheard, so far," a researcher said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/male-leopards-seeksafer-haven-in-thar/articleshow/76099952.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Used face masks to be collected separately||Coimbatore: Corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar has urged the public to separate used face masks, gloves, sanitary napkins, diapers and other medical waste before handing them over to sanitary workers. The corporation has been scientifically disposing medical waste collected from hospitals and public health centres through a private concern, he said. The sanitation workers of the city corporation are collecting 10 to 15 kilograms of used face masks and gloves from each zone every day. “We were collecting only a negligible number of used masks and gloves during the lockdown period,” a corporation official said. “After the lockdown norms were relaxed and industries and shops were opened, the quantity has increased. The used items are handed over to the private company, which has been disposing medical waste.” “Single use gloves and masks are disposed in large numbers. Most of the public have started using reusable masks,” the official said. Meanwhile, the quantity of garbage collected from the city has increased by 50 tonnes to 900 tonnes in the recent times, the official said. “The quantity was reduced by 200 tonnes after the lockdown was imposed. With the reopening of industries and restaurants, the quantity of garbage has also increased. Sanitary workers will collect garbage only if wet and dry wastes are segregated. We have directed the public to segregate the masks while handing them over to the workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/used-face-masks-to-be-collected-separately/articleshow/76099966.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC notice over fixed power charges for lockdown period||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday issued notice to the state government and its power distribution companies in response to a petition by the Gujarat Re-Rolling Mills Association seeking waiver for the fixed minimum demand of electricity charges for May and June. The association has filed a petition stating that after the lockdown 1.0, the state government announced waiver of fixed electricity charge for April. However, the lockdown continued later on the central government’s orders. This halted the industrial production across the state. The association of 50 MSMEs submitted that because the lockdown continued to be in force, business activities could not be resumed. The fixed-demand electricity charges are exorbitant and the industrial units are unable to bear the cost with work stalled. If these charges are not waived off, the industrial units will be constrained to shut operations resulting in loss of livelihood for more than 10,000 labourers. The association has approached the court through advocate Arpit Singhvi after the state power companies – the Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd and four other distribution companies demanded fixed minimum demand of electricity charges from the industrial units. The petitioner association has urged the high court to restrict the power companies from taking coercive steps against its member units including disconnecting their power supply, demanding and levying fixed electricity charges and penalties for May and June. The HC has posted further hearing on this issue on June 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-notice-over-fixed-power-charges-for-lockdown-period/articleshow/76099052.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Huge grasshopper triggers locust scare in Ooty||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A team of entomologists from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) on Friday ruled out the presence of locusts in the hill town. A big grasshopper found in Kandal area two days ago had created panic in the wake of reports of locusts invading the northern States. “I found the insect, which resembled a locust, and informed the collector immediately,” said Abuthahir, a resident of Kandal. The district administration ordered the horticulture department to conduct an examination of the insect and the area where it was found. “It is a local grasshopper species found in forests and coffee estates,” joint director of horticulture department Shiva Subramaniam Samraj said. A three-member team from TNAU conducted a survey in the Kandal area on Friday. “There was no sign of any kind of grasshoppers,” team leader S V Krishnamurthi told TOI. “The insect found two days ago was not a locust. Its scientific name is Cyrtacanthacris tatarica. People need not panic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-locusts-in-ooty-experts/articleshow/76099958.cms||Shanta Thiagarajan
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||Locusts spread to 22 districts in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The locust swarms continued to spread across the state, recording its presence in 22 districts or two-third of Rajasthan since April 11. On Friday, huge swarms were spotted in the nine districts of Nagaur, Baran, Barmer, Bikaner, Churu, Sikar, Jaipur, Dausa and Jodhpur, forcing the state agriculture department and Locust Warning Organization (LWO) to launch preventing operations to contain its movement within the area. With more districts coming under locust attack, losses too are piling up for farmers and the government every passing day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locusts-spread-to22-districts-in-state/articleshow/76099963.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||CM brings in IAS officer to head mines dept||Panaji: In a major reshuffle during lockdown 4.0, the government on Friday transferred 20 senior scale officers, including director of mines, chief officer of Mormugao Municipal Council, and 26 junior scale officers, including chief officers and deputy collectors. Deputy collector Vivek HP IAS will replace Arvind Bugde as director of mines and geology. Vivek will continue to hold additional charge of managing director Info Tech corporation The earlier director of mines Prasanna Acharya who was awaiting posting, has now been posted as member secretary Ravindra Bhavan, Margao. Arvind Bugde will replace Gaurish Shankwalkar as chief officer of Mormugao municiapal council. Shankwalkar now holds the post of joint secretary to the Governor and has replaced Biju Naik. Naik, posted as director (administration) PWD, takes the place of Ruhi Redkar who is now the member secretary Sanjay School. Ashok Rane, additional commissioner of commercial taxes (II) has been posted as joint secretary protocol department and Anthony D’Souza who was joint secretary revenue has been given full charge of director of NRI Affairs. Damodar Morajkar who held the post of administrator of Sanjeevani Sakhar Karhana is now the chief executive officer of the Goa khadi and village industries board, replacing Sangeeta Porob. Porob has been posted has the joint director ICDS, directorate of women and child development, with additional charge as member secretary Goa State Commission for Women. Tariq Thomas, IAS, director of municipal administration, holding additional charge of special secretary home, vigilance and personnel, will also hold charge of administrator of Sanjeevani Sakhar Karkhana (sugar factory) Pipi Murgaonkar, who was director (adminsitration) sports authority of Goa has been posted as chief executive officer, North Goa zilla panchayat. Vijay Paranjape who held the post of additional secretary protocol department has been posted as additional secretary, administrative reforms department. There have also been six promotions among the senior scale civil officers. Among the junior scale officers, Madhu Narvekar on promotion has been posted as chief officer Quepem municipal council and Kabir Shirgaonkar as chief officer Mapusa municipal council. Deepak Vaingankar has been posted as deputy collector and SDM, Bicholim, Roshell Fernandes as deputy collector (DRO) South Goa Collectorate, Satish R Prabhu as deputy collector and SDM Canacona with additional charge as CO Canacona Munnicipal Council, Sachin Dessai as deputy collector and SDM Mormugao, Ravishekhar Nipanikar as deputy colletor and SDM Pernem, Joao B Fernandes as deputy collector and SDO (II) Salcete and Gurudas Dessai as deputy collector and SDM Tiswadi. Meanwhile, works have been reallocated to two IAS officers – Sanjay Gihar and Kuldeep Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-brings-in-ias-officer-to-head-mines-dept/articleshow/76100497.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Lack of funds, labourers hit contractors||Nagpur: Contractors of all departments — be it the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Public Works Department (PWD) or Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) — are a despondent lot. They have not got payment for their past works, and now neither have money nor labourers to complete the works in hand. Vijay Naidu, president of Nagpur Municipal Corporation Contractors’ Welfare Association, said very few NMC contractors were executing any work presently. “Most of our construction workers were from outside and they have gone home. As only in situ construction is permitted, labourers have to stay on the site. However, locals refuse to do so. Thus we don’t have workers,” he added. Naidu further said that most contractors were anyway not interested in completing their work. “Right now everybody is running from pillar to post to get payment for past works, which were due in March. As we don’t have money, we can’t start new work as suppliers would first want us to clear past bills,” he added. Pravin Mahajan, president of Contractors and Builders Association of Vidarbha, said that VIDC contractors were not working because of labour and funds shortage. “Only those contractors whose workers live on the site can work. Labourers employed by many contractors were from outside the state and they have gone home,” he told TOI. Mahajan further said that Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation contractors had demanded two things from the water resources ministry. “They should release the security deposit and performance security deposit to the extent of work done. Government of India has issued an order in this regard but the state government is yet to implement it,” he added. The contractor leader further said that PWD had issued an order, whereby only those contractors who agree to submit an affidavit that they would not seek payment for their work before March 2022 will be awarded works in the coming months. Nitin Salve, president of Nagpur Contractors’ Association, said that the condition of PWD contractors was pitiable. “We haven’t received any payment since March. The Nagpur office had received some money, but they had to return it following orders from headquarters. We have all submitted applications for extending the deadline of our work by six months as permitted by central government. However, if our past dues are not cleared we won’t be able to execute the works in hand,” he told TOI. Salve further said that 90% contractors did not have in situ labourers and hence were anyway unable to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lack-of-funds-labourers-hit-contractors/articleshow/76099057.cms||Ashish Roy
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Colleges have sacked around 4,000 lecturers: Panel||HYDERABAD: The ‘no work, no pay’ policy, allegedly implemented by corporate colleges in the state, has not gone down well with lecturers working in private junior colleges. They claim that colleges have indirectly sacked 3,000-4,000 teaching faculty by using the said policy. Lecturers said that a majority of them have received calls from their respective managements about three days ago and were informed about the decision. They appealed to the government to intervene and address the issue. “This is nothing but sacking lecturers. At least 90% of lecturers received intimation from the managements and were asked to leave until further notice,” said Janaki Reddy, a physics lecturer and who is also the vice-chairman of Telangana Lecturers Joint Action Committee (TLJAC). He said that they have submitted a representation to power minister G Jagadishwar Reddy on Friday and requested him to apprise the chief minister about their problems. Lecturers, who had recently held a protest at Dharna Chowk, said that they received only 50% of the salary for April and the colleges were refusing to pay them from May onwards. They said that they should be paid full salary until May and they are ready to take a pay cut from June as colleges are yet to get new admissions. They said even lecturers, who were taking online classes during the lockdown, were asked to leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/colleges-have-sacked-around-4k-lecturers-panel/articleshow/76099961.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Shutters down in Khari Baoli amid coronavirus scare||NEW DELHI: Panic broke out in the Asia’s biggest spice market in Khari Baoli on Friday after a few workers in two spice shops were confirmed as Covid-19 positive. Gates of one of its biggest sections—Gadodia Market were closed down. While some shops reopened later during the day, the spice market remained far from returning to normalcy. Vijay Gupta, head of Khari Baoli Spice Traders’ Association, said that the shopowners downed shutters after they came to know about four positive cases from two shops. “Though a few shops reopened later, not many customers visited the market,” he added. Gadodia Market has 300 spice shops, while the entire Khari Baoli has over 2,000 outlets. Traders say that the workers who have tested positive are from Shakti Nagar and Madanpur Khadar areas. “Their positive cases will be counted in their areas. Meanwhile, customers are not willing to enter the market. If wholesale businesses do not function, how will the smaller shops get the supply?” Gupta asked. Another Khari Baoli association member Suresh Bhargava too confirmed that panic had gripped the entire market. The Walled City and its congested markets pose a peculiar challenge in front of Delhi’s efforts towards controlling the novel coronavirus cases. Chandni Chowk traders had earlier decided to keep the markets shut till May 31 on the ground that social distancing was tough to achieve in the congested areas. Sarv Vyapar Mandal head Sanjay Bhargav told TOI that instead of using curfew limits to achieve social distancing, the markets too should have been opened either on alternate days or on staggered timing basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shutters-down-in-khari-baoli-amid-virus-scare/articleshow/76100489.cms||Paras Singh
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK man booked||Coimbatore: The Kinathukadavu police on Thursday booked a DMK functionary for spreading inflammatory messages on social media against municipal administration minister S P Velumani and MLA Shanmugam. According to police, after a boulder from a tipper truck fell on a motorist, causing minor injuries at Kinathukadvau, DMK functionary Thendral Selvaraj and his supporters waylaid five tipper trucks for transporting the boulders without precautionary measures. “Revenue department officials fined the truck drivers and later released the vehicles. Selvaraj circulated inflammatory messages against Velumani and Shanmugam in connection with the incident. The messages were intended to create conflict between AIADMK and DMK cadres,” a police officer said. Selvaraj was booked under Section 153 and 505 (1) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-man-booked/articleshow/76099975.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Salem||Salem, Erode report new Covid-19 cases||SALEM/ERODE: With people returning from various states, especially Maharashtra, the number of Covid-19 cases has suddenly gone up in Salem district, which saw 39 of them testing positive on Thursday alone. Besides the returnees, two other new cases were reported in the district on Thursday and Friday. “They don’t have any previous travel history in the past 28 days. Health department officials are tracing their contacts and family members,” Salem collector S A Raman said. According to him, the district has 62 active patients now, while its Covid-19 tally has gone up to 107. Similarly, Erode district registered its second positive case of this month on Friday after eight days of Covid-19 free run. A returnee from Chennai, the patient is a 35-year-old woman who had taken a flight to Salem airport on Wednesday from where she travelled to the district. Dr S Soundammal, deputy director of public health, said, “Health officials had collected her throat swab for Covid-19 test at the Salem airport. The results came today (Friday). We have admitted her to the IRT government hospital in Perundurai. Her condition is stable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-erode-report-new-covid-cases/articleshow/76099976.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Erode||Salem, Erode report new Covid-19 cases||SALEM/ERODE: With people returning from various states, especially Maharashtra, the number of Covid-19 cases has suddenly gone up in Salem district, which saw 39 of them testing positive on Thursday alone. Besides the returnees, two other new cases were reported in the district on Thursday and Friday. “They don’t have any previous travel history in the past 28 days. Health department officials are tracing their contacts and family members,” Salem collector S A Raman said. According to him, the district has 62 active patients now, while its Covid-19 tally has gone up to 107. Similarly, Erode district registered its second positive case of this month on Friday after eight days of Covid-19 free run. A returnee from Chennai, the patient is a 35-year-old woman who had taken a flight to Salem airport on Wednesday from where she travelled to the district. Dr S Soundammal, deputy director of public health, said, “Health officials had collected her throat swab for Covid-19 test at the Salem airport. The results came today (Friday). We have admitted her to the IRT government hospital in Perundurai. Her condition is stable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/salem-erode-report-new-covid-cases/articleshow/76105565.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Over 3,800 Covid-19 patients back home, recovery rate 54.87% in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: Shivajinagar resident Dhananjay Kshirsagar (47) is back home after fighting Covid-19. He had tested positive in the first of week May and was admitted to the quarantine centre at Balewadi. After undergoing treatment for 12 days, he reunited with his wife and two children at home. Kshirsagar shared a message for all with TOI. “There is no need to panic or be afraid of the virus,” he said. Going by the 54.87% Covid-19 recovery rate in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), Kshirsagar is spot on. The national cure rate is about 42.8%. As many as 3,848 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from care centres till May 28 after being declared Covid-free. The total number of positive cases in the region till Thursday was 7,012. The virus claimed 310 lives — around 4.42% of total positive cases — in the PMR till May 28. Kshirsagar said, “Initially I was a little anxious when the test result came positive. But I followed each and every instruction of the doctors and the medical staffers at the quarantine facility.” He said, “For me, the symptoms were mild. I still continued to take utmost precautions. The staffers at the quarantine centre was supportive. They used to conduct basic check-ups every day. All these efforts helped me recover. Even at home, I have kept myself confined to a separate room for almost 10 days now.” The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s health department stated that continuous efforts were under way to increase the recovery rate for the coronavirus contagion. The number of discharged patients has gone up in the past few days. Rigorous contact tracing had been taken up for early detection of the infection and immediate treatment, a PMC official said. Sanjeev Wavre, the PMC’s assistant medical officer, said, “The daily discharge has gone up beyond the 100-mark. On Thursday, over 200 patients were discharged in the PMC limits. Now, we are conducting follow-up check of every discharged patient. We are also calling the recovered people randomly to check their health status and get feedback. Those admitted are under close observation,” he added. A 55-year-old man from the Ganesh Peth area also recovered from Covid-19 recently and went back home. “The entire experience of tests, quarantine and then being alone at home for a few days was unexpected. But I did them all,” he said. “All I can say is that people should not be afraid. Those who get the infection should put in all efforts to fight it back. During my two weeks of quarantine period, I followed the treatment protocol to the best of my ability. Everyone in the hospital extended huge support and my family members were very cooperative,” said the man, who did not wish to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-3800-covid-19-patients-back-home-recovery-rate-54-87-in-pmr/articleshow/76099978.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat plans Rs 5,000 crore ‘Atmanirbhar’ package||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has planned a major relief package, modelled on lines of the central government’s ‘Atmanirbhar’ package, to revive the state’s economy given the Covid-19 situation. While the package is likely to be announced in a week, it will comprise of two parts, one offering direct financial benefits and the other will be reform-led benefits. Based on the report of the expert advisory group led by former union finance secretary Hasmukh Adhia, the state government is looking to provide a boost to sectors which generate employment in large numbers. Accordingly, the agriculture, MSME, service sector, real estate and small businesses are expected to get a major boost through the package. After studying the report submitted by the committee, the CM held a meeting with top government officials to work out the finer aspects of the package, which will be announced soon. A source privy to the drafting of the package said, “On the basis of the Adhia committee’s report, the state government plans to announce a major economic revival package within a week. All the departments especially agriculture and cooperation, industry and mines, urban development, panchayat and rural development, energy and petrochemicals, labour and employment have been asked to gear up to provide direct and reform-oriented benefits to industry, business, agriculture and all sectors of the economy.” “There will be direct interest subsidy as well tax concessions for various industries and businesses and direct financial and other incentives for the sections like farmers, the unorganized sector etc. The size of the package could be in excess of Rs 5,000 crore,” the source added. When asked Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister and the government spokesperson said, “We are coming out with a major economic revival package very shortly, which will benefit all sections of the society and help in rebooting the state economy like government of India package. However, I cannot share finer details of the package at this moment. What I can say is that it will act as a major motivation for the economic revival in the post-lockdown period.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-plans-rs-5k-cr-atmanirbhar-package/articleshow/76099059.cms||Kapil Dave
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Pre-monsoon showers may lash district till month-end||Coimbatore: The district recorded an average rainfall of 35mm on Thursday. While Valparai received the highest rainfall at 58mm, most parts of the district, including agriculture belts such as Thondamuthur, Periyanaickenpalayam and Annur, recorded anywhere between 18mm and 29mm rainfall.According to weather experts, the district is likely to receive more rainfall in patches over the next 24 to 48 hours, thanks to a trough extending to interior Tamil Nadu from Chhattisgarh. The southwest monsoon is, however, expected to set in by another four days in the district.The rain was accompanied by strong wind, the velocity of which was close to 50kmph. The wind led to power cut in many parts of Avinashi Road, Puliakulam, Saibaba Colony, Vadavalli and Kavundampalayam.It was the first pre-southwest monsoon rain to lash the city. Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist with Skymet Weather Services, said, “The intermittent pre-monsoon showers and heavy wind could be attributed to a combination of two factors - the trough extending to interior Tamil Nadu from Chhattisgarh and the cyclonic storm forming over the northern part of Sri Lanka.in”A senior official with the regional meteorological department said the monsoon was expected set in around June 1 in Kerala. S Balachandran, deputy director, Indian Meteorological Department, said, “Three to four days after the onset of monsoon in Kerala, some parts of interior Tamil Nadu such as Coimbatore and parts of south Karnataka will start receiving monsoon showers.” He said the pre-monsoon showers would continue till May 31 due to the trough extending to the interior Tamil Nadu and the cyclonic storm forming over the northern part of Sri Lanka.Experts said the pre-monsoon showers are expected to bring down the temperatures in the city by a degree or two. “While the maximum temperature was around 36.6C on Thursday, it will come down by around 3C by mid next week,” Palawat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pre-monsoon-showers-may-lash-district-till-month-end/articleshow/76099980.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Demand for disinfection services may shoot up||Coimbatore: The demand for disinfection and sanitization service providers is likely to go up with many offices planning to resume operations in the first week of June. While they are getting a lot of inquiries now, only a few of them are translating into actual business. They are expecting the business to pick up in the coming days. K Karthik, who has been running Total Hygiene Services for the past four years, says he receives at least five inquiries from offices and companies a week on disinfection services and quotations. This, he says, is a huge spike from the hardly eight calls a month in the pre-Covid-19 times.“Earlier, my main business was providing domestic help personnel and cleaning services. But since there isn’t any demand for such people now, disinfection has become my main business,” he says.In fact, the spike in business opportunity has attracted allied service players to foray into disinfection services. For instance, city-based Ecoklen, which was involved in car cleaning services, has launched disinfection services for apartment buildings and offices. “We have already serviced an office building and their feedback is encouraging. We have just begun advertising our services and expect to get more inquiries this weekend, if offices were to open on Monday,” says a representative of the company.Another Chennai-based company with offices in Coimbatore that was into pest management services primarily has also forayed into disinfection services. Manikandan, a service provider in Coimbatore, says, “We get one or two calls and businesses a week, which is good considering we just launched our services in March.”Disinfection mainly involves using a chemical spray and fogging offices and is different from pest management services that involves chemical application concentratedly in a small location. Disinfection services start from Rs 2 per sqft for small houses and offices to Rs 75 per sqft for large office spaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/demand-for-disinfection-services-may-shoot-up/articleshow/76099985.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Pregnant woman dies in freak accident||Coimbatore: A 23-year-old pregnant woman died after she was pulled into a planer (wood cutting machine), in which her shawl got stuck, and the running blades severed her head at a wooden box making unit at Sulur on the outskirts of the city on Friday. Police identified the deceased as Kalpana, wife of Dharmaraj, of Kalangal Road at Sulur. She was six months pregnant. A police officer said the wooden box making unit was run by Kalpana’s husband. “She was working in the unit for the past six months. Around 11.30am on Friday, she switched on the planer. Her shawl got stuck in the machine, which pulled her into it, and her head was severed.” The officer said Dharmaraj hadn’t done anything at the unit to ensure the safety of workers. Three more people, one of them mother of the deceased, were working at the unit. Police received a complaint from N Nagaraj, 34, of Ondipudur, one of the workers, and registered a case against Dharmaraj under Sections 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pregnant-woman-dies-in-freak-accident/articleshow/76099982.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Palakkad-Pollachi train travel time may shrink by 15 minutes||Coimbatore: Much to the delight of daily train commuters, the travel time between Palakkad and Pollachi and vice versa is likely to come down by at least 15 minutes as the Palakkad division of Southern Railway plans to increase the speed of trains on the stretch. On Thursday, the railway conducted a speed test on the section, where the train moved at 110kmph without any glitches or issues.Presently, a one-way trip to Pollachi from Palakkad takes at least 45 minutes. With increased speed, the trip may be completed in around 30 minutes.The Palakkad division of Southern Railway confirmed they had run a speed test to see if trains’ speed could be increased on Palakkad-Pollachi section.A railway spokesperson said, “As of now, the speed limit on the section is 80kmph. The railway engineers have a target to increase the speed to 100kmph. The train was run at 110kmph today (Friday) and there weren’t any issues.”The permission to increase the speed would, however, only be granted after analysing the speed test report.Many daily commuters welcomed the move to increase trans’ speed on the stretch, saying that would help them save 30 minutes of travel time a day.Reba John, an IT employee, said, “This means we could leave our houses after properly packing lunches, needn’t rush to the station after work and more importantly reach home earlier.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/palakkad-pollachi-train-travel-time-may-shrink-by-15-minutes/articleshow/76099983.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Retired judge, wife win battle against Covid-19 in 10 days||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Sixty-eight-year old retired district judge R M Khan felt a discomfort in his throat and developed cough on May 19. The following day he and his 69-year-old wife tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to a private hospital. Though his wife did not have any pre-existing health issues, Khan had comorbid conditions, including diabetes and high blood pressure. After 10 days of treatment, the couple recovered and were discharged on Thursday. On being asked how he had reacted to the news of testing positive, he said, “I have been a district judge and have never been scared of anything. I accepted the result and did what had to be done. My wife was there to support me, and I supported her through this difficult time.” Looking back at how he could have contracted the virus, he said, “I don’t know how we got infected. We have been home since the last two months. We did not go out and people did not visit us. We have been avoiding all contact.” He added that the doctors and staffers at the hospital were very professional and efficient. “The treatment was good. There were many doctors who were working together as a team to help patients recover from the virus. I did a lot of yoga and walking while I was in the hospital. It helped me keep my mind stress-free,” he said, adding that the physical exercise helped him keep his sugar level in control. After returning home from hospital, Khan said his sugar levels, which were above 200 at the time of testing positive, have been under control and so was his blood pressure. “I feel absolutely fine now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retd-judge-wife-win-battle-against-ncov-in-10-days/articleshow/76099987.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: In the lanes, a voice from above tells people to stay at home & wear masks||PUNE: Out when you should stay in or walking around without a mask? Sharp-tongued drones advise you to follow the lockdown rules. The narrowest lanes in the containment zones under the Pune Municipal Corporation have been wailing with sirens coming from drones monitoring the stay-at-home orders and broadcasting messages on Covid-19 precautions since Sunday. The civic body has taken two drones on rent at a cost of Rs one lakh. The operators identify a civic building nearby the containment area and use the wireless microphone to make announcements. The drones fly in a one km range and have a video monitoring facility which captures images of violations that can be used by the police to crack down on violators. The civic body has used the drones in place of autorickshaws. The operators announce the dos and don’ts in public places, precautions against Covid-19 and action that violators of the lockdown norms will face. These drones also monitor the movements of people, especially in the bylanes of containment zones and densely populated areas. Civic officials said over 900 teams have been carrying out surveys for three months in the municipal limits, including the containment zones to identify people who show symptoms akin to Covid-19 “The drones will ensure that these civic teams reach every nook and corner of the city and those spots where vehicular traffic is restricted,” senior PMC official Shrinivas Kandul said. The manpower for a physical survey can be reduced by using drones, he added. The drones will be help in areas where social distancing is ignored and precautions to contain the virus spread need to be drilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-the-lanes-a-voice-from-above-tells-people-to-stay-at-home-wear-masks/articleshow/76099997.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||Pending RBSE board exams to be held in June||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said the remaining exams of classes X and XII of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) will be held in June. The exams were postponed indefinitely in March due to the pandemic. The decision was taken during a review meeting of the education department. The timetable and dates will be announced by board soon. The challenge for the state is to complete the exams and declare the results of Class XII board exams before the start of admissions in colleges and universities. Gehlot told officials to ensure that every examination centre should have ample number of masks and sanitisers for students and teachers. “All health protocols should be followed during the exams. Students and teachers have to follow social distancing norm while entering, undergoing exams and exiting from the centre,” said Gehlot. Currently, several hundred schools have been serving as quarantine centres. Gehlot directed officials to sanitise the schools before holding the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pending-rbse-board-exams-to-be-held-in-june/articleshow/76100000.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Drone spots 40 feet hole in Great Banyan canopy||HOWRAH: A big hole, measuring over 40 feet in diameter, has appeared in the canopy of the 300-year-old Great Banyan Tree of the Botanic Garden due to Amphan. It was identified during a drone photography, which was done to assess the damage from the top. While on ground survey has been done, aerial photography was commissioned to get a bird’s eye view of the damage, said the authorities. The clearing in the canopy has been caused by the fall of 40 of the most ancient prop roots in the super cyclone. It is the canopy, which got the tree into the Guinness Book of World Records for being the widest in the world, with a diameter of 497 feet. These prop roots were located in the north-west portion of the tree, its most ancient corner. Hence, each of these are thick and helped to bear the balance of the tree at that end. Efforts are on to transplant some of them, though scientists admitted there was very slim hope. The wounds sustained from such breakage, have been assessed for potential fungal attacks. The affected areas will be treated with anti-fungal medicine, Blytox before monsoon sets in on June 10. “The Banyan had suffered two major cyclones in 1864 and 1867 and it is then that the fungal infection had started. Later, its trunk got so infected that it started posing a threat to the entire tree. So the trunk was removed in 1925 in the hope that it would survive with the help of its prop roots. It did. So, we will not take any chances,” said Kanad Das, head of the Garden. There are six botanists who are inspecting the fresh wounds of the tree thoroughly to decide where the anti-fungal should be spread. “Thankfully, we have over 4000 prop roots. Many of these are tender and young and we are trying to strengthen them so they can help the tree survive in the event of such loss due to natural calamities,” said Basant Singh, a scientist at the garden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drone-spots-40ft-hole-in-great-banyan-canopy/articleshow/76099064.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
May 30, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Dalit graveyards to be developed to generate jobs||MYSURU: Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme, a flagship project of the Union government, has come in handy for the local bodies in the state to provide employment for labourers who have been rendered jobless due to lockdown. Now, the scope of the scheme has been extended further to generate new jobs. In many villages of the state, dalit cemetaries have poor facilities. Now, under MGNREGA, these burial grounds will get basic facilities. In Mysuru, 24 SC/ST burial grunds have been identified for developmental work. A decision in this regard was taken in a video conference chaired by the chief secretary on May 12. Social welfare department joint director N Muniraju informed that a proposal to this effect has been submitted to the zilla panchayat. The project involves providing basic facilities like drinking water, construction of sheds and compounds, road repair, planting saplings and taking up other development works inside the graveyards through MGNREGA funds. Prashanth Kumar Mishra, Mysuru ZP CEO, said that the project comes under the CM’s 15 point programme. According to Raghotham Hoba, a writer from Mysuru, the decision is a welcome move. ‘Dalits are facing a lot of problems to carry out final rites for the dead. As per custom, dalits bury the dead. But due to inadequate burial grounds and local issues, they forced to burn the bodies. Development of SC and ST cemetaries under the rural employment generation scheme is a welcome move,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dalit-graveyards-to-be-developed-to-generate-jobs/articleshow/76098601.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-hit parents can pay school fees in 9 installments||JAIPUR: In a relief to parents suffering financial losses during Covid-19, the School Shiksha Pariwar, a private schools’ organisation in Rajasthan, has decided to recover pending fees in nine months. According to the government guidelines, school fees from April to June were deferred till July. Parents were to deposit the three months’ fees in July in addition to next three months’ fees. So, to reduce the burden of parents for depositing six months’ fees, parents who are financially not capable of depositing it in one go can do so in nine months. Anil Sharma, president of the organisation, said, “A three-member committee will be set up in every school that will analyse every case forwarded to them. One parent, principal and teacher will be part of the committee. Parents have to apply to this committee. As per the analysis of the committee, if parents are not able to pay the fees in one go, they can pay it in nine installments. Parents are integral part of our schools and in the time of crisis how can we not support them.” Another important decision taken was that this year fees will not be increased. There are 30,000 private schools in Rajasthan in which 60 lakh students are studying. Due to the pandemic, all the economic activities were shut down and huge revenue losses were faced by people. The government in April had decided that fees from April to June will be deferred i.e. to be paid later. The decision does not imply that fees is waived, just deferred. There are, however, many complaints being received from parents that private schools have started making phone calls to them to deposit fees. Many schools postponed their summer vacations to keep pestering them to pay fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-hit-parents-can-pay-school-fees-in-9-installments/articleshow/76099995.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Vadodara||Pvt hospitals to add beds, two to accept MA cards||VADODARA: Responding to the need for increased treatment facilities for Covid-19 patients, private hospitals in the city have offered to increase their bed capacity to more than 1,000. This apart, two other hospitals associated with private medical colleges will also accept up to 400 patients covered under the Mukhyamatri Amrutam (MA) scheme. The association of private hospitals in the city – Setu – had been holding meetings with officials on steps to rationalize the cost of Covid-19 treatment as well as on how to increase treatment facilities in the city. Non-ICU hospitals in the city have submitted a plan of having 422 beds, while those with ICU facilities have submitted a plan of having 605 beds. The facilities include 192 ICU beds and 76 ventilators. The hospitals have already given details of charges that will be taken by them for Covid-19 treatment. Some of these hospitals already have facilities for treating Covid-19 patients and have necessary permissions too. The remaining hospitals will have to undergo the formalities before starting admissions. Officer on special duty for Vadodara for Covid-19 Dr Vinod Rao said that inspections of hospitals will be conducted and they will be empanelled after this. Friday brought a major relief for those holding MA cards as they can now avail treatment at the Parul Medical College Hospital (PMCH) and the Dhiraj Medical College Hospital (DMCH). Rao said that a MoU had been signed for this and also pointed out that patients will be provided free transportation facilities to the hospitals. The hospitals are located on the Waghodia Highway at Pipariya and Limda. Several in the eastern parts of the city may prefer these hospitals. While PMCH has a capacity of 150 Covid-19 patients, DMCH has a capacity of 250 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pvt-hospitals-to-add-beds-two-to-accept-ma-cards/articleshow/76097368.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Survivors of flesh trade at risk of being re-trafficked||PANAJI: Women and children are always the most vulnerable in case of disasters and the Covid-19 pandemic situation, which has pushed many into abject poverty, is no different. In this case, among other things, it has left survivors of commercial sexual exploitation on the verge of being pushed back into the profession. The state has 450 such survivors, rescued since January 2015, who like many others, have been affected economically after losing jobs. But unlike others, they are unable to get access to relief, and the lack of support, coupled with illiteracy and stigma, is pushing them further away from a life of dignity. “Some (survivors) have already been approached by pimps offering monetary and other help, with an eye on dragging them back into prostitution. During disasters, whether man made or natural, our experience is that women and children are the worst hit,” said Arun Pandey of Anyay Rahit Zindagi (ARZ), a Vasco-based welfare body. But even as many of them teeter on the brink of falling into the old trap in these times of crises, ARZ has reached out to 292 survivors of which 161 are in Goa. Some survivors could not be reached as they no longer have their old phone numbers, Pandey said. Underlining the challenge faced by the survivors, Pandey said, “Most of them, are the sole bread earners for the family and loss of employment makes them vulnerable to being re-trafficked.” Many of the survivors had taken up jobs at malls, beauty parlours, restaurants and hotels, sectors that have been badly hit by the pandemic and left many jobless. ARZ’s findings revealed that sex trade survivors face stigmatisation and are hence hesitant to ask for relief. As single women they are unable to mobilise relief for themselves and their children. “They also lack confidence and knowledge to seek services being provided online. Some of them are away from their native place and have no local support system,” Pandey said. Some survivors, who work in cities, are separated from their children, who are left with grandparents, he said. “They want to go back to their families as they are worried about their children and parents getting access to ration,” Pandey said. Archana from Bihar used to work in a hotel and has been left jobless. She ran out of money and was unable to seek medical help when she fell ill. ARZ arranged to provide her relief through a local NGO. Though she wants to back to her children and parents in Bihar, she will have to be patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/survivors-of-flesh-trade-at-risk-of-being-re-trafficked/articleshow/76099990.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 30, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Man injured in acid attack, hospitalised||MYSURU: An argument over politics ended in an acid attack on a man, who has sustained severe burns, and has been hospitalised in Bilikere village in Mysuru. He has suffered burns on his face, ear and back. His condition is stable, and he is responding to treatment in a local hospital. Kalappa Nayak,35, of Bilikere, some 45 km from Mysuru, was attacked with sulphuric acid by his neighbour Chandrachari,40, who is a goldsmith. The incident happened late on Wednesday night. Bilikere police said Chandrachari was upset that Kalappa Nayak was more successful than him in local politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-injured-in-acid-attack-hospitalised/articleshow/76097631.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mysuru||Digital transactions spike during lockdown in Mysuru||Mysuru: The lockdown has resulted in the number of digital and online transactions in Mysuru witnessing a perceptible spurt. In fact, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appealed to the people to switch to online transactions and digital payment apps, which he said would serve a two-fold purpose: Ensure social distancing and avoid exchange of cash by hand. In Mysuru, many people are making interest payments on their loans online. Basha, who pays a sum of Rs 6,000 on his home loan every month, decided to opt for the online mode for the first time. That many people in the Heritage City decided to opt for cashless transactions for such payments despite banks remaining open during the lockdown attests to fears of transmission of Covid-19 even while wearing masks, which is mandatory to enter banks. Mysuru district lead bank manager Venkatachalapathy confirmed to TOI that the percentage of digital payments had risen during the lockdown compared to their share prior to the Covid-19 crisis. “Many bank customers have switched to digital platforms to pay bills and loans. Around 20% of the borrowers have availed moratorium for three months through digital modes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/digital-transactions-spike-during-lockdown-in-mysuru/articleshow/76098022.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||A virtual carnival to raise relief funds||KOLKATA: The interact club of Calcutta International School (CIS) has partnered with several student-run organizations with a shared motive of helping those most affected by the cyclone in Bengal and has organized a virtual carnival on May 30 and May 31 to raise funds. The event — Raahat — will have several fun games and activities where every game will have an entry donation amount that will go to the Amphan relief funds. “The massive devastation of trees, houses, livelihoods, lives shook us and we wanted to reach out to these people. This is when we thought of a virtual carnival, where people can have fun as lockdown is ending but with a cause,” said Adya Sarda of CIS. She added that the activities will be followed by an online music concert by students. Sarda urged people from all over to participate and donate. Till date, they have managed to collect one lakh rupees. The funds raised will be donated to Rangeen Khidki Foundation which is working on the menstrual health of women affected by Amphan and Rebuild Bengal Campaign by Switch ON Foundation which aims to help the cyclone victims in affected areas. Vinay Jaju, co-founder of Switch ON Foundation said that the funds raised by the unique initiative of virtual carnival will be donated to our campaign and it will be utilised in a fruitful way by helping people of Bengal, severely affected by Cyclone Amphan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-virtual-carnival-to-raise-relief-funds/articleshow/76099067.cms||Dipawali Mitra
May 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19 impacts periods, albeit indirectly, observe experts||MANGALURU: Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown has been impacting our lives in extraordinary ways. Now, experts have observed that it affects periods too, albeit indirectly. City-based gynaecologists have observed a reduction in the number of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) cases in the last two months. PCOS is a commonly found condition that affects a woman’s hormone levels and causes irregular periods or menstrual issues. Dr Vidhyashree Kamath, consultant gynaecologist, KMC Hospitals, Mangaluru said: “During the pre-covid days, one in every five cases that I would examine any given day was related to PCOS. Young women — mostly IT professionals, or college students pursuing professional courses and living in hostels — often complain of menstrual issues. Most of these are motivated women who do not find time for regular exercises and lived mostly on junk food. With most of them returning home during the lockdown, they have managed to eat healthy and stay fit.” A 26-year-old IT professional who was on medication for hormonal disorder for the past 18 months has managed to regularise her menstrual cycle and attributes it to a much healthier lifestyle during the lockdown. There are similar cases that Dr Vidyashree has encountered. “PCOS is associated with infertility and we have seen a lot of women conceive spontaneously without any fertility treatment during the last two months. They have been under treatment for more than a year. We have observed nearly 50% reduction in calls related to PCOS. The stress level has reduced, and couples are spending more time with each other. Several woman with PCOS have adapted to a healthy lifestyle during this lockdown and hope this remains their new normal,” she said. Dr Madhushree Vijayakumar, consultant, obstetrician and gynaecologist, Motherhood Hospitals, Hebbal, Bengaluru, said, “We too have noticed a decline in PCOS cases. During the lockdown, PCOS patients have been able to focus on their health, eating habits and exercise and as a result there has been remarkable improvement in their condition. “Since most of them are working from home they are less stressed, have balanced and timely meals as opposed to their earlier schedule of erratic timings and consumption of heavy, oily or junk food. This has created a positive change and impact on the woman suffering from PCOS,” she said. Two of her patients who were unable to conceive for the past one and a half years due to PCOS, have conceived. “I have physically examined both my patients, and I am glad to say that both of them and their babies are doing fine,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-impacts-periods-albeit-indirectly-observe-experts/articleshow/76098650.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
May 30, 2020||Mysuru||KSOU’s proposal to construct new buildings opposed||MYSURU: Amidst the economic crisis owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the city-based Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) is proposing to construct new buildings at an estimated cost of more than Rs 100 crore, which has invited criticism. Activist and former member of the KSOU’s board of management, K S Shivaramu, on Friday said the varsity has planned to construct new buildings, including seven regional centres across the state and in Mysuru, by investing more than Rs 100 crore. The varsity had taken a hit in the aftermath of UGC’s punitive action of not recognising its courses for four years, and is now faced with low enrolment of students, he stated. He said that every month the university is spending Rs 40 crore to Rs 50 crore on teaching and non-teaching staff. Criticising the proposal which is expected to be discussed and approved at the board of management meeting on Saturday, Shivaramu urged the varsity to first focus on admissions and increasing the enrolment of students, as well as the quality of education imparted. “The enrolment used to be more than a lakh students, but after various allegations were levelled against the university, now the enrolment has dropped to 10,000. Instead of focusing on increasing admissions, which is vital for the survival of the university, they are going to construct new buildings, which is not at all required,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ksous-proposal-to-construct-new-buildings-opposed/articleshow/76096387.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mysuru||Suresh Kumar meets education department officials to discuss SSLC exam preparations||MYSURU: Primary education minister S Suresh Kumar has said that 8.48 lakh students will take the SSLC exams scheduled from June 25 to July 4. Ensuring students’ safety and boosting their confidence top the department’s priority, he told reporters after meeting officers from Mysuru, Mandya and Kodagu districts at Administrative Training Institute here on Friday. “As SSLC is crucial for students, Kerala government has already started the exams, while Tamil Nadu will hold it from June 15.” “We are taking all precautionary measures. Bharat Scouts and Guides will provide them masks free of cost. Each student gets two reusable masks,” he said, adding that at all the 4,000 exam centres in the state, students will be given hand sanitisers and made to enter the hall after thermal scanning. “Hitherto, 24 students were accommodated in the exam hall. The number has now been reduced to 18 to ensure safe distance. Unwell students, if any, will write the exam in a separate hall,” he said, adding that children who have migrated to their hometowns can write the exams at the nearest centre. “Results will be announced by July-end. PU results will be out by July 20,” the minister said. Kumar said that they are yet to decide on restarting the classes and whether to reduce the syllabus. “A meeting with experts will be held next week to decide on these issues. DDPIs have requested for holding 10-day classes for students for revision. This will also be decided in the meeting,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/suresh-kumar-meets-education-department-officials-to-discuss-sslc-exam-preparations/articleshow/76098559.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Patna||2 deaths, 90 new cases in state, tally up to 3,276||PATNA: Bihar on Friday reported 90 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total figure to 3,276 in the state. Two deaths were also reported by the state health society (SHS), raising the death toll to 17. With 1,209 recoveries and suicide committed by one Covid-19 positive person, active cases stand at 2,049 in the state. The two deaths reported by SHS include a 26-year-old from Bhojpur whose test report came on Thursday. He had arrived on a Shramik special from Mumbai and his health deteriorated during the journey. He died on May 25. Another Covid-19 death reported on Friday is of a Samastipur native who had arrived from Delhi. The test report of a 55-year-old Bhojpur native, who had died on May 26, also came positive on Friday. As per information shared by Bhojpur district magistrate’s office, this man had returned from Mumbai on May 26. After his screening at the station, he was sent to the Tarari primary health centre where he died on the same day. As per information shared by the state health department, Covid-19 cases were reported from 19 districts with maximum 19 reported from Jehanabad. Other districts which reported high number of cases are Sheikhpura with 18 people testing positive for the virus, followed by Gopalganj with eight cases, Madhubani with seven positive cases and Purnia and Samistipur with five cases each. One case was also reported from Patna. Of the total positive cases, 2,310 are migrants who have returned after May 3. So far, 72,256 samples have been tested in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-deaths-90-new-cases-in-state-tally-up-to-3276/articleshow/76097729.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Make workers on contract permanent’||Coimbatore: The city corporation should stop the recruitment process to fill the vacant posts of sanitary workers and instead regularize the sanitary workers, who have been working on contract basis, activists, who submitted a petition to the collector and the corporation commissioner, said on Friday. Though the state government has imposed a ban on recruitments in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the corporation started the process to fill the vacant posts, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Annal Ambedkar Scavengers and General Employees’ Association R Tamil Nadu Selvam said. “The civic body had launched the recruitment process to fill 549 permanent sanitary worker posts a few months ago. As many as 351 workers, including graduates, started working in March. It was decided to recruit the remaining workers in the second phase.” Thousands of temporary workers had staged a massive protest across the city condemning the corporation’s move. “Following the protest, a meeting attended by officials of the district administration, city corporation and the workers, was held. The officials assured to recommend our demands to the government. But, so far, no recommendations have been made,” Selvam said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/make-workers-on-contract-permanent/articleshow/76099996.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Public service centres to reopen in all districts, says CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Ahead of the end of Lockdown 4.0 on May 31, chief minister Nitish Kumar ordered further relaxation on Friday asking all district magistrates to re-open public service centres in their districts while maintaining social distancing norms. The public service centres, set up under the state government’s Right to Public Service (RTPS) Act, were closed since March 23 due to lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 virus. At a review meeting with all departmental heads, divisional commissioners, DMs and zonal heads of police via videoconferencing, the CM directed the district magistrates not to mix new batches of migrants with those who are already staying at quarantine centres. “New people arriving at the quarantine centres should not be kept with old inmates. There should be separate arrangement for new peoples,” Nitish said. While taking feedbacks from DMs and SPs, the CM said the state’s migrant workers faced a lot of problems during the lockdown outside Bihar, because majority of private companies/ employers in other states didn’t take care of their day-to-day requirements. “Now, it is our duty to take care of migrant workers. My wish is that all those who have returned get employment opportunity in their home state. No one should go outside the state due to certain compulsions. During my recent interaction with the people staying at the quarantine centres, the workers expressed their views that they want to stay here and work,” Nitish told officials at the meeting. The CM further said that the state government has constituted a task force for creation of employment for migrant workers. “All DMs should take necessary step to provide employment to the returned people as per the outcome of skill-mapping,” he said. Reviewing food-grain distribution, Nitish asked DMs to expedite the work of printing of approved ration cards and their timely distribution among the beneficiaries. He also asked the food and consumer protection department’s secretary to talk to all DMs and get feedback about the availability and distribution of food-grains in each district so that beneficiaries do not face any difficulty. On the impending locust attack, Nitish asked the agriculture department to take steps as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) to deal with the chances of the attack. “I believe only in doing public work. Whatever work is in the interest of people, we do them with full dedication and honesty,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/public-service-centres-to-reopen-in-all-districts-cm/articleshow/76097701.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Tobacco, in any form, puts you at Covid-19 risk: Experts||NAGPUR: Those who are waiting lockdown to end and rush to their favourite ‘paan stall’ to have kharra should think twice before doing so. Tobacco, in any of its forms, helps novel coronavirus (Covid-19) to enter and settle in your body, warned experts as they spoke to TOI on the eve of World No Tobacco Day, which is to be observed on May 31. “Evidence suggests that smoking is associated with increased severity of the disease and death in hospitalized Covid-19 patients. As a lung specialist, I would recommend that tobacco users stop smoking as it leads to decreased immunity, long-term lung disease and higher chances of catching an infection, including Covid-19,” said intervention pulmonologist Dr Sameer Arbat. A review of studies by public health experts convened by World Health Organization (WHO) in April found that smokers are more likely to develop severe complications with Covid-19, compared to non-smokers. “Smoking is a known risk factor for many respiratory infections. Basically, tobacco increases severity of respiratory diseases. Covid-19 primarily attacks lungs and smoking impairs lung functioning making it harder for the body to fight off the virus,” said Dr Arbat. Tobacco is also a major risk factor for non-communicable diseases like cardiovascular disease, cancer, respiratory disease and diabetes. “People with heart disease and diabetic conditions are at higher risk of developing severe illness when they get infected by Covid-19, so, it would be best for all of them to quit tobacco in any form even post lockdown,” said Dr Sunil Gupta. De-addiction activists are terming Covid-19 time as an opportunity. “It’s best time to quit tobacco. If you can manage without tobacco or for that matter any addiction for three weeks at a stretch, you are almost on the verge of quitting it. Many have managed without kharra or cigarette during the lockdown. Such people should not restart the addiction now,” said Amrut Gandhe, de-addiction activist. Findings of a nationwide survey conducted by Foundation for a Smoke-Free World also back this claim. This survey states that 72% of India’s combustible tobacco users between the ages of 18-24 years have attempted to quit smoking during the lockdown. More than 69% tobacco users between the ages of 25-39 also attempted to quit tobacco. Academicians have now taken it as a subject of study. “There has been a visible change in people’s lifestyle during the lockdown. Many of us have quit addictions and adopted healthy habits. Our university will conduct a statewide study of these changes soon,” said a senior official of Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tobacco-in-any-form-puts-you-at-covid-19-risk-experts/articleshow/76099075.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||23-yr-old man held for impregnating minor||Coimbatore: The Perur all women police have arrested a 23-year-old Malumichampatti resident for ‘marrying’ and impregnating a 16-year-old girl. Police also arrested his mother for conducting child marriage. The minor girl was married off to the man at a temple in Perur on February 22, police sources said. Doctors at a primary health centre in Malumichampatti, who found out that she was pregnant, alerted police and the social welfare department. Social welfare department officer Backiyalakshmi lodged a police complaint after the victim and her family refused to do so. Police registered a case against the man under Section 5 (l), (j) (ii), 6 read with 17 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. His mother was booked under Section 9 and 10 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The duo was remanded in judicial custody on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/23-yr-old-man-held-for-impregnating-minor/articleshow/76100006.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Public health at stake as gambling goes unchecked||VISAKHAPATNAM: Repeated warnings and arrests have failed to deter gamblers in Vizag city, who continue to ignore the lockdown and social distancing guidelines by gathering in public places to play cards. Speaking to TOI, assistant commissioner of police (task force), Vizag, A Trinad Rao said police have arrested over 400 persons for gambling and playing ‘Ashta Chamma’ (the traditional board game similar to modern-day Ludo) between March 23 and May 24 at public places in the city. “We have observed that gambling activities have increased in Vizag city during the Covid-19 lockdown. Despite our repeated instructions and appeals, some people have been defying the lockdown and gambling without taking any measures to prevent the spread of the virus. We have been coming across groups of six to 10 people for playing cards and Ludo and placing bets,” Trinad Rao said. City task force police seized Rs 19.67 lakh in cash from gamblers over the past two months in over 58 cases. Police teams also busted a sheep-fighting racket and seized two sheeps near Vizag Fishing Harbour and seized Rs 11,000 in cash. In similar operations, 15 persons were arrested for organising cockfight, Rs 30,000 and 10 roosters seized from punters during the lockdown. “With the lockdown, people have few options for entertainment and our livelihoods have also been hurt. We have no other option except playing cards and placing bets. It is also difficult to follow social distancing norms while playing cards,” a gambler said. Police said members of the public, scared of the spread of Covid-19, are alerting police about gambling activities and requesting action against punters. In April, a Covid-19 positive truck driver in Vijayawada spread the virus to 24 people after playing rummy and tambola with his neighbours. “However, it is not so easy to bust all gambling activities unless we have concrete information,” police officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/public-health-at-stake-as-gambling-goes-unchecked/articleshow/76098177.cms||Nalla.Babu
May 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Prior govt nod for hirings in aided schools||PANAJI: The government has withdrawn the blanket NOC for recruitment given to grant-in-aid institutions. The schools will have to obtain an NOC from the directorate of education and from respective zones. “All the heads of government, aided middle, secondary and higher secondary schools are hereby requested to approach this directorate to obtain NOC before filling up the post of teaching and non-teaching staff. Further, the school managements are also required to approach respective zones for NOC for leave vacancies,” director Vandana Rao stated. The circular has stated that the blanket NOC issued to all aided secondary schools and aided higher secondary schools to fill up permanent vacancies caused due to retirement on superannuation, resignation and demise of teaching and non teaching staff in grant in aid institutions stands withdrawn with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prior-govt-nod-for-hirings-in-aided-schools/articleshow/76100003.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Case count rises over 6,000 in PMC areas alone||PUNE: The Covid-19 case count in Pune municipal limits breached the 6,000-mark with the addition of 228 patients on Friday. Overall, 11 more patients succumbed to Covid-19 infection, while 302 tested positive for the contagion in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, taking the total death toll to 321 and case count to 7,314 in the region so far. Besides the rise of cases in PMC limits, 28 more patients were reported in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits, while 46 in rural and Cantonment areas. The Pune collector had on Thursday underlined the need to focus on rural areas in the wake of the rising cases there. He had cited migration of people from Mumbai to rural parts as one of the reasons for the spike in positives in the villages. All the patients who succumbed to the infection on Friday were over 50 years. Five deaths were reported at ‘the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 56-year-old man from Pandavnagar, a 56-year-man from Ganj Peth, an 87-year-old man from the Gokhalenagar area, a 68-year-old woman from the Yerawada area and a 60-year-old woman from Shirur. All others deaths were recorded at private hospitals. These included a 72-year-old man from Kothrud, a 61-year-old woman from Ravivar Peth, a 72-year-old woman from Kalyaninagar, a 62-year-old man from Yerawada and a 58-year-old man from the Junnar area. According to district health office, 358 patients were declared cured and discharged on Friday. About 206 patients were in critical condition and being treated at various hospitals. The total active patients in PMR were 2,787 as of Friday. When it comes to PCMC limits, 14 positive patients were discharged on Friday after complete recovery, taking the count of discharged in the municipal areas to 182 so far. Three areas in Ajanthanagar, Nehrunagar and Pimpri were sealed late on Friday night. As for the quarantined in PMR, district health office said over 40,000 people were in isolation either at home or institution. Of these, 31,525 were in PMC limits, 6,165 in PCMC areas and 2,481 in the rural parts of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/case-count-rises-over-6000-in-pmc-areas-alone/articleshow/76100023.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Constable tests positive for Covid-19, nine cops under quarantine||PUNE: A constable from a police station that is outside the containment zones in the city tested positive for Covid-19, prompting authorities to quarantine nine policemen who came in contact with her at the workplace. A senior officer from the police station told TOI that the constable stays in the Peth areas. “Recently, her friend tested positive for Covid-19. The constable, who was in contact with her, too had undergone the test and her report came positive for the contagion,” the officer said. However, she did not show any symptoms. “She used to work and have lunch with her colleagues in the police station. We have identified nine of them and quarantined them. Their swab samples would be sent for tests,” the officer added. The officer said the area, which comes under the police station, is quite large. “We are trying our best to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection with the help of the limited staff available here,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-tests-ve-9-cops-under-quarantine/articleshow/76100011.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man held for placing meat near two temples||COIMABTORE: Police arrested a 48-year-old man for causing tension by placing pieces of raw meat in front of Vengugopala Krishnaswamy Temple and Sri Ragavendra Temple on Sullivan Street in the city on Friday. The arrested has been identified as S Hari Ramprakash, 48, of Kavundampalayam. The Big Bazaar police registered two separate cases registered Hari. He was booked under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups), 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), and 298 (uttering words etc., with deliberate intent to would religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code. “Hari was arrested with the help of CCTV footage collected from cameras set up near both the temples. In one of the footage, we found a man parking his motorcycle near the temple and walking towards it. Based on the motorcycle registration number, we traced his whereabouts and arrested Hari,” city police commissioner Sumit Sharan said. Police confirmed that Hari bought one kg of meat from a shop at Kavundamapalaym on Friday morning. R Baby, 65, a flower seller, saw a bag containing meat pieces outside Ragavendra Swamy Temple and informed temple authorities who in turn informed the police. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) L Balaji Saravanan and other police officials visited the spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-placing-meat-near-2-temples/articleshow/76100015.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer launches campaign to make people corona warriors||JAISALMER: Keeping in view the continuous spike in Covid-19 cases among migrants in Rajasthan, the Barmer district administration has launched an awareness campaign. Barmer collector Vishram Meena has launched a campaign to link the general public and ensure maximum participation in checking Covid-19. He has asked people to come forward to become corona warriors. Those interested are being administered online oath and given digital certificates. The campaign started on Wednesday evening and more than 18,000 people have already got associated with the campaign. Initially, the website crashed due to overflow of participants after which it was reloaded. Mnay people have placed their DP of fighters. The numbers are contiuously increasing. Village monitoring committees have been formed in rural areas who are keeping a watch on people who have been put on home quarantine and will inform the district administration on people breaching it. Meena said people who are joining the movement were being administered online oath and given title of corona warriors besides being issued digital certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-launches-campaign-to-make-people-corona-warriors/articleshow/76100014.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation rolls out facial recognition attendance||Trichy: Trichy corporation has successfully rolled out facial recognition attendance registration for corporation workers and employees at all its offices. The system has been installed in 120 buildings including junior engineer offices, primary health centres, micro compost centres and pumping stations. The trial run for facial recognition to replace the fingerprint system was held just before the lockdown.Unlike fingerprint, facial recognition is a contactless approach. The employee only needs to show their face at the camera to register attendance. The machine shall match the facial features in the database to register attendance. In the case of the fingerprint system, employees need touch the device to scan it. The attendance will be stored in the main server at the corporation head office.“The trial run of facial recognition attendance system was fruitful. We will definitely continue with the non-contact system since we ought to ensure hygiene even if the lockdown is lifted,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI.The non-contact attendance system was implemented at a cost of Rs30 lakh from the general fund. Trichy Corporation has said that the facial system helped them to ward off Covid-19 scare and made them a pioneer in spearheading hygienic practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corporation-rolls-out-facial-recognition-attendance/articleshow/76100031.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||Hold survey to make Jaipur beggar-free, says collector||JAIPUR: In a bid to make Jaipur a beggar-free city as proposed by the state government earlier, district collector Joga Ram on Friday instructed the officials of social justice and empowerment department to conduct a survey to assess the actual number of persons engaged in begging so that can be permanently rehabilitated in various institutions/homes and engaged in skill development. After the survey, efforts will be made to keep them permanently away from begging. “In collaboration with various NGOs and social organizations, they will be engaged in skill development by keeping them in an institution,” he said. He instructed the officials to identify old buildings of schools which are no longer in use or other vacant government buildings for initial rehabilitation. He also asked the officials of the medical department to conduct corona test before rehabilitation of around 125 beggars kept in the refugee camp. Free ration should be given to those who are engaged in begging, live in slum areas and have cooking facilities and also be given Rs 2500 from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hold-survey-to-make-city-beggar-free-says-collector/articleshow/76100028.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: De-addiction centre with 15 beds at KGH||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 15-bed alcohol and drug de-addiction centre was inaugurated at King George Hospital (KGH) on Friday. This is one of the 15 centres being inaugurated across Andhra Pradesh by chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy through video-conference from Amravati. The de-addiction centre at KGH is a 15-bed speciality facility comprising a psychiatrist, two counsellors and two nurses trained exclusively to manage those who are addicted to alcohol, ganja and other habit-forming drugs. They will be under the supervision of Dr NN Raju, professor of psychiatry. Regular out-patient services and community clinics will also be organised by the centre. The centre is equipped to undertake training classes in de-addiction for both medical and non-medical personnel. On Friday, M Srinivasa Rao, state minister for tourism and culture inaugurated the de-addiction centre. Dr G Arjuna, superintendent of KGH stated that the centre will coordinate with NGOs and government departments to curb the alcohol consumption in bid to achieve total alcohol prohibition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/de-addiction-centre-with-15-beds-at-kgh/articleshow/76098192.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Three domestic flights arrive at Dabolim with 87 passengers||PANAJI: Airlines continued to bleed cash in operations to Goa International Airport with the passenger counts remaining far from break-even points, said officials. On Friday, 87 passengers arrived at Goa International Airport from Bengaluru and Delhi, while 245 passengers took the three flights out of the state’s lone airport. IndiGo and Air Asia operated the six flights between Goa and the two metros. Airport officials pointed out that Goa has received flights from Delhi and Bengaluru on a daily basis, with the occasional flight from Mysore. With a cap on flights out of Mumbai International Airport, no flights to or from India’s business hub have operated to Goa. Flight 6E 345 from Bengaluru to Goa brought 34 passengers and took back 48 departures on Friday afternoon. IndiGo’s Delhi Goa Delhi flight brought 43 passengers while 133 passengers returned to Delhi. The Air Asia flight from Bengaluru arrived with 10 passengers while 61 adults and three infants left on the return flight. All three airlines deployed A320 aircraft for the flights which have a capacity of around 180 passengers. Aviation insiders said that for a flight to be financially viable, airlines need 65% and above passenger load. Alliance Air cancelled its Mysore Goa flight after consistently ferrying passengers in single digits. On Thursday, just six domestic flights operated at the airport. On Thursday, only one passenger boarded the Alliance Air flight 91896 to Mysore. The flight had arrived with just four passengers from Mysore, airport officials had said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-domestic-flights-arrive-at-dabolim-with-87-passengers/articleshow/76100018.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Five more coronavirus testing centres to come up in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: Five more coronavirus testing centres are set to come up in two months in the Pune Metropolitan Region. There are 21 facilities in operation, including nine government laboratories and 12 private laboratories, with nearly 3,500 tests being conducted daily. The testing facilities will be ramped up with two to three more government laboratories and more private laboratories, and the testing facilities doubled to 7,500 so that random sampling, mainly from the containment areas can be conducted, health officials said. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said at present over 2,500 samples are being tested at the government’s nine laboratories while the private laboratories can check about 1,000 tests, per day. With more machines for the government laboratories, testing facilities can improve, he added. District health officials told TOI that because of the cost factor in private testing, people prefer government laboratories. This imposes a load on these facilities and unless the private laboratories reduce their charges of Rs 4,500 per test , there would be no respite. “People prefer government laboratories as they feel more assured about the test results. Some test positive at private laboratories, but approach government facilities for verification,” a government health official said. A patient whose test results were negative at a private health laboratory also went to a government facility to reconfirm it. Statistics from across the country show there is more load on government testing laboratories than on private entities. Over one lakh tests are conducted per day in private and public laboratories but 70% of the testing capacity in private laboratories lies unutilised. A private laboratory representative told TOI that they can test 160 samples a day but they don’t get enough. “We have been told to increase the capacity by getting more machines,but we need more people coming to us too,” the representative said. The government facilities in Pune are taking on the maximum load and now with more machines and random samples to be collected from containment zones in the coming months, the load is only going to increase. “We have sent our proposal for more machines for the government laboratories. It will help test more in the community, especially in the hotspots,” a health expert said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-more-ncov-testing-centres-to-come-up-in-pmr/articleshow/76100040.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid poses risk for law enforcing agencies amid lifting of curbs bringing anti-socials back in action||Bhubaneswar: The criminal justice system, which largely comprises the law enforcement agency, court and jail, faces an imminent challenge amid the Covid-19 pandemic as anti-socials are back in action following the easing of several restrictions over the last few days. Different law enforcement agencies like police, the special task force (STF), vigilance and forest officials have resumed their crackdowns after a lull of nearly two months. “We have started our main activities of laying traps and registering disproportionate asset (DA) cases against corrupt public servants over the last few days. Some of our personnel, who were on Covid-19 duty, are back on vigilance. We have asked our squads to exercise utmost precautions while making arrests and conducting searches,” state vigilance director and additional director general of police Debasis Panigrahi said. Police, which had earlier witnessed very low registration of cases and a significant drop in crimes, have now started registering more cases. They said the easing of restrictions, ease of movement of people and vehicles will gradually encourage criminals to strike. “We expect normal registration of cases in the next few days. As we have to live with the Covid-19 virus for an indefinite period, it will pose a big challenge for police in the coming days. We have to arrest the accused, keep them in custody for interrogation, take them to hospital for routine medical test, produce them in court and escort them to judicial custody. We have to adopt new standard operating procedures and technologies to work with the dangerous new normal situation,” additional commissioner of police Anup Kumar Sahoo said. The STF said they have reactivated their intelligence-based operations against organized crimes. “We have asked our personnel to take the necessary precautions while conducting raids and arresting the accused,” STF’s deputy inspector general J N Pankaj said. Sources said the parent organisations concerned have asked their law enforcement agencies to wear face masks and gloves while conducting raids and making arrests. For the time being, policing in containment zones has been put on hold as the officers may face resistance by locals while conducting raids. The agencies have also been asked to take precautions while placing the accused in courts. The prisons directorate, which recently launched a special drive to decongest jails by releasing inmates on bail and on parole, is expected to see an increase in the number of under trial prisoners (UTPs) in the coming days. An UTP in Puri jail tested positive for coronavirus recently, triggering panic in the prisons directorate. “We have our standard operating procedures in place. It will be revised if the situation warrants,” DGP (prisons) Santosh Upadhyay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-poses-risk-for-law-enforcing-agencies-amid-lifting-of-curbs-bringing-anti-socials-back-in-action/articleshow/76098184.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 30, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation rolls out facial recognition attendance||Trichy: Trichy corporation has successfully rolled out facial recognition attendance registration for corporation workers and employees at all its offices. The system has been installed in 120 buildings including junior engineer offices, primary health centres, micro compost centres and pumping stations. The trial run for facial recognition to replace the fingerprint system was held just before the lockdown.Unlike fingerprint, facial recognition is a contactless approach. The employee only needs to show their face at the camera to register attendance. The machine shall match the facial features in the database to register attendance. In the case of the fingerprint system, employees need touch the device to scan it. The attendance will be stored in the main server at the corporation head office.“The trial run of facial recognition attendance system was fruitful. We will definitely continue with the non-contact system since we ought to ensure hygiene even if the lockdown is lifted,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI.The non-contact attendance system was implemented at a cost of Rs30 lakh from the general fund. Trichy Corporation has said that the facial system helped them to ward off Covid-19 scare and made them a pioneer in spearheading hygienic practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corporation-rolls-out-facial-recognition-attendance/articleshow/76100037.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Road caves in near NTC Mills||Coimbatore: A small portion of road caved in on Brookebond Road near NTC Mills in the city on Friday, inconveniencing motorists passing the road. A corporation official said, “The road damage was due to leakage of sewage water from the underground pipelines. Whenever water leaks through the pipeline, it loosens the soil and the roads give away when a heavy vehicle passes over it.” He said pipelines for about 70 meters in that spot are decades old. The corporation had replaced old pipelines in remaining areas in recent times when it was found leaking. John Varghese, a commuter, said, “After digging the road connecting Mettupalayam Road to Avinashi flyover about six months ago, it is only a couple of months ago the corporation had relaid the road.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/road-caves-in-near-ntc-mills/articleshow/76100036.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Labour shortage hits work of Atal Setu ramp, new HC bldg||Panaji: The Atal Setu approach ramp on the Merces side will miss the May 30 deadline and won’t be completed before the onset of the monsoons, sources said. Although L&T and Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) were prepared to take up the work on a war footing and complete it within the four weeks permitted by the government, the departure of labourers has affected the work, they said. The bridge, along with the remaining approach ramps, remain open. GSIDC officials said that though they had convinced the workers, mainly from Jharkhand, Bihar and UP, to stay back and work on the bridge, other state government authorities, particularly Goa police, would not let workers assemble at the site. “The workers have now decided to go home and the work has stalled. It will not be complete before the monsoon,” a government official said. L&T has already broken down a section of the approach ramp which had become uneven due to settlement. Since then, work has come to a standstill at the site, which is just outside the capital city’s Kadamba bus stand. Similarly, completion of the high court complex at Porvorim, which was slated for completion in March 2020, has also been delayed due to the labour shortage, sources said. The Rs 100-crore new high court complex was meant to be inaugurated in April and “90% of the work has been completed”. “The approach road is being built, but because of the lockdown, we could not complete it. The shifting of the courts was to take place during the vacation,” said a GSIDC official. The State Executive Committee, at its meeting on May 7, discussed the repairs of the approach road and GSIDC had assured the SEC that the repairs would be completed by May 30. GSIDC had asked the Goa police’s traffic cell for clearance to close down parts of Atal Setu, and discussions between all stakeholders began in February to identify suitable dates for the closure of the approach ramps. However, the state government approved the closure of the approach road for the rehabilitation work only on April 25, by when the entire state entered the lockdown and workers were interested in leaving the state. L&T’s engineers were also in Mumbai during this period, and unable to return to Goa to oversee the repairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/labour-shortage-hits-work-of-atal-setu-ramp-new-hc-bldg/articleshow/76100507.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 30, 2020||Salem||Man arrested in porn video case tests +ve; 28 cops who came in contact quarantined||Salem: A day after three people were arrested for making two women act in porn videos, raping them on several occasions and blackmailing them to indulge in flesh trade, one of them was tested for Covid-19 on Friday. Following this, 28 police personnel, who had come in contact with him, were sent to the quarantine facility at a government engineering college in Karuppur for 14 days.According to a police source, a 35-year-old man, who runs a beauty parlour in Gugai area, and his accomplices Krishnan alias Siva, 36, and Ajay alias Pradip, 28, were imprisoned based on a police complaint lodged by a widow and her friend.City deputy commissioner of police P Thangadurai said, “In their compliant to Salem town all-woman police inspector Palaniammal on Thursday, the two said the beauty parlour owner, his 32-year-old wife and 52-year-old father were blackmailing them with their porn videos to indulge in flesh trade.” The officer said the beauty parlour owner and his two aides had raped the women on several occasions by blackmailing them with the porn videos.During inquiry, the trio confessed to the crime. Before lodging the trio in the Omalur sub-jail, health department officials collected their throat swabs for Covid-19 test. When the test results came , the beauty parlour owner was positive for the virus and the remaining two, negative.City police commissioner T Senthil Kumar, meanwhile, directed 28 police personnel, including assistant police commissioner Eswaran and police inspectors Palaniammal and Kumar, attached to the Salem town police station and all-woman police station to undergo institutional quarantine at the engineering college in Karuppur. Health department officials have disinfected both the police stations.A pandal has also been erected in front of the station building for complainants, who won’t be allowed in for couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-arrested-in-porn-video-case-tests-ve-28-cops-who-came-in-contact-quarantined/articleshow/76100055.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand cabinet approves Covid sample testing by private labs, travel between districts without pass||DEHRADUN: To boost Covid-19 testing in the state, Uttarakhand cabinet on Friday cleared a proposal to approve testing by private labs. The steps adopted by Uttar Pradesh and other states in this regard would be studied and a tender would be floated within four days to shortlist the labs, the cabinet decided. “The test will be free of cost for the patient and the state government will pay for it,” state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said. In some relief to people wishing to get back to their homes in different districts within the state, the cabinet decided that no passes will be needed for intra-state movement and online registration done by the applicant will suffice. “The application number will be regarded as permission to move from one district to another. No one will be quarantined in the process,” Kaushik said. In another major decision, the cabinet decided that for the ongoing financial year, government employees will contribute one day salary each month to the CM Relief Fund. Besides, politicians holding key positions in various boards and corporations will provide five days’ salary every month to CM Relief Fund for the ongoing financial year. To ensure that works in villages was not impacted, the state government has brought an ordinance to fill the vacant posts of panchayat, block members and pradhans for six months. For a person who is Covid-19 positive or has coronavirus symptoms and has been quarantined, the state government has approved a proposal under which the owner of the commercial establishment will have to grant paid leave for up to 28 days. “On their part, employees will have to provide required medical certificate to the employer," Kasuhik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cabinet-approves-covid-sample-testing-by-private-labs-travel-between-districts-without-pass/articleshow/76096948.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 30, 2020||Pune||Rajesh Tope requests private labs to reduce charges for tests||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope has requested private laboratory representatives to reduce testing charges. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in a recent directive suggested that the percentage of testing could be low in private laboratories due to the cost factor and rates should be reduced. Tope told TOI that just as he had put a cap on private hospitals to reserve beds for Covid-19 patients, talks are on with private laboratories to come up with a solution to increasing the number of tests conducted daily. The move is aimed at reducing the pressure on government labs. “I would request that the private laboratories should make fair profit, not take undue advantage of the situation,” said Tope. The ICMR has written to the states that with availability of testing kits no longer a problem, they can lower the price cap of Rs4,500 fixed for Covid-19 diagnostic tests at private laboratories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-requests-private-labs-to-reduce-charges-for-tests/articleshow/76100050.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||Bizman’s family & quack turn Jhalrapatan town into a hotspot||KOTA: An alleged irresponsible attitude of a businessman’s family and that of a quack turned Jhalrapatan town of Jhalawar district into a fresh hotspot, with at least 119 fresh positive cases detected in the past few days. Police have booked three members of the family and the quack under different sections of the Epidemic Act for spreading the virus. The four accused are currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Jhalawar’s chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Sajeed Khan said, “A 200-metre periphery in Imli Darwaja and the street behind Narayan Talkies, where at least 119 Covid-19 positive cases were detected in the past few days are the fresh hotspots and red zone in Jhalawar district, which was headed to become a green zone after having successfully treated at least 42 patients in Pedawa town and Jhalawar city.” As per the medical and police officials, an unauthorised gathering of around 50 people, some of whom came from Indore and Sagar in MP, at the funeral of mother (100 years old) of a noted businessman at the town’s Imli Darwaja area on May 19. An even bigger crowd attended the ‘third day’ of rituals which was followed by a community feast on May 22, which spread the virus in Jhalrapatan. Similarly, a quack identified as Ibhrim, who ran a clinic in the area behind Narayan Talkies, turned into another carrier of the virus as he had been treating patients since the enforcement of lockdown 1.0. The rapid spread of the virus came to light when three members of a family from the area with deteriorating health reached for medical checkup at a government hospital on May 22 and tested positive on May 23. “When sampling was carried out in the two areas, over 100 positive cases were revealed pushing the city into a severe red zone,” CMHO said. “On the report by CMHO, the police on Thursday booked Ibhrim Bohara, a quack, who ran a medical clinic at Barli Ka Chabutra, behind Narayan Talkies under sections of Epidemic Act and on the report by local beat constable, police booked three members of the family identified as Vimal Jain, Manhore Jain and Prakesh Jain under Epidemic Act and holding back the information on the disease,” said DSP Vijay Shankar Sharma. “The private medical practitioner, despite repeated advisory to shut the clinic, was engaged in practice at the clinic and when the medical team reached him for his sample, he rudely denied following which the police intervened. The quack as well his three brothers and another 45 -50 members of the family were tested positive,” the DSP said, adding that all of them are undergoing treatment at Covid-19 care centre and at the medical college hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bizmans-family-quack-turn-jhalrapatan-town-into-a-hotspot/articleshow/76100047.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: App to inform about availability of beds||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: The divisional commissionerate, along with Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, is working on an app to inform patients and doctors about the availability of beds in Covid-19 hospitals in Pune. “The app is almost ready. We are just filling in data for hospitals now, and then it will be available for patients and doctors to find the available beds in Covid-19 hospitals in Pune,” said Pune municipal commissioner Shekar Gaikwad. The Indian Medical Association had suggested the idea of an app to the state government, which would help in finding vacant beds in hospitals. “In Mumbai, a lot of time was wasted in moving Covid-19 positive patients from one hospital to another as beds were not available. This resulted in loss of lives. To avoid this, we suggested that an app be developed,” said IMA state president Avinash Bondhwe, adding that the facility should be available across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/app-to-inform-about-availability-of-beds/articleshow/76100062.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Trichy||1,617 samples collected from Trichy Corpn staff||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has collected 1,617 samples from its employees including frontline workers and office staff on Thursday and Friday. Further, samples from around 1,000 employees are to collected in the coming days. Health workers collected the swabs from employees in Srirangam and Ariyamangalam zonal offices and at the main office. Officials said that since the employees including sanitary inspectors, junior engineers and sanitary supervisors are frequenting localities where Covid-19 positive cases were reported, the tests were carried out. “We will cover all the employees to make them feel confident while executing their duties,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI. The results are expected to be disclosed in a week’s time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1617-samples-collected-from-trichy-corpn-staff/articleshow/76100044.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||After long wait at Bambolim, 1,638 board train home||Panaji: Migrant workers stranded in Goa due to the lockdown who are looking for a commute back to their native place found themsleves a seat aboard the Shramik Special train No. 05008 on Thursday. Carrying 1,638 passengers, it left the Karmali railway station for Jasidih, Jharkhand, at 8.27 pm on Thursday. The train left an hour earlier than its scheduled departure of 9.30pm due to early boarding of passengers, railway officials said. TOI had earlier reported that many migrants had been camping at the athletic stadium in Bambolim waiting for trains to be scheduled to their respective home towns. On Thursday, migrants travelling from Margao found themselves stranded at the Cujira educational complex after their attempts to join others at the athletic stadium in Bambolim were thwarted by police personnel stationed there. Police said that there was no space for more people. Sachin Dungdung from Ranchi had been waiting since Wednesday in Bambolim. He and his companions Ashish Bhuinya and Santosh Toknu, who made a living by tarring roads, had taken a bus from Margao to Panaji on Wednesday. From there, they took a bus to Old Goa and camped in an open compound until police found them and dropped them at Bambolim. “The authorities have told us to wait until buses arrive to take us to the railway station. We don’t have any food and have a little money that will last us a few days,” they said. The ordeal for Dhaneshwar Rahir and his companions Bhaju Ghadiya and Anthony Khadia was even tougher. They left from Margao on Thursday morning by taxi and reached the Karmali railway station only to be told on arrival that they would have to wait at the athletic stadium in Bambolim. Once there, they found themselves displaced after the security refused to let them enter. “We received text messages saying there are regular trains from Karmali . It cost us Rs 600 to hire a taxi and reach the station only for us to be told that we must wait at Bambolim. We just want to go home,” Rahir said. Deputy collector, North Goa, Vivek HP said that there were more than 2,000 migrants at the stadium in Bambolim on Thursday. “I instructed the mamlatdar to take as many people as they can inside,” he told TOI when informed about the ones waiting to enter the stadium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-long-wait-at-bambolim-1638-board-train-home/articleshow/76100033.cms||Nida Sayed
May 30, 2020||Jodhpur||3 held for murder of Bilara lawyer who wore 1kg gold||JODHPUR: Pali police achieved a major breakthrough in the murder of advocate Narayan Singh Rathore (68) who wore 1kg gold by arresting three persons on Friday. Rathore was found dead with his hands and legs tied by a rope in an ancient water body at Chandaval village in Sojat on Thursday morning. The accused, identified as Umesh Soni, Prabhu Patel and Arjun Dewasi, had killed Rathore for robing his gold jewellery he used to wear all the time. SP (Pali) Rahul Kotoky said that the victim had the habit of wearing heavy gold jewellery all the time, even while he was in the court and the prime accused had an eye on this jewellery. “He called him up on Wednesday afternoon for selfie with the advocate as he had the habit of obliging others. When he left Bilara, the main accused with two of his accomplices met him at the decided spot and strangulated him,” said Kotoky. After that they set his car on fire with a view to do away with any possibility of leaving any clue and dumped his body about 20 km away from the spot in an ancient water body in village Chandaval in Sojat city police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/3-held-for-murder-of-bilara-lawyer-who-wore-1kg-gold/articleshow/76102357.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||3 held for murder of Bilara lawyer who wore 1kg gold||JODHPUR: Pali police achieved a major breakthrough in the murder of advocate Narayan Singh Rathore (68) who wore 1kg gold by arresting three persons on Friday. Rathore was found dead with his hands and legs tied by a rope in an ancient water body at Chandaval village in Sojat on Thursday morning. The accused, identified as Umesh Soni, Prabhu Patel and Arjun Dewasi, had killed Rathore for robing his gold jewellery he used to wear all the time. SP (Pali) Rahul Kotoky said that the victim had the habit of wearing heavy gold jewellery all the time, even while he was in the court and the prime accused had an eye on this jewellery. “He called him up on Wednesday afternoon for selfie with the advocate as he had the habit of obliging others. When he left Bilara, the main accused with two of his accomplices met him at the decided spot and strangulated him,” said Kotoky. After that they set his car on fire with a view to do away with any possibility of leaving any clue and dumped his body about 20 km away from the spot in an ancient water body in village Chandaval in Sojat city police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-held-for-murder-of-bilara-lawyer-who-wore-1kg-gold/articleshow/76100054.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh high court issues notices to 44 for defamatory remarks||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday issued notices to 44 persons who made abusive and defamatory comments against the high court and judges of the high court. YSRC MLA Gudivada Amaranath and senior journalist K Srinivas were among those who received the high court notices. Earlier, the high court issued notices to 49 persons including Bapatla MP Nandigam Suresh and former Chirala MLA Amanchi Krishna Mohan in the same matter. The HC registrar general had moved a petition in the high court making the state, central governments and social media companies like Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, Whatsapp and Google respondents for unabated abusive content being posted by individuals against the judiciary and judges of high court and the Supreme Court. The high court registrar also lodged a complaint with the Crime Investigation Department (CID) in the matter. A case has been registered by cybercrime wing of the CID. The high court took up the matter suo moto after some ruling party leaders made comments on live television attributing motives to its judges and instances of comments against HC judges on social media were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-issues-notices-to-44-for-defamatory-remarks/articleshow/76098207.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Provide details of Dr Sudhakar’s health: HC||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday asked the state government to submit details about the health of Dr K Sudhakar Rao who was suspended for protesting against the alleged shortage of PPE kits and is currently undergoing treatment at the Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC). The high court was hearing a petition moved by Dr Sudhakar, in which the doctor alleged he was being misdiagnosed because of which his health was deteriorating and pleaded the high court to shift him to a better hospital. The advocate for the petitioner argued that Dr Sudhakar feared for his life in GHMC. The advocate for the state government told the high court that Dr Sudhakar is being given all required treatment and there are no lapses. He sought two days to submit a report on the doctor’s health. The petitioner’s advocate responded asking who would be held responsible if something were to happen to Dr Sudhakar in the next few days. Upon hearing both sides, the high court allowed the petitioners to move a house motion in the next two days if required and posted the matter for further hearing after three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/provide-details-of-dr-sudhakars-health-hc/articleshow/76098215.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Trichy||Perambalur is first dist in central zone with no active cases||Trichy: Perambalur district has become the first Covid-19 free district in the central region after the last positive patient was discharged from the Trichy MGMGH. As on Friday, all 139 positive cases in Perambalur district have recovered. Officials attributed the development to the quick tracking and isolation of Koyambedu market returnees, the cluster that accounts for 70% of the positive cases.Until April 30, Perambalur had only nine positive cases. The sudden escalation happened when villagers employed in the Koyambedu market returned to their native. By May 10, Perambalur breached the 100 mark. Health department officials said the first two weeks of May was hectic in tracking around 600 Koyambedu returnees. As cases surged, the number of containment units escalated to 37. Kunnam, Veppanthattai, Veppur and Alathur were identified as hotspots. During the period, the role of 111 village health nurses (VHNs) was recognised as pivotal in preventing the Koyambedu returnees from going to their homes. The institutional quarantine centres established in 10 locations came in handy for the district administration to intercept and quarantine them. “None of the positive cases reported in the district had comorbid conditions. Only a few pregnant women and aged patients were referred to Trichy following the protocol,” a senior health official said. There were 24 pregnant women who had tested positive, of which, 20 have delivered. “If we had delayed tracking the Koyambedu returnees, positive cases would have increased further. Around 90% of the market returnees in the age group of 20 to 50 years were asymptomatic,” another health official added. The administration is now focusing on Chennai and other state returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/perambalur-is-first-dist-in-central-zone-with-no-active-cases/articleshow/76100063.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Construction for Tirupur medical college begins||Tirupur: Preliminary work for construction of government medical college in Tirupur has commenced. The medical college coming up in an area of 11.28 hectares at Nallur village abutting Tirurpur city would be built at a cost ofRs 336 crore. Over the past few days, workers have started building allied structures before they commence construction of the main building. It was on May 18 Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the government medical college through video conferencing from Chennai. Though the government wanted to begin the project much earlier, there was a minor delay due to Covid situation. The medical college was part of the 11 such colleges announced by the state government in 2019. The medical college which will offer 150 seats, is expected to be completed soon since the state government has already allotted Rs 100 crore for the construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/construction-for-tirupur-medical-college-begins/articleshow/76100064.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: BJP MLAs divided over opening restaurants, malls||PANAJI: Bharatiya Janata Party legislature wing was divided over opening restaurants, gyms and malls after June 1. MLAs were also of the opinion that the lockdown should continue for another 15 days. There were also suggestions that there should be a cap on the number of people coming into the state. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday conveyed a meeting of MLAs to discussed various issues including how to go ahead in lockdown 5. Tourism minister Manohar ‘Babu’ Ajgaonkar told reporters that some MLAs want restaurants and other things to be opened, but some MLAs want the same situation to continue. Ajgaonkar said that so far not a single hotel has started accepting room bookings in the state. Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa said restauranst should not be opened before June 15. “Most of them have opposed the opening because there is a rise in Covid-19 cases. Monsoon will arrive in June and because of that Covid-19 cases may also be on the rise,” he said. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said he and many other MLAs suggested that there should be capping of people entering the state. He also said that some MLAs feel that till the MHA guidelines are out, there should not be any more relaxations in the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-mlas-divided-over-opening-restaurants-malls/articleshow/76100058.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Trichy||Banks delaying or denying emergency loans: MSMEs||Trichy: The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), which are in dire need of financial support to stay afloat due to the Covid-19 lockdown, have expressed concern over delay and denial of Covid-19 emergency loans to the industries . Entrepreneurs claimed that many of them, who are eligible, were denied loans for managing the mounting expenses. The production activities of MSMEs that were stalled in late March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic had resumed from May 6 but only on a small-scale. While over three weeks have passed, MSMEs said that they have to pay the wages of employees, procure raw materials and manage the operational expenses to keep the business running. Though the Union government had announced term loans and collateral-free loans to support the troubled MSMEs, the industrialists approaching the nationalized and private banks alleged that certain banks were not releasing the loans entitled for them. “Banks maintain that they have not received any information about the 20% collateral-free automatic loan that was announced for MSMEs. The government should issue circulars to the banks to clarify,” Rajappa Rajkumar, president, BHEL Small and Medium Industries Association (Bhelsia) told TOI.  “Citing the lockdown, our clients are delaying the payment for the finished goods that we shipped. Hence, loans are required immediately to run our industries,” N Kanagasabapathy, former president, Trichy district tiny and small scale industries association (Tiditssia) said. As the delay in facilitating relief loans did not go well with the industrialists, MSMEs sought a separate team or official in the bank branches to facilitate loans for the industries. The MSMEs claimed that the minimal availability of bankers was also a reason for the delay in facilitating loans. “As per norms we received, the loans for MSMEs are being disbursed with the staffs available. Once the lockdown is lifted, the loan disbursal will be seamless as more staff will report for duty,” a senior official of a nationalized bank in Trichy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/banks-delaying-or-denying-emergency-loans-msmes/articleshow/76100060.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 30, 2020||Goa||Brits reach out to migrant workers stranded along Goa’s coastal belt||COLVA: Many migrant waiters and helpers working for shacks and small restaurants in Salcete’s coastal belt have appealed for help, and their cries have been heard in distant UK. Wayne Carter and his wife Janice have started a ‘GoFundMe’ campaign to provide financial aid to help migrants working in shacks along the coastal belt to get back home. Till date, they have helped around 30 migrants who are now at their native homes. Wayne is a regular to India. At last count, he had visited the country 75 times over more than two decades and befriended many of these migrants working in shacks and restaurants. On April 22 this year, he took one of the last repatriation flights back to his country. Two days later, Wayne received a distress call from a waiter hailing from Bagdogra in West Bengal and employed in Benaulim. “He was crying bitterly and sounded suicidal, begging us to help him reach home. Beginning of April, we had paid and booked a flight for him which was cancelled twice due to the lockdown. He had little money left with him from his Rs 6,000 salary. His employer was providing food but refused to pay to get him home,” Wayne told TOI in a telephonic conversation from UK. Wayne says he managed to console the waiter and assured to help him to get to his native place. “I lost sleep that night. On May 25, I narrated the situation to a couple of my friends and finally came up with idea of the campaign. We set a target of just £500. Till date, that fund stands at £3,000 (approx. Rs 2.79 lakh). It’s thanks to all my Facebook friends,” he said. According to Wayne, he transfers the money to his friends Stella Grethe and Dorothy Golden, who are in Goa, and the duo in turn distribute the amount. "He identifies the migrants and we hand over the money to them. We give approximately Rs 2,500 per person. Since the train journey is free for many, this money is for food, water and for onward travel after their train reaches its destination. “There are no trains to some remote areas and private buses have been used at expensive cost of around Rs 7,000 per person. We take a picture of migrants whom they provide financial aid and pass it on to Wayne, who then posts it on Facebook,” said Stella.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/brits-reach-out-to-migrant-workers-stranded-along-goas-coastal-belt/articleshow/76100048.cms||Nisser Dias
May 30, 2020||Madurai||Liquor worth Rs 3.7L stolen from Tasmac shop||Madurai: Liquor bottles worth Rs 3.7lakh were stolen from a Tasmac shop near Melur in Madurai district on Friday. The shop is situated at Thumbapatti village in Melur taluk. On Friday, Palraj, who was working as a supervisor went to open the shop. He noticed that some miscreants had gained entry inside the shop by drilling a hole below a window at the backside wall of the shop. On seeing this, Palraj alerted the police. When Palraj checked the stock, he found out that liquor bottles kept in 51 cardboard boxes worth Rs 3.7 lakh were stolen. The Kottampatti police have registered a case and are on a lookout for the miscreants involved in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/liquor-worth-rs-3-7l-stolen-from-tasmac-shop/articleshow/76100075.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Monuments, museums to open in Rajasthan from June 1||JAIPUR: Monuments and museums will now be opened for tourists from June 1. The archaeology and museums department on Friday issued guidelines keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the guidelines, in the first week the monuments and museums will remain open on four days, that is Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. The timing will also be curtailed. Visitors will be allowed between 9am and 2pm In the second week, while these landmarks will open on the same four days as in first week, the visitors will be allowed in the afternoon – from 3pm to 5pm as well. From the third week onwards, the monuments and museums will open on all days with timings from 9am to 1pm and again 3pm to 5pm. During the first two weeks, visitors will be exempted from any fees. Officials said this is to encourage people to come back to the places once again. From third week onwards, 50% discount will be given on ticket charges. This is both for Indian and foreign tourists. As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), visitors without masks will not be allowed and also each batch of five people will be allowed at a time. After a gap of five minutes, another group will be allowed in order to maintain social distancing. The department has also made arrangements for sanitisers for the visitors at these historical places. Similarly, there are guidelines for staff working in these monuments and museums. No staff from hotspots will be deployed on duty and the social distancing norms will be strictly in place in the offices. The monuments were closed for visitors from March 18 after the outbreak of coronavirus in the country as well as in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/monuments-museums-to-open-from-june-1/articleshow/76106084.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||JVVNL offices to be opened today for bill payment||Jaipur: Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd (JVVNL) offices will open on Saturday to allow consumers to pay their bills and avail 5% discount by paying before May 31. The electricity bills of both March and April were deferred till May 31 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and discoms will not charge any late fee or interest on the outstanding payments till May 31. According to a release by JVVNL, all the categories of power consumers could avail the relief till May 31. JVVNL said all sub-divisional offices will be opened on Saturday to facilitate the consumers to pay their bills. The discoms had introduced spot billing and power bills were issued every month. But due to outbreak of the corona pandemic and lockdown, billing could not be done. Now, the discoms are issuing average bills based on the consumption in the previous year during this period. The excess or under payment would be adjusted in later bills. The discoms have been encouraging consumers to pay the bills online. Agriculture and domestic category consumers will get 5% discount on payment of electricity bills by May 31, while other category consumers (commercial and industry), will get one per cent discount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jvvnl-offices-to-be-opened-today-for-bill-payment/articleshow/76100076.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Madurai||Plea in HC to appoint officer to monitor workers’ safety||Madurai: A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed before the Madras high court seeking to appoint a district-level officer to monitor the safety and welfare of cleanliness workers who are involved in Covid-19 prevention work. D Sulif, president of the Louie Sanitary Workers Welfare Association based at Kanyakumari district, in his petition stated more than 1,000 members in his association are working as cleanliness workers in local bodies at Kanyakumari, Tuticorin and Tirunelveli districts. Though the workers are involved in Covid-19 prevention work by risking their lives for the welfare of the general public, they are not provided any safety gears such as masks, gloves and sanitizers. They are also not subjected to testing or medical checks. Since several frontline workers such as doctors, nurses and health department officials have tested positive for Covid-19, he sent a representation to the government to provide safety gears and subject the workers to medical checkup. However, no steps were taken in this regard. So, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench. When the case was taken up on Friday, a division bench of justices P N Prakash and B Pugalendhi tagged this petition along with a similar petition which sought to provide PPE kits to non-medical frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-to-appoint-officer-to-monitor-workers-safety/articleshow/76100071.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||One arrestedfor blocking railway track||Mapusa: Goa police arrested one person, while six minors have been lodged at protective home Apna Ghar in Merces for allegedly blocking the railway track, 2km from Tivim railway station. Police said that the Konkan railway engineering department has filed a complaint before the Konkan railway police station at Margao over the incident which took place on May 25 and May 28. Police said that an FIR was registered at Margaa and it was transferred to Mapusa police station for investigation. Police said when Mapusa police visited the site they saw some persons near the track. “On interrogation, they revealed that they were behind the incident,” police said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-arrestedfor-blocking-railway-track/articleshow/76100065.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Udaipur||Monuments, museums to open in Rajasthan from June 1||JAIPUR: Monuments and museums will now be opened for tourists from June 1. The archaeology and museums department on Friday issued guidelines keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the guidelines, in the first week the monuments and museums will remain open on four days, that is Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. The timing will also be curtailed. Visitors will be allowed between 9am and 2pm In the second week, while these landmarks will open on the same four days as in first week, the visitors will be allowed in the afternoon – from 3pm to 5pm as well. From the third week onwards, the monuments and museums will open on all days with timings from 9am to 1pm and again 3pm to 5pm. During the first two weeks, visitors will be exempted from any fees. Officials said this is to encourage people to come back to the places once again. From third week onwards, 50% discount will be given on ticket charges. This is both for Indian and foreign tourists. As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), visitors without masks will not be allowed and also each batch of five people will be allowed at a time. After a gap of five minutes, another group will be allowed in order to maintain social distancing. The department has also made arrangements for sanitisers for the visitors at these historical places. Similarly, there are guidelines for staff working in these monuments and museums. No staff from hotspots will be deployed on duty and the social distancing norms will be strictly in place in the offices. The monuments were closed for visitors from March 18 after the outbreak of coronavirus in the country as well as in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/monuments-museums-to-open-from-june-1/articleshow/76106081.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Vadodara||Two women with same name leave hospital||VADODARA: Two women with the same name, who had left the GMERS Gotri Hospital on Thursday had to be traced by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) after their test results confirmed Covid-19 infection on Friday. Along with the two women, total 34 persons tested positive for Covid-19 since Thursday evening. Sources in the VMC said that both the women were around the same age and used to stay in nearby areas near the Khanderao Market and Lal Court areas. Officials of the civic body located both the women and took them back to the hospital. A woman in the advanced stage of her pregnancy staying in the Subhanpura area was also found infected after her sample was collected at a health centre. She has now been admitted to the GMERS, Gotri Hospital. The 34 new cases were identified from the 152 tests that were conducted in the city since Thursday evening. These included 16 from the north zone, 11 from the east zone, five from the south zone and two from the west zone. With the fresh cases, the total number of persons who tested positive in Vadodara went up to 995 and at the present rate cross 1,000 by Saturday. The cases include 951 from the city limits, 36 from areas of the district outside city limits and eight of persons outside the district. Thirty persons were discharged in the city taking the total number of discharged persons to 578. This left the number of patients under treatment at 375 out off which 13 are on oxygen while eight are on BIPAP machines or ventilators. The number of deceased remained at 42 with the VMC not confirming any more deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-women-with-same-name-leave-hospital/articleshow/76097395.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ajmer||Monuments, museums to open in Rajasthan from June 1||JAIPUR: Monuments and museums will now be opened for tourists from June 1. The archaeology and museums department on Friday issued guidelines keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the guidelines, in the first week the monuments and museums will remain open on four days, that is Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. The timing will also be curtailed. Visitors will be allowed between 9am and 2pm In the second week, while these landmarks will open on the same four days as in first week, the visitors will be allowed in the afternoon – from 3pm to 5pm as well. From the third week onwards, the monuments and museums will open on all days with timings from 9am to 1pm and again 3pm to 5pm. During the first two weeks, visitors will be exempted from any fees. Officials said this is to encourage people to come back to the places once again. From third week onwards, 50% discount will be given on ticket charges. This is both for Indian and foreign tourists. As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), visitors without masks will not be allowed and also each batch of five people will be allowed at a time. After a gap of five minutes, another group will be allowed in order to maintain social distancing. The department has also made arrangements for sanitisers for the visitors at these historical places. Similarly, there are guidelines for staff working in these monuments and museums. No staff from hotspots will be deployed on duty and the social distancing norms will be strictly in place in the offices. The monuments were closed for visitors from March 18 after the outbreak of coronavirus in the country as well as in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/monuments-museums-to-open-from-june-1/articleshow/76106085.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||Monuments, museums to open in Rajasthan from June 1||JAIPUR: Monuments and museums will now be opened for tourists from June 1. The archaeology and museums department on Friday issued guidelines keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the guidelines, in the first week the monuments and museums will remain open on four days, that is Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. The timing will also be curtailed. Visitors will be allowed between 9am and 2pm In the second week, while these landmarks will open on the same four days as in first week, the visitors will be allowed in the afternoon – from 3pm to 5pm as well. From the third week onwards, the monuments and museums will open on all days with timings from 9am to 1pm and again 3pm to 5pm. During the first two weeks, visitors will be exempted from any fees. Officials said this is to encourage people to come back to the places once again. From third week onwards, 50% discount will be given on ticket charges. This is both for Indian and foreign tourists. As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), visitors without masks will not be allowed and also each batch of five people will be allowed at a time. After a gap of five minutes, another group will be allowed in order to maintain social distancing. The department has also made arrangements for sanitisers for the visitors at these historical places. Similarly, there are guidelines for staff working in these monuments and museums. No staff from hotspots will be deployed on duty and the social distancing norms will be strictly in place in the offices. The monuments were closed for visitors from March 18 after the outbreak of coronavirus in the country as well as in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/monuments-museums-to-open-from-june-1/articleshow/76100074.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Trichy||Couple from Bengaluru refuses to test, booked||Trichy: A young couple was booked by Trichy city police in the late hours of Thursday for not cooperating with health department officials for Covid-19 testing on their arrival at the Trichy airport from Bengaluru . Airport police registered a case against S Mugunda Raj and his wife Suhasini, both 34, of Kumbakonam on charges of deterring public servant from discharging their duties. As the IndiGo flight landed on Wednesday night, officials led by district collector S Sivarasu made all arrangements for the screening test and taking swabs from the 71 passengers. Things were normal until 69 passengers completed the formalities as the couple stayed put at the airport lounge and refused to come out. Though the officials held talks with them, they expressed their unwillingness for institutional or hotel quarantine. Since it was mandatory for all passengers to be in the quarantine until their results showed negative, the officials also tried to convince them. Eventually, the police lodged a complaint with airport police who brought them out and put them through testing before releasing them. The officials later allowed them to be in home quarantine for 14 days. However, the police filed a case against them under IPC, Tamil Nadu public health (TNPH) Act, disobeying the government order under The Epidemic Diseases Act and The Disaster Management Act. As domestic flight operations resumed on May 25, the IndiGo flight service of one per day brought around 286 passengers from Bengaluru to Trichy till Thursday. Though they were quarantined in Trichy, they were sent back home the very next day after they tested negative for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/couple-from-bengaluru-refuses-to-test-booked/articleshow/76100070.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana breaks single-day record again, Eatala hints at surge||HYDERABAD: As Telangana broke its highest-single day Covid-19 spike for the third day in a row with 169 positive cases on Friday, health minister Eatala Rajender hinted at a serious surge in towns and villages. Four more persons also died from virus as the toll rose to 71 and the overall caseload reached 2,425. While greater Hyderabad continued to be a cause for concern with 82 new cases, Rajender, who was touring Karimnagar district, said the battle to contain novel coronavirus has just begun in the countryside. “The villages and towns have to be careful as many people from other states and countries are coming back. Coronavirus will not leave now and the government alone cannot stop this, people will have to be cautious,” Rajender said. With the new cases on Friday, authorities said a spike in numbers is likely with trains from various states carrying migrants reaching Hyderabad. Approximately 1.20 lakh migrants belonging to Telangana have returned, including 550 in two trains. In addition, around 230 migrant workers from Bihar reached Hyderabad in the second week of May to work in various rice mills across the state. “The migrants rush and the deportees turning positive has turned the tables against us. Otherwise, we were hoping to bring down numbers significantly,” said an official at the forefront of the Covid-19 battle. A seven-month-old baby from Sanga Reddy who had high fever on May 27 and was brought to Niloufer hospital, died on the same day. “When we tested the body, the report was coronavirus positive. We are now tracking 150 people, who participated in the last rites,” said a senior health department official. On Friday, Rangareddy district had 14 cases, while neighbouring Medak had two cases and Sanga Reddy another two Covid-19 patients. Altogether 64 deportees from Saudi Arabia tested positive, raising their numbers to 207. These 450 deportees have been kept under strict Army surveillance, away from residential areas in the Secunderabad Cantonment. While 30 foreign evacuees have tested positive, another serious concern for the government is 180 migrants, who turned positive ever since returning from various states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-breaks-single-day-record-again-eatala-hints-at-surge/articleshow/76100522.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Vijayawada||No PG counselling at private medical colleges||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh Private Medical and Dental Colleges Management’s Association (APPMDCM) has informed of its unanimous decision to withdraw from the NTR University of Health Sciences counselling process for admission to postgraduate (PG) medical/dental courses on Friday. In a letter addressed to special chief secretary of health medical and family welfare department, general secretary of APPMDCM Dr Ganni Kasimbi stated that the government’s order of fixed fee structure is far below that of previous years. “We are dismayed to see in the GO MS No.56 that the fee structure for postgraduate students of medical and dental courses is almost 40% to 60% below the fee in vogue for the past four years. It appears that you haven’t taken into account the expenditure incurred on various services provided to the students, depreciation values on equipments, infrastructure, horticulture and other maintenance cost of the institution,” the letter reads. The APPMDCM had previously written to the health department urging that 85% of the postgraduate seats have the same fee structure and a higher fee be fixed for 15% of non-resident Indian (NRI) students. The APPMDCM adds that the figures quoted in the total annual fee structure do not amount to even 20% of the stipend paid to the student in clinical subjects and 40% in para-clinical subjects. The letter goes on to add that private unaided non-minority medical and dental colleges in the state are going through a very difficult period at present due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-pg-counselling-at-pvt-medical-colleges/articleshow/76098236.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Day of records: Highest cases, highest recoveries, Vid surpasses 1600-mark; Man dies in Wardha||Nagpur: Friday was a record-breaking day for Vidarbha in the Covid-19 pandemic so far. The region recorded highest single-day surge of 106 cases and also highest single-day recoveries at 103. Total number of cases surpassed the 1600-mark and settled at 1,608, while the number of recovered and discharged patients crossed 1,000.With 1,056 of 1,608 patients discharged, the recovery rate of Vidarbha has reached a new high of 65.67%, best till date. Nagpur (43), Akola (42), Amravati (12) — all red-zoned districts — continued to record new cases. More Mumbai-returnees tested positive in Gadchiroli (3), Gondia (3), Bhandara (2) and Yavatmal (1). Buldhana, Washim, Chandrapur and Wardha posted no new case. A 63-year-old Washim man admitted in Wardha 22 days ago died in isolation ward during treatment on Friday. With this, Vidarbha recorded a death on 9th consecutive day, taking the total number of deaths so far to 60. More than 100 patients recovered from the region in a day for the first time on Friday. These include highest 39 from Akola followed by Gondia (25), Amravati (18), Chandrapur (10), Nagpur (8) and Wardha (4). All patients were discharged as per new policy. Remarkably, 25 Mumbai-returnee migrant labourers from Gondia recovered fully after 10 days of rest, treatment and went home for seven-day home isolation. A patient from Akola was referred to GMCH Nagpur as his condition deteriorated. The patient is admitted at Covid ward in GMCH now.Chandrapur: Zilla parishad chief executive officer Rahul Kardile informed that 12 of 22 positive patients in Chandrapur have been cured so far. Out of them, 10 were discharged on Friday, while two others had recovered earlier. No positive Covid-19 patient was reported on Friday. It is fourth consecutive day when no positive patient was detected in district. Chandrapur district had earlier tested 22 positive patients. There are 10 active containment zones in the district. They include eight in rural areas and two in Chandrapur city. Officials informed that 71 health department teams have screened 12,069 people living 3,151 houses in 10 containment zones. People are also being checked for influenza-like illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) symptoms. All 9 samples of ILI and SARI suspects tested so far have been found negative.Wardha: A 63-year-old man from Washim died after fighting with Covid-19 for 22 days at Kasturba Hospital on Friday at 2am. He was a resident of Kawathal village in Mangrulpeer tehsil of Washim. He was admitted to a private hospital in Karanja (Lad) on April 30 for paralysis. The person was treated there till May 4. During this time he contracted pneumonia. This person was already a patient of hypertension and diabetes. He came to Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi, for treatment on May 8. As precautionary measures, his swab sample was taken and his report came positive on May 10. The elderly man had already undergone heart surgery. After receiving reports of coronavirus, he was admitted to Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram.Four patients from Dhamangaon Railway, who were admitted in Wardha, were discharged on Friday. These were first Covid-free patients in the district. On May 15, a 21-year-old resident of Dhamangaon Railway in Amravati district was admitted to the AVBRH, Sawangi. The woman was also suffering from meningitis. After her Covid-19 report came positive, swab samples of her family members were also tested. Samples of her mother and two sisters turned positive.Rs40k penalty per head: In a unique development, offences were registered against a family for violating home quarantine norms. A 24-year-old positive patient from Arvi, who came from Akola with others including a one-month-old baby, was placed in home quarantine. After they were found violating the norms, administration has issued a notice to pay Rs40,000 penalty per head.Amravati: In 56 days since the first Covid-19 case was detected in the city, Amravati crossed 200-mark and settled at 203 with addition of 12 new cases to its yesterday’s count of 191. While it took 43 days for the district to reach the first 100 on May 16, the next 100 came in just 13 days.While most of the 12 cases came from containment zones, a new case was reported from Ramnagar, which became the 34th containment zone of the city and 40th in the district.On the very same day, 18 patients were discharged, taking the tally of recovered persons to 116, which is more than 50% of the total Covid count of the district.Ramnagar was in a shock when a 65-year-old retired male employee of social welfare department tested positive with no history of any travel. Locked in the house since lockdown, he caught fever three-four days ago and went to Covid Hospital for check-up where his swab was taken. Eight members of his family have been quarantined after he tested positive this morning.Ratanganj gave seven cases today, five from a single family in Zadapipura area, to take its count to 10. All the five members are contacts of a 64-year-old male from the family who tested positive on May 26. They were already quarantined. The other two cases from Ratanganj are males aged 45 and 65.Frazerpura, which became a containment zone on May 26 when a 61-year-old man tested positive, today added three more from his family — a male aged 40 and two females aged 21 and 30, to the list to take its count to four. Meanwhile, AMC commissioner on Friday lifted containment restrictions from Hathipura, Kagrapura, Talabpura, Nagpuri Gate, Saudagarpura, Sarafa, Bohra Galli and Badnera’s Noornagar, Khatikpura, Baripura and Malipura as these areas have not reported any fresh cases for long.Yavatmal: The city reported one more positive case on Friday which takes the number of total active positive patients to 25. According to GMC sources, a woman hailing from Nagapur village in Umarkhed, who is a Mumbai-returnee, has tested positive and she is now shifted to GMC isolation ward. RDC’s diktat: Yavatmal resident deputy collector Lalitkumar Warhade purportedly addressing the public via voice message has directed public to thrash those who are found without mask. Human rights activists have questioned the RDC about he ‘inciting’ the public to beat those who do not wear mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-of-records-highest-cases-highest-recoveries-vid-surpasses-1600-mark-man-dies-in-wardha/articleshow/76099120.cms||Balwant Dhage
May 30, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: DMK cadre, 50 others booked for attacking company office||TRICHY: A DMK functionary in Trichy has been booked for rioting and criminal intimidation based on a complaint from a company supplying blue metal in Kulithalai in Karur district alleging damage to their office on Thursday. According to complainant M Kamalan, manager of Navamani Mines private limited, over 50 people had attacked the office on Wednesday and damaged property worth Rs2 lakh. Kulithalai police have arrested five people and booked M Palaniyandi, a DMK functionary from Trichy, and 50 others for rioting, criminal intimidation and damage of property. Palaniyandi, who owns runs a blue metal crusher unit in Kulithalai, had earlier had lodged a complaint at the Kulithalai police station raising objection against Navamani Mines for setting up crusher unit near his quarry. “His employees along with few outsiders had attacked my office and damaged property,” said Kamalan. Kulithalai DySP M Kummaraja said that there was dispute between the two crusher units which are situated in less a kilometre away, although there are norms that a crusher unit should not be established with a km from other. There is a court stay order against Navamani blue metals to start operations. Following complaints, five staffers from Rathnagireeswarar Blue Metal were arrested. Speaking to TOI, Palaniyandi denied attacking them. He said Navamani blue metals are operating with the support of the ruling party and carrying operations by flouting norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-cadre-50-others-booked-for-attacking-company-office/articleshow/76100079.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC dismisses petition against breaking coconut on devotees’ head||Madurai: Dismissing a plea which sought to prevent the custom of breaking coconuts on the head of devotees at a temple festival, Madras high court observed that customs or rituals performed by any religion cannot be prevented by the court unless they are against public order, morality and health in the eye of law.The court was hearing a petition filed by the administrators of Mahalakshmi Mummudiyar Kula Nala Sangam of 24 Mannai Telugu Chettiar community who sought a direction to not break coconut on the heads of devotees during the Aadi festival of Mahalakshmi Amman temple in Karur district. The petitioners stated that since breaking coconuts on the head causes injuries, the coconut can be placed on the head of the devotees and then smashed on the ground.Hearing the plea, Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that the practice of breaking coconuts on the head of devotees is followed in several other temples in the state. “If we trace the historical background, this court can find that devotees follow practices such as ‘Thee Mithithal’ and ‘Alagu Kuthudal’ by troubling themselves for the deities to fulfil their vows,” he said. The judge noted that supreme sacrifice of life was made by soldiers of Chola kingdom to the deity to fulfil their vows after the Chola king captured Kalinga according to the literary work Kalingathu Parani penned by Jeyamkondar.Citing a Supreme Court order, the judge observed that freedom of religion in the Constitution extends not only to religious beliefs but also to religious practices subject to restriction under Article 26. “These kind of rituals, customary practices which are being performed from several hundred years or time immemorial, cannot be said to be mere awful act of some group of people,” he said. The judge observed that since the devotees have not raised any complaints in this regard, the practice cannot be considered against public order, morality and health. Observing that the beliefs of any religion or religious denomination or community cannot be easily disturbed by the diktat of law courts except in the manner known to law, the judge said he is not inclined to issue any direction as sought for in the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madras-hc-dismisses-petition-against-breaking-coconut-on-devotees-head/articleshow/76100078.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 30, 2020||Madurai||HC pulls up Centre for toll plazas within 23km||Madurai: The Centre and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have been directed to issue a fresh notification explaining the reasons for retaining two toll plazas within 23km stretch in Sivaganga district. The Madras high court gave the direction citing that the same was in violation of provisions of the National Highways Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules 2008. The court was hearing a petition filed by SP S Ilangoo seeking to remove the Shenbagampettai toll plaza at NH 36 in Sivaganga district, stating there is already a toll plaza on the stretch at Lembalakudi within a distance of 23km from the second toll plaza at Shenbagampettai. Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that  as per the first proviso to rule 8(2), a second toll plaza within 60km can also be established by the executing authority for the reasons to be recorded in writing. The second proviso is for the purpose of collecting fee for a permanent bridge, bypass or tunnel, the second toll plaza can very well be established within the 60km distance. Hence, the judge directed the authorities to come out with a revised notification by giving reasons in writing for retaining the toll plazas both at Lembalakudi and Shenbagampettai. He also directed that the toll fee is revised accordingly. The judge further said that the directives shall be undertaken by the authorities within a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of a copy of this order, failing which the toll plaza at Lembalakudi in NH 36 shall be construed as an unauthorised toll plaza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-pulls-up-centre-for-toll-plazas-within-23km/articleshow/76100080.cms||Kaushik Kannan
May 30, 2020||Goa||Increased staff for swab collection||Panaji: Four counters and 40 staff odd was deployed at North Goa district hospital on Friday for swab collection after problems arose there as the number of travellers increased. Health secretary Nila Mohanan said the counters have been increased. “We are doing our best to scale up manpower and meet increasing demand,” she said at a press conference. She said the problem arose as about 150 passengers came after 5 pm on Thursday, and naturally there was a built up. “But moment we got to know about the problem, the collector and directorate of health services co-ordinated and we had some people shifted to Ponda sub district hospital and South Goa district hospital,” she said. She said 571 people alone came from Patradevi checkpost on Thursday. On Friday, too, there was a similar surge in arrivals. “We are responding to the situation as and when it develops,” she said She said the online system has been updated to send tests results to travellers who were tested for Covid-19. “We have started sending SMSs. Today, 700 to 800 SMSs have been sent,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/increased-staff-for-swab-collection/articleshow/76100072.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Bandirwada to get proper road access after 20 yrs||Valpoi: The residents of Bandirwada in the Sanvordem, Sattari have heaved a sigh of relief as they received the news that the 4km-long ‘kutcha’ road from Bandirwada to Kumthol will soon be tarred. The administrative approval for improvement and strengthening of existing road was issued on Tuesday. The construction of a road connecting Bandirwada to Khumthol commenced 20 years ago, but was left incomplete despite continuous demands from villagers to get the project completed. Bandirwada villagers had to walk for over 4km to reach the nearest village of Kumthol, and children have had to face difficulties in reaching their schools on time. Due to the hardships faced by their children, many parents were forced to shift and stay in rented rooms near the schools. In times of emergency, even an ambulance is not able to reach the the village as there was no proper road. Health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane said that he is grateful that the long pending demand for improvement and strengthening of the existing road Kumthol-Bandirwada road, including roads of Kajredhat and Krishnapur junction in Bandirwada has been approved by chief minister Pramod Sawant and PWD Minister Deepak Pauskar at the cost of Rs3.34 crore. “The project is a commitment and promise I had made to the people 10 years back, and the dream has now turned into a reality,” Rane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bandirwada-to-get-proper-road-access-after-20-yrs/articleshow/76100077.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||Congress MLA’s father moves HC for pension||Jaipur: The father of sitting Congress MLA, Indra Meena has filed a petition with the Rajasthan High Court for not getting his retirement benefits. A single bench of the high court issued notices to the principal secretary (revenue), the district collector, Tonk and tehsildar of Niwai on Monday and sought reply into the matter in eight weeks. Jagdish Prasad Meena, father of Bamanwas MLA Indra Meena, stated in the petition that he has been denied post-retirement benefits including pension. Laxmikant Sharma Malpura, the counsel for the petitioner, said, “Meena joined the post of patwari in 1977 and got retired on August 31, 2016. Since then he was not given retirement benefits, including pension. He made several requests to the department concerned but his attempts went in vain. Thus, we approached the high court with this petition.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-mlas-father-moves-hc-for-pension/articleshow/76100084.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Madurai||Another recreation club fined by HC||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday imposed Rs 50,000 cost on a recreation club which sought to grant permission to supply liquor to the its members by takeaway or through online delivery. This is the second recreation club which has been fined by the high court in two days over a similar plea. The court was hearing the petition filed by Harshini Recreation Club in Virudhunagar district. The petitioner stated that the Supreme Court had granted permission to the state government for the sale of liquor though Tasmac shops and sought a similar right to be extended to the club. Dismissing the petition, justice C V Karthikeyan imposed the Rs 50,000 cost on the recreation club payable to the chief minister’s relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/another-recreation-club-fined-by-hc/articleshow/76100086.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tribal tracts in Vizag district to soon get medical institute||VISAKHAPATNAM: State tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao (Avanthi) said the government had issued orders to set up a medical college for tribal areas in Visakhapatnam district on 35 acres of land. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy is expected to lay the foundation stone for the project soon. The minister said another medical college will also be set up in Anakapalle as part of the state’s efforts to have one medical college for each Parliamentary constituency. The minister said the construction of the medical colleges and teaching hospitals, primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs) would be carried out at an estimated cost of Rs 2,280 crore. Building works for a number of PHCs, CHCs and sub-centres are underway in the district at an estimated cost of Rs 240 crore, the minister said. After a review of health and medical, tourism and other departments, the minister said 40,000 people have benefitted under Aarogyasri in the past year. He said the district has 27 mobile medical units are and medical services have been provided to 16.31 lakh people in 1,410 villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tribal-tracts-in-vizag-dist-to-soon-get-med-institute/articleshow/76098248.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Trichy||17 test positive in south TN, 3 in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: There was some respite for south Tamil Nadu on Friday as six of the ten districts in the region recorded no fresh Covid-19 cases though 17 cases — 15 of them from Tirunelveli — were reported from the remaining districts. In the central region, Trichy reported one case and Ariyalur three. The total cases in the southern region stood at 1,400 and those in the central region at 868. In Tirunelveli district, 11 people who returned from Maharashtra tested positive. As many as 80 more people who arrived on the special train from Mumbai on May 25 are under railway quarantine after testing positive. In all, 930 passengers on the train were tested and 111 of them have tested positive. The total cases in the district now stand at 345. Virudhunagar, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari reported one Covid-19 case each while Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts had no new cases. In Trichy, a 54-year-old woman Chennai returnee belonging to Allur was the latest to be infected. She was shifted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). In Ariyalur, three persons tested positive taking the total number of cases in the district to 365. They comprised a 24-year-old man and a 38-year-old man from Ariyalur as well as a 31-year-old man from Kumilankuzhi village. All of them were working in Mumbai and had returned to Ariyalur on May 25 on a special rescue train. There are 10 active cases in Ariyalur district as on Friday. Perambalur did not report any fresh infection in the past week. The remaining districts – Karur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam — in the region recorded no new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/17-test-positive-in-south-tn-3-in-central-dists/articleshow/76100088.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Complaint filed against mining truck drivers||Quepem: Following the haphazard movement of iron ore-laden trucks along the Cavrem-Curchorem road that has been endangering commuters and pedestrians, social activist Christanand Pednekar on Friday filed a police complaint against the truck drivers for disregarding the law. Pednekar stated that the drivers are overspeeding, driving rashly, dangerously overtaking other trucks on the road and not maintaining a safe distance between vehicles, thereby putting citizens’ life at risk. He has also alleged that a group of truck drivers threatened him. tnn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/complaint-filed-against-mining-truck-drivers/articleshow/76100081.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Ex-servicemen likely to be Secunderabad Cantonment Board facilitators||SECUNDERABAD: Ex-servicemen may soon be appointed as facilitators in the utility services of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB). A proposal to recruit Army veterans in trade licence wing, water meter reading and other such services was moved by SCB vice-president J Rama Krishna at a meeting of the SCB on Friday. Rama Krishna said that ex-servicemen can be hired to act as facilitators at the board office for smooth and efficient operations and to attract more revenue. President cantonment board (PCB), Brigadier Abhijit Chandra, who chaired the board meeting, responded positively and directed SCB chief executive officer, SVR Chandra Sekhar, to examine the proposal. “If all goes well, the services of these ex-servicemen will be utilised after a period of three months,” J Rama Krishna told TOI. The board members also discussed the preparation of budget estimates for the year 2020-21, which has been approved by the board with an outlay of Rs 265 crore. However, with a deficit of Rs 99 crore, the board has sought grant-in-aid from the defence ministry. The board members also urged the PCB to deploy two special sanitation teams and additional vehicles for lifting of garbage and additional jetting machines for cleaning of open nalas. The board approved the same for a limited period on a pilot basis, which would be reviewed subsequently. The board also decided to approach the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) for execution of ‘Under Ground Drainage’ (UGD) lines work in the cantonment areas. “We have discussed at length the issue of road closure during lockdown,” said Rama Krishna. The PCB said that a special meeting with the General Officer Commanding (GOC) will be convened soon to discuss the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-servicemen-likely-to-be-scb-facilitators/articleshow/76099143.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||Congress MLA’s father moves Rajasthan HC for pension||JAIPUR: The father of sitting Congress MLA, Indra Meena has filed a petition with the Rajasthan High Court for not getting his retirement benefits. A single bench of the high court issued notices to the principal secretary (revenue), the district collector, Tonk and tehsildar of Niwai on Monday and sought reply into the matter in eight weeks. Jagdish Prasad Meena, father of Bamanwas MLA Indra Meena, stated in the petition that he has been denied post-retirement benefits including pension. Laxmikant Sharma Malpura, the counsel for the petitioner, said, “Meena joined the post of patwari in 1977 and got retired on August 31, 2016. Since then he was not given retirement benefits, including pension. He made several requests to the department concerned but his attempts went in vain. Thus, we approached the high court with this petition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-mlas-father-moves-hc-for-pension/articleshow/76100092.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Jaipur||Passenger load in domestic flights gradually increasing||JAIPUR: Even after five days since domestic flights resumed, movement is yet to become normal. Though there has been a gradual increase in the number of passengers, authorities at Jaipur airport and airlines said passengers were still in fear and different quarantine rules in different states have been the key reason why they are reluctant to travel. The only saving grace so far is that the number of passengers boarding the flights, which was initially as low as 2 to 10, is gradually improving. TOI on Friday collected the data of flight cancellations and how passengers were responding to domestic air travel. “On May 25 when flights resumed, passenger turnout was very low which led to the cancellation of many flights. Also, passengers are travelling with the fear of getting infected and quarantined. But it is gradually improving,” said Jaipur airport director Jaideep Singh Balhara. Various operators as per SOPs are providing face shields, masks and sanitizers to passengers in addition to sanitising the aircraft prior to departures and after arrivals. However, they believe that different quarantine rules for different states has been the major reason why passengers are still shying away from flights. “Though passengers are well informed, it will take some more time to get things normal. Also, we have found that people stuck in a city for a long time or those having unavoidable emergency or official trip are travelling. Things will be normal when we will welcome regular passengers for tourism,” said an operator at the airport. Passengers coming here and travelling out are also extra cautious. “My parents live in Jaipur and I was stuck in Gurugram. Since I can manage to work for home for next couple of months, I took a flight to be with my parents,” said Sidhant Singh, an IT professional who arrived on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/passenger-load-in-domestic-flights-gradually-increasing/articleshow/76100090.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 30, 2020||Trichy||Arts & science colleges scout for admission through social media||Trichy: Arts and science colleges in the city have started preparing for admissions by posting information and inviting queries through their social media accounts. They have also informed that they are going to roll out online applications shortly.The ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has instructed colleges to conduct semester examination in July. While second and third year classes may resume from August, admissions for the first year undergraduate and post graduate courses may start in September. However, given the cut-throat competition among arts and science colleges in the city going by the trend in the last few years, colleges are sharing information about various courses and salient features of the college and their infrastructure. Colleges said that they have been receiving inquiries about various courses and application forms.“Since students and parents are curious to know about colleges and the courses offered, we have increased our social media activities over the last few days,” said an administrator from a private arts and science college.Speaking to TOI, National College Trichy (NCT) principal R Sundararaman said that there has been no communication on issuing applications for admission so far from the higher education department.However, they are planning to receive applications through online mode from next week. “While they can apply with their basic details, the applications can be updated once the results for Class XII board results are declared,” he said.“While the results are expected to be released by the end of June, CBSE Class XII board examinations are yet to be conducted and we will be reserving seats for such students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/arts-science-colleges-scout-for-admission-through-social-media/articleshow/76100098.cms||Sampath Kumar
May 30, 2020||Goa||Families near Mhadei sanctuary continue to face threats from wild||Keri: With a calf recently killed by a wild animal in Golauli, two families living at the foothills of the Western Ghats continue to face threats from the wild. Vitho Zipo Pavane, a co-accused in January’s tiger-killing case, told TOI that although his calf had been killed, he did not claim compensation. “Nothing except two bones was left, which is why I did not apply for compensation,” he said. Of the three Dhangar families living in the vicinity of the forested areas in the Valpoi range, two earn their livelihood through the milking cows and buffaloes. They have no other source of income. Despite the threat from wild animals, the families have preferred to live in Golauli as two perennial springs provide drinking water, and food and fodder is available. During grazing, however, their bovines frequently stray into the forests of the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary, becoming easy prey for wild animals. The pastoral village was in the news in the first week of January after the carcasses of four big cats — a tigress, two cubs and one sub-adult tiger — were found in a highly decomposed condition. Through the Alisa test kit, the samples of all four tigers indicated that they had been poisoned. Following investigations, it was revealed that after the tigress had killed a cow and buffalo, the villagers had poisoned the carcass of the buffalo and left it in the forest. The forest department then arrested Malo Nago Pavane, Vitho Zipo Pavane, Bomo Nago Pavane, Jyotiba Malo Pavane and Biro Vitho Pavane, all residents of Golauli. The five accused were later released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/families-near-mhadei-sanctuary-continue-to-face-threats-from-wild/articleshow/76100085.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
May 30, 2020||Madurai||Containment areas now narrow down to houses||Madurai: Containment zones have now shrunk into contained streets in Madurai and the city has just four of them while the rural areas are free of it. The district health department has a daily Covid-19 tracker on which the areas are earmarked as red, green and white colours. Red indicates active zones, green free of infection and white refers to people staying in government-run quarantine facilities. Earlier, an area in a one-kilometre radius in the city and 3-kilometre radius in villages was cordoned off when a positive case was reported. Now it is confined to the street, more so the house of the patient. Though the number of positive cases has been increasing, the containment areas are shrinking as most of the new cases are connected to people coming from other districts or states. Health officials of the city corporation said they had about four containment streets as on date, Saraswathy Street in Mahatma Gandhi Nagar, Nedunchezhian street in New Vilangudi, Income tax colony in New Vilangudi and Mathanpatti/Seeman Nagar ward number 30. Only if five or more persons test positive from a household or area would it be cordoned off like earlier, they said. All rules of containment including restriction of movement are followed in the isolation areas like earlier. As of now, only the contacts of the positive person and neighbours, if they show any symptoms, are tested for the disease. The district which earlier had 82 containment zones has seen 78 move to the green zone. In all, 70 active cases among the total 249 cases reported in the district till May 28 are from the rural areas, mainly people who came from other states and districts, and kept in quarantine facilities. Hence, rural areas do not have containment areas. The city has 21 active cases in hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/containment-areas-now-narrow-down-to-houses/articleshow/76100091.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Madurai||Heavy rain lashes southern districts||Madurai: As rain lashed the city and suburbs on Thursday evening, recording an average rainfall of 39.94mm, many markets were shut down due to water stagnation on Friday. Kallikudi received the highest rainfall of 116.4mm, followed by Idayapatti with 105mm. Tallakulam in the city received 80.5mm and Madurai airport 63mm. As water stagnated in temporary vegetable markets functioning at Matuthavani bus stand and Amma Thiddal in the city, traders could not open in the morning. Other places in the city like the banana market were also slushy and muddy following the rains. Madurai central vegetable market president P S Murugan said that about 1,000kg tomatoes had to be thrown away as they were drenched and spoilt in the rain without proper shelter. “We sold onions and other vegetables at a throwaway price, as stocks that arrived when it was raining got drenched,” he said. Many of the city roads, including the Masi Streets around the temple were slushy and muddy throughout the day due to the rains. Meanwhile, in Sivaganga, the excavation work in Keeladi which began nearly 47 days after the lockdown had to be stalled as Thirupuvanam recorded a rainfall of 108.4mm on Friday. Work resumed on March 24, but the rain resulted in most of the trenches getting filled with water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/heavy-rain-lashes-southern-districts/articleshow/76100094.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Govt employees have secure jobs, should help others: CM||Panaji: In view of Covid pandemic, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that as jobs of government employees are secured, they should in turn help and promote any person who wants to establish new business ventures in the state. Speaking at the annual commendation award presentation ceremony held by the Directorate of Fire & Emergency Services, Sawant said “We are trying our level best (not to cut down salaries). In multinational and private sector companies there are job cuts, salary cuts, short term and long-term breaks. Not a single company has been able to escape this pandemic.” Sawant said that only government employees have not faced any problems in jobs. “It is the responsibility of every government employee to give 100 percent output. When we pay 100 percent salary we expect 100 percent output,” he said. The chief minister said that if the private sector has to be boosted, then it is necessary that government employee should help them. “There are various government departments which come in contact with people and if someone wants to start a new business then we have to help them in registering the firm etc,” he said. Sawant also said that a lot of people have approached the government to fast-track permissions to those who want to start new ventures and it is necessary to boost the economy. “It is our responsibility to help, guide and promote a person who wants to start a new venture,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-employees-have-secure-jobs-should-help-others-cm/articleshow/76100525.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||HC reinstates Ramesh as SEC, setback for Jagan govt||Vijayawada: The high court on Friday set aside ordinance 5 of 2020 and the consequential GOs issued by the state government which resulted in cessation of Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar’s tenure as state election commissioner (SEC). The high court also reinstated Ramesh Kumar as SEC. The government had promulgated the ordinance on April 10, amending the AP Panchayat Raj Act and issued GO 617 notifying the same. Consequential to the ordinance, the government issued GO 618 stating that Ramesh Kumar ceased to be the SEC. On the same day, GO 619 was issued, appointing retired judge Justice V Kanagaraj as the new SEC. The timing of the ordinance created a controversy as the process for local body elections was initiated and then postponed by Ramesh Kumar due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Ruling party members, including chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, alleged that Ramesh Kumar took the decision to postpone the elections unilaterally without consulting the state government. Challenging the ordinance and consequential GOs, Ramesh Kumar moved the high court. As many as 12 public interest litigations (PILs) were also moved by others on the same issue. While the government claimed that the ordinance was issued as part of electoral reforms, Ramesh Kumar contended that it was promulgated arbitrarily without satisfying the parameters under Article 213 of the Constitution. The other petitioners said the government’s decision will undermine the functioning of independent institutions like the election commission. The high court, which had reserved its verdict, pronounced the judgment on Friday. The bench headed by Chief Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheswari and Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy said ordinance 5 of 2020 does not satisfy the parameters under Article 213 of the Constitution. The court also observed that the governor has the power to promulgate an ordinance under Article 213 in the absence of the legislature but the power to promulgate the ordinance should be exercised under certain conditions as prescribed in the Constitution. The bench further said that the removal of SEC cannot be done in any manner other than the process in which a high court judge is removed, adding that the SEC’s tenure cannot be reduced and the government cannot take away the right of the incumbent SEC by reducing the tenure through an ordinance. Setting aside the ordinance and the consequential GOs, the high court restored Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as SEC. While Ramesh Kumar issued a statement immediately after the verdict, saying he has assumed charge as SEC and will soon review the election process, sources said the government will challenge the order in the Supreme Court. Gudivada Amarnath, the ruling party MLA from Anakapalli, said the government will approach the Supreme Court. “The style of functioning of Ramesh Kumar and the decisions he took as SEC gave the impression that he was acting like a TDP functionary. He postponed the local body elections only to favour TDP,” he said. When asked about his name featuring in the list of 44 persons who were issued notices by the high court for allegedly making objectionable comments against the judiciary, Amarnath said he will respond only after receiving the notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-reinstates-ramesh-as-sec-setback-for-jagan-govt/articleshow/76100531.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Cong’s SpeakUpIndia finds Goa’s net connectivity poor||Panaji: In a bid to generate public pressure on the Centre amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic and the migrant crisis, the state Congress unit attempted to do its bit for the nation-wide SpeakUpIndia campaign. Their attempt to storm social media with live video messages hit an unexpected problem of poor internet connectivity in Goa. According to some Congress officials, many party workers and office-bearers struggled to participate in the virtual rally called by interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi. “The tall claims of the government of providing high speed internet services have fallen flat with extremely poor network connectivity. This campaign exposed the poor networking system in the state of Goa and the failure of Digital India,” said an irate opposition leader Digambar Kamat. Kamat said that many of the party supporters encountered poor network in urban locales like Mapusa, Vasco, Ponda and Panaji. “Areas like Mapusa, Vasco, Ponda including the capital city had similar problems, which can be seen in the video qualities uploaded by our workers. The village and hinterland network connectivity is almost non-existent,” said the Margao Congress MLA. On Thursday, Congress had launched the SpeakUpIndia campaign. Around 1 lakh people across Goa and almost 25,000 live videos were posted on various social media platforms by Congress workers. The Congress has demanded that Rs 10,000 should be given as immediate relief to all needy people along with 200 days employment under MGNREGA. “It is for the first time since Independence that the hard working workers who actually contribute for building up of the nation are left thirsty and hungry and made to walk barefoot for thousands of kilometres to reach their homes without any medicine and transport facility,” said Kamat. Congress urged the Centre to “wake up” and help migrant workers and those left unemployed due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congs-speakupindia-finds-goas-net-connectivity-poor/articleshow/76100093.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||With convention centre, Panaji's economy eyes fillip||Panaji: With an eye on boosting tourism in the state capital, government has set the ball rolling for a mini convention centre at Patto that is expected to raise Panaji’s business profile several notches higher. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday laid the foundation stone for the development of Coastal Circuit II under Swadesh Darshan Scheme, under which work on the new centre is being taken up. The project will be implemented by Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC). Estimated at a cost of Rs 89 crore, the project that also includes development of the Rua De Ourem Creek bank, will contribute around 30% revenue to Panaji’s economy, a senior government officer said. The 1,300-capacity centre that will have an open air theatre, seminar halls and board rooms, can provide three times more business to hotels in Panaji than what is being generated by offshore casinos, the official said. The convention centre is also aimed at attracting MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibtions) tourism in the state. “If three conventions are held every week at this centre, the minimum requirement would be around 3,000 rooms per week, which would translate to 12,000 rooms every month. Even restaurants stand to benefit,” the officer said. Speaking to mediapersons, Sawant said that the project is slated to be ready by December 2021. “The mini convention centre will be the biggest auditorium in the state,” he said. The project is being taken up on a land belonging to the tourism department in an area admeasuring 13,231 sqm. Major state events like the International Film Festival of India (Iffi) can also be hosted at this facility, while the area around the convention centre will be developed into a food plaza and handicrafts centre, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-convention-centre-panajis-economy-eyes-fillip/articleshow/76100097.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Madurai||Vaigai water reaches Mariamman teppakulam||Madurai: Water released from the Vaigai dam for the purpose of wetting and recharging the ground water, flowed into the Mariamman teppakulam on Friday. The public works department (PWD) on May 25 released 216 mcft of water for three days, which reached Madurai on Thursday. From AV bridge, water from the newly-constructed check-dam was diverted through the Pannaiyur channel into the teppakulam. However, due to lack of maintenance, the first flow of water came along with garbage though the Madurai Corporation had cleaned the channel only last Saturday. “If the channel was cleaned properly, it would have been a feast to watch the flow today (Friday), but seeing garbage with the water was a disappointment,” said K Kalaiarasan of Chinthamani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vaigai-water-reaches-mariamman-teppakulam/articleshow/76100102.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||3-member panel to assess mental health of prisoners||Bhubaneswar: The state government has constituted a three-member expert committee to find out condition of inmates suffering from psychiatric ailments and status of suicides in jails. The home department has formed the committee following a recent order by Odisha human rights commission (OHRC) chairperson Justice Bimala Prasad Das. Chief probation officer of the prisons directorate, vice-principal of Odisha jail training school in Berhampur and psychiatrist of Choudwar circle jail are members of the expert committee. “We will ensure that the expert committees observations are put into action. We will also regularly update the OHRC about the committee’s finding,” DGP (prisons) Santosh Upadhyay said. According to the national crime records bureau (NCRB), at least 677 mentally-ill prisoners were lodged in total 86 jails in the state in 2018. Number of such inmates was 787 in 2017. NCRB said most of the mentally-ill inmates were convicts, who suffered the ailments after languishing several years in jails. Suicide inside jails is not alarming. A source in the state prisons directorate said total four inmates had committed suicides in the state in 2019. While no suicide was reported in jails in 2018, two and three inmates had ended their lives in 2017 and 2016, respectively. The OHRC recently sought a report from the prisons directorate to know about the condition of mentally-ill inmates. “We directed the prisons directorate to conduct regular counselling sessions among prisoners through experts. Entertainment, spiritual and devotional programmes should be organised for mental peace of the prisoners,” an OHRC official said. The rights panel also asked the prisons officials to arrange free legal assistance for those, who cannot afford to hire lawyers. “We apprehend that many inmates suffered mental illness as they spent so many months in jails. Their frustration for not being able to arrange lawyers to get bail could be a strong reason of their mental illness. We asked the prisons authorities to regularly conduct health check-up of the inmates. Their food and hygiene should also be taken care,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/3-member-panel-to-assess-mental-health-of-prisoners/articleshow/76098283.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
May 30, 2020||Trichy||NIT launches workshop on online classes for teachers||Trichy: The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Trichy, has launched a first-of-its-kind workshop on ‘Effective Online Teaching Learning Strategies’ for self-financing institutions across India. In the inaugural session, 50 teachers from Maharani Lakshmi Ammanni College for Women, Bengaluru, will be trained.The participants will be trained in flipped classroom and blended learning methods for virtual classrooms. Faculty members will be taught video conferencing and learning management tools for teaching, experiential learning material generation for students and improved student engagement in the virtual class with the help of technology. The six-day course uses free/open source tools and provide hands-on software training for the participants.NIT-Trichy was recently made the national Mooc (massive open online course) coordinator for offering engineering Courses at UG and PG level. Mini Shaji Thomas, NIT-T director, lauded the idea of the online workshop and urged the participants of the workshop to make use of the technology to improve student engagement in virtual classrooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-launches-workshop-on-online-classes-for-teachers/articleshow/76100105.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||48-year-old kills self over low salary in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A private employee who had been feeling stressed that he was unable to earn a sufficient salary, committed suicide by hanging himself to an electric pole at KPHB colony on Thursday night. KPHB police said that 48-year-old Lakshminarayana Shiva Kumar, a native of Tamil Nadu, migrated to Hyderabad along with his family a few years ago. Initially, he joined a private company as a sales executive and in 2018, shifted to an automobiles company. On Thursday night, Shiva Kumar left home after all his family members had gone to sleep. On Friday morning, his wife found him missing along with his bike. Some time later, she got a call from the local police informing that Shiva Kumar had committed suicide. “The family suspect since Shiva Kumar was drawing a lesser salary in his latest job compared to his previous job, he was unable to meet his needs. This could be the reason for taking the extreme step,” police said. A case was registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPc and investigation is being done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/48-yr-old-kills-self-over-low-salary/articleshow/76100107.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Madurai||Man, 56, murders wife over suspicion||Tirunelveli: A 56-year-old man hacked his wife to death suspecting her of having an extra-marital relationship. The murder took place in Tirunelveli city on Friday morning. The accused has been identified as Pon Isakki of Manimoortheeswaram, who worked as a tea master. He and his wife Muthulakshmi, 54, have three daughters. Police inquiries revealed that Isakki suspected his wife of having an illicit affair with a man in the same locality. This resulted in the couple quarelling frequently. On Friday morning, the couple quarrelled once again and in a fit of rage Isakki hacked her to death. He then surrendered at the Thatchanallur police station. Police have sent the body to the government hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-56-murders-wife-over-suspicion/articleshow/76100100.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Another milestone in KLI project: Kondapochamma Sagar gets water||HYDERABAD: In yet another milestone in Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project, the Markook pumphouse was inaugurated and released to Kondapochamma Sagar project by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday. The CM took part in special rituals at Markook village in Siddipet district along with seer Sri Chinna Jeeyar Swamy prior to the inauguration. He also offered prayers at a local temple. Kondapochamma is the 10th stage project, the last and vital project, in Kaleshwaram project. It was taken up at an estimated cost of Rs 3,500 crore with a storage capacity of 15 tmcft. It will irrigate 2.85 lakh acres in Siddipet, Sangareddy, Medak, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts. Godavari water will flow to Kondapochamma Sagar through Mid Manair, Anantagiri and Ranganayaka Sagar reservoirs, which have already been completed and inaugurated in the last one year. From Kondapochamma Sagar, plans have been prepared to lift water to Keshavapur in Shamirpet mandal to provide drinking water to Greater Hyderabad in near future. Mega Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) has constructed the Kondapochamma Sagar reservoir and the pumphouse with six machines each with 27 megawatts capacity. With this, 3,767 MW pumping capacity has been operationalised. The government has taken up the mega Kaleshwaram project at Rs 1 lakh crore by dividing it into different packages to lift water from the Godavari. Over 36 lakh acres will be irrigated under this project in 22 districts once it is completed. The first phase (line 1) of KLIP was inaugurated on June 19, 2019, by the CM at Medigadda in the erstwhile Karimnagar district. Later, reservoirs and pumphouses were added under various packages from time to time. Recently, water was released to Ranganayaka Sagar of package-11, is the second largest pumphouse in the world after the Gayathri pumphouse. The government recently decided to increase the pumping capacity of KLIP by one more tmcft a day. As part of this, a total of 15 new machines, are being established in Lakshmi, Saraswathi and Parvathi pumphouses of link 1 component. The government is also in the process of finalising works related to draw additional water from Mid Manair to Mallannasagar, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-milestone-in-kli-project-kondapochamma-sagar-gets-water/articleshow/76099199.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 30, 2020||Goa||Extension for excise licences till June 30||Panaji: The excise department on Friday further extended the deadline for renewal of licences till June 30. The extension granted is not applicable to manufacturing and bottling units. Excise commissioner Amit Satija in the circular stated that extension has been granted to avoid mass gathering and prevent spread of novel coronavirus. Annually, licences are renewed by every March-end but the deadline was extended with the lockdown measures in force. After a shutdown of more than a month, retail and wholesale units were allowed to start sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/extension-for-excise-licences-till-june-30/articleshow/76100532.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Police detain 18 women from Uganda||Panaji: Eighteen Ugandan women illegally staying in Goa have been sent to the Detention Centre at Mapusa for blacklisting and deportation. SP (ANC) Shobhit Saksena said, “All the women are now being detained at the centre for blacklisting and deportation.” He said that during joint patrolling of the anti-narcotic cell (ANC) and The Foreigners’ Regional Registration Office (FRRO) at Arambol, some local persons informed that a number of African women were moving about suspiciously since the past several days. The team zeroed in on five rooms where the women were suspected to be staying. With the help lady staff from Indian Reserve Batallion (IRB), the rooms were checked and 18 Ugandan women were found staying without proper travel documents. “Upon interrogation, the women revealed that some of them were working there as hair stylists and had come to India in search of better opportunities during the tourist season. However, further investigations regarding their source of income is being carried out,” Saksena said. All the women come from poor backgrounds, he said, adding that some of them are not literate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-detain-18-women-from-uganda/articleshow/76100101.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Madurai||Health workers fear becoming sitting ducks to Covid carriers||Madurai: After two health workers from the Katchaikatti primary health centre (PHC) in Madurai district, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, frontline health workers have expressed concern as many patients are asymptomatic.The two workers were found to have handled three migrants from Maharashtra who had later tested positive. However, they had no symptoms.“We are not sure who we may have been exposed to. Apart from doctors, all other health workers, including those making door-to-door visits, are given only three-layered masks and the responsibility is with individuals to stay safe. Since many Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic, we fear for our safety and none of us are also tested unless we show symptoms,” said a PHC health worker on condition of anonymity.“It is not possible to provide health workers with personal protective equipment (PPEs). They are given masks, gloves and sanitisers. We urge them to practice social distancing. This is what is followed even in containment areas,” said a senior health official. Madurai district collector said that as per protocol, there is no need for periodical testing of frontline workers. “Testing is based on symptoms and contact history with a positive case, even for those working in quarantine facilities. We are trying our best to keep them safe. The workers are given training on preventive measures such as disinfecting with hand washing, and usage of PPEs,” the collector told TOI. He added that they are also provided with multivitamins, zinc tablets, kabasura kudineer and homoeopathy tablets to enhance their immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/health-workers-fear-becoming-sitting-ducks-to-covid-carriers/articleshow/76100108.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Vadodara||L&T pays staff dues after SoU notice||VADODARA: The Statue of Unity (SoU) authorities have issued a notice to engineering major L&T for not paying dues to its employees working at the site of the statue at Kevadia in Narmada district. SoU authorities said that the notice was issued on Thursday following which the company paid all employees their dues on Friday. L&T has been given a contract of operating and maintaining SoU for 15 years and it hires all the housekeeping and security staff at the statue. “We had asked the company to keep paying employees at SoU during the lockdown. But we learnt that the staffers weren’t being paid since the lockdown was announced. So a noticed was issued to the company on Thursday and they immediately cleared all the dues on Friday,” said Nilesh Dubey, deputy CEO, SoU. Dubey said that a team of about 250 to 300 persons operates and maintains the SoU that is world’s tallest statue and has become very popular among the tourists across the country. Since the government announced the nationwide lockdown, SoU has been closed for tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lt-pays-staff-dues-after-sou-notice/articleshow/76097429.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Delhi||NE riots: Ex-councillor Ishrat Jahan gets bail for 10 days to get married||New Delhi: A city court on Saturday granted interim bail to former Congress municipal councillor Ishrat Jahan to get married. She has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February this year. The relief of bail will be applicable from June 10 to June 19. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana allowed the relief to Jahan on a bond of Rs 1 lakh with two sureties. After the prosecutor submitted that the fact of Jahan’s scheduled marriage had been verified, the court held, “Considering the factum of scheduled marriage of applicant Ishrat Jahan, she be released on interim bail for 10 days.” The bail plea, filed through advocate Lalit Valecha, also argued that she being a former municipal councillor was falsely implicated in the case and sent to judicial custody. It was also argued that despite obtaining bail in another case, she was arrested in the present case on March 21, 2020. Jahan and other accused persons are facing probe in cases stemming from the northeast Delhi violence that took place earlier this year. Among other offences such as rioting and damage to property, the investigation agency has invoked the stringent UAPA law against the accused persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-ex-councillor-ishrat-jahan-gets-bail-for-10-days-to-get-married/articleshow/76114400.cms||Aamir Khan
May 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha govt push to simplify land allotment process for tourism projects||BHUBANESWAR: In a fillip to the troubled tourism industry laid low by the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown, the state government on Friday eased land allotment provisions to encourage investment in the sector. The provisions were given the green light after an amendment to the Odisha Tourism Policy, 2016, was approved during a state cabinet headed by chief minister Naveen Patnaik. “As per the amendment, Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Idco) will now identify, acquire and allot land for tourism and hotel projects from its land bank,” said an official source. Earlier, district authorities were also authorised to allot land for tourism projects. “There were certain anomalies in land allotment procedure which has been simplified now,” chief secretary Asit Tripathy. “Approval of a single window committee headed by the chief secretary for allotment of land will be considered final now,” he added. The cabinet also approved amendment in the Factories Act, 1948, which is as per the advice of the Union government. Non-hazardous factories employing 20 or more workers (but less than 50) will now require a one-time registration. Such factories will also be exempted from paying fees, plan approval, licence renewal and regular inspection except while dealing with complaints or in case of accidents. Overtime limit in factories has been increased from 75 hours to 115 hours per quarter. The amendment also allowed engagement of women workers, with consent, between 7 pm to 6 am in factories subject to certain conditions like adequate security and welfare measures. Also, many petty offences have been compounded with provisions of fine in lieu of prosecution, the government said in an official statement. An ordinance is likely to be promulgated to enforce the amendments, said an official source. The cabinet also approved an amendment to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, with an aim to create a hassle-free business environment. “Both the amendments in factories law and industrial disputes law are aimed at creating conducive business environment in the state,” said a senior official. Among others, the cabinet also approved a proposal to bring the Odisha Renewal Energy Development Agency (OREDA) under the administrative control of the state energy department from the science and technology department. “The move will help in better management, sectoral development and optimal functioning of renewable energy. It also aims to draw investment in renewable energy sector in the state,” said the chief secretary. The cabinet also gave post-factor approval to two ordinances, which has already been promulgated by the state government to boost farm economy. The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, and the Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming Services (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, are the two ordinances which received cabinet nod. The state government’s recent decision to increase VAT on petrol and diesel also got cabinet approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-push-to-simplify-land-allotment-process-for-tourism-projects/articleshow/76098305.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
May 30, 2020||Goa||Goa on guard against locust attack||Margao: Locust attack in the fields of Northern India, as well as in parts of Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, has spurred the state’s agriculture department to enhance its preparedness level to defend the state’s agricultural and horticultural crops from any probable attack by the desert pest. “As of now there doesn’t seem to be any imminent danger for Goa as no locust attack has been reported in any of Goa’s neighbouring districts. Nevertheless we are prepared,” state’s director of agriculture Nevil Alphonso told TOI. Earlier in the day, Alfonso chaired a meeting with senior officials of Integrated Pest Management Centre, (IPMC) Verna, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and agriculture department where plans for developing combat strategies against probable locust attack were discussed. Alphonso said that with the paddy harvest of the rabi crop almost completed and cultivation of seasonal vegetables (rabi) also coming to an end, these two categories have survived any probable onslaught of the locust. “Paddy was our major concern. The concern that now remains is of chilli seedlings, nurseries of which are being developed in some parts of hilly areas of Canacona, Valpoi, Sanguem and Quepem. We are also keeping a watch on coconut and cashew plantations in the state,” Alphonso said. As coconut and cashew plantations are almost non-existent in Northern India, the behavior of the locust on these types of crops remains unpredictable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-on-guard-against-locust-attack/articleshow/76100109.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Margao civic body told to suspend all desilting works||Margao: Subsequent to the inquiry report submitted by the assistant accounts officer of the directorate of municipal administration (DMA) based on inspection of files, director of municipal administration Tariq Thomas has written to the chief officer of the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) to keep the tendering process for works of desilting of gutters in abeyance. “Since the council resolution is not there for the works from Sr. No. 53 to 64 and non-duplication certificate has also not been furnished, it is directed to keep the said works in abeyance,” Thomas said in the letter. The chief officer has also been asked for an explanation as to how the estimated costs for works from Sr. No. 57 to 64 is the same for all the works. The assistant accounts officer of DMA and assistant project engineer of Goa State Urban Development Agency (GSUDA) have been directed to carry out site inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-civic-body-told-to-suspend-all-desilting-works/articleshow/76100104.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM's not in favour of lifting lockdown; some easing likely||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday indicated that Maharashtra, especially hotspots like Mumbai and Pune, would continue to remain under lockdown—albeit with a few further relaxations—once Version 4.0 ends this Sunday. He said the next 15 days— when “everyone needs to be careful”— would be crucial in the fight against Covid-19. The state government would fix and outline its new set of rules and relaxations once the Centre made its position on the post-May 31 scenario clear during the weekend, he told a select group of editors, including from Maharashtra Times, TOI’s sister publication. Times ViewWe fully appreciate chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s focus on not letting the pandemic spin out of control; every effort must indeed be made to keep a tight lid on fatalities. But, at the same time, how much longer can Mumbai afford to be kept under strict lockdown? The rest of India is gradually returning to a new normal. Delhi, despite rising infections, has opened up public transport, including buses (and is willing to restart the Metro), offices (at full capacity), shops and markets, parks, even sports complexes. Bengaluru, too, is pushing ahead and is keen to unshutter malls and restaurants. Meanwhile, Mumbai, which made its name and fame as the city that never sleeps, remains in a state of semi-curfew. True that the situation is grimmer than in any other city, and there is a real fear that the public health infrastructure might be overwhelmed by a further surge in infections. But sooner rather than later, the government needs to make the hard choice of letting the business capital of India get back to doing what it does best – business.Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesHe claimed the state government had the overall Covid-19 numbers under control and that the fatality rate had come down, but added that it was still not time to lower one's guard. “We are at a turning point now. The pandemic is close to peaking, or may have peaked at the moment, in Mumbai and Pune. So how we go ahead from here is important,” he said. Referring to a “second wave of infections now being seen in China and Kerala,” he added, “The experience so far has been that once curbs are eased, there’s a second wave. Will we have such a wave at all, and how strong will it be, is a question.” Asked if the novel coronavirus might ride on the back of monsoon-related illnesses once the rains begin in June, Thackeray said, in a lighter vein, “Anyone can ally with anyone these days.” Then, he added, “Everyone will have to take care that the administrative machinery is not burdened further during the monsoon.” Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageThere has been much talk about learning to live with the virus, Thackeray said. But how to do that had to be made clear, and the media would have to play a key role in bringing about public education in this regard, he said. BMC chief I S Chahal, who briefed the editors on Covid-19 numbers during the interaction, said the case count may appear substantial but one had to take into account the fact that a lot of people had been discharged after treatment and so many were asymptomatic and in home quarantine. “So the number of people being treated in healthcare facilities is not very big, yet people may form a wrong opinion on what is going on,” Chahal said. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Taking off from that, Thackeray claimed the government had been able to control the spread of the virus in the past two months because of its “ceaseless efforts”. Thackeray also said he had told all state officials they must be totally transparent about the numbers. Expressing unhappiness at the decisions taken by the Centre on movement of migrants, Thackeray said the state government had had to spend a lot of its energies on their transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-cm-not-in-favour-of-lifting-lockdown-some-easing-likely/articleshow/76100117.cms||Parag Karandikar
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 14 huts gutted in fire, two officers injured||HYDERABAD: A fire broke out at Bapuji Nagar in Bowenpally on Friday in which nearly 14 temporary huts were gutted and two fire officers were injured while dousing the flames. No casualties were reported, however, property loss is estimated to be around Rs 10 lakh. The incident occurred at around 12.30 pm when a fire broke out near one of the huts and engulfed the surrounding huts. “The fire could have started due to a carelessly discarded cigarette. The fire spread to the huts and four cylinders kept inside those huts burst,” said station fire officer Mohan Rao. As many as three fire tenders were put in place. “Two fire officers sustained minor burn injuries. Two families from other districts of the state were staying there. They were evacuated immediately. The other huts were vacant as the residents have gone to their villages because of the lockdown,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/14-huts-gutted-in-fire-two-officers-injured/articleshow/76099264.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Aurangabad||52 more Covid cases takeAurangabad tally to 1,459||Aurangabad: The district is showing a steady upward trend in the number of coronavirus cases despite claims by the district administration that the situation is under control. A total of 52 patients tested positive on Friday, besides seven a day earlier, taking the total number of cases to 1,459 so far. Meanwhile, two patients succumbed to the contagion on Thursday, taking the death toll to 68. On the brighter side, 901 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from different hospitals in Aurangabad district after recovery. According to the district administration, four patients were discharged from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and 11 from the district civil hospital on Thursday. The hospital’s nodal officer for media interaction, Arvind Gaikwad, said that a 75-year-old man from Hussain Colony died while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at 1.20 pm on Thursday. “The cause of death was acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) due to bilateral pneumonia in Covid-19 and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and acute kidney injury.” Gaikwad said that a 60-year-old woman, from Rahemaniya Colony, succumbed to the disease at 3 pm on Thursday and that she had diabetes, hypertension and ischemic heart disease . Of the 73 positive patients admitted to the GMCH, 22 are in critical condition, hospital dean Kanan Yelikar said. Incidentally, district collector Uday Chaudhari had stated on Thursday that the measures taken by the administration and municipal corporation had led to a drop in coronavirus cases, but the latest test results have put the district on high alert. The areas from where new Coronavirus cases came on Friday include Nehru Nagar, Katkat Gate (2), Kailas Nagar, Mali Galli (1), Cidco N-6 (2), Bhushan Nagar, Pahade Nagar (1), Kailash Nagar (4), Sriniketan Colony (1), Khadkeshwar (1), Osmanpura (4), Khandoba Temple, Satara Village (2) and Itkheda (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/52-more-covid-cases-takeaurangabad-tally-to-1459/articleshow/76097044.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 30, 2020||Goa||Two arrested for murder at Davorlim||Margao: The Maina Curtorim police on Friday arrested two persons on charges of killing 22-year old Muzahidkhan Kanazhade, a resident of Davorlim, late Thursday night. Ismail Mulla alias Chottu, 23, and Sadique Bellary alias Lolly, 20, also residents of Davorlim, were arrested under Section 302 of the IPC. While the deceased was a mechanic, Mulla worked as a tile fitter and Bellary as a casual labourer. Police sources said that the murder was a fallout of a clash between two groups. The deceased alongwith a friend, Mohammed Javed, 22, a vegetable vendor, were sitting together in an open place near Bhagwati colony, Davorlim, late Thursday evening. Bellary, who later joined them, picked up a quarrel with Javed with whom he had some previous enmity. The verbal duel between the two took a violent turn as Javed hit Bellary with an iron rod. Then along came Mulla and stabbed Kanazhade with a knife. Javed was also arrested on assault charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-arrested-for-murder-at-davorlim/articleshow/76100113.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli doc helped Italian couple get out of Maoist-affected area||Nagpur: ‘Thank you, Bhayya!’ These words of 33-year old Roberto Bellezza’s over the phone after landing in Italy to Dr Charanjit Singh Saluja at Allapalli in Gadchiroli brought tears to latter’s eyes. All that the doctor could say to his new Italian friend and his wife Deidda Gloria (24) with a choked voice was to stay safe at a time when the European nation was caught amid Covid-19 outbreak.Saluja, recipient of the prestigious Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak in 2018 for saving the lives of one officer and 21 jawans after a Maoist blast, was instrumental in ensuring safe passage of the Italian couple who were stuck at Allapalli. The couple, on a bike tour in India, had come to south Gadchiroli from Bijapur on way to north India. They entered the district through Sironcha and had checked into a hotel at Allapalli on March 19 just as the pandemic panic had begun to strike India. Saluja said there was panic among people in Allapalli on seeing the couple from Italy. “I was the first to receive the intimation and immediately alerted the tehsildar. It was already late evening. The government doctor and his team were informed but still I rushed to the hotel where the couple had checked in,” he said. “In Maoist-affected regions, the movements of the government officials are restricted,” he said. Saluja said he screened the couple thoroughly and tried to explain to local people there was no cause for worry as Bellezza and Gloria were in India for quite some time and may have arrived in India before their country was devastated by Covid. “In the night, the couple was allowed to stay at the hotel. They too were panicked and irritated at officials probing into their antecedents. I had to calm them too,” said Saluja who has also distributed homeopathic medicines to more than 1,000 cops along with his team, distributed masks and sanitizers and also helped organize a marriage with social distancing.Saluja said the couple was convinced to leave for Nagpur the following day. “I helped them get accommodated in Nagpur, get tested at GMCH and also sell off their bike. On the March 21, they flew to Delhi and on the same day left for Italy with the help of their embassy,” he said. Saluja said he is still in touch with the couple and occasionally exchanges mails with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-doc-helped-italian-couple-get-out-of-maoist-affected-area/articleshow/76100120.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Courts should start from June 1: Lawyers||Kolhapur: The lawyers in Kolhapur have said that the functioning of the courts should begin from June 1 while maintaining social distancing and taking other precautions. Kolhapur District Bar Association has suggested that at least the half of the routine functioning of courts should be started after the fourth lockdown. Kolhapur District Bar Association has submitted a proposal to the district judge stating that method of video conferencing can be used to restore the functioning of courts. Kolhapur district court is closed ever since the lockdown was announced. The court will be officially closed till June 8 due to summer vacation. However, lawyers have demanded to start the functioning of the courts a week before the end of summer vacation as a large number cases are pending. According to a rough estimate, Kolhapur district court has more than one lakh cases pending, of which 55,000 are criminal cases. Tehsil courts in the districts have around 25,000 pending cases, sources in the district court said. The district bar association has suggested that the court should accept 25 civil suits to begin with. Association has also expressed preparedness to issue some guidelines to its members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/courts-should-start-from-june-1-lawyers/articleshow/76097058.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Medical park to be set up in Dhenkanal||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Friday announced to set up two industrial parks over 1,000 acres each to attract more investments to the state. “The parks will draw investment to the tune of Rs 6,000 crore to Rs 7,000 crore and provide employment to nearly 36,000 people,” said chief secretary Asit Tripathy. While a port-based textile park will be set up at Dhamra in Bhadrak district to enable export of finished goods and generate employment for skilled migrant workers, a medical park will be set up at Dhenkanal to prepare the state for future pandemics and outbreaks, an official source said. Both the projects were approved by council of ministers headed by chief minister Naveen Patnaik. Official sources said the industries department informed the ministers that all large industries in the state are now open, except a few bottling plants while 40% of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMSs) have also started operations. Official sources said the state government took proactive steps to resume industrial operations. It includes allowing movement of labourers, improving logistics, ensuring supply chain of raw materials, hassle-free transportation of finished goods and clearance of pending government dues to MSMEs and industries. The government has also held consultations through video conference with US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) and Invest India team. A committee of ministers has also been constituted by the state government to suggest measures to revive the industrial economy while the government is also in the process to come up with a new industrial policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/medical-park-to-be-set-up-in-dhenkanal/articleshow/76098364.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Lack of integrated database big worry||HYDERABAD: Linkage of database of missing persons, admissions in orphanages and old-age homes with that of the database of unidentified bodies is yet to be done, leading to several cases remaining untraceable in Telangana. With lack of data, orphanages and old-age homes are failing to inform the authorities when they bury or cremate the dead inmates. The lockdown has further compounded their woes. K Rajeshwar Rao of Satya Harischandra Foundation, who runs ‘Uknown-Unclaimed and Missing Bureau,’ said: “During the lockdown period, information exchange has almost come to a halt. This has led to difficulties in identifying the bodies with those missing.” He said there is an urgent need to create a digital platform that links all databases. “Photographs of people admitted in old-age homes are not uploaded anywhere. With old-age homes coming up everywhere, it is challenging for families to search every home. The issue is bigger with orphanages. When children grow up, their photos are not linked from time to time. It is difficult to identify them, and they will remain orphans,” he said. Satya Harichandra Foundation runs a website called www.unknownbodies.org. “When an inmate of an old-age home or orphanage dies, the organisers of the homes shall pass on the information to the police station concerned and other related government departments. There is a need for maintaining data of inmates from their admission to death,” said Rajeshwar. Child rights activist Suresh Reddy said tracing the missing children is a big problem for family members. “An integrated database should link NGOs, police, women and child welfare departments, juvenile homes and mortuaries of general hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-integrated-database-big-worry/articleshow/76099282.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Door-to-door survey work leaves professors fuming||Aurangabad: Many lecturers and professors from the city are unhappy with the municipal chief orders to carry door-to-door survey of people above 50 and record their health-related data. Many college managements said that most of them are above 50 and have health issues themselves, so the orders should be reviewed accordingly. Professors refused to speak on record citing backlash from the civic body chief, who has cited sections of National Disaster Management Act as well as that of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. “In the past, our unions to have been systematically denied, making them almost defunct, due to which we are now left to fend for ourselves,” said a professor. Another lecturer, who didn’t wished to be named, said some names have been deliberately put in the list. “Some of the colleges have played a mischief by sending the list of lecturers working on clock hours basis, thus further adding difficulties to them,” he said. As per the directives issued by civic chief Astik Kumar Pandey, teaching as well as non-teaching staff of senior colleges in coordination with the respective zonal officers will have to pay a door visit to the assigned areas. The data has to be recorded in a given mobile based application and also every family has to be convinced for downloading of this mobile-based application. The move was taken to ensure timely intervention in the cases involving co-morbidity patients, where the patient’s history is taken and noted in the application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/door-to-door-survey-work-leaves-professors-fuming/articleshow/76097073.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||250 post stories, break the silence on menstrual hygiene||HYDERABAD: Even as the lockdown has limited women’s access to menstrual hygiene products, over 250 people from at least four countries participated in an online campaign to break the taboo surrounding menstruation. City-based NGO Good Universe’s 7-day campaign to initiate dialogue on women’s reproductive health, which ended on Friday, saw the participation of several men as well, who shared stories on social-networking sites Instagram and Twitter about how they have helped their female friends and relatives during their menstrual cycle, and thereby normalising discussions on the otherwise hushed up topic. Sharing her story on Twitter and encouraging men to step up, TV actor Anasuya Baradwaj said, “You can’t share their pain… You just cannot. What you can do is support them when they are in pain.” TV host Jhansi, through the campaign, emphasised on the need to switch to eco-friendly ways to maintain menstrual hygiene. “I have switched to using menstrual cups and reduced the burden of disposing of 240 pads a year,” she said on Instagram. Among those who took part in the campaign were women from Philippines, Finland and Kenya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/250-post-stories-break-the-silence-on-menstrual-hygiene/articleshow/76099292.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Actor Sonu Sood flies out 169 Odia migrants stranded in Kerala||Bhubaneswar: Not all angels have wings, but that doesn’t mean they can’t help others soar. About 169 Odia migrant workers who were stranded in Kerala since the lockdown started, managed to fly back home on Friday with help from actor Sonu Sood. Moved by the plight of workers – 148 of them girls – whose ardent video appeal for help to return home reached Sood through a twitterati, the Bollywood actor arranged for a special AirAsia flight from Cochin to Bhubaneswar. From there, four buses arranged by the Kendrapada district administration took the migrants to their native places where they were kept in quarantine centres as per government policy for migrant returnees. “We got to know about these girls stranded in Kerala. We found out their phone numbers and talked to them. I assured them help,” Sood told TOI over phone. The actor said the girls were living in difficult conditions. “They were not getting proper food and were desperate to return home,” said Sood, who has been actively helping migrants reach home. But the distance between Bhubaneswar and the garment factory at Kizhakkambalam in Ernakulam district of Kerala was close to 2000 km and moving the girls by bus was proving difficult given that they had to cross a number of state borders. “So, we thought of airlifting them from Cochin airport. It was a new experience for them and they could reach home early,” said the actor of blockbuster movies like Dabangg and Simmba among others. AirAsia, which does not have a direct flight between Cochin and Bhubaneswar, routed its flight from Bengaluru to pick up the girls from the Kerala town. The flight took off from Cochin International Airport at 8am and landed at Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar at around 10.30am. Sood said his team took special permission from authorities at Cochin and Bhubaneswar airports for the special flight. He also convinced AirAsia to run the flight. “I am so happy that the girls have returned home,” said Sood. Talking about their plight, Manasi Nayak from Rajnagar in Kendrapada district, said they were staying within the premises of the textile factory at Kizhakkambalam in Ernakulam district. “We have been working there for four years and earning between Rs 10,000-12,000 every month. But after the lockdown started, the factory owner refused to pay us,” Nayak said. Languishing in distant Kerala with the lockdown eating away their jobs and the little money they had saved, the girls, mostly in their 20s, were getting desperate to return home. They got in touch with former Rajnagar MLA Ansuman Mohanty. “On Tuesday, Sonu Sood called us to enquire about our situation. He promised to help us,” said Nayak. She said none of the workers there knew who Sood was and what he did for a living. “I did not know who Sonu Sood was at that time. But after we spoke to the former MLA, we realised that he was such a big film actor who was trying to help us,” she added. Mohanty said initially he did not believe the girls when they said Sood had spoken to them. “But after getting in touch with the actor, I realised the girls will soon be back home. I thank the actor for his kindness,” Mohanty said. “I had read about angels in story books. Now, we have come across one. Sonu Sood is an angel who flew us back home,” said Sarita Sahu, also of Rajnagar and one of those saved by the actor’s generosity. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/actor-sonu-sood-flies-out-169-odia-migrants-stranded-in-kerala/articleshow/76098382.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Door-to-door survey work leaves professors fuming||Aurangabad: Many lecturers and professors from the city are unhappy with the municipal chief orders to carry door-to-door survey of people above 50 and record their health-related data. Many college managements said that most of them are above 50 and have health issues themselves, so the orders should be reviewed accordingly. Professors refused to speak on record citing backlash from the civic body chief, who has cited sections of National Disaster Management Act as well as that of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. “In the past, our unions to have been systematically denied, making them almost defunct, due to which we are now left to fend for ourselves,” said a professor. Another lecturer, who didn’t wished to be named, said some names have been deliberately put in the list. “Some of the colleges have played a mischief by sending the list of lecturers working on clock hours basis, thus further adding difficulties to them,” he said. As per the directives issued by civic chief Astik Kumar Pandey, teaching as well as non-teaching staff of senior colleges in coordination with the respective zonal officers will have to pay a door visit to the assigned areas. The data has to be recorded in a given mobile based application and also every family has to be convinced for downloading of this mobile-based application. The move was taken to ensure timely intervention in the cases involving co-morbidity patients, where the patient’s history is taken and noted in the application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/door-to-door-survey-work-leaves-professors-fuming/articleshow/76097068.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Students from Kazakhstan land in Delhi||HYDERABAD: A batch of several Indian students who were stuck in Almaty, Kazakhstan arrived in Delhi on Friday and will be headed to different destinations in the country. In another flight on June 1, students from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana will be flown in. Amaan Khan, a medical student from Bhopal, told TOI that he was happy to return to the country. Among those who were stranded at the Almaty airport when international flights to India were abruptly cancelled without notice in March, were 45 students of Semey Medical University from Telangana, AP, Madhya Pradesh, Kashmir, Assam, Manipur and Delhi. Grace Anu, a student from the city, said her flight to Hyderabad was on June 1. The flight will bring passengers from Almaty to Delhi. The students will then be taken to Hyderabad and Vijayawada. More than 500 Indian students, including 200 medical students from Telangana and AP, were stuck in Kazakhstan after the lockdown was announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-from-kazakh-land-in-delhi/articleshow/76099286.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||With 225 births in four years, Madhya Pradesh cows top surrogacy race||BHOPAL: Cows in Madhya Pradesh lead the race when it comes to mothering calves via surrogacy. Over 225 test tube calves have taken birth in the past four years in Madhya Pradesh through cow surrogacy. The issue is in focus as a Malvi cow (used as surrogate mother) gave birth to sahiwal calf at the Embryo Transfer Technology (ETT) Lab of the Bull Mother Farm in Bhopal on May 26. MP, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra and Gujarat are the leading states in embryo transfer technology for getting elite quality cows and bulls. Officials said the objective is to get cows and bulls of high productivity that can further be used for getting good quality semen and embryos. Over 900 embryos have been produced in the past four years in MP. So far, 225 calves have taken birth and 80 more are due in the coming months while rest of the embryos have been frozen for future use. In humans, the IVF/surrogacy technology is used for women who are unable to conceive, while in cows, the technology is used for producing more calves. Generally, a cow produce one calf in a year, but with the use of the MOET (multiple ovulation embryo transfer) technology, six to seven calves from a genetically superior female can be produced in one year. The calf born through ETT possesses superior germplasm, inherited from the father as well as mother, hence in this case, the inheritance of superior germplasm is 100%. Male calves born through ETT are used for production of quality semen. In the state, mainly Gir, Sahiwal, Malvi and Nimari breeds are being used for embryo production. Gir and Sahiwal are the best indigenous breeds for milk production while Malvi and Nimari are native breeds of MP. Officials said the purpose for using this technology in Malvi and Nimari is their conservation. Elite Malvi and Nimari cows are used as donors to produce embryos and ET calves for conservation of best germplasm among them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-225-births-in-four-years-mp-cows-top-surrogacy-race/articleshow/76097082.cms||Ankur Sirothia
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Complete cement road works before monsoon: Mayor||Nagpur: Incomplete cement roads, work on which was delayed because of over two-month lockdown imposed to contain coronavirus spread, is set to pose hardships for Nagpurians during the ensuing monsoon, admitted mayor Sandip Joshi on Friday. “With the onset of rains, incomplete roads can prove dangerous,” he said in a review meeting of Phase-I, II and III works. Directing administration to complete the road works before rains start, Joshi also instructed to blacklist contractors who have not started work yet. During the meeting, NMC’s superintending engineer (PWD) Manoj Talewar presented detailed information in this regard. Most of the cement road works in Phase-I have been completed, he said. “A total of 59 road works are proposed under Phase-II, out of which 52 roads have been completed. Work on three is in progress,” Talewar informed. Under Phase-III, laying of 39 roads has been proposed. Of these, 10 road works have been completed, while one side of tar roads has been concretized on eight stretches, work on 12 roads has not started yet, Talewar said. Former mayor and MLC Pravin Datke, standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, chief engineer Ulhas Debadwar and others were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/complete-cement-road-works-before-monsoon-mayor/articleshow/76099879.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra seeks TV and radio airtime for edu broadcast||NAGPUR: State’s school education minister Varsha Gaikwad has written to the central government seeking more airtime on Doordarshan and All India Radio to roll out its vernacular educational shows. Gaikwad in a letter in Union information and broadcasting (I&B) minister Prakash Javadekar said Maharashtra seeks 12 hours on DD and two hours on AIR time daily. “Maharashtra is extremely interested in using the facility,” the minister wrote in response to Centre’s invitation for utilizing DD channels for disseminating educational content. “In the course of next academic year, we wish to broadcast 12 hours of daily content through any two channels from DD National channel family and two hours daily content on AIR,” wrote Gaikwad. She added that Maharashtra also has its virtual classroom studios and sought permission for live broadcast as well. Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (HA) said it will be beneficial as an added teaching tool. “Real classroom teaching can never be replaced, but till the lockdown is in effect we all must try to use whichever tool is available for the benefit of children,” said Mude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-seeks-tv-and-radio-airtime-for-edu-broadcast/articleshow/76099897.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Naturopathy gaining popularity amid corona threat||Nagpur: Naturopathy is gaining popularity amid the times of corona, as citizens are adopting natural and healthy lifestyles. City doctors who have expertise in this field have a variety of suggestions and ideas to boost immunity. The natural lifestyle ideas, habits and daily routines claim to boost the body mechanism and prevent allergy and cold, and enable one to survive the lockdown with healthy body and mind. Sadhana Kanoje, a naturopathy doctor, believes that naturopathy has always been a part of Indian lifestyle and has just gained importance in these times, as everyone becomes aware of its positive effect on the body. “Naturopathy is about taking precautions to guard one’s body from any disease, and everyone is doing that at home now. One must practice anulom-vilom, and breathing exercises which will clear the throat and air pipe. Having diet rich in Vitamin C, green vegetables and especially chyawanprash, chutney made with tulsi, methi, and black pepper, or bel sharbat are specially advisable,” she said. “Naturopathy assures cleansing of body thoroughly. People don’t have to necessarily visit the clinic to do it. Having juices, organic homemade chutney, doing laughing exercises, Suryanamaskar, sun bathing, and body massage with oil give excellent result towards our health and mind,” added Kanoje. People with low immunity and lung problems are at higher risk of getting the coronavirus as they might face problems like shortness of breath, cough and cold. Dr Ravindra Vijayta believes that incorporating organic juices and wheatgrass in diet can do wonders to one’s body. “Consuming wheatgrass in powder form or as juice is an excellent immune boosting agent, which saves the body from many viral infections. During such times, I ask patients to also eat tulsi, mulethi, methi and green vegetables in their diet,” he said. Agreeing with this, Dr Sarang Gotmare believes people with weak immunity, and those who catch cough and cold easily, must avoid eating cold desserts and drinking cold water. “Throat infection and itchiness can be avoided by avoiding cold food. This is the best time for everyone to make the most by healing their body internally with the help of naturopathy. Aloe vera juice, awla and wheatgrass are the most suggested remedies by all naturopathy doctors,” he said. If one doesn’t have wheatgrass powder at home then one can sow wheat seeds until their sprout, and the fresh, green stems can be blitzed to make a glass of fresh juice. It is advisable for all age groups, say the doctors. “I have been practicing such natural remedies at home. Drinking warm water, doing yoga has helped my body a lot during lockdown. I believe more people should try such naturopathy specific techniques, such as organic sharbat, fresh juices of greens, and organ exercises for cleansing body,” said a citizen who practices naturopathy lifestyle. DIET BASICS Eat wheatgrass and aloe vera Breathing exercises, anulom vilom Suryanamaskar Laughing exercises Vitamin juices, kadda and chutney Consume warm water Vegetable soups, healthy diet Vitamin C enriched diet||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/naturopathy-gaining-popularity-amid-corona-threat/articleshow/76099885.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Woman looking to sell kidney tobail out parents loses Rs 3L||Bengaluru: A 25-year-old woman, who recently lost her job, was cheated of Rs 3.1 lakh after she responded to an online advertisement offering to pay Rs 1 crore to anyone willing to donate a kidney. Kavitha (name changed), a resident of Moodalapalya, who lost her job in a private bank due to the Covid-19 upheaval, told TOI she had noticed an ad on Facebook in March seeking a kidney donor and offering to pay Rs 1 crore. “I am unmarried and I know my parents are facing financial problems. I thought of donating one of my kidneys to help my parents. I searched online to know what happens if one donates a kidney. I learnt that I could lead a normal life with one kidney. Besides, I would also be saving someone’s life by donating the organ. So, I decided to donate my kidney and sent a message on the contact number provided in the advertisement,” Kavitha explained. “The man who received the call introduced himself as Hada Fang and he assured me that I can donate kidney legally and that I need to get a donor card for the purpose. He later provided three bank account numbers and asked me to deposit money in the name of various fees, including police approval and tax identification fee. I pledged my gold ornaments and arranged Rs 3.1 lakh and transferred the amount. Later, Fang stopped replying to my messages and calls,” said Kavitha. WhatsApp number still activeKavitha made hectic efforts to contact Fang, who didn’t respond to her calls. “I used my friends’ phones to contact him. He’d respond to those numbers via messages and ask them to pay the money to get the donor card. His WhatsApp number is still active,” added Kavitha. On Thursday, Kavitha filed a complaint with CEN crime police.Police have registered a cheating case under Section 420 of IPC and Information Technology Act. They have requested the public not to fall for such false advertisements. Police found that the money deposited by Kavitha was withdrawn from the accounts within a few minutes. They suspect more people might have been cheated by the fraudsters.Banaswadi police busted a similar fraud in February by arresting six persons, including three foreign nationals, who had offered to buy kidneys and conned over 260 people across the country. Each of them had paid between Rs 40,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh to the gang. HOW SHE FELL FOR IT* Kavitha sees ad on FB offering Rs 1 crore to any kidney donor* Dials number mentioned in ad* Respondent, Hada Fang, says Kavitha must get donor card* Provides three bank accounts; asks her to deposit money as fees under different heads* Kavitha sells ornaments to arrange Rs 3.1L, which she deposits* Fang goes incommunicado||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/woman-looking-to-sell-kidney-tobail-out-parents-loses-rs-3l/articleshow/76099083.cms||Santosh kumar.B
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Surrender in 5 days, HC tells Gawli||Nagpur: Ruling out any leniency to underworld don Arun Gawli, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday directed him to surrender before jail authorities here within five days. A division bench comprising Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Anil Kilor told Gawli to apply for travel permission to the competent authority within 24 hours. The authority would grant him the permission in next 24 hours. He would then travel to the city and surrender before the Central Jail authorities in Nagpur within next three days. The gangster’s parole had ended last month after he was granted extension twice by the court owing to travel restrictions because of nationwide lockdown. On May 23, the HC had declined him any further extension for the third time. Subsequently, he went to Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai to surrender after a suggestion was made by assistant public prosecutors (APP) Amit Balpande and Amit Madiwale. The authorities there refused Gawli entry saying the jail was already overcrowded and he came from containment area of Dagdi Chawl. He then went into home quarantine as per norms of the containment area. On Friday, Gawli moved another application for extending his parole citing problems in travelling to Nagpur and also refusal to accommodate him by the Taloja authorities. The judges were not convinced and issued him directives to apply for travel permission and told the authorities to clear his proposal. APP Atul Sonak held brief for the jail authorities, who opposed his application. After Gawli was denied entry in Taloja jail, the gangster-turned-politician had rushed a letter to divisional commissioner on Sunday stating that about 26 persons were found positive for coronavirus from Dagdi Chawl. Appealing for parole extension till May 31 and another week for arriving at Nagpur, Gawli mentioned that the health officials had put him in home quarantine for 14 days from May 20 till June 2, due to his old age (68). As per police sources, Gawli wasn’t keen to move to Taloja prison, as many members from his rival gangs like Abu Salem and Ashwin Naik are imprisoned there and chances of clashes can’t be ruled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/surrender-in-5-days-hc-tells-gawli/articleshow/76099872.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Family in trouble for trying to bury man without alerting cops||Bengaluru: Family members of a 50-year-old garment employee, who was stabbed to death in a park at Mangammana Palya in southeast Bengaluru, have landed in trouble after they tried to bury him without intimating police. Bandepalya police named garment employee Muniraju’s son Manjunath and an unidentified individual as suspects in the FIR about the murder and destruction of evidence.Muniraju was found dead in a park near his residence on the night of May 19. Manjunath allegedly changed Muniraju’s blood-stained clothes to hide the murder and prepared to conduct his father’s final rites . “We received information about the incident and rushed to Muniraju’s residence. We noticed a chest injury but his family members requested us to allow them to conduct the final rites without registering any case. But we sent the body for postmortem after registering a case of suspicious death. The autopsy report confirmed Muniraju was murdered,” an officer said.  Manjunath and family members told police Muniraju was an alcoholic and had no work due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/family-in-trouble-for-trying-to-bury-man-without-alerting-cops/articleshow/76099126.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Blaze causes man to jump to his death||AHMEDABAD: A man from the Vastral area of city died as he jumped from the third floor of a commercial building on Ashram Road in Navrangpura, where a fire had broken out on Friday afternoon. Two other persons suffered minor injuries as they tried to run from the smoke, which emerged from a fire in the electric duct in the building. The incident took place at around 1.57pm on Friday when smoke began coming out from the duct on the ground floor of the Sakar-7 building and later smoke and the fire spread to the second and third floors of the building. Around 70 persons were working in the building at the time. As someone saw the fire and called the fire brigade, personnel of Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Service (AFES) and cops rushed to the spot. However, a man identified as Jaydeepsinh Chavda, 38, a resident of Vrajvila Bungalows housing society in Vastral, died, as he jumped from the fourth floor and fell on a car in the parking area. He was rushed to LG Hospital where he was declared brought dead. Inspector P B Desai of Navrangpura police said Chavda panicked on seeing the heavy smoke coming from the duct and he ran here and there to save himself. He then later he jumped from the third floor and died. Chavda, who worked for a private financial firm, had gone to the building to meet his friend Arpit Thakkar, a travel operator, when the incident took place, said Desai. Chief fire official M F Dastoor said AFES personnel rescued nearly 35 persons from the building using the stairs and automated ladder, while others had earlier managed to leave the building on their own. Dastoor said that 22 fire personnel were put to the task to douse the fire and to clear the smoke. “There was not a big fire but the smoke was intense which led to panic in the building. We took around two hours to clear the smoke and douse the fire,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-jumps-to-his-death-due-to-fire-in-building-35-rescued/articleshow/76098390.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: NGO helps mother during pregnancy, she names baby ‘Seva’ after them||NAGPUR: Just before the clock struck midnight on May 23, daily wage worker Gauri Kumar delivered a healthy baby girl. This had seemed impossible hardly two months ago, when first the lockdown deprived her of income and then a physically weak Gauri was refused admission in a hospital because of Covid-19 risk. But a rare series of events that kicked into motion days after the lockdown, ultimately culminated into Gauri not only being taken care of but also bringing her child into the world at a good private hospital. It all started in the last week of March when Fr Joji George was reading the newspaper at his residence in Yerala village, about 45 kms from Nagpur. “In TOI there was an article about one Khushroo Poacha doing social work. I searched for his contact on the Internet and reached out to offer my services,” said Fr George, who is known for helping the needy in the area. “Poacha would daily provide us with food kits which would then be delivered to different areas,” he added. Around the same time, Poacha’s acquaintance Sr Seema, who heads an orphanage on Kamptee road, had spotted Gauri who lived in a makeshift tent with her extended family from Chhattisgarh. “She was pregnant. Hence I started taking special care of her with not only supply of food but also a glass of milk daily,” said Sr Seema. Soon Poacha ensured a steady supply of milk was available for Gauri. But the weakness persisted and that’s how Fr George came into the picture. “A nearby hospital had refused admission citing Covid-19 threat and document shortage so I took her to a hospital in Yerala and blood transfusion was done because her haemoglobin was dangerously low. All her maternity related tests were done as well,” he said. The constant care ensured Gauri regained her health and last Saturday went into labour. Fr George arranged for a her transport from Nagpur to Yerala hospital where she delivered a baby girl late at night. Poacha said “The child has been named Seva, after our Seva organization.” That’s Gauri’s way of showing gratitude for all they did for her. The entire family is currently under mandatory quarantine in a government facility at their native Chhattisgarh. Sr Seema said, “Seva is a healthy baby and we hope to see them soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngo-helps-mom-during-pregnancy-she-names-baby-seva-after-them/articleshow/76100130.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||AIIMS Nagpur mentors 20 Covid testing labs in Maharashtra||NAGPUR: The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS Nagpur), which was designated as a mentor institute for Covid-19 testing labs in medical colleges, universities and institutions in Maharashtra in April, has helped the state boost its testing capacity by adding 20 new facilities in just one-and-a-half-month. With the addition of six labs recently, the state’s daily testing capacity will touch 13,750 soon. The laboratories recently approved by AIIMS Nagpur include Civil Hospital, Ahmednagar, GMC Jalgaon and GMC Baramati (CBNAAT & RTPCR), Civil Hospital, Satara and Civil Hospital, Parbhani (TruNAT) and Vasantrao Naik GMC, Yavatmal (CBNAAT). “Quality checks are being conducted to ensure proper functioning of labs as per guidelines. All approved labs send daily reports of the assessments conducted to AIIMS Nagpur. We are assisting them in case of any problem,” said director and CEO of AIIMS Nagpur Maj Gen (Dr) Vibha Dutta. To ensure each district and sub-district has a testing facility, AIIMS Nagpur has proactively contacted collectors and civil surgeons to start Covid-19 testing in all district hospitals across the state. “Six districts have applied to establish Covid-19 labs in their respective hospitals and three have already been granted approval and are functional now,” said Dr Dutta. The team of proficient medical microbiologists of AIIMS Nagpur has also conducted rigorous programmes with hands-on training for designated staff (microbiologists and laboratory technicians) from 25 medical colleges and institutions till date. From setting up of molecular diagnostic laboratory for Covid-19 testing in a span of 12 days; providing vital recommendations on Covid-19 preparedness and response by rapid response team for Nagpur, Yavatmal and state of Goa; establishment of Covid-19 labs across the state, to caring of corona patients admitted to designated Covid ward at the institute; AIIMS Nagpur has been playing an active part in the war against Covid-19 and will continue to do so, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aiims-nagpur-mentors-20-covid-testing-labs-in-state/articleshow/76099916.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||‘Places of worship shut but liquor shops open’||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Friday attacked the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government for permitting the opening of liquor shops in red zone areas. Taking to Twitter, the senior Congress leader criticised the state government over law and order situation. “Across the country, everything is closed during this corona epidemic lockdown. But in Madhya Pradesh, everything is as usual even during the lockdown period. Murder, rape, gangrape, corruption, scams, frauds, atrocities on farmers, mafia rule, liquor shops, theft, robbery, starvation deaths,” Nath tweeted.  In another tweet, the former Union minister said that though religious places of worship, schools and colleges may be closed but government has opened liquor shops for the “alcohol lover”. “Now government has reversed its previous order and decided to open liquor shops in red zone areas. People in the red zones may not be able to get essential commodities like milk, medicine and vegetables – there is prohibition on everything but government is going to provide alcohol in these areas,” Kamal Nath tweeted. Replying to Nath’s allegation, state BJP spokesman Rajneesh Agarwal said, “Is the Congress a national party or has become a regional one? In Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Punjab they have a different outlook on liquor and sale of alcohol. Here, it is something else. This is just to mislead people of the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/places-of-worship-shut-but-liquor-shops-open/articleshow/76097101.cms||Suchandana Gupta
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||HC rejects convicted Naxalite Prashant Rahi’s plea||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday rejected petition by convicted Naxalite Prashant Rahi alias Narayan Sanglikar, an accomplice of Maoist thinktank Gokarakonda Naga Saibaba, who was convicted by Gadchiroli sessions court on March 7, 2017. The petitioner, a resident of Chandrashekhar Nagar in Dehradun in Uttarakhand, had knocked judiciary’s doors for suspension of the sentence and grant of bail. Rahi was convicted along with his mentor Saibaba for aiding and abetting Naxalite activities and waging war against the nation. Mahesh and Vijay Tirki, Hem Mishra and Pandu Narote were others who also faced trial. All of them, except Mahesh, were awarded life imprisonment under sections 13, 18, 20, 38 and 39 of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) along with Section 120B of IPC for criminal conspiracy. According to prosecution, Rahi was arrested along with Vijay on September 2, 2013 at Deori T-point in Chichgad in Gondia district. Incriminating material, including Maoist literature and letters, cash Rs8,800 was seized from them. It was also found that Vijay was actively involved in facilitating Rahi’s visit to Abujhmad for meeting senior Naxalite leaders who were hiding there. Both were believed to have conspired with the underground member Ramdar of banned CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organization RDF. As per the latter’s diktats, Vijay had tried to take Rahi to Abujhmad forests and Saibaba had arranged their meetings with the underground members of banned Maoist organizations. On May 22, the HC had dismissed Saibaba’s application for parole filed through his brother to visit Hyderabad to meet his ailing mother, who’s suffering from cancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-rejects-convicted-naxalite-rahis-plea/articleshow/76099866.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 30, 2020||Hubballi||Rumblings within Karnataka BJP grow louder as 15 MLAs meet at Katti’s house||BENGALURU/ BELAGAVI: The dates to finalising nomination to the five vacant legislative council seats, and four Rajya Sabha seats in Karnataka drawing near with each passing day, rumblings are being heard within the ranks of the BJP, as several senior members have started lobbying for the party ticket. To add to the drama, reports of the state cabinet’s expansion is throwing divisions in the saffron party into stark relief. On Thursday, as many as 15 MLAs of the BJP met at senior member Umesh Katti’s house. The meeting, which lasted more than two hours, was attended by Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Raju Gouda, Dattatreya Patil Revur, Balachandra Jarkiholi, Shivraj Patil, Rajkumar Patil Sedam, Basavaraj Mattimadu among others. The legislators present at the meeting dismissed suggestions of the conference having been anything other than a session to discuss plans for the development of North Karnataka, and their respective constituencies. “We met to discuss working as a group to help each develop one another’s segments,” said Raichur MLA Shivraj Patil. However, sources in the BJP said that there was more to the meeting than what was being given out. A senior BJP MLA said that the meeting portended turmoil in the party. “Many legislators feel only a handful of the members have reaped the fruits of power. This is not entirely untrue, since there has been discrepancy in allocation of power and funds. So, they are trying to get together as a group and exert pressure. However, it is hard to tell to what extent they will be successful. Many legislators at the meeting also have their own aspirations,” he added. That Katti, reported to have taken the lead in arranging the meeting, has been upset over denial of a cabinet berth is a rumour that has been doing the rounds for a few months. “His brother Ramesh Katti was denied the ticket to the Lok Sabha elections. Yediyurappa is keen on inducting him to the cabinet, but he has fallen out with the BJP central leadership,” said a BJP member. Ramesh said that he, and many other members in the BJP, were upset with denial of any position. “I was promised the Rajya Sabha nomination after the party denied the Chikkodi Lok Sabha ticket to me. We want Yediyurappa to honour this promise,” said Umesh Katti’s brother. He said that Umesh Katti had reminded the CM of the obligation recently. “Yediyurappa has reiterated his promise, but it has come to our attention that incumbent Rajya Sabha MP Prabhakar Kore, whose term will end in June, is also lobbying for the nomination. Politics is all about possibilities and anything can happen,” Ramesh added. The member added that a remark by Katti, wherein he reportedly said that, in Chikkodi, his diktats superseded those of the BJP and even the Prime Minister’s had ruffled the feathers of the party top brass. “The Katti brothers are battling to stay politically relevant,” he added. BSY our CM, but Modi is our leader, says Yatnal Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has been quite vocal in expressing his displeasure over the way chief minister BS Yediyurappa has been functioning. “I am upset because the CM has not been very receptive to my pleas on requirement of developmental projects in my segment,” Yatnal said. He said that he would express no opposition if the BJP top brass chose to replace Yediyurappa as the CM. “Yediyurappa is only the CM of Karnataka, but Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda are my leaders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rumblings-within-karnataka-bjp-grow-louder-as-15-mlas-meet-at-kattis-house/articleshow/76097540.cms||Anil Gejji
May 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Animal lover, apartment residents lock horns over stray dogs||BENGALURU: A manager with an animal rehabilitation centre and residents of an apartment in Begur, southeast Bengaluru, lodged police complaints accusing each other of attacks over stray dogs. It all began on May 24 when KB Harish, 29, manager of Jeevadatu Foundation, learnt that 15 strays near SNN Raj Serenity apartment on Begur-Koppa Road had been allegedly sedated and shifted to different places by residents. When Harish went to the spot, some people attacked him. He filed a police complaint over the attack on May 25. “Some residents had hired professional dog catchers who took away the animals in an autorickshaw. I was interacting with residents, when a few people, claiming to be from the apartment association, attacked me,” Harish alleged. A resident filed a complaint accusing Harish of trespassing and vandalising materials, including CCTVs inside the apartment’s security room. Vineet Modon stated: “We love animals and respect the law of the land. This apartment has 1,500 families, including 800 children and 500 senior citizens. Several times, stray dogs have behaved dangerously and bit residents. At 11pm on May 24, Harish and others barged into the apartment, attacked security personnel and took away CCTV materials. Harish and others are spreading false messages about our apartment.” Begur police said the dogs were indeed sedated and shifted to different places. “These stray are said to have attacked and bitten a few apartment occupants. But who sedated the dogs will be revealed in the course of investigation. We have issued notices to both parties,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/animal-lover-apartment-residents-lock-horns-over-stray-dogs/articleshow/76099189.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara records 8 new +ve cases||Kolhapur: As many as eight new Covid-19 cases were reported in Satara district on Friday, taking the tally of positive cases in the district to 460. Meanwhile, a 54-year-old man from Kari village in Satara taluka died of the infection on Friday. There have been 17 deaths related to Covid-19 in the district so far. According to official information released by the district administration, five of the eight patients identified on Friday are from Chinchni village in Khataw tehsil and are currently undergoing treatment at a civil hospital in Satara city. The other three patients are from Satara and Patan tehsils. 34 new Covid-19 cases came to the fore late on Thursday night. Meanwhile, as many as six men, two women and a 12-year-old girl were discharged from Krishna hospital in Karad on Thursday. As many as 143 patients in Satara district have been discharged so far. The number of active patients is 300. A new portable machine that can conduct Covid-19 tests was made operational at the Satara civil hospital on Thursday. Kolhapur district has reported 47 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 483. Except for Monday, Kolhapur has recorded an average of 40 cases every day. The fresh cases include a six-year-old boy and a five-year-old girl. Shuhuwadi tehsil continues to record the highest number of Covid patients in Kolhapur. Meanwhile, two people having a history of travelling from Mumbai and a woman’s son tested positive for Covid-19 in Sangli district on Thursday, taking the tally of positive cases to 44. As many as six patients were discharged on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-records-8-new-ve-cases/articleshow/76097096.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Relax loan interest for MSMEs: BJP to Centre||HYDERABAD: State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday seeking relaxation of interest on loans for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) for six months. In the letter, he said the move will provide relief to the sector as government has announced six months moratorium on EMIs. Sanjay observed that MSMEs have been affected by the lockdown. “Under the prevailing circumstances, it might take these MSMEs some more time to recover and redeem their business,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/relax-loan-interest-for-msmes-bjp-to-centre/articleshow/76099297.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 403 deaths in four days, says ‘active cases’ 33,000||MUMBAI: In the past four days, the state has added 403 deaths. The state government attributed this jump in deaths to bookkeeping. Of 116 deaths reported on Friday, 46 have occurred in the past two days, while 70 are from the period May 16 to 26, the state bulletin said. These cases were added in the tally on Friday. The state has so far discharged 26,997 patients in all as on Friday, so active cases, or cases under treatment, were 33,124, the government said. Most recoveries were reported from Mumbai – the country’s hotspot accounting for 41% of its total cases and 25% of its toll. Mumbai’s recovery percentage jumped by 84.9% on Friday as 16,008 recoveries were recorded as against 8,650 on Thursday, even as 1,447 people tested positive and 38 died. State and BMC officials, however, clarified the 85% jump in recoveries too was a bookkeeping exercise. “Previous discharges have also been included in Friday’s tally after figures were updated on the Covid-19 website,” said a senior state health official. A civic official said 715 people were discharged from various hospitals and quarantine centres in the city on Friday. With Friday’s correction, the city now accounts for 38% of all recoveries in the country. Out of 38 deaths in the city, 28 patients had co-morbidities. While 22 victims were men, 16 were women. Only two victims were under 40 years of age, 16 were between 40 and 60 years old, and 20 were above 60. “The next two weeks are crucial in Mumbai as the city could be facing its peak as far as the number of cases are concerned,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, dean of the Indian College of Physicians. “We need to focus on better tracing, aggressive treatment and care strategies,” he said, adding mild cases in the city were doing well. A BMC health official said growth rate of cases in Mumbai between May 22 and 27 stood at 5%. Officials said with the recovery rate increasing and doubling rate up to 15.7 days from 11, the state will ensure beds are freed up for new cases. Meanwhile, 18 relatives and friends who attended the funeral of a 40-year-old Covid suspect woman tested positive on Friday. This is the second case in Ulhasnagar in a month in which relatives violated government order while handling the body during last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-adds-403-deaths-in-four-days-says-active-cases-33000/articleshow/76100912.cms||Bhavika Jain
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 25 strays poisoned, buried at dumpyard||HYDERABAD: Nearly 25 stray dogs were allegedly poisoned and hastily buried at a dumpyard on the outskirts of Kuncharam village in Medak district on Friday. The incident came to light when an animal activist sent a video of the bodies of the dogs being dumped into a pit with an earthmover. “The village sarpanch hired a few people to capture the stray dogs and kill them,” said Deeksha Deshpande, an animal activist. NGO People for Animals has appealed to the district official to take action against the accused, however, no complaint has been registered yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-strays-poisoned-buried-at-dumpyard/articleshow/76099299.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus kills 5 alternative medical practitioners in Mumbai||MUMBAI: At least five alternative medical practitioners have succumbed to novel coronavirus in the city over the past one month, prompting the fraternity to demand an insurance cover for their families. The latest to die was a 51-year-old Unani practitioner, who not just manned the state's 108 ambulance service, but also ran his own clinic. The Cheetah Camp resident stopped reporting to work from May 12 when he developed the first symptoms, said his family. Authorities from 108 said he used to be designated the spot outside Dadar station and was extremely caring towards his patients. "After finishing his shift, which sometimes stretched to 12 hours, he would open his clinic and treat patients," said Dr Kishor Deo of 108. His family said he would wear the PPE before meeting his patients. He is survived by his wife and two sons. The family, though, admitted he did delay his hospitalization till May 23. "By then, he was in severe pain and needed non-invasive ventilation. He tested positive on May 26 and passed away a day later," said Dr Deo, adding they were informed about his serious condition towards the end. Dr Zubair Shaikh, general secretary of the Integrated Medicine Practitioners Association (IMPA), said Unani practitioners have kept their clinics open but paid with their lives. "There have been deaths in Dharavi, Govandi and Bhandup. We had requested the state to provide our families with a comprehensive personal accident cover of Rs 50 lakh under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting Covid-19, but we haven't got a response," he said. Shaikh, though, said BMC did start giving PPEs to Unani clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/coronavirus-kills-5-alternative-medical-practitioners-in-mumbai/articleshow/76100919.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha announces Rs 17,000 crore livelihood package for farmers, daily wagers||Bhubaneswar: With the mass return of migrants from different states leading to serious unemployment situation in rural areas, the Odisha government on Friday announced a special livelihood intervention package worth Rs 17,000 crore. The move aims to generate employment opportunities through different sectors like agriculture, fisheries, MGNREGS, skill development, forestry, handloom and handicrafts. The package was approved by the state council of ministers led by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who met through video-conference to mark the completion of the first year of the fifth term of the ruling BJD government. Chief secretary Asit Tripathy said, “The Covid-19 pandemic is not only a public health crisis, but also an economic crisis. Since a major portion of the population lives in rural areas, a special livelihood intervention was necessary for their economic development. The farmers and wage earners will get the direct benefit of the livelihood package.” Officials said it will be implemented in 10 months from June this year to March next. More than four lakh Odias have already returned to the state during the lockdown, while four lakh more are expected to come back in the next few weeks. Tripathy said Rs 373 crore will be spent under the agriculture and fisheries and animal resources development sectors, which would benefit nearly 25 lakh farmers. “In the agriculture sector, we will provide 5.5 lakh quintals of certified quality seeds to 10 lakh farmers at 75% subsidy. Similarly, five lakh farmers will be provided with hybrid vegetable seeds covering 50,000 hectares. Another five lakh farmers will be supported with vegetable mini-kits covering 50,000 hectares of land. The state government will also support two lakh more farmers for backyard plantation of fruit plants,” Tripathy said. The livelihood package also includes support to farmers in tribal areas for high-value vegetable crops, financial assistance to betel farmers and support to 5,000 women self-help groups and 10,000 individual farmers for mushroom cultivation. Another 3,000 farmers will be supported for floriculture. With the fisheries and animal resources development being a major source of income for people living in rural areas, the package targets to create 2,000 hectares of new fish ponds benefiting 5,000 farmers, provide input assistance to 1,500 women self-help groups for pisciculture in panchayat tanks and provide livelihood support to 15,000 marine fishermen. The package also aims to support farmers in setting up 4,500 new broiler farms and 750 layer farms. The state government’s plan to disburse crop loans worth Rs 9,000 crore to 20 lakh farmers during the ongoing kharif season is also part of the package. Also, another Rs 700 crore has been proposed as interest subvention on previous crop loans. In view of the Centre’s decision to allocate additional Rs 40,000 crore under the MGNREGS, the state government has also set an ambitious target to create 20 crore persons/days of works as part of the rural job scheme. Over 6,440 crore is estimated to be spent under the scheme. “The panchayati raj department has also set a target of providing skill development training to 40,000 migrants in a bid to create 1.05 lakh farm ponds and five lakh nutri gardens under which fruit-bearing plants will be supplied in rural areas,” the chief secretary said, adding that the forest and environment department would spend around Rs 500 crore on employment generation through various initiatives. Besides, the apex cooperative societies in the handicraft and handloom sector like Utkalika and Boyanika will be provided Rs 5 crore and 25 crore, respectively, for procurement of produces from artisans and weavers. The chief secretary said the administration will work in a focused manner in the next few months for the successful implementation of the livelihood package. The package, however, has failed to enthuse the farmers leaders as they had demanded direct financial benefit for their community at the moment. “We have been continuously demanding social security pension for farmers under which the state government should transfer money directly to the accounts of farmers,” Akshaya Kumar, convener of the Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-announces-rs-17000-crore-livelihood-package-for-farmers-daily-wagers/articleshow/76098401.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Minor girl raped by neighbour in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 10-year-old minor girl was raped by a neighbour in Chandanagar, police said on Friday. Chandanagar SI Ramulu said that at around 2am on Friday, when the victim was sleeping outside her house in Chandanagar due to a power cut, the accused picked her up and raped her inside the house. “When the girl managed to escape, he pushed her, and she sustained minor injuries on her head,” he said. Later, the victim narrated the incident to the relative, who alerted the police. “The accused, said to be aged around 30, is still absconding, he has been booked for rape under the POCSO Act,” the SI said. Police have launched a manhunt to nab the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-girl-raped-by-neighbour/articleshow/76100147.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VSEZ beats corona blues to clock 17% growth in 1.5 months||HYDERABAD: The Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ), that includes the Information Technology zone of Hyderabad and the pharma SEZ in Vizag, managed to notch exports of Rs 8,287 crore for the April 1 to May 19, 2020, period despite the ongoing coronavirus crisis. This was a 17.4% growth as compared to the Rs 7,057 crore it clocked in the corresponding period of 2019-20. VSEZ is optimistic about achieving its Rs 1 lakh crore exports target in financial year 2020-21 and clocking a 10-12% growth over financial year 2019-20, if Covid-19 is controlled in the first quarter, said VSEZ Development Commissioner, A Rama Mohan Reddy, who is the zonal head for all the SEZs and export oriented units (EOUs) in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and the Union territory of Yanam. Explaining the reason for his optimism he said in the last two months, VSEZ exports from pharma and IT, which account for 85% of exports, were largely unaffected. “Lockdown 1.0 to 4.0 have had a tremendous impact on the economic performance of the country, especially production and exports from the industrial sector. But VSEZ has had 96% units operational, excluding those in the confinement zones, with strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) put in place by the Union ministry of home affairs.” “Despite nearly 60 days of lockdown, the SEZ units and EOUs in the zone have contributed to exports and are earning foreign exchange. As on date, as many as 585 of the total 702 units in the zone are operational. Of these, around 363 are on Work From Home,” he said. Prior to the lockdown, VSEZ had 510 units operational across over 58 SEZs and 192 EOUs in three states of AP, Telangana and Chhattisgarh. “As per the latest updates by customs officers, in SEZs only 21.32 % of the total staff are working in the units by observing social distancing norms. A total of 3,00,693 employees are working from home, especially in IT and ITeS units in SEZs and EOUs,” Reddy said. “We have also achieved growth in merchandise to the tune of 12.77%, apart from growth of 20.6% in the services sector. So far, Laurus labs of APSEZ, which falls in the zone, has exported 11.47 million tablets of HCQ to USA, South Africa, Singapore, Malawi and Belgium,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cleared-swati-b26-sudhakar-vsezgrowth/articleshow/76102122.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||VSEZ beats corona blues to clock 17% growth in 1.5 months||HYDERABAD: The Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ), that includes the Information Technology zone of Hyderabad and the pharma SEZ in Vizag, managed to notch exports of Rs 8,287 crore for the April 1 to May 19, 2020, period despite the ongoing coronavirus crisis. This was a 17.4% growth as compared to the Rs 7,057 crore it clocked in the corresponding period of 2019-20. VSEZ is optimistic about achieving its Rs 1 lakh crore exports target in financial year 2020-21 and clocking a 10-12% growth over financial year 2019-20, if Covid-19 is controlled in the first quarter, said VSEZ Development Commissioner, A Rama Mohan Reddy, who is the zonal head for all the SEZs and export oriented units (EOUs) in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and the Union territory of Yanam. Explaining the reason for his optimism he said in the last two months, VSEZ exports from pharma and IT, which account for 85% of exports, were largely unaffected. “Lockdown 1.0 to 4.0 have had a tremendous impact on the economic performance of the country, especially production and exports from the industrial sector. But VSEZ has had 96% units operational, excluding those in the confinement zones, with strict compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) put in place by the Union ministry of home affairs.” “Despite nearly 60 days of lockdown, the SEZ units and EOUs in the zone have contributed to exports and are earning foreign exchange. As on date, as many as 585 of the total 702 units in the zone are operational. Of these, around 363 are on Work From Home,” he said. Prior to the lockdown, VSEZ had 510 units operational across over 58 SEZs and 192 EOUs in three states of AP, Telangana and Chhattisgarh. “As per the latest updates by customs officers, in SEZs only 21.32 % of the total staff are working in the units by observing social distancing norms. A total of 3,00,693 employees are working from home, especially in IT and ITeS units in SEZs and EOUs,” Reddy said. “We have also achieved growth in merchandise to the tune of 12.77%, apart from growth of 20.6% in the services sector. So far, Laurus labs of APSEZ, which falls in the zone, has exported 11.47 million tablets of HCQ to USA, South Africa, Singapore, Malawi and Belgium,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cleared-swati-b26-sudhakar-vsezgrowth/articleshow/76100548.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Earmarked Rs 10 crore for disabled: Telangana to HC||HYDERABAD: The state government has earmarked Rs 10 crore to help the disabled during the lockdown. The state’s special counsel Harender Pershad informed this to the high court on Friday when a PIL pertaining to persons with disabilities came up for hearing. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy told him to file a report on the matter by June 9. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by Shiva Ganesh Karnati of Uppal who brought to the notice of the court the plight of the disabled during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/earmarked-rs-10cr-for-disabled-t-to-hc/articleshow/76099301.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Corona may worsen climate change impact, warn experts||NAGPUR: The upcoming season of heatwaves, tropical storms and fires could be made even more deadly this year by the combination of a world in lockdown and events worsened by climate change, an international group of scientific, health and humanitarian experts has warned. According to them, with the onset of meteorological summer, countries across the Northern Hemisphere are about to enter the danger zone when the risks of extreme weather are greatest. India and Bangladesh have already been hit by their first major storm of the year, Cyclone Amphan, one of the strongest on record in the region. Hurricane season in the US and Caribbean starts on June 1, with forecasters warning that storms could be worse than normal this year. Experts further stated the risk of extreme heat and wildfires will also increase over the coming weeks, with the peak of Northern Hemisphere heat typically arriving from July and August, and the most dangerous fires usually starting around from the same time and sometimes running for months. It is likely 2020 will be the world’s hottest year on record, they added. Climate change has increased the frequency and severity of extreme weather events, experts pointed out, with carbon emissions heightening the dangers from storms, heatwaves and fires. “Among the effects of higher temperatures are longer-lasting, hotter and more frequent heatwaves, which also increase wildfire risk, and storms that are stronger and release heavier rain in extreme downpours,” they stated. Other factors may also increase risk from extreme weather this year. “Many people — particularly the most vulnerable — may be unwilling to leave their homes to avoid exposure to virus, putting them at greater risk from extreme heat and storms. In some countries over-stretched emergency health services may be unable to cope with a sudden surge in demand, while firefighters could struggle to combat wildfires during an outbreak of the virus,” experts stated. They have advised the local and national authorities in places at risk of extreme events to urgently prepare and communicate plans for protecting people from weather disasters. They further warned that continued carbon emissions, and the resulting planetary heating, might lead to multiple emergencies happening at the same time. Dr Kat Kramer, Global Climate Lead at Christian Aid, said, “Climate change is a huge risk in its own right, but it also acts as a risk multiplier. We need to build back from Covid in a way that increases the resilience of society and the natural world and in a way that rapidly and radically reduces our emissions, otherwise we are simply fueling another disaster.” Stressing that Bangladesh and India had already faced a dilemma with cyclone Amphan, professor Maarten van Aalst of the Red Cross Red Crescent Climate Centre, said, “It’s critical that we do the immediate response work on Covid-19, including social distancing, but at the same time we must prepare for and respond to the continuing climate hazards, adjusting our contingency plans to the realities of the current pandemic.” Stating that climate change-fuelled extreme weather events are already becoming a regular crisis for some countries, Mohamed Adow, director of Nairobi-based think tank Power Shift Africa, said, “It’s almost impossible for rescuers to socially distance from those they are trying to save and often survivors end up in cramped conditions for some time. This is more evidence that we must tackle both the coronavirus and climate crises together and deploy economic recovery funds to accelerate the transition to a zero carbon society.” The most disadvantaged populations are the most at risk in the event of a severe heat wave during the summer, said Sébastien Lyon, general director of UNICEF France.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corona-may-worsen-climate-change-impact-warn-experts/articleshow/76100146.cms||Manka Behl
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Thunder showers likely on June 1, says IMD||MUMBAI: India Meteorological Department (IMD), Mumbai, has issued a warning for rain and thunder showers for Mumbai and Thane on June 1. Thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds are expected in parts of Raigad and Ratnagiri. The official onset of south-west monsoon over Mumbai is June 11 but IMD had earlier predicted pre-monsoon showers for the city and adjoining areas in the first week of June. Maximum temperature in Mumbai continued to stay high on Friday, with Colaba recording 35.2 degrees Celsius, and Sanatcruz 34.9 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-thunder-showers-likely-on-june-1-says-imd/articleshow/76100922.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Thane||Mumbai: Thunder showers likely on June 1, says IMD||MUMBAI: India Meteorological Department (IMD), Mumbai, has issued a warning for rain and thunder showers for Mumbai and Thane on June 1. Thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds are expected in parts of Raigad and Ratnagiri. The official onset of south-west monsoon over Mumbai is June 11 but IMD had earlier predicted pre-monsoon showers for the city and adjoining areas in the first week of June. Maximum temperature in Mumbai continued to stay high on Friday, with Colaba recording 35.2 degrees Celsius, and Sanatcruz 34.9 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-thunder-showers-likely-on-june-1-says-imd/articleshow/76100925.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||Gujarat model to expedite UP’s housing projects||LUCKNOW: UP government is set to adopt the Gujarat model of land pooling to increase land bank which is required to push industrial development and real estate projects hit by lockdown. According to sources in housing and urban planning department, a model is being worked upon to make adjustments as per the state’s requirement. The move is an attempt to address the problem of shrinking land bank even as acquisition becomes a major challenge in execution of big ticket industrial and housing projects. A senior official in housing department said, “The option will allow the state government to execute low-cost housing which is one of the biggest priorities in times of economic slowdown due to lockdown.” The scheme has been applied in Gujarat where individuals share their unutilized – often barren land – with the state government for development and higher evaluation. Once developed, the government takes over 60-75% of the land for its own project, leaving 25-40% with the individual. The owner can collaborate with real estate developers to build residential properties on his share of land. Housing department officials said the land required by the authority would vest in the authority and free from encumbrances.The authority will hand over the possession of final plots to owners to whom they are allotted under land pooling scheme. A permanent tribunal for the scheme is also proposed to be constituted. Sources said the housing department has decided to follow the Centre’s guidelines in framing the policy provisioning allotment of low cost housing and shops to migrants who have returned to the state in large number following the lockdown. A senior officer said the government would wait for Centre’s guidelines before hammering out a policy for migrants. The Centre is expected to come up with guidelines vis-à-vis allotment of low-cost houses to migrants within two weeks. “The department would adjust the housing policy as per the Centre’s guidelines,” another official said. The decision to formulate a policy to provide low-cost shops and houses to migrants returning to their native villages was taken last week. Urban development department has been asked to prepare a plan for cheap housing and rentals for migrants. The chief secretary will coordinate with various departments to draft the plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/guj-model-to-expedite-ups-housing-projects/articleshow/76100168.cms||Pankaj Shah
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Illegal sale of spurious cotton seeds busted, 4 held||HYDERABAD: A gang involved in a spurious cotton seed racket was busted on Friday and four members were arrested by Special Operations Team (SOT) sleuths of Rachakonda commissionerate. The sleuths seized Rs 50 lakh worth of stock. Acting on specific information, SOT sleuths of LB Nagar along with the officials of agriculture department intercepted a DCM van near Kandukur and nabbed the offenders while they were transporting spurious Bt cotton seeds to sell it to farmers. Thirtynine bags containing two tonnes of spurious cotton seed along with the van, a seed processing machine, two seed packing machines and 76,700 empty packets of various seed selling brands were recovered. The accused have been identified as M Laxmi Narayana (46) of Mansoorabad, P Yusif Bhasha (27), van driver from Kurnool in AP, M Dasari Suresh (21), van cleaner from Kurnool and V Bachi (42), a businessman from Mansoorabad. Their associate, Hussain Saheb, of Nandyal is absconding. According to Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat, Narayana, the main accused, has been indulging in illegal sale of Bt-3 cotton seed. “Narayana has a criminal history. He was previously arrested by Khammam police in 2019 for illegal sale of Bt cotton seeds,” he said. Recently, Narayana set up a cotton seed processing unit, Thapasya Agro Tech, at Laxminagar Colony in Uppal without obtaining a licence. “He has been selling the seeds procured from Hussain under various brand names after processing them here,” Bhagwat said. The accused along with the seized material were handed over to Kandukur police. A case was registered against them under sections 420 of the IPC, 3(1) of Seeds (Control) Order, 1983, clause-7 of Fertilisers (Control) Order, 1985, 3(2)(d) of Essential Commodities Act and 9(1)(C) of Insecticides Act, 1968.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/illegal-sale-of-spurious-cotton-seeds-busted-4-held/articleshow/76099305.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||As lockdown bites, it’s brisk business in langurs at Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border||HYDERABAD: In Vissannapeta village on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border, ‘monkey business’ takes a whole new meaning even during the lockdown. Chained to stone pillars or caged by the road under thatched roofs, there are at least 30 grey langurs munching on leaves thrown their way as owners wait for customers who want to buy them to keep other primates away from their premises. On any given day, 25-30 langurs are illegally captured from the forests near Rajahmundry and sold openly to customers in both AP and Telangana for a prices ranging from Rs 11,000 to Rs 13,000. “If you want a male, it will cost you Rs 13,000 and a female Rs 11000. Females are easy to handle. If you can’t come this far, I can send the langur to your place with our boys,” said Buiji Seetaiah, who was ready to deliver two langurs to Bhadrachalam. The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, lists the langur as a protected species under Schedule II and they cannot be owned, traded, bought, sold or hired. The law even stipulates a three-year jail term or fine or both, but villagers of Vissannapeta are not bothered. “Everyone wants a langur to ward off monkeys and other animals as langurs are very territorial. They are ready to shell out money and it’s good business for us,” said another trader. Most of them even have business cards along with their name, which says ‘kondamuchulu ammabadunu’ which translates to “langurs for sale” in Telugu. In March, a gram panchayat office in Telangana’s Bhadracham town purchased three langurs and kept them chained in the office premises. TOI has accessed images, videos and business cards of these illegal langur sellers that expose the thriving illegal business. In one of the videos, a woman selling the langurs tells a potential buyer how these primates are only available in Vissannapeta and to feed them leaves and guavas. When contacted, Ananth Shankar, divisional forest officer Krishna district, said that he was not aware of the business. “We are not aware, but we will definitely consider it if you share the videos and images along with other details.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-lockdown-bites-its-brisk-biz-in-langurs-at-ap-telangana-border/articleshow/76100559.cms||Moulika.KV
May 30, 2020||Kanpur||Covid-19 surge returns to Kanpur city after 27 days||LUCKNOW: After a gap of nearly four weeks, Kanpur recorded a spike in Covid-19 cases. Of the 275 new patients reported across the state in 24 hours, 26 were from Kanpur. The last surge in the state’s industrial capital was reported on May 3 when 29 cases were reported. Since then, the district mostly made single digit entries in the state bulletin. “The fresh cases doubled the number of active cases – from 26 to 52 -- in the district almost overnight,” admitted health officials. Only two days ago, Kanpur made headlines for recording highest proportion of recoveries. CMO Ashok Shukla stated that patients were from areas other than the listed hotspots. Health teams have been deputed to undertake surveillance activities. As on date, the district tally stands at 365 of which 301 patients have been discharged while 11 have died. Azamgarh followed with 20 cases. As per health officials, eight are migrants from Mumbai, while another four have returned from Ghaziabad. Two others worked in Delhi and drove back home on a bike on May 10. The details of remaining were awaited. Health officials said that 86 migrants tested positive to the novel coronavirus infection. These patients were identified by ASHA workers who segregated symptomatic persons serving quarantine in villages. The new cases took state's Covid-19 tally to 7,485. As many as 195 recoveries were also reported taking the total number to 4,410. Moreover, five deaths were reported taking the total number of Covid-19 casualties to 201. The deaths were reported in Lucknow, Gautam Budha Nagar, Mathura, Ambedkarnagar and Unnao. Health officials stated that sustained surveillance and control measures being undertaken by the state over three months have been lauded by the Union government. “Till date, 5,28,069 persons have been identified and tracked by district surveillance units, WHO-NPSP teams and supervisors of RNTCP. Of them, 3,96,659 persons tracked on Friday are under home isolation, while 2,936 are admitted to different health facilities. A total of 18,476 contacts of various positive cases are also being tracked and are in fine health,” said the state bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-surge-returns-tokanpur-city-after-27-days/articleshow/76100178.cms||Shailvee Sharda
May 30, 2020||Kolhapur||This quarantine centre in Kolhapur is as good as home for 24 families||KOLHAPUR: Trupti Patil plays with her toddler on the porch of a primary school and doesn’t feel like she has been placed in institutional quarantine. Patil and her family are among the 24 families, who came from Mumbai about 10 days back, and were asked to stay in the school at Dhamane village in Kolhapur district for a fortnight before they can go home. Trupti, a school teacher, said her concerns about staying in the facility with a toddler were washed away when she saw the provisions. Clean rooms and washrooms, proper food and milk supply and a kitchen too. “We were living in Mumbai for nine years and as the condition there worsened, we decided to return to the village. At first, when we were told to stay in the school, I was worried. But now, it almost feels like a vacation and we wish we could stay here longer,” she said. Her happy note resonates with the 81 people staying in this school in Ajara taluka of Kolhapur district. Among those in the quarantine is the village sarpanch Shivaji Lokare, who was stuck in Mumbai during lockdown and could return only this month. Lokare said there are 79 people from Mumbai and three from Pune in the school. “Being the sarpanch, I know the requirements and during my thirteen-day stay here, I have fixed it. Leakage to the water tank, some repair of the washrooms, plantation of 100 saplings and sanitization of the school has been done with the help of people placed in quarantine here,” he said. The local villagers donate vegetables, grains, fruits and other materials for us and two villagers, who also returned from Mumbai before the lockdown, cook meals in the school pantry. For Laxman Phalke, who owns four hotels in Mumbai, his stay in the school revived his childhood memories. “I have been living in Dadar for the last 25 years and used to come to the village only once a year. I came back with my family of eight and am staying here for last seven days. It’s actually great that all of us from this village, who have been living in Mumbai for years, could bond this way,” he said. All the anxiety and struggle Tukaram Magdum, an LIC agent, felt at his home in Mumbai has disappeared. “I returned because we were scared for our four-month old baby. The happy atmosphere in the school has made the stay enjoyable. We carried out plantation and cleanliness activities in the school where I once studied,” he said. Amit Bhosale, a member of the Corona Dakshata Samiti in Dhamane village, said the sarpanch calls them if any material is required and it is provided accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/this-quarantine-centre-in-kolhapur-is-as-good-as-home-for-24-families/articleshow/76097226.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Man makes wife witness to his live-in agreement||AHMEDABAD: A 21-year-old woman from a Kheda village filed a police complaint against her husband, alleging that he forced her to sign as witness to the live-in agreement he made with his girlfriend last week. The man also allegedly forced her to speak to his girlfriend so both women could live amicably with him. In her FIR at Chaklasi police station in Kheda district, the woman, a native of Sijivada village in Matar taluka of Kheda, states that she married the accused around four years ago according to the wishes of her family members. She further states that her husband, who worked for a private bank, had entered a relationship with another woman from Nadiad town, which she learned about on January 14. “My husband told me that he wanted to bring his girlfriend to our home and hit me when I objected to it. After this, he forced me to talk to his girlfriend while threatening me saying he would commit suicide if I did not talk to her,” she states in the FIR. As the complainant was pregnant, she had moved to her parents’ home in Sijwada. On May 14, she told her husband that he needed to consult her doctor in Anand town. Her husband came to her parents’ place and took her with him. Rather than going to the doctor’s clinic, he took her to some unknown place in Vadodara. “He thrashed me and forced me to sign some document, while threatening to have my child aborted and to kill me. After I signed that document, he told me that he had made me sign his live-in agreement with his girlfriend,” she said. After this, whenever she protested against this relationship, he thrashed her. Fed up, she approached police and filed a complaint of domestic violence and criminal intimidation against her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-makes-wife-witness-to-his-live-in-agreement/articleshow/76098446.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Transport department employee is first Covid casualty of IIT-Bombay; campus sanitised||MUMBAI: IIT-B administration swung into action on Friday after the first Covid-19 death was reported on the campus. The victim, in his late 30s, worked in the transport department but stayed outside the campus till a few days back, the institute said. BMC sealed the staff quarters which housed 36 families on Friday. The permanent class III employee moved into the campus probably because he felt it was safer, said an official. "When he showed some symptoms the campus hospital directed him to Nair hospital. He passed away on Thursday evening," said director Subhasis Chaudhuri. IIT-B is sanitizing the campus and is trying to trace his contacts. The campus has around 10,000 residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/transport-department-employee-is-first-covid-casualty-of-iit-bombay-campus-sanitised/articleshow/76100924.cms||Yogita Rao
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Shopping too gets sanitised in Covid-19 times||BHOPAL: After a gap of over two months, cosmetics and garment shops have reopened in the city, albeit with a number of precautions in place. The coronavirus pandemic has changed the entire shopping experience, affecting sales as well the old way of buying a dress or lipstick that involved multiple trials. Shopkeepers made elaborate arrangements to clean and sanitise the shops as they opened them after 60 plus days. Ajay Devnani, secretary, New Market vyapari mahasangh and owner of a garment shop said, “We have made it clear to all the shopkeepers to ensure the safety of their staff as well as the customers and sanitse the shops every day. They have also been told to make gloves and masks compulsory for their helpers and try to accept payments through cards or online transactions and avoid exchanging cash as far as possible. If they do accept cash, they must sanitize the currency notes and coins.” “We cleaned and sanitized the shop after opening and are only allowing one person inside the shop at a time. I am only calling 3 of my helpers and all of them have been given masks, caps and gloves. Customers are asked to keep their masks on and sanitise their hands before entering the shop,” said Deepak Basme, who runs a cosmetic shop in New Market. Cosmetic shops are no longer letting the women test the shades of foundation or lipsticks from the sample products. Another cosmetic shop owner in Bittan Market, Mukesh Jain, added, “Earlier, women used to demand testers to apply shades of foundation and lipsticks on their skin before buying a product to ensure the colour suited their complexion, but now we are not allowing them to apply the product from the sample shades as it can be risky. We are asking them to choose the colours after looking at the shade-cards.” Raj Babani, dealer of a cosmetic company , said that some of the top makeup brands have certain products that are in the running for the last 20-25 years, and women remember their product numbers. So, they can tell the shopkeeper the product number and get that shade. Demand for makeup products has actually gone down these days, with people mostly demanding creams, lotions, soaps and shampoos. “We are having more customers for nurturing and hygiene products including bathing bars, shampoos and face washes,” said Kavita Singh, who runs a small cosmetic shop in Laharpura market, near Katara Hills. Garments shop owners are also not allowing customers to try the clothes before buying to check the fitting and drape. “Our patrons are also cooperating with us and not insisting on trying the clothes. Even the clothes they look at or put under their necks or on the shoulders to see if they would fit them, are immediately kept aside in ‘quarantine’ for three days before they are shown to other customers,” said Krishna Gangrade who runs a readymade garment shop in New Market. Sonika Sharma, who opened a readymade garment shop for women last year, in Baghmughalia, said, “We can neither wash nor sanitize the garments and it is a big challenge for women to buy clothes without trying. Right now, I am asking my customers to only buy what they really like and come back to the shop if there is an issue with the fitting. We are trying to alter the purchased clothes as per customer’s need and have totally done away with exchanges and return of garments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shopping-too-gets-sanitised-in-covid-times/articleshow/76097262.cms||Shuchita Jha
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||‘Milk as wages to shore up its sagging demand’||LUCKNOW: Over one crore milk farmers are in deep trouble as prices of milk continue to crash in the organised and unorganised markets in the wake of prolonged lockdown. In the unorgansied market, the milk price has come down to as low as Rs 25- 30 a litre, causing panic among milk producers. Expressing concern over falling milk demand in the state, Devendra Chaudhary, a member of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) and former secretary of the animal husbandry and dairy development, Union government, said that the time has come when governments should introduce milk under their mid-day meal (MDM) scheme. Claiming that he has been pursuing for inclusion of milk under the MDM scheme at the Centre, he said that it would not only prove beneficial to children but would also help create a huge milk demand, enhancing the income of milk farmers. Moreover, by offering milk to migrant workers as a part of their wages the government can easily boost the demand of milk in rural areas. It would prove beneficial to milk farmers as they would be able to make additional money at a time when the agriculture sector is under stress. It would also help in achieving Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of doubling the farmers’ income by 2022, claimed the former secretary. “During the lockdown when the milk demand has plummeted, the UP government can introduce this scheme to assist farmers,” said the former bureaucrat. Describing his multi- pronged strategy for saving farmers from a potential doom, Chaudhary said that more incentives should be offered to exporters of dairy products and import of skimmed milk powder (SMP) be resisted. For boosting the dairy sector, the government can offer two per cent subsidy, as has been given to milk cooperatives, to the private sector which is the biggest milk consumer, he added. Principal secretary, animal husbandry and dairies, Bhuwnesh Kumar said that PCDF is purchasing two crore litres of milk daily which is nearly 40 per cent more than what was purchased in the state last summers. Usually the PCDF purchased nearly 1.20 lakh litres milk per day, but to support the milk farmers, it has started purchasing two crore litres of milk, offering per day financial support of Rs 80 lakh to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/milk-as-wages-to-shore-up-its-sagging-demand/articleshow/76100257.cms||Subhash Mishra
May 30, 2020||Kolhapur||3 held for duping man of Rs 35 lakh||Kolhapur: Juna Rajwada police have arrested three people including a woman on Thursday, for allegedly duping a person of Rs 35 lakh. They have been arrested under the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013. They have been remanded in police custody for seven days. The arrested have been identified as Pravin Vijay Fadnis (44), Shridhar Narayan Sahastrabuddhe (55) and Savita Anil Ashtekar. A complaint was lodged against them by Sandeep Prakash Nandgakar (38). In his complaint, Nandgaokar said that he along with his wife used to go to a matth in Mangalwar peth for the past seven years. Fadnis had won his confidence over the years and told him that he speaks on behalf of his spiritual teacher (guru) – Shridhar Narayan Sahastrabuddhe. Fadnis allegedly took Rs 35 lakh from time to time for various reasons. The entire amount was taken in cash and was never returned. Nandgaokar has also alleged that his brother was also cheated in the same manner. The complainant has mentioned 12 people, who were cheated in the same way. Police have called the people, whose names were mentioned, to record their statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-held-for-duping-man-of-rs-35-lakh/articleshow/76097258.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: UN steps in with food, medical kits for migrants||HYDERABAD: The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has been working with the state government and civil society partners to help migrant workers stranded on the Medchal highway. A monitoring mechanism has been set up to relay real time information on buses and snumber of passengers from the Medchal boarding point. This helps in relief operations ready at transit points of Adilabad and Bhandrachalam. At the boarding point the focus is to provide drinking water, snacks, first aid medicines to migrants, especially children and pregnant and lactating women in the group. UNICEF Hyderabad Field Office is working with Telangana State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights and WCD Department, and MAHITA, The Evangelical Fellowship of India Commission On Relief and AP TS Social Service Forum. At transit points, over 500 migrants, children and families are being helped daily. Among the facilities being offered are sanitary place for 100 persons to rest, basic medical support and first aid.A special kit has been prepared for adults with two litre water, fruit, bun/bread, masks, soap and sanitary pads and a kids’ kit with ORS, chikkis or Nutri-bar, bread and glucose biscuits. “The real challenge is to ensure that all children and famililes reach their homes safe in their states,” said Prosun Sen, communication, advocacy and partnership Specialist, UNICEF Hyderabad Office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/un-steps-in-with-food-med-kits-for-migrants/articleshow/76099326.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana's realty sector to bounce back in 6 mnths: Builders||HYDERABAD: The two-month-long lockdown notwithstanding, Telangana’s real estate sector is expected to be back on its feet in the next three to six months as there has been a revival of construction activity in Hyderabad, and a steady rise in enquiries, said realtors adding that they are confident that the proactive state government will roll out a slew of measures to support recovery. By 2020 end, Hyderabad’s office space absorption is slated to touch 7-7.5 million square feet and sales in the residential segment too will pick up, said Veera Babu, managing director, Cushman & Wakefield (Hyderabad), at a session on ‘Real estate: Building hope, rebuilding lives and businesses’, conducted as part of TOI’s six-day virtual conclave ‘Reboot Telangana -- Making Telangana Future Positive’ that is supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Janapriya, Agromech, Meluha Technologies and Saket Pranamam.“Though we had hoped to touch 12 million sft to 13 million sft, given the situation, these numbers too aren’t very bad,” he said. Arvind Kumar, principal secretary, MA&UD, said: “We are meeting with state-level bankers’ committee on Saturday to seek certain benefits for the sector. Some suggestions include a 20% increase in credit limit to developers, extending benefits of the 2.5% repo rate cut, among others.” He said government would address the labour crisis. CREDAI representatives appealed for relief in stamp duty and registration charges. “For at least six months, registration charges must be reduced by 2% - 3% to improve customer sentiment,” said G Ram Reddy, chairman, CREDAI Telangana. General secretary of CREDAI Hyderabad, V Rajasekhar Reddy, called for relief to be extended to rural projects . “Exemption of registration charges, particularly in affordable housing segment, will go a long way in reviving the market,” reiterated K Ravinder Reddy, CMD, Janapriya Engineers Syndicate Pvt Ltd. Allaying fears about shrinking of co-working spaces, which comprise 10% to 12% of the state’s commercial property segment, Redbrick Offices director Ashish Goenka said it more companies will adopt flexible workspaces. Rakesh Reddy, director, Aparna Constructions and Estates, also expressed optimism about Telangana’s realty growth. “This is the best time to invest in a home,” Reddy said, adding that his sales stabilised by 60% in May in comparison to pre-Covid period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/realty-sector-to-bounce-back-in-6-mnths-builders/articleshow/76099329.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rapid coronavirus surge rings alarm bells, officials blame people’s movement||HYDERABAD: Even as ICMR is gearing up to conduct random Covid-19 tests in Greater Hyderabad limits, the rapid spread of coronavirus in the last few days is a major concern for offcials. Till a few days ago, positive cases were being reported mostly from LB Nagar, Charminar, Malakpet and Jiyaguda. But now, Covid-19 positive cases are getting reported from several other areas of the city, ringing alarm bells for the health officials. New cases are now reported from Vanasthalipuram, Khairatabad, Kondapur, Serilingampally, Qutbullapur, Miyapur, Madhapur, Chintal, Shapurnagar and Alwal areas. In these areas, Covid-19 cases hardly made a noise during the lockdown. Soon after the relaxation of lockdown norms, the sharp spike in cases from these areas is worrying the officials. Officials said with people from non-hotspot areas moving to areas like Jiyaguda and LB Nagar, there has been an upward trend in the positive cases. “Jiyaguda has a vegetable market and a lot of mutton shops. Many people from other areas go there to buy essential items. This could be one of the reasons why we are witnessing a spread of virus to other areas,” a GHMC official said. The spread of virus had come down in Malakpet, Charminar, Nallakunta and other areas. But, within a week after the lifting the containment zones, there was a spurt in the positive cases. As officials took up contract tracing, focus is on the movement of people in the last 10 days. To keep a tab on the spread of the decease, officials are also planning to conduct more number of test. Officials said, “For those who are in quarantine, we are planning to do tests after one week to check whether the Covid-like symptoms are severe or not.” “Testing those who are having symptoms only once may not be enough. So, it is better to test them after seven days of quarantine,” explained another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rapid-virus-surge-rings-alarm-bellsofficials-blame-peoples-movement/articleshow/76099328.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||4-month-old’s custody hangs in balance over Rs 50,000?||Ludhiana: Fate of a four-month-old boy hangs in balance as his biological mother has sought his custody from the family who reportedly adopted him soon after his birth. The family had allegedly taken the custody of baby after giving Rs 50,000 to infant’s biological father. Afterwards, the family had reportedly completed the legal formality of adoption. It had been claimed that the man had allegedly sold him because of poverty and to sustain his addiction. Machhiwara police are probing the matter and will decide about the custody of child after hearing both sides. Villagers said the family of the baby had shifted from the village to Machhiwara. Seeing their poor condition, a woman living in the neighbourhood helped them by initiating adoption process on behalf of a childless couple. Their acquaintances claimed that the two families then got legal papers prepared in February wherein it was “mentioned” that baby’s parents will have no right over his custody and they would be getting Rs 50,000. They said the mother (who gave birth to baby) told police that they just got Rs 20,000 for the child, which her husband spent on drugs. The boy’s grandmother told cops that they had approached the family for custody of child, but they didn’t respond after which they lodged a complaint against them in Machhiwara police station. She said when they were called, mother of baby told police that she will arrange Rs 10,000 every month and return it to the family. Police officials said as per the complainant, the other party wanted them to return Rs 50,000 in one go. They said the police tried to find an amicable solution to the problem, but till now it has not managed to do that. Inspector Sukhvir Singh, SHO, Machhiwara police station, said they had called both the parties. He said whatever needs to be done in the case will be done after an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-month-olds-custody-hangs-in-balance-over-rs-50000/articleshow/76089361.cms||Shariq Majeed
May 30, 2020||Aurangabad||314 ZP teachers to deliver essentials at doorstep in curfew-bound Beed||Aurangabad: With the curfew coming into effect in Beed district on Thursday, over 300 teachers belonging to the zilla parishad (ZP) have been given the task of delivering essential articles to citizens at their doorstep. Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar came out with a order around 1.30am on Friday containing the names of the grocery owners, along with their addresses and phone numbers, for people to order essentials. The order also has names and contact numbers of the teacher who would deliver the articles between 9am and noon the next day, once the order is placed. Citizens have to place the order for essentials online and are advised to make online payments or pay through digital wallets. One teacher has been deployed for each of the 314 grocery stores. The teachers have been deputed the nearest grocery stores so that they dont have to travel very far. The latest order has not gone down well with a section of teachers, who have said that doing such duties were not dignified jobs. A professor from Beed city said, “We are ready to work and assist in the fight against Covid-19. However, the work should be a dignified one. There have been instances of health workers being assaulted during door-to-door survey.” Meanwhile, the curfew has made it diffiult for essential services to continue working. The district administration has sealed two hospitals and a diagnostic centre in Beed city after a Covid-19 patient was found to have come in contact with hundreds in these establishments. There has been a sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Beed district in the last 15 days. As on Friday, there were 61 positive cases. A doctor refusing to be identified said that the move of the administration to seal hospitals makes it difficult for the private ones to continue providing services. “During this time, we do not know which patient is infected when he first comes to the hospital. However, shutting down the hospital will not be in the best interest of the common people,” said the doctor. In addition, the administration’s order to close down petrol pumps is making it difficult for the essential service providers like hospital staff, medical store operators and milkmen to operate. Sriram Baglani, a milkman, said that he didn’t know that the petrol pumps were shut. “I have to ensure that the milk is delivered. Otherwise, the stock will perish if not delivered on time,” said Baglan. Collector Rekhawar said that the administration has verified that a Covid-19 patient had visited the hospitals and the diagnostic centre and the decision to seal the hospitals was taken only after that. “This is a subjective solution based on enquiry and facts,” said Rekhawar. Talking about the petrol pumps, he said that a petrol pump run by the police was kept open and those providing essential services were filling fuel from that pump. “We also have petrol pumps 2-3 kilometers away from the city from where they can get the petrol. The curfew will be lifted on midnight on June 4,” said Rekhawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/314-zp-teachers-to-deliver-essentials-at-doorstep-in-curfew-bound-beed/articleshow/76097315.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Sarafa opens to glittering hope despite low trade||BHOPAL: As the traditional Sarafa bazaar of Bhopal reopened after a long hiatus, the lanes bustled with activities. Honking of two-wheeler horns and noisy scenes on the lanes were back, albeit with low decibels. The roadside vendors were missing and so were the popular chaat and fast food kiosks. But things really looked up as trade started in Bhopal with the gold rate skyrocketing at Rs 47500 for 10gms. There was hardly any business on the first day, but there were smiles aplenty as traders cleaned and sanitised their shops and sat on the ‘galla’. Though business is low, it is good to see the ‘chehel pehel’ in narrow by lanes of Chowk Bazar, commented a shopkeeper cleaning the dust in his shop after two months of Covid lockdown. President of the Saraf association, Navneet Agrawal, said, “There was only about 12 per cent to 15 per cent business on day one, but it is a good beginning. Many people visited and asked about gold and silver articles, in view of the wedding in the family. It is a good sign”. Shopkeepers were so happy that they also showered flower petals on the customers arriving in Chowk Bazar. With gold raring to touch Rs 50K mark for 10 grams, the anticipation is quite high in Sarafa. “ During the lockdown, it had already touched Rs 48500 per 10 grams”, said Navneet Agrawal. As the prices of the yellow metal have steadily gone up for the past few years, making it beyond the reach of middle class, traders have been focusing on lighter pieces and affordable jewellery. With festival season barely a few months away, the shopkeepers are happy to get back in the fray for now, hoping that pandemic blues will soon become history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sarafa-opens-to-glittering-hope-despite-low-trade/articleshow/76097322.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
May 30, 2020||Hubballi||Lockdown, APMC amendment deal double blow to traders||HUBBALLI: Wholesale traders at the APMC yard in Hubballi, one of the largest market yards in Asia, are staring at a bleak future. First, coronavirus pandemic hit their business followed by a two-month lockdown across the country and recently the Karnataka government issued an ordinance to amend the APMC Act to help farmers sell their produce outside the yard from June 1. This has dealt a double blow to about 500 traders of onions, potatoes, foodgrains and other commodities, who have been carrying out business for generations. Abdul Wahab Mulla, secretary, Onion and Potato Traders Association, said, “Due to the lockdown we are unable to gather at one place and discuss the pros and cons of the amendment. Once the lockdown is lifted we will come together and discuss the issue,” he added. Shankaranna Munavalli, former president Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said that the Act will not help farmers. “It will be very difficult for farmers to deal without a mediator. Over the decades there is a relationship between farmers and traders, all of sudden it cannot be broken. We have submitted a memorandum to the elected representatives and ministers to withdraw the amendment,” he said. Ramesh Bafna, former APMC member and trader, said that due to the lockdown, there is lack of knowledge among traders and farmers about the new amendment. “We need to study it to understand how it impacts business. Even the officials haven’t put in any efforts to create awareness about the Act”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-apmc-amendment-deal-double-blow-to-traders/articleshow/76097299.cms||J Abbas Mulla
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hospitality industry keen on welcoming guests back||HYDERABAD: Battered by the inhospitable climate created by the lockdown, the hospitality sector feels that the only way it can get back on its feet is by restarting operations. “The hospitality sector has lost Rs 10 lakh crore and around 95% players fall under the MSME category. The way in which the government can help us is to allow us to open up as soon as possible,” Ashok Hemrajani, president, Hotels & Restaurant Association of Telangana State (HRATS) said on Friday at the session on ‘Hospitality: Checking In Business In Inhospitable Times’ as part of TOI’s six-day virtual conclave: `Reboot Telangana- Making Telangana Future Positive’, which is being supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Meluha Technologies, Saket Pranamam, Janapriya and Agromech. Industry players want the government to acknowledge their contribution to the economy and provide relief in the areas of rentals, electricity charges and well as wage support. Rooting for standard guidelines, Anirban Simlai, GM, The Park Hotels, Hyderabad, said the authorities can work with hospitality players to formulate guidelines that will help the sector open up. Amar Ohri, director, Ohri’s, pointed out hospitality players are ready to adopt measures such as contactless dining and social distancing to instil confidence among guests. They also said that at a time when airlines and trains have been allowed to run, hotels have not been re-opened, which will affect travellers. Shaaz Mehmood, partner, Olive Group-Hyderabad, said that though the take-away business has been allowed, it won’t help much as players still have to shell out full rentals and salaries despite only using a limited portion of the property and staff to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hospitality-industry-keen-on-welcoming-guests-back/articleshow/76099364.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Locals seek more fever surveys||HYDERABAD: Residents of BS Maqta (Begumpet), Indira Nagar (Khairtabad) and MLA Colony (Road number 12, Banjara Hills) on Friday urged authorities to conduct extensive fever survey in their localities. Requests for the survey and sanitisation poured in after eight vegetable vendors in BJR Nagar (Khairatabad), four people in MLA Colony and one person in BS Maqta tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. “Among the vegetable vendors who tested positive, some used to sell vegetables on pushcarts in Indira Nagar (Khairatabad), Khairatabad Market road and localities adjacent to BJR Nagar. Fever survey in these localities is the need of the hour,” said Kandukuri Dinesh who runs a dairy parlour in Khairatabad. A similar request was raised by a resident of MLA Colony. “I request authorities to sanitise our locality and check for fever symptoms,” said P Ram a resident of MLA Colony. Another senior citizen from the same colony said that fever survey should be done for staffers working in commercial establishments located in MLA Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locals-seek-more-fever-surveys/articleshow/76099348.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cooper Hospital asks third, fourth year MBBS students to return to campus||MUMBAI: While the government is still toying with the idea of roping in third- and fourth-year MBBS students on Covid duty, Cooper Hospital (H B T Medical College) issued a circular on Thursday asking its two batches to return to the campus. While the nature of the duty has not been specified, students have been told the hospital is in need of manpower. The circular has sent several students and their parents in a tizzy. While some are excited about being able to help, many are unsure about it as they are still students. The circular mentioned that students will be accommodated in college hostels. More than half the students in every batch are from outside Mumbai and had left for their hometown after the lockdown, said a student. While hospital dean Dr Pinakin Gujjar refused to comment, a senior official confirmed the circular had been issued. The official said all city hospitals are facing manpower shortage and there have been discussions on roping in third- and fourth-year students. "Our hospital has issued the circular and others will soon follow suit. The hospital has not given any specific details as there is no clarity on what kind of duty they will be needed for. But there is no one on campus right now. We are not sure if the students will be utilized at all. But if need arises, the idea is to have them around," said the official. The Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) has not issued any such directive yet, said director Dr T P Lahane. But BMC officials confirmed they are considering the option. The third-year academic session had just started and students are yet to be exposed to subjects such as community medicine and ear, nose, throat studies, said a student. Subjects like medicine, surgery and paediatrics are covered in the fourth year. Parents are worried about infection and students are yet to be trained. A doctor said they may not be equipped to handle patients, but "can help in documentation or collection of samples or assist doctors".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cooper-hospital-asks-third-fourth-year-mbbs-students-to-return-to-campus/articleshow/76100943.cms||Yogita Rao
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||Liquor traders stick to their stand, won’t open shops in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Liquor traders in Bhopal did not follow the government order to open their shops in the city areas on Friday. In a desperate attempt to open the shops to get excise duty, the government on Thursday night issued orders to open the shops. Shopkeepers said there were many “conditions” imposed, including one to “motivate customers” to download the Arogya Setu app. Ten days ago, the government had also ordered liquor shops to open in rural areas of Bhopal and Indore, among other red zones identified for Covid-19, but the shopkeepers refused to operate. Sources said that “lack of business” is the main reason behind the non-compliance of the government orders. After the May 4 order to open alcohol shops, the liquor business was down by “almost 60%”, leading to huge losses , the liquor association of MP said. Liquor traders have urged the government to reduce the excise duty by 25% in view of the Covid-19 crisis and a case in this regard is pending before the high court. But the cash-starved government insists on opening the shops as it needs revenue, sources said. On Thursday night, around 10 pm, the excise commissioner issued the orders for the district collector to open liquor shops outside the containment areas of Bhopal .As soon as offices opened in the morning, the district collector issued the orders to open liquor shops in the municipal area of Bhopal, but with certain conditions. They incude shops at New Market, Kolar, Arera Colony, BHEL, Ayodhyanagar, Trilanga, Baghsewaniya, Baghmugaliya,Vitthal Market, Nehru Nagar, Bairagarh ,Gandhi Nagar, Neelbarh and Ratibarh, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/liquor-traders-stick-to-their-stand-wont-open-shops/articleshow/76097357.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Patna||Gopalganj triple murder case: RJD demands special House session||PATNA: A high-voltage political drama unfolded in Patna on Friday as leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, his elder brother Tej Pratap and mother Rabri Devi along with all RJD MLAs were stopped from leaving for Gopalganj to meet the family of RJD man JP Yadav, whose parents and brother were shot dead on Monday night. Kochaikot MLA Amarendra Pandey’s elder brother Satish Pandey and his son Mukesh Pandey have been arrested in connection with the triple murder while the MLA is evading arrest. All three have been named in the FIR filed by Yadav. After nearly two hours of uproar at Rabri Devi’s 10 Circular Road residence here, Tejashwi, Tej Pratap and RJD state president Jagdanand Singh met Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary at the state assembly and demanded a three- day special session on the issues of deteriorating law and order and the plight of migrant workers in the state. The RJD leaders were initially denied permission to meet the speaker. “We demand a three day special session after June 1 to discuss the deteriorating law and order in the state, failure of government to tackle Covid-19, pathetic condition of quarantine centres, the Gopalganj massacre and other murders in the state,” read the memorandum submitted to the speaker. Earlier in the day, Tejashwi along with his party MLAs gathered outside former CM Rabri Devi’s official residence to leave for Gopalganj. He had on Thursday announced a protest march demanding the arrest of the JDU MLA, who is named in Sunday’s triple murder case. Heavy police force was deployed since morning outside 10 Circular Road even as RJD supporters raised slogans against the government. Tejashwi then went live on social media in his car and criticised the government for not allowing him and his party leaders from marching to Gopalganj. Tejashwi said, “One habitual criminal is being protected and this government is not letting me go to Gopalganj in solidarity with people, which shows they are supporting the criminal. They are not even letting me go to Vidhan Sabha. Being an opposition leader, it is my right to go to the assembly and meet the speaker.” Jagdanand Singh, who was sitting in the same car also criticised the government. “For the first time in my political career, I am seeing that an opposition leader is being denied entry to Vidhan Sabha. It is surprising that opposition leader has to take permission for this too.” Patna DM Kumar Ravi said inter-district movement is not allowed amid lockdown for any political activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/triple-murder-rjd-demands-special-house-session/articleshow/76097458.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Metro services likely from June, hints Telangana government||HYDERABAD: With the indications that Centre may allow resumption of Metro Rail operations from the first week of June, the state government has reportedly asked the project concessionaire L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad to get ready to kick off the services — but in a curtailed manner. Metro trains were suspended for over two months since the national lockdown imposed on March 24. L&T is losing about Rs 45 crore a month towards passenger fare collections and also rentals from commercial establishments in malls and stations. “If the Centre permits, Metro trains and city buses will be operated. We are waiting for the guidelines which are expected in a day or two,” a senior government official in CMO said. The government is more keen on resumption of Metro services as apart from passenger facility, the project is implemented by L&T on public-private partnership. L&T is still making losses as the commercial exploitation is not picking up. “For the lockdown period, the project developer will either ask for compensation or extension of concession time in lieu of the lockdown period,” an official of the municipal administration said. Each of the Metro train has the carrying capacity of 1,000 passengers (three coaches). The passengers will be limited to 50% of the capacity i.e. about 500 passengers. “Only 50% of the passengers will be allowed to go to platform and rest of them will be asked to stay at concourse level in the stations. As the frequency of the trains is about 5-7 minutes, there will be no problem for passengers,” sources in the municipal administration said. Officials said L&T has the ability, equipment and manpower to sanitise the metro stations and provide hand sanitisers to the passengers. The government will impose the rule to allow passengers with masks. Following the Centre’s clearance, the state government recently permitted RTC bus services across the state. The city bus services, however, are yet to take off. A couple of days ago, the state permitted to operate buses from MGBS station and even during night curfew for long distances. RTC is also losing about Rs 10 crore to Rs 12 crore a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/metro-services-likely-from-june-hints-govt/articleshow/76100228.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: I want to break free! When B-Boys make the moves at Deer Park||NEW DELHI: The open gym is closed, the lake is tranquil and the dogs easily outnumber the few masked visitors on an evening stroll. In the midst of this serenity in south Delhi's popular Deer Park at Hauz Khas — which only reopened recently — a gazebo is alive with a group of young men practising what from a distance looks like an eclectic mix of gravity-defying calisthenics, gymnastics and martial arts. These 14-to-25-year-olds are actually doing a series of carefully practised top, middle and bottom rock, headstand and head spin, elbow freeze and elbow spin, turtle spin and so on. To most of us, this might sound like Greek, but they fill b-boys and b-girls with excitement. B-boying, or breaking, is an evolved form of breakdancing. Deer Park happens to be a b-boying hub where youngsters gather in the evening to practise and also show off their latest moves. There are no instructors here; the group has learnt b-boying, which originated in US, through YouTube videos. “Usually many b-boys come here, but the park has only opened a couple of days ago and so just a few of us have come,” said Amit Panwar, 14, who lives in nearby Mohammadpur village. Panwar, who is still learning the basics, makes way for Sagar Chauhan, 20, who has mastered most moves and added some variations of his own. Khanpur resident Chauhan’s moves can match those of b-boys in New York, where the street dance first originated in the 1970s. Rico Tellez, 25, who is watching Chauhan while maintaining social distance, would agree. Tellez, a b-boy from Texas, US, in Delhi as a tourist, has been checking out the b-boying scene in the capital. “B-boying here is as good as back home, only it is too hot here,” said Tellez, lowering the volume of the hip hop music emanating from his Bluetooth speaker. Explaining what b-boying was all about, Nazir Anwar, 30, who has been teaching it since 2012, among other dances, at his Delhi Delhi Academy in Amar Colony, said, “B-boying involves stunts performed against gravity as well as poses. B-boying requires basic body skills and gymnastics.” Anwar says b-boying began as an underground culture and there has been an active ‘circuit’ of b-boys and b-girls in Delhi for more than a decade now. Though enthusiasts start at the age of 11-12, Anwer trains people in their 30s and 40s too, so long as they are fit for the physically demanding moves. Some Delhiites pursue it professionally too, and with corporate sponsorships and championships, there is money to be made if one works hard enough. ‘Stunts’ were what attracted Chauhan first to b-boying, but now he hopes it is his ticket out of his humdrum existence. A school dropout, Chauhan’s only income is through gigs that are few and far between. His mother, the only earning member of the family after his father’s demise, is, however, very supportive of his dreams. “B-boying is just a part of the hip hop culture, which includes rapping, DJing, beatboxing, etc,” said Chauhan. “I’m one of a six-boy group, called a crew, and we take part in b-boying battles and championships,” Chauhan said. “There is money if you get to work for music videos and if your crew gets corporate sponsorship. Getting work, however, is difficult and my crew sometimes do busking at Connaught Place — not to earn money, only to showcase our talent and hopefully attract some projects.” Shorez Karki, 28, another Deer Park regular, added, “You can make money through championships and events, but it’s difficult.” Karki, who started b-boying a decade ago after Class XII and is now leader of Dance Mafia Crew, runs Quest—The Hip Hop Skool in Defence Colony with b-girl Sumku Yasum. Said Karki: “When I started, there were no teachers or learning resources. I visited cyber cafes to learn through videos and movies.” Unlike other pursuits, b-boying apparently hasn’t attracted the wealthier sections of society. “Most of Delhi’s self-taught youngsters come from financially weak backgrounds,” Anwar pointed out. “Apart from Deer Park, you will find them practising in similar open areas, including the banks of the Yamuna.” B-boying battles mostly happen on Sundays, when crews challenge each other with unique power moves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/i-want-to-break-free-when-b-boys-make-the-moves-at-deer-park/articleshow/76099456.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Women throng DSO for ration||Aurangabad: Several women from a densely populated area of Gulabwadi and Jaibhim Nagar of the city thronged the district supply office on Friday to protest against not getting foodgrains from the public distribution system (PDS) shops. They formed a long queue outside the DSO’s entrance and sat there demanding immediate release of grains to them. The women, who were carrying their ration cards and Aadhar cards said that despite having these essential documents, they were being denied grains. The police had to intervene to control the situation. After leaving the premises, Tarabai Kamble, one of the women protesting, said that since the lockdown began, none of the people’s representatives, government officials from the revenue, civic body or the DSO has visited their locality, which comprises slum areas, to provide them with foodgrains.  Lata Pakhre, one of the women, alleged that foodgrains meant for the poor people was being diverted The women alleged that the PDS shops have refused to give them grains. Despite repeated attempts, Mahadeo Kirwale, the district supply officer, could not be reached for his comments. Sources informed on Friday evening, that the DSO with the help of some NGOs was considering to provide dry ration kit to these women.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/women-throng-dso-for-ration/articleshow/76097379.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court seeks report on migrants stranded at Medchal highway||HYDERABAD: Puzzled at the diametrically opposite views being expressed by the petitioner and the government on the number of migrants stranded on the Medchal highway, the Telangana high court on Friday appointed an advocate to study the situation with its secretary of Rangareddy district legal services authority. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by social activist professor Rama S Melkote on the plight of migrants in general and those stranded on Medchal highway in particular. A visibly angry CJ appointed advocate Kowturu Pawan Kumar as amicus curiae and asked him to study the ground realities at Medchal highway and report to HC by June 1. “Talk to the migrants, record their audio statements and find details of their destinations,” the CJ told the amicus. He added, “Interact with the district collector. If he displays power, tell him you are the eyes and ears of HC.” The case will be heard on June 2. The bench earlier directed the government to accommodate migrants at Medchal in function halls and provide food “ But even now, there are atleast 500 migrants stranded there everyday,” said Vasudha Nagaraj, counsel for petitioner. State counsel Harender Pershad refuted this and said there is not a single migrant stranded in Medchal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-report-on-migrants-stranded-at-medchal-highway/articleshow/76099447.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nashik||Now, CCTVs cameras to be installed at 4 slums in city||(done) Nashik: Four thickly populated slums — Mumtaz Nagar near Vadalagaon, Shivajiwadi in Bharat Nagar, Kranti Nagar and Ramnagar — in the city have come under the radar due to a rise in Covid-19 cases and the Nashik Municipal Corporation has decided to install CCTV cameras. A total of 33 Covid-positive cases have been found in these slums. Civic officials feel that the slum dwellers are not adhering to the social distancing norm, which is leading to the spread of the coronavirus infection. Earlier, there were only 10 patients in the city, between April 6 and 27, 150 have been recorded between May 2 and 29. “Most of the workers from affected areas like Mumbai and Pune have returned to the city and are staying in slums and densely populate areas here. Hence, cases from these areas have increased,” said the officials. “We have observed that people are unnecessarily coming out of their homes and also not maintaining social distancing. Hence, installing CCTV cameras in such areas will help us keeping an eye on the mobility of people,” said the officials. 6 more areas sealed The NMC on Friday sealed six more containment areas in the city after patients from there were tested positive for Covid-19. These areas are Lekhanagar, Naikwadipura in Wadalagaon, Rathchakra Society in Indira Nagar, Kamalnagar in Kamatwada, Krishna Residency in Khutwad Nagar and Om Gurudevnagar on Makhmalabad Road. The civic body also lifted the restrictions from three existing containment areas after patients recovered and no new suspects were found in the last two weeks. Of the 66 containment zones in the city, 33 have been opened as patients from these zones have recovered and no new suspects have been found during last 14 days. Now, there are 33 containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/now-cctvs-cameras-to-be-installed-at-4-slums-in-city/articleshow/76099424.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 30, 2020||Pune||After Spanish flu & WWII, coronavirus halts palkhi tradition in Maharashtra||PUNE: For the third time in the centuries-old history of the palkhi tradition in Maharashtra, there won’t by any `wari’ or procession this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. A decision against the annual procession was taken unanimously at a meeting chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday. The trustees of Sant Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram maharaj temples in Alandi and Dehu, respectively, Pune’s divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, district collector Naval Kishore Ram and police chief K Venkatesham were present. Lakhs of pilgrims called warkaris from all over Maharashtra walk 250km in 17 days from Dehu and Alandi temples near Pune to Pandharpur in Solapur district, accompanying the chariots with the padukas (footprints) of Sant Dnyaneshwar, Sant Tukaram and others. They congregate for Ashadhi Ekadashi which falls on July 1 this year. “As per our records, the palkhi processions could not be taken out on two earlier occasions during the Spanish Flu in 1920, and later in 1942 during the World War II. The padukas of Sant Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram maharaj were then taken by train to a place near Pandharpur and from there in a procession to Lord Vitthal temple in Pandharpur,” Vikas Dhage-Patil, chief trustee of Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Temple Trust in Alandi, told TOI on Friday. The padukas will either be flown by a special plane or helicopter or taken by road in a bus to Pandharpur, Ram told TOI. “A decision on air or road transport will be taken a day before Ashadhi Ekadashi, depending on weather conditions,” he added. Sant Tukaram Maharaj Temple Trust’s chief trustee Sanjay More said, “Narayan Maharaj, the younger son of Sant Tukaram, had started the palkhi procession in 1685. He, and a group of people would carry Tukaram Maharaj’s padukas to Alandi. Then, the padukas of Tukaram and Dnyaneshwar Maharaj would be taken to Pandharpur. This tradition went on till 1832 till a devotee of Sant Dnyaneshwar, Haibatravbaba Arphalkar, popularly know as ‘Haibat Baba’, a courtier of the Scindias, the Maratha rulers of Gwalior, started organising Sant Dnyaneshwar’s Palkhi separately.” The padukas will be taken out from the sanctum on June 12 and 13, respectively, and kept on the temples’ premises till June 30, as per the set tradition. Depending on the government’s decision, they will be taken to Pandharpur on June 30. A traditional pooja will be performed at Pandharpur the next day, More added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-spanish-flu-wwii-virus-halts-palkhi-tradition/articleshow/76099419.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Cabinet members to fix Maharashtra’s economic package||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said that the state government would soon announce a package to tide over the economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Pawar was speaking to media persons after inaugurating the flyover at Sai chowk in Pimple Saudagar. The district guardian minister said, “The Union government will soon take a decision about the lockdown but I feel that they will give the responsibility of its implementation to the state governments. Schools, colleges, business and others are closed. A financial crisis has developed. The state government will announce a package to tide over the Covid-19 pandemic situation.” Pawar added that he did not know what portion of the Rs20 lakh crore economic package set forth by the Union government would reach the states. “Many people feel that these are only big figures. The package must help daily wage earners. We have been demanding a package for the state from the Union government,” he said. The senior NCP leader further said a large number of migrant workers have returned to their home states so people from the backward areas of Maharashtra must try to gain access to employment opportunities made available now. He said the state government will help them gain requisite skills. Pimpri Chinchwad New Township Development Authority (PCNTDA) has constructed two parallel flyovers on Sangvi-Kiwale bus rapid transit system road at Sai chowk to ease traffic. After inaugurating the flyover, Pawar visited the Pimpri Covid-19 war room. The state’s priority is to provide support, help people overcome the current situation and restore normalcy, Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cabinet-members-to-fix-states-economic-package/articleshow/76099441.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Man killed after fight over playing cards||BHOPAL: A 53-year-old man, who was injured in a bloody clash that took place between two groups over playing cards in Kamla Nagar area, died while undergoing treatment at a hospital on Friday. Police had registered counter cases against both the groups on their complaints. Now, sections of murder will be added in the cases against one of the groups. SHO Kamla Nagar Vijay Sisodia said, “the deceased Manohar Bagul, 53, was a resident of Sudama Nagar in Kamla Nagar area. On Wednesday night around 11pm a group of boys were playing cards in which a dispute took place between Manohar’s nephew Alok and Rahul alias Paulie. Rahul slapped Alok after which locals intervened and resolved the matter. Alok went home and narrated the incident to his maternal uncle Manohar following which Manohar, Mukesh and Alok assaulted Raju More. When Rahul came to know about the assault, he along with his brother Natu, Vinay More, Vishal More, and Nandu More barged into Manohar’s house and assaulted him with a rod. Manohar sustained severe injury on his head while his nephew Akash too, was injured.” SHO Sisodia said that Manohar was rushed to hospital where he died while undergoing treatment on Friday. Police arrested all the accused and registered a murder case against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-dies-after-2-groups-clash-while-playing-cards/articleshow/76097385.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||NMC revises system, begins to notify smaller area as C-zone||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has revised the system of containment zones, which plays a very crucial role in identifying suspected cases and containing spread of Covid-19. In the last 10 containment zones, the area notified for all types of prohibitions is far smaller than the first 23 zones.The new system of notifying smaller area as containment zone started from Bajeria. A single lane, where the house of positive patient is situated, was demarcated as containment zone even though it was in a slum. The same was implemented for Habib Nagar, followed by Narendra Nagar, Taj Nagar, Siraspeth, Hiwri Nagar and Hawrapeth.On Thursday, the civic body also notified Naik Talao area as containment zone after two persons from the area tested positive on Wednesday. It is a densely populated slum in East Nagpur.Similarly, two more densely populated areas — Itwari Tanga Stand and Mehbubpura — were notified with a small area on Friday.In the first 23 areas, containment zones were huge, with 1-3km radius from the house of positive patient. NMC was successful in detecting 241 corona positive patients from Mominpura containment zone and 129 from Satranjipura containment zone due to huge area under the zone. It was considered the best system to contain spread of Covid-19 in slum areas.As per central and state government norms, containment zones can be up to 3km radius of the house of positive patient, with buffer zone for a further 5km, for a total radius of 8km.However, the system of huge area as containment zone did not work in case of Parvati Nagar and Pandhrabodi cases. Ultimately, there was resistance from the people when no more positive cases came out. People with backing from political leaders started agitation.NMC sources told TOI, “Apart from opposition from people, civic body and police department are falling short of staff as number of containment zones increases. Health workers are supposed to conduct door-to-door survey for 14 days in containment zones. Police personnel are required to be deployed round the clock. Government has given discretion to NMC to decide the area of containment zone.”However, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe denied any shortage of health workers and police personnel. “Containment zone is notified after a detailed investigation by our team in which priority is given to contacts and travel history of positive cases. In some recent cases, there was no need for big area. We will expand if more cases come to fore. We will not compromise in containment as it is related to public health,” he said.Naik Talao area registered 23 Covid-19 patients on Friday. NMC official said now decision will be taken to expand Naik Talao containment zone.The people, especially from below poverty line and lower middle class, have complained they have problem in earnings and also getting essential goods in big containment zones. The police department has also allegedly failed to ensure no movement of people within containment zones for non-essential works. Mominpura and Satranjipura containment zones were fine examples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-revises-system-begins-to-notify-smaller-area-as-c-zone/articleshow/76098554.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Residents protest against poor water supply||Aurangabad: Around 25 residents of Ulkanagari area in Aurangabad city poured out into the streets in masks to protest against the the civic administration’s failure to supply water on the scheduled day and time on Friday. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) supplies water to different areas once in four to eight days. Despite there being a surge in the demand for water during summer, the AMC has not been able to stick to its water supply schedule. According to a letter written by a group of 70-75 families from Ulkanagari to municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey early this month, they were not receiving water from the civic body on the scheduled time for three months and had no option but to call private tankers. On Friday, the residents were more agitated as barricades put up in the area after a containment zone was chalked out there prevented the entry of the private tankers. It was only when lo corporator Dilip Thorat intervened that the barricades were removed and the area was supplied water through the tankers deployed by AMC. Executive engineer of the water supply department Kiran Dhande told TOI the AMC has a broken infrastructure for water supply. “In the existing setup, people are using high-power motors to draw water, leaving the houses at the end of distribution lines with hardly anything. Right now, our priority is to supply water to containment zones in the no-pipeline areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/residents-protest-against-poor-water-supply/articleshow/76097406.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 30, 2020||Pune||KCB to decide on vehicle entry tax loss||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) will take a decision on whether the cantonment or the contractor will bear the loss on account of non-collection of vehicle entry fee (VEF) during the lockdown period. Shuja James, office superintendent, KCB, told TOI, "The contractor has demanded that the amount of VEF collection lost during the lockdown period be waived off as plying of private vehicles was banned. Discussions were held on the demand and it was decided that the cantonment will find a solution to the issue in the next two-three days. The cantonment on its own cannot waive off the amount. It will have to seek advice from higher authorities."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcb-to-decide-on-vehicle-entry-tax-loss/articleshow/76099485.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Schools should reopen after September, says child rights panel||BHOPAL: With schools in city likely to reopen in a couple of months, the Madhya Pradesh commission for protection of child rights has asked principals of all schools to follow strict SOPs to bring students back to classes, while ensuring their safety at the same time. The child rights commission has come up with a 50-point standard operating procedure (SOP) for schools that are likely to reopen post lockdown. The commission, along with members from the office of the district education officer and schools principals has designed and submitted the SOP to the state education department for approval. The members also demanded the school education department to reopen schools only after September. Some of the major points of the SOP include thorough sanitation of classrooms and school buses along with the furniture in classes, doors, windows and handles. “The team of members have also asked school to maintain a 6-feet distance among students in classrooms and to ferry only 20-25 children in a 55 seater school bus”, Brijesh Chouhan, member of the MPPCRC told TOI. “Reopening schools can be a big risk if schools do not take strict measures to ensure social distancing and cleanliness. These are a few suggestions that we have submitted to the school education department to ponder over. I am sure the department is also preparing a list of precautions to be taken in schools on reopening to keep the students SAF”, said Chouhan. “The commission has also suggested that the education department should only let schools reopen after September and continue online classes till such time,” he added. The SOP was prepared by the commission with suggestions from Rajesh Batham, assistant director at DEO office, senior counsellor Bhawana Sharma, principal St Joseph Convent Sister Lily and principal Jawahar Lal Nehru School Vijay Kumar among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/schools-should-reopen-after-sept-child-rights-panel/articleshow/76097400.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: International flyer numbers at SVPI fell by 52% in March||AHMEDABAD: While airports were functioning and commercial flight operations were on in March, international flyer numbers at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad fell dramatically. Against 1.92 lakh international flyers in March 2019, there were just 91,584 in March this year, a 52% decline, according to data from the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Travel agents attribute the decline to the reduced international travel coupled and temporary suspension of flights to several destinations due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “A number of flights to Hong Kong and China, had been suspended which affected passenger numbers at Ahmedabad airport. The last fortnight of March barely saw any passenger movement, especially international passengers. Only those returning from foreign countries or those who were travelling for emergencies were moving,” said Anuj Pathak, secretary, Tour Operators and Travel Agents’ Association of Gujarat (TAG). “Moreover, several corporate entities had imposed restrictions on international and domestic travel since mid-February due to the pandemic, with the virus occurring in several countries such as China, Hong Kong and others. March is a lean season for travel due to exams in schools and the majority of travellers are either NRIs going for long summer trips to see their families abroad or business travellers. Due to the pandemic, few travelled,” Pathak further added. Even domestic traffic was severely hit in March. Against 7.68 lakh domestic passengers in March 2019, barely 5.02 lakh passengers moved this year in the same period, a 34.7% decline. As the airport was shut for commercial flight operations as soon as the lockdown was announced, passenger movement was minimal in April. Some 3,235 international passengers, mainly expats, travelled from the city airport whereas just 175 domestic passengers travelled in all of April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/international-flyer-numbers-at-svpi-fell-by-52-in-march/articleshow/76098561.cms||Niyati Parikh
May 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Village secretariat system helped bring government closer to people||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, who completes one year in office on Saturday, seems to have focused more on welfare measures for people, with development and revenue-generating activities seemingly taking a back seat. Several welfare schemes were rolled out in the last one year, benefiting various sections of the society as money was directly deposited into their accounts. The government also introduced quite a few administrative reforms. The introduction of village secretariat model not only ensured that the benefits of the government’s various welfare schemes reached the beneficiaries, but also helped in providing recruitment of thousands of jobless youths. However, all this has come at a cost. The state is facing a huge revenue deficit while the debt burden has further increased. Incidentally, there have been no major charges of corruption against the ruling party by the opposition in the last 12 months. The village secretariats and village volunteers system has also helped in consolidating Jagan’s position among the people, as the benefits of welfare schemes are now reaching the real beneficiaries directly. Pension is now being delivered at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries. Monthly provisions too are being door-delivered. The administration has moved to the villages, taking the government closer to people. Jagan has also lined up nearly half-a-dozen welfare schemes and programmes for the next one year with a calendar of events readied and displayed in every government office. The government also fared well on the investment front, with a proposed investment of Rs 500 crore for Sri City in Chittoor and Rs 400 crore for expansion of Kia Motors plant in Anantapur district. “I am not making tall claims of investment nor am I undertaking foreign tours as my predecessor. But there is a huge investment flow in the pipeline in the months to come,” the chief minister told industry representatives during a recent interaction. Giving direct cash to the poor has become a popular slogan following the severe economic crisis induced by Covid-19. “Surprisingly, Jagan has been doing it for the past 12 months by giving money directly to the beneficiaries. No one should undermine the impact of welfare schemes in building strong economies,” observed retired economics professor LSN Prasad. With its signature scheme Amma Vodi, the government disbursed Rs 15,000 each to nearly 44 lakh mothers for sending their wards to schools. Rs 13,500 each has been paid to more than 80 lakh farmers in the state through YSR Rythu Bharosa. Auto and cab drivers, weavers, tailors, barbers, fishermen, members of women self-help groups, priests, maulanas and pastors have all received direct cash benefit from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/village-secretariat-system-helped-bring-government-closer-to-people/articleshow/76097421.cms||Samdani MN
May 30, 2020||Nashik||Criminal attacks patrolling team, held||Nashik: The Gangapur police on Thursday arrested a 26-year-old criminal for allegedly attacking police patrolling team in Siddharth Nagar area on Wednesday night. The police have also recovered a 20-inch sharp weapon from the man. The criminal identified as Sunil Nagu Gaikwad alias Gatrya was a resident of Siddharth Nagar near Boys Town School. He was produced before the court and was remanded to 14-days judicial custody. PSI Sachin Shendkar of the Gangapur police station said that around 11.45 pm on Wednesday night head constable Vishnu Ugale and another constable were patrolling the area when they saw Gaikwad moving in the dark. When they approached him they saw that he was carrying a sharp weapon in his trouser pocket. When he was questioned further, Gaikwad held Ugale with his collar and pushed him on the ground. The other constable then quickly called the control room and another beat marshals arrived. He was eventually overpowered and arrested. Shendkar said that Gaikwad has around 30 criminal cases registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/criminal-attacks-patrolling-team-held/articleshow/76099450.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 30, 2020||Pune||Hardikar for use of data to curb contagion||Pimpri Chinchwad: Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar on Friday shared how the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) was leveraging data and technology to shape its response to the Covid-19 pandemic at a web conference hosted by the World Economic Forum Smart Cities Mission. The effort so far had been to connect the war-room with the ground-level worker to get a real time coordination with different arms of the government, he said, while citing some challenges like GPS and GPRS connections. Other cities that presented their data model in the webinar were Bengaluru and Tel-Aviv, among others. Some of the other global city representatives said they were using data to ensure that they didn’t have to get in the mode of an extended lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hardikar-for-use-of-data-to-curb-contagion/articleshow/76099464.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government doctors on bond, contract to get Rs 15,000 hike||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government has announced a hike in the monthly remuneration for doctors on service bond as well as contract. According to a statement issued from the chief minister's office, MBBS doctors on bond who work in tribal belts will get Rs 75,000, up from Rs 60,000. Specialists on bond in tribal belts will now get Rs 85,000 against Rs 70,000. Doctors with MBBS, MS, MD and superspeciality degrees who are to graduate from government and municipal medical colleges have to serve a mandatory term in government hospitals. These are doctors on bond. CM Uddhav Thackeray said the hike will boost frontline healthcare workers' morale. In other parts of the state, MBBS doctors will get Rs 70,000 (Rs 55,000) and specialists Rs 80,000 (Rs 65,000).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-government-doctors-on-bond-contract-to-get-rs-15000-hike/articleshow/76100959.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||72% want lockdown extension in 19 high virus load districts||Nagpur: As lockdown 4.0 comes to an end in a couple of days, people have started discussing the possibility of fifth extension in view of the rising novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases. Though the opinion is divided, a whopping majority — 72% — citizens feel a complete lockdown is needed in 19 high virus load districts in the country to contain spread of Covid-19.In the event of lockdown extension, 73% people want the government to re-deploy some ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ funds to support those who will lose livelihood in the high virus load districts. At the same time, percentage of citizens who want strict lockdown for two additional weeks in high virus load districts has increased from 45% on May 12 to 72% on May 28.LocalCircles, country’s top social media online platform, conducted a survey to assess what citizens think on what should the government do at the end of lockdown 4.0. The two-part survey received over 18,000 responses from 221 districts of the country. Citizens were asked what should be done with regard to two-week lockdown extension post May 31. In response, 60% of the respondents said there should be a full lockdown in 19 high virus load districts (that are also among the red zones with over 500 Covid-19 cases), partial lockdown in regular red zones and no lockdown in orange and green zones.While 13% respondents favoured a partial lockdown in 19 high virus load districts, regular red zone districts and no lockdown in orange and green zone districts, 6% said government should announce partial lockdown in these districts, no lockdown in regular red zone, orange and green zone districts. Also, 4% respondents said there should be a full lockdown in 19 high virus load districts, no lockdown in regular red zone, orange and green zone districts. Only 5% said there should be no lockdown anywhere and 8% said there should be a complete lockdown pan India.This clearly means 72% citizens feel a complete lockdown is needed in the 19 high virus load districts, which include Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Aurangabad, Nashik (Maharashtra), Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat (Gujarat), Indore, Bhopal (MP), Chennai, Thiruvallur (TN), Jaipur, Jodhpur (Rajasthan), Delhi, Agra, Kolkata, Hyderabad (Telangana) and Kurnool (AP), said Akshay Gupta, general manager, LocalCircles.The 19 high virus load districts have 80% active cases of the country and each one has more than 500 active cases. According to people, only home delivery of essential supplies should be allowed here and everything else should be shut. In the 121 regular red zones, public is in favour of continued partial lockdown. In orange and green zones, most people are in favour of permitting all normal activities.During the survey conducted on May 3, 74% citizens were in favour of two additional weeks of complete lockdown in high virus load districts. On May 12, this number dropped to 45% as the citizens were getting desperate to get out of their homes and get back to work. Now, looking at how fast Covid-19 cases are increasing, this number has again gone up to 72% on May 28, Gupta pointed out.“The government is under tremendous pressure to reopen the economy as the lockdown has led to reduced growth and enormous job losses. The informal sector and gig workers have been hugely hit,” says Gupta.On re-deployment of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ funds for people who will lose livelihood if the lockdown is extended, 73% answered in an affirmative while 17% answered said ‘no’ and 10% were unsure about it. “Such a move will ensure that if a complete lockdown is extended in high virus load districts, those without daily wages will be able to get some financial support so as to sustain themselves,” said Gupta.What People Want* 18,000-plus responses from over 221 districts* 53% male respondents, 47% female* 56% respondents from tier-1, 30% from tier-II & 14% from tier-III, IV and rural districts*72% want complete lockdown in 19 high virus load districts* 73% want partial lockdown only in 121 regular red zones* 82% want no lockdown at all in 600 green & orange zones||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/72-want-lockdown-extension-in-19-high-virus-load-districts/articleshow/76098573.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
May 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Teen to host global video game tourney to help local artisans||BENGALURU: When Rajiv Govind, 15, got to know that a Tanjore gold leaf painter in Bengaluru had supplies but no orders to survive during the Covid-19 pandemic, the boy decided to do something so that hundreds of artisans like him wouldn’t suffer. The class 10 student came up with a unique idea to help artisans — hosting an international tournament of popular video game Fortnite to raise funds. The multiplayer online game has a post-apocalyptic setting. Each participant is required to pay Rs 100 as entry fee and the winner will receive prize money of Rs 3,000. Rajiv, a resident of Sadashivnagar, aims to help 40 families of weavers in Shivamogga district by using the funds collected to buy ration kits for them. “My mother, Padmini Govind, who owns a heritage block printing studio in the city, will sponsor the prize money while the funds from registrations will be used to help artisans. It’ll be an incentive for participants as they will get to contribute to a good cause,” he explained. The tournament has already received 25 registrations including three from UAE and Rajiv is expecting more in the coming days. “The tournament is tentatively scheduled for May 31. We will change the date if needed,” he added. The teenager has been making relentless efforts to help artisans from across the country reach a bigger audience. He created an Instagram page a month ago to showcase their work and has helped them connect with clients. From woodworkers to weavers, more than 220 artisans — most of whom were hit hard by the lockdown — are actively being supported through Rajiv’s initiatives. A student of The International School Bangalore, Rajiv has helped some artisans learn how to block print and design Halloween-themed tote bags for corporate gifting programmes to give them the exposure necessary. His mother and mentor Manu Chopra from Stanford University have helped him get in touch with artisans in need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teen-to-host-global-video-game-tourney-to-help-local-artisans/articleshow/76098913.cms||Farheen Hussain
May 30, 2020||Pune||PCMC tells private schools to be flexible with fees payment||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The education department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has appealed to private schools in the civic limits to have a flexible approach towards the payment of fees. Parag Mundhe, the assistant administrative officer of PCMC’s education board, told TOI that in the last few weeks they had received complaints regarding schools putting pressure on parents for payment of fees. He said earlier this month, the directive from the state government had stated that parents should not be forced to pay the remaining fee of the 2019-20 academic year and the fee for 2020-21 in one go and they must be given monthly or quarterly payment options. “So, the schools cannot force parents to pay. We received a specific complaint about a school, which we are going to verify,” he said, adding, “If it is found to be true, the school would be served a notice.” Schools not complying with the state government’s guidelines may face suspension of recognition, he added. There are around 652 schools in the PCMC-limits including state board and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-tells-private-schools-to-be-flexible-with-fees-payment/articleshow/76099503.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Vijayawada||From Amaravati to decentralised growth||Amaravati: It took no time for the locals to realise that the much-talked about global capital city Amaravati would eventually fade into history after YS Jagan came to power last May. A year with Jagan at the helm, Amaravati remains on paper with many half-completed structures and barren lands. The dream capital for thousands of local farmers, who parted their lands without taking compensation, is slowly becoming a ghost city. The previous TDP government had pooled nearly 33,000 acres from local farmers and taken over another 20,000 acres of government land to ready a grand capital city for the state. Planned over 50,000 acres, the proposed capital city did brisk business with realtors and business tycoons. Two private universities had started operations while a dozen skyscrapers were ready for occupation. However, the TDP government spent a lot of time in finalisation of designs and plans as it wanted to make Amaravati, bigger than the biggest capital cities in the world. It eventually delayed the grounding of major works. Taking full advantage from the slow pace of progress, the YSRC government decided to decentralise development across all three regions of the state. It stopped all ongoing projects and decided not to make any fresh investment in Amaravati. Enraged with the development, the farmers started protests across the 29 villages of the capital city and filed several petitions in the high court. Despite facing several reversals in the court, the YSRC government remains firm on scrapping the Amaravati project. “We do not have the luxury to spend Rs one lakh crore on one city (Amaravati) by ignoring the cries of people of Rayalaseema and north-coastal regions for drinking and irrigation water,” finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said, defending the move. He, however, promised to do justice to the local farmers, who had given their land for the construction of the capital city. However, YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s decision to develop Mangalagiri and Tadepalle as model towns is likely to spur development along the highway that connects Guntur and Vijayawada cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/from-amaravati-to-decentralised-growth/articleshow/76097456.cms||Samdani MN
May 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Online classes for schoolkids double parents’ screen time||PUNE: Parents with young kids are especially stressed with online classes hard to follow especially if there are two children in the house as they would need to spend double the screen time, increase the number of devices and push up the need for the internet. A working mother of two daughters in classes II and X said the school recently took an online class for all parents about how to navigate a certain platform which the school will use to impart classes. “We have two laptops in the house. But we cannot work on the laptops till they finish. Every household may need four laptops or desktops. Children can use cellphones but the screen size is small and their eyes will hurt,” she added. Dimple Sharma, whose daughter is in class III, said younger children have a short attention span and have to be nudged to listen and participate in the session. “Both of us are working and there are no maids to help with housework. We have to monitor my daughter’s daily sessions. Although children these days are tech-savvy, they waiver while listening to the online lessons. Sometimes, we both may have important calls or webinars at the same time that our daughter has an online session,” Sharma said. Teresa David, principal of Laxmanrao Apte Prashala and junior college, said the school started with online platforms for live classes, but has gone back to WhatsApp groups. “We started with live platforms and realised that not all students have the devices. Many were using their parents’ smartphones which would ring or the parents would need it. So, we had to send assignments and worksheets via WhatsApp groups. Some teachers put up the lecture videos on youtube,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-classes-for-schoolkids-double-parents-screen-time/articleshow/76099528.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 30, 2020||Nashik||GB approves Rs 2,390 cr budget for 2020-21||Nashik: The general body of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Friday approved Rs 2,390.34 crore budget of the municipal corporation for the fiscal year 2020-21. The budget was presented by standing committee chairman Ganesh Gite. Mayor Satish Kulkarni gave nod to the budget with the inclusion of suggestions made by the members during the general body meeting. The meeting was held through video conferencing for the first time in the history of the municipal corporation. The standing committee of the NMC had hiked the budget for the financial year 2020-21 by Rs 228.55 crore, taking it up to Rs 2,390.34 crore. Of Rs 228.55 crore, Rs 150 crore is expected to be raised through bonds while the remaining Rs 50 crore is to be raised through making marginal hike in property tax collection targets through property, water and other taxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gb-approves-rs-2390-cr-budget-for-2020-21/articleshow/76099500.cms||Tushar Pawar
May 30, 2020||Business||Covid takes toll on core sector, output slumps 38% in April||NEW DELHI: Output of eight core sector industries plunged 38.1% in April — probably the steepest ever — led by an over 80% slump in cement and steel production due to the nationwide lockdown. The numbers indicated that overall industrial production is headed for a high double-digit decline as the Covid-19-induced lockdown has taken a toll on economic activity. The core sector industries have an over 40% weight in IIP (index of industrial production). “That the core sector output contracted by 38% in April is an indicator of the dent which the lockdown is likely to bring forth in economic activity and the resultant numbers,” said Joseph Thomas, who heads research at Emkay Wealth Management. Prominent sectors such as automobiles saw zero sales and production during April. Trade data released earlier in the month showed that exports and imports had both declined by nearly 60% each as factories were forced to shut down to avoid spread of the virus. Other indicators, such as energy consumption and transportation of goods, too point to a massive slump. For instance, the core sector data released on Friday showed that coal production dropped by 15.5%, while natural gas output was almost 20% lower. Similarly, electricity generation was down nearly 23% and refinery output fell over 24%. Although none of the eight core sectors managed to see higher production in April, the decline was led by an 86% fall in cement output, followed by a 84% decrease in steel. Crude oil (-6.4%) and fertliser (-4.5%) were the only two sectors that witnessed single-digit drop. Economists and market players expect the core sector numbers to impact overall GDP in the first quarter. “The 38% year-on-year decline in infrastructure index for April is a precursor of things to come, and indicates again that economic activity looks likely to contract by an unprecedented magnitude in April-May. For now, we retain our projection of 0% GDP growth for calendar year 2020, but see material downside risks to our projections,” Barclays said. Agencies such as Goldman Sachs predicting a 45% contraction in GDP during the April-June quarter. On Friday, Motilal Oswal said it expected real GDP to decline by around 21% during the current quarter. Last week, RBI said Indian economy is headed for its first decline in GDP in four decades but refused to put out an estimate. The government, however, refrained from giving any projection, arguing that full impact is not clear at the moment. During May, factories have taken baby steps towards resumption but a majority are working at only a fraction of their capacity, with several parts of the country still closed for business. Data available with the commerce department points to an improvement almost on a weekly basis. For instance, exports, which were down around 40% a couple of weeks ago are now 35% lower on a year-on-year basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-takes-toll-on-core-sector-output-slumps-38-in-april/articleshow/76100930.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Sanitisers, not rosewater, greet guests at techie’s wedding||Bengaluru: Imagine attending a wedding where you are handed over masks and sanitisers instead of being showered with rosewater. There are no children and elders among the invitees and you have to maintain an arm’s distance from the others. This is set to be the norm in the post-Covid era and guests got a taste of it at a wedding in Rajajinagar on Friday. Not just visitors, even the bride and bridegroom underwent thermal screening before getting on with the rituals. L Sridhar, 33, from Nagarbhavi and R Rekha, 28, from Abbigere tied the knot early on Friday in a short ceremony at Sapthapadi Sapthagiri Palace, Rajajinagar. The hall could accommodate over 300 guests but had only 50 people, including the bride and bridegroom, in keeping with health department rules. “Honestly, we didn’t miss a big fat wedding. Conducting my son’s wedding strictly as per rules is our responsibility,” said M Lakshminarayan, father of the groom. Sridhar, a software engineer with an MNC, seemed a happy man alongside Rekha, as their close family members greeted them on stage. “We had invited very close family members and had strictly informed the guests not to bring children and elders. Only 50 people attended the wedding,” Lakshminarayan said, adding that they had obtained police permission. According to V Ranganath, administrator of Sapthapadi Sapthagiri Palace, the housekeeping and catering staff at the venue was downsized in order to maintain social distancing, especially in the dining area. “In my five years of service, this is the first wedding we had organised with strict preventive measures in place. We had placed sanitisers and masks and even stationed medical staff at the venue. Not more than two persons were permitted to stay in the rooms,” Ranganath said. He has prepared a detailed list of the attendees and their temperature readings, which has to be submitted at the jurisdictional police station. May is one of most preferred months for weddings because of the availability a large number of muhurthams, and halls are booked well in advance. But the lockdown has resulted in numerous weddings getting cancelled, Ranganath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sanitisers-not-rosewater-greet-guests-at-techies-wedding/articleshow/76098944.cms||Petlee Peter
May 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Nimhans shuts OPD for two months, draws flak||BENGALURU: The outpatient department (OPD) of National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (Nimhans), the country’s premier mental health institution, has remained shut for the past two months. Though the lockdown triggered by Covid-19 has been eased, the OPD is yet to open. This has forced many psychiatric patients to seek help from private doctors, fearing relapse due to anxiety, corona fears and lockdown stress. Private psychiatrists in the city, most of whom are Nimhans alumni, have been working through the lockdown and wonder why Nimhans has closed the door on patients though it doesn’t house any Covid-19 ward. Many Nimhans patients have sought help from psychiatrists running smaller nursing homes and rehabilitation centres, they confirm. “As private practitioners, we suffered losses but didn’t shut down given the gravity of the situation. Lockdown is seen as the biggest social and psychological experiment we have ever come across. There are multiple new cases and also instances of relapse and Nimhans is out of bounds. Patients are coming to us,” said a psychiatrist, who runs his own hospital. “When private psychiatry institutions are running because patient care is a major necessity, why can’t government institutions like Nimhans, which are better equipped than us, run the show with all precautions? There are many patients who can’t afford treatment and we have treated some for free. These people wouldn’t have come to us, if the government set-up was open,” said Dr A Jagadisha, psychiatrist at Abhaya Hospital. He said his hospital too wasn’t functional in the initial days of the lockdown, but started from mid-April. Doctors give the example of Mysore Medical College, which was turned into a Covid-19-dedicated hospital and yet ran its psychiatry unit. “Lots of patients and caregivers have sought consultation during the lockdown and later too despite all odds as the nature of illness and its management needs continuity of care,” said Dr Mahesh Gowda, psychiatrist and director of Spandana healthcare. “Shunning patients will adversely impact them. We kept all our services, including OPD and inpatient facilities, open and functioned throughout the lockdown with minimal staff. We home-delivered medicines as patients were unable to reach us, conducted home visits and admitted patients, who suffered relapse over addiction-related issues,” added Dr Mahesh. Nimhans, however, said its OPD couldn’t be functioning due to the lockdown, but emergency services were available. “As travel was banned, patients from other districts and states couldn’t come. The emergency services and virtual OPD have been functional. We did follow-ups through phone calls,” said Dr K Sekar, registrar at Nimhans. He added that experts from Nimhans were instrumental in conducting webinars to train lab technicians and in setting up laboratories across the state to test Covid-19 patients. Dr Sekar said during the first 45 days of the lockdown, Nimhans’ national helpline received 2.7 lakh calls, of which 45,000 were related to psychiatry and mental health issues. “The rest were largely social and travel-related concerns and they were counselled,” he said. Nimhans teams were part of tele-counselling those in quarantine, he added. OPD reopens from June 1Nimhans is all set to restart its OPD from June 1. But appointments will be through IVRS (080-26991699) only. To begin with, close to 200 appointments will be given each day, say doctors. “Before the lockdown, 2,000 patients would visit our OPD daily. Now we have to adhere to all safety standards. Initially, we will see around 200 OPD patients per day,” said Dr Sekar. Nimhans: 2.7 lakh calls attendedNimhans, however, said its OPD couldn’t be functioning due to the lockdown, but emergency services were available. “As travel was banned, patients from other districts and states couldn’t come. The emergency services and virtual OPD have been functional. We did follow-ups through phone calls,” said Dr K Sekar, registrar at Nimhans.  He added that experts from Nimhans were instrumental in conducting webinars to train lab technicians and in setting up laboratories across the state to test Covid-19 patients. Dr Sekar said during the first 45 days of the lockdown, Nimhans’ national helpline received 2.7 lakh calls, of which 45,000 were related to psychiatry and mental health issues. “The rest were largely social and travel-related concerns and they were counselled,” he said. Nimhans teams were part of telecounselling those in quarantine, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nimhans-shuts-opd-for-two-months-draws-flak/articleshow/76098898.cms||Sunitha Rao R
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Beggar moves SHRC for ration, pension||HYDERABAD: A beggar, who is differently-abled, has moved the Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) on Friday seeking a white ration card and old-age pension as he is finding it difficult to survive during the lockdown. The commission has directed the district collector of Hyderabad to enquire into the issue and take appropriate measures to meet his requests if he is found eligible. The collector was directed to submit an action taken report by July 21. Vanam Rajesh, the petitioner, submitted that he is an orphan, disabled, beggar, and a homeless person who has no means to feed himself during the lockdown. He submitted that he had to suffer from hunger during the lockdown and that he received no relief from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beggar-moves-shrc-for-ration-pension/articleshow/76100251.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Amaravati||AP ranks high in testing, CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy tells Amit Shah||AMARAVATI: Union minister of home affairs Amit Shah telephoned chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday to discuss the lockdown exit plans. With the nationwide lockdown coming to an end on Sunday, the home minister discussed issues related to containment measures in the state, the spread of virus and preparedness of the state to handle the situation once the lockdown is lifted. Sources said that the chief minister is reported to have assured the home minister that the decision taken by the Centre in the matter will be followed by the state. The chief minister also explained measures initiated by the state to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the last two months. He said that AP was among the top states in the country in terms of numbers screened, with close to 11,000 tests conducted per day. Jagan said that the state plans to increase the screening capacity to 20,000 per day soon by providing Truenat machines to primary health centres (PHCs). The home minister is believed to have informed the chief minister that the views of all chief ministers are being taken into account for briefing Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-ranks-high-in-testing-cm-tells-amit-shah/articleshow/76103189.cms||Samdani MN
May 30, 2020||Nashik||Day after delivering twins, woman passes away due to Covid-19||Nashik: The 30-year-old woman, who gave birth to twins at Ahmednagar civil hospital on Thursday, passed away due to Covid-19 on Friday. The victim had undergone caesarean section delivery on Thursday morning and gave birth to a baby boy and a girl, each weighing two kilograms. The hospital authorities have collected the swab samples of the infants and the reports are expected by early Sunday. The twins will be handed over to their father after the test reports are received. The woman was admitted to the hospital on May 25 after she complained of breathlessness and later tested positive for Covid-19. Hospital doctors said the woman had severe pre-eclampsia and swelling over the legs. Pre-eclampsia is a disorder of pregnancy characterized by the onset of high blood pressure and often a significant amount of protein in the urine. “She had developed a pneumatic patch in her lung due to the Covid-19 infection and her oxygen saturation levels could not be maintained at times. She had to be provided oxygen support,” sources in the hospital said. According to hospital authorities, her condition started deteriorating after 8am on Friday due to pulmonary embolism and she passed away within next 45 minutes. Pulmonary embolism is a condition where there is a blockage in one of the pulmonary arteries and it is mostly caused due to blood clots. “At 8am, her condition was stable and oxygen saturation was also good. But she started sinking within a few minutes and despite our best efforts, we could not save her,” added the hospital sources. Hospital authorities claimed that the woman, who hailed from Ghatkopar area of Mumbai, had conceived 10 years after her marriage. She had come to her parents’ house in Nimblak village on the outskirts of Ahmednagar city. “Although she was in the ninth month of her pregnancy, we tried to prolong her delivery as we were keen that she gives birth to the babies after getting cured of Covid-19. She developed severe labour pains on Thursday morning and we had to operate for the delivery,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/day-after-delivering-twins-woman-passes-away-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/76099535.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Digital learning beset with tech problems, says study||Pune: Lack of a suitable device, behind with technology and absence of internet connectivity are hurdles to virtual teaching, a study conducted by the Institute of Management Development and Research (IMDR) among college students in Pune attending online classes revealed. Educational institutions and students that have considered digital learning as a supplementary tool are now mainstreaming it which is a challenge without infrastructure in a uniform manner, the study added. Faculty at IMDR, Shruti Nagar, who conducted the study, said that educational institutions have resorted to the online mode of teaching. About 182 responses were received and suitable statistical tools were used to validate and analyse the data. The respondents were students using e-learning sources to complete their regular courses or for skill development during the lockdown. “Network and internet issues are challenges for 60% of the respondents/ e-learners attending online sessions. Students who were able to use online mode of learning for about three hours a day were confident about syllabus completion and continuation of the learning process. But poor network and loss of internet connectivity obstructed the flow of online sessions and raised a question on effectiveness of compulsory online sessions,” Nagar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/digital-learning-beset-with-tech-problems-says-study/articleshow/76099548.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 30, 2020||Vijayawada||AP ranks high in testing, CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy tells Amit Shah||AMARAVATI: Union minister of home affairs Amit Shah telephoned chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday to discuss the lockdown exit plans. With the nationwide lockdown coming to an end on Sunday, the home minister discussed issues related to containment measures in the state, the spread of virus and preparedness of the state to handle the situation once the lockdown is lifted. Sources said that the chief minister is reported to have assured the home minister that the decision taken by the Centre in the matter will be followed by the state. The chief minister also explained measures initiated by the state to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the last two months. He said that AP was among the top states in the country in terms of numbers screened, with close to 11,000 tests conducted per day. Jagan said that the state plans to increase the screening capacity to 20,000 per day soon by providing Truenat machines to primary health centres (PHCs). The home minister is believed to have informed the chief minister that the views of all chief ministers are being taken into account for briefing Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-ranks-high-in-testing-cm-tells-amit-shah/articleshow/76097476.cms||Samdani MN
May 30, 2020||Meerut||Hundreds of spray tankers ready to take on locusts in sugar belt||MEERUT: As the threat of a locust attack increases in one of the most fertile regions of Northern India, Meerut zone administration has readied hundreds of spray tankers as part of a proactive strategy to mitigate crisis if swarms of these crop destroyers move through the region. Meerut district magistrate Anil Dhingra said, “There is no immediate danger but we are on alert. We are involving the agriculture department, farmers and sugar mills who can help us by providing apparatus." As many as 500 tankers are on standby in Meerut itself. Besides, teams have been formed to create awareness among farmers across all nine districts. Similarly, Bijnor is ready with 37 tankers in three specific blocks. According to officials, banging utensils can also help deflect the locusts. Hapur additional director of agriculture department Vipin Bihari Dwivedi said, "The attack could happen either from the Haryana side or Rajasthan. The wind direction is in our favour right now. After a few swarms reached Jhansi, they moved to Sonbhadra. Similarly, situation in the Haryana side is also not alarming. However, one can never be sure. Hence, we are adequately prepared with spray tankers and powerful guns to spray chemicals. Around 60 farmers are equipped with these machines and we are constantly coordinating with them.” Senior research scientist at Meerut-based Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Agriculture University Ashok Kumar says, "A strategy needs to be developed to ensure that the machineries are deployed at high-rise installations like overhead water tanks and roofs of high-rise buildings in case locusts turn towards city areas. Besides, all water bodies need to be protected."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hundreds-of-spray-tankers-ready-to-take-on-locusts-in-sugar-belt/articleshow/76098595.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||Mominpura sr citizen died due to wrong C-zone policy: Thakre||Nagpur: Congress MLA and city Congress president Vikas Thakre squarely blamed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) administration’s “wrong Covid-19 containment zone policy” for the death of an old man from Mominpura on Thursday. He said the patient failed to receive timely treatment as doctors could not reach the area which is a containment zone.Leading a delegation of Congress corporators and leaders, Thakre met divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and apprised him of what he termed as civic chief’s “dictatorship” that is causing hardship to the citizens. He blamed municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for leaving the senior citizen to die without medical treatment.He said that as per the government’s directive, a mobile medical van should have been deployed in the containment zone. It was the civic administration’s responsibility to provide timely medical treatment to the patient. People were forced to stage agitations against the civic administration’s callousness, said Thakre while addressing the media. He alleged that Mundhe was holding the entire Nagpur city hostage under the Prevention of Disease Control Act.Cotton Market, which is one of Central India’s largest vegetable markets, is also in turmoil as “Mundhe's short-sighted policies made life difficult for the traders there,” said Thakre.“When Congress corporator Nitin Sathawane raised his voice, Mundhe, along with the zone’s assistant commissioner, lodged a complaint against him at Lakadganj police station,” Thakre said.According to the Congress neta, hundreds of people who were quarantined from the area were not even given two hours to collect their belonging such as clothes, medicines etc. “Is such quarantine humane?” he said. He said the municipal commissioner is notifying a near-5km area in many zones without any second thought. “When a voice was raised against these irregularities, an FIR was lodged against our corporator,” he said and demanded apology from Mundhe and withdrawal of the complaint.Senior Congress leader Abhijit Wanjari, corporators Sandip Sahare, Manoj Sangole, Ramesh Punekar, Nitin Sathawane, Darshani Dhawad, Sakshi Raut among others accompanied Thakre. Divisional commissioner assured to look into the matter.Congress corporators will also meet district guardian minister Nitin Raut over the issue. Meanwhile, former state minister Anees Ahmed demanded scaling down Mominpura containment area so that people can move out to earn a livelihood.Ahmed also met divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar. Appreciating the work done by the civic administration, Ahmed said it should consider demand from Mominpura residents for removing barricades near Mayo Hospital. He said around 40,000 residents of Prabhag 8, especially the poor, were facing hardships and need relaxations immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mominpura-sr-citizen-died-due-to-wrong-c-zone-policy-thakre/articleshow/76098597.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||Places of worship to open on Monday with crowd curbs in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Several places of worship have decided to open their doors to devotees from Monday and strictly adhere to social distancing measures. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced all religious places will remain open from June 1 but not more than 10 devotees will be allowed to enter a shrine at a time. “I would appeal to mandir, masjid and girja to reopen and we will allow 10 people to come at a time. No namaz will be allowed on the streets outside mosques. Committees in charge of the places of worship should keep sanitizers for devotees. Religious gatherings like performing yagnas and festivals won’t be allowed. Committees should keep volunteers to keep tabs on devotees,” the CM said. Kalighat temple authorities have met the local police to work out the modalities. “A meeting will be held on Saturday to decide on the number of devotees who can enter the sanctum sanctorum,” a temple official said. Dakshineshwar temple authorities have decided devotees will have to stand 6ft apart while entering the temple complex. Temple trustee Kushal Chowdhury said: “There will be thermal guns and awareness will be spread on the need for hand-washing and maintaining social distance. All decisions will be firmed up shortly.” Belur Math authorities, on the other hand, have indicated that they will need another fortnight to throw open the complex. At Nakhoda Mosque, prayers were being held without public attendance, which is likely to continue even after June 1. “Only the imam and other staff members — around 10 people — would be inside the mosque. We will take a decision only after we get more clarity on the issues,” said Nasser Ebrahim, a trustee of the mosque. Management committees of most mosques said they would take a decision on reopening the shrines only after consultations with police and local administrators. “It is difficult to restrict the number to 10. Doing so may create some commotion. We will be speaking to police and other officials before we take a decision,’ said the head of a mosque in Park Circus. “We will ensure that all devotees entering the gurdwara are wearing masks and maintaining social distancing norms. Hand sanitizers will be available at our gurdwara. We are also planning to thermal scan all devotees,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, general secretary of Gurdwara Behala The Roman Catholic Church and the Church of North India have welcomed the state’s decision. Archbishop Thomas D Souza, head of the Roman Catholic church, said: “We seek greater clarity on the numbers. We will have masks and keep social distancing and sanitisation issues in mind. However, the very thought that locked church doors will once again open will make all Christians smile.” He added that he would seek clarity on whether Mass is allowed and what would be the norms for Sunday church. Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of the Church of North India, said: “Some churches like St Paul’s Cathedral have a seating capacity of over 1,000. “So 10 would be such a small number for these churches. The priest and his helpers in church together make up for 10 people. So what about parishioners?” he asked. He reasoned that many churches can easily seat 100 people keeping social distancing in mind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/places-of-worship-to-open-on-mon-with-crowd-curbs/articleshow/76098616.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||Government offices in Uttarakhand to open from 10am to 5pm, June 1 onwards||Dehradun: Government offices in Uttarakhand will revert to normal working hours of 10am to 5pm from June 1 onwards. The secretariat and assembly employees would work from 9.30 am to 6pm for five days a week. A circular in this regard was issued by state government secretary Pankaj Kumar Pandey, addressed to all senior state officials, including additional chief secretaries, secretaries, commissioners, DG police, district magistrates and police chiefs of all 13 districts. According to the circular, while 100% attendance of Class I and Class II employees has been mandated, for Class III and Class IV employees, a 50% presence has been stipulated. The circular states that other provisions of an earlier order issued on May 2 for government employees would remain intact. The order dated May 2 had stipulated that government offices were to remain open till 4 pm only. Sanitisation of offices and wearing mask would continue to remain mandatory and the employees have been directed to maintain social distancing norms, the circular said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-offices-in-ukhand-to-open-from-10-am-to-5-pm-june-1-onwards/articleshow/76097479.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Meerut||Stranded migrants using ‘jugaad’ vehicles to ferry family back home||MEERUT: A family of eight to 10 people huddled together on a locally-assembled vehicle -- a motorcycle or a scooter attached to a trolley-- is a common sight on highways and arterial roads across western UP now. When public transport system failed them, people turned towards these ‘jugaad’ vehicles to take them home. One of the most cost-effective transportation solutions in rural and semi-urban areas, ‘jugaad’ had also made an entry into big metros like Delhi, as people used them to transport goods and vegetables. Thousands of migrant labourers have been crossing into UP from Saharanpur, Shamli and Baghpat from Haryana through roads or via Yamuna river. But those with family, especially toddlers, have to look for more “robust” options. Two such families which had started from Kurukshetra in Haryana two days ago reached Meerut on Thursday morning. With essential items dumped in the enclosed container and some tied around, the family had adjusted the children precariously on the top of the heap. Migrants from Sambhal district in UP, families told TOI they had run out of resources and it was hard to make a living. “I used to work as daily-wage labourer. But the work dried up due to lockdown. We had no option but to return home,” said Chirangi, a labourer who was returning with wife and six children from Kurukshetra. Most of these families did stock some food and ration for the long journey home. But all complained that they received no help on the way. “It is not that we are dying of hunger, but it has been hard to manage. with we are left. Children travelling with us are the most affected,” a woman travelling with the family said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/stranded-migrants-using-jugaad-vehicles-to-ferry-family-back-home/articleshow/76098607.cms||Piyush Rai
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Will unveil new scheme for farmers soon: Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: After keeping farmers at their wits’ end with his regulatory farming idea, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday announced that the government would soon come up with a new scheme for farmers. “I will share some good news for farmers in the state soon. This scheme is going to be unique in the country and even in the world. Finances for the scheme have been worked out and other details will be finalised in a week,” the CM said at a press conference after inaugurating a pump house in Markook village in Siddipet district to release water to Kondapochamma Sagar reservoir which is part of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme (KLIP). The scheme for farmers could be on the lines of Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima. Official sources said the government is considering some of the possibilities like providing free fertilisers and seeds and paying the crop insurance premium to farmers as part of the new scheme. The government is also likely to guarantee an assured MSP though the Centre announces the minimum support price. “Since the state government is firm on regulatory farming, this move could be a win-win proposal for both the farmers and the government,” sources said. The CM said the government is giving top priority for the irrigation sector. “The agriculture production has touched Rs 1 lakh crore now. I thank all the people, who had given their land for irrigation projects. Oustees’ family members will be given jobs in the food processing industries locally,” the CM said. On the new agriculture policy, the CM said there has been an overwhelming response for his regulatory farming proposal by passing resolutions by the villages to abide by the decision of the government. He said it is only ‘niyantrana’ (regulatory) and not ‘niyantrutva’ (dictatorial) cultivation as being alleged by the opposition parties. The government has been implementing farm input subsidy scheme Rythu Bandhu since 2018 where every farmer gets Rs 5,000 per acre in each agriculture season (two seasons). Apart from this, the government has started implementing Rythu Bima insurance scheme for farmers. Under this scheme, a farmer’s family gets Rs 5 lakh insurance in case of any unforeseen event. Telangana has also been giving 24x7 power to agriculture sector. The CM believes these schemes had helped him retain power in the 2018 elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-unveil-new-scheme-for-farmers-soon-kcr/articleshow/76099543.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 30, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC adds 3 more trucks for its services||Nashik:The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), Nashik division, will provide three more trucks for its newly launched transportation services. The divisional office has already provided eight trucks for the transportation of industrial, agriculture and others goods from Nashik district. The Nashik division of MSRTC is converting old buses into three new trucks. “We now have eight trucks already which are being used for transportation of goods. The goods transported are tyres of the buses, machinery, engines of vehicles and other things across the state,” a senior officer from the MSRTC said. The eight trucks, which were not being used since the MSRTC buses were not operating completely, are being used for transportation services. “The MSRTC has started getting demands from people for transportation services. The first service provided was in Ahmednagar district for transportation of stationery and other goods on Thursday,” the officer said. “We have a system which is very robust. All we have to do is manage the fleet which is not a difficult job as we are used to handling the buses on a daily basis,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-adds-3-more-trucks-for-its-services/articleshow/76099557.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||ATS nabs two of Chhota Rajan gang||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat ATS on Friday arrested two persons for their alleged role in a daring daylight armed robbery in Chanod near Vapi in January, when a finance company was robbed of Rs 7 crore. While Sharmat Baig, 43, was nabbed from Mumbai, Santosh Naik alias Rajesh Khanna, 45, was arrested from Chickmaglur in Karnataka. ATS official said they have recovered Rs 70 lakh from Naik. Both accused are believed to be working for the Chhota Rajan gang. Baig is allegedly also involved in the murder of Khetwadi MLA Premkumar Sharma. DSP K K Patel of ATS said two teams working under SP ATS, (in-charge) Deepan Bhadran were after the duo for the last week and nabbed both simultaneously on Thursday. They were brought to the city on Friday. According to ATS sources, both have criminal records. “In 1997, Naik and an accomplice, Suresh, had murdered a man named Qayyum Qureshi at Saki Naka. The murder was done at the instance of Chhota Rajan. Two years later, Santosh, Akhtar Khan and John Paul killed on Iqbal Kuntara in Kurla, again at the instance of Chhota Rajan. Both Qureshi and Kuntara were active members of the Dawood Ibrahim gang,” added Patel. ATS officials said that from 1998 to 2018, the gang was involved in extortion and robberies in Mahim, Chembur, Navi Mumbai and Surat. “Sharmat Baig is an active member of the Chota Rajan gang and is involved in several offences including the murder of the Khetwadi MLA Premkumar Sharma. They also robbed several petrol pumps in Aurangabad. The gang is also involved in land grabbing and several cases have been filed against them,” an ATS source said. Patel said other members of the gang are Kalu, Mohammed Gosh, Haris and Idli Anna. “In all there are nine of them who have committed several offences across the country. The gang usually robbed jewellers at gun point,” added Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ats-nabs-two-of-chhota-rajan-gang/articleshow/76098618.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 90% of people in home isolation recovered, says government||NEW DELHI: Four out of five Covid-19 positive people who were under home isolation have recovered from the infection, while the overall recovery rate is above 50%. This has prompted Delhi government to promote home isolation as an effective measure for those with mild symptoms of the novel coronavirus. Currently, over 4,000 people are under home isolation. “More than 80% of Covid-19 positive patients either have no symptoms or mild symptoms like mild fever or cough. They don’t need to be hospitalised. They can stay at home and look after themselves. Most people recover from the virus easily,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Friday urging people not to panic. In another tweet, the CM said, “Please do not panic if you have corona. Most of you can be treated under home isolation. But if you need to be hospitalised, we are fully prepared for that.” Asked about the sudden spike in the number of deaths, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said 13 people died in the past 24 hours. “In all, 69 old Covid-19 related deaths that occurred over the past 34 days have been added in the health bulletin. Of these, 52 cases were reported from Safdarjung Hospital. So, now the health bulletin will reflect 82 deaths. We got late in reporting these deaths and rectified the data accordingly,” he added. Sisodia and health minister Satyendra Jain said the government had made adequate arrangements of healthcare infrastructure to ensure speedy recovery of people and there was no need to panic. Jain said, “We have more than 5,000 beds — 1,400 in private hospitals and 3,700 in government facilities — for Covid-19 positive patients. Currently, 28 patients are on the ventilator. There are 300 dedicated ventilators available in Delhi. Our aim is to double the amount of beds compared with the number of patients right now.” “Around 90% of infected people are recovering in home isolation. Many people think they need to be hospitalised if they test positive. If the symptoms are not severe and you are overall asymptomatic, you should confine yourself to a room. Other family members should maintain a safe distance and keep the house and themselves sanitised,” said Sisodia. The health minister added that it takes two weeks to recover and most patients are recouping without any medical intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/90-of-people-in-home-isolation-recovered-govt/articleshow/76099595.cms||Alok K N Mishra
May 30, 2020||Nashik||Policemen in city declared fit for duty||Nashik: All the police personnel across the city, who are being monitored through their wristbands and synced to their smartphones have been declared fit to perform their duty. As many as 1,421 policemen have synced their wrist bands to their smartphones so far, which is eventually connected to the Covid-19 dashboard set-up at the police commissionerate. None of them showed any signs of temperature, eventually being declared fit. Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar, who is the brand ambassador of the wristband, provided the city police with 500 wristbands. While directors of Datar Cancer Genetics Ltd, Rajan Datar and Sneha Datar, sponsored the remaining 2,632 wrists bands taking the total to 3,132 wrist bands given to policemen. Other than 125 police personnel who are on leave, all others have been declared fit. This includes personnel, who couldn’t sync their wrist bands but are manually checked, said senior police officers. The blood pressure, body temperature, etc are monitored by the immediate heads of the police personnel, who pass on the information to the upper level which ultimately comes on the Covid dashboard at the police commissionerate. They said that a team of police personnel would monitor the dashboard. If they see a temperature alert, the concerned policemen would be contacted and follow up of their health would be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/policemen-in-city-declared-fit-for-duty/articleshow/76099597.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Assistant professor kills son, self in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 34-year-old assistant professor hanged her 10-year-old son, and later herself at their house in Narsingi on Friday. The deceased, N Bhargavi, a resident of Hydersakote, first hanged her son, Varenya, and then herself between 12pm to 3.30pm. Her one-year-old daughter was at a day care when the incident happened. “After her second delivery a year ago, Bhargavi was suffering from multiple health issues,” said Narsingi SI, Anvesh Reddy. Bhargavi and her husband Satish, who is a software engineer, consulted multiple doctors for treatment. The family said she was depressed over her health issues. “Satish went to the office in the morning. Around 3.30pm, he repeatedly called Bhargavi. When she did not respond, he asked the watchman to check,” the officer said. When the watchman saw through the window, he found the mother and son hanging from the fan. No suicide note was found, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asst-professor-kills-son-self/articleshow/76100303.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||New Market traders frame set of safety rules to resume business after 67 days in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The traders’ association at New Market has warned shopkeepers that if any shop encroaches on the market’s corridor, it will first be warned and then face closure. There are 3,000-odd shops at the century-and-a-half-old market. Speaking to TOI ahead of the market’s reopening on Monday, functionaries of SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association said decongesting the corridors was key to maintaining social distancing in the market and the association would do everything to ensure that there is no obstruction in the pathway. “We have made it clear that there will be zero tolerance on encroachment that leads to a bottleneck in any point. Before the lockdown, traders used to keep goods on the corridor. Some store employees would sit on stools outside the shop. Wares were also hung on the corridor. This will no longer be allowed. The association will join KMC officials to carry out a joint inspection of the market and warn those who flout the norm. If there is a repeat violation, KMC can enforce a lockdown on the shop,” association secretary Udai Kumar Shaoo said. At the market’s new complex, association joint secretary Ashraf Ali held an awareness campaign among shoppers, urging them to take all precautions possible to prevent the spread of the virus in the market. “Shop-keepers and store employees will wear masks and gloves at all times. There will be sanitizer at each store. There are some congestion points in the market during rush hours. While we don’t expect a rush now, if the market starts attracting more customers once transport eases, we will review these places,” he said. Among the congestion points are the entrance to the market from gate 18 on Bertram Street and gate 15 on Hogg Street. The association has also told the civic authority that it will provide thermal guns for use at the entrance to screen traders, shop employees and customers entering the market. It is also suggested that of the three gates that are proposed to be opened in the old complex, two be used for entry and one for exit. “The main entrance to the New Market on Lindsay Street and the gate next to the cake range on Hogg Street where sanitization tunnels have been installed can be used for entry and the gate opposite Lighthouse cinema on Bertram Street can be the exit,” suggested association president Ashok Gupta. Though several state health departments, including Bengal, have advised caution on use of sanitization tunnels and pointed out that repeated exposure to them can do more harm than good, they continue to be installed in civic markets. The first tunnel was set up at the main entrance in New Market last month. The second tunnel at gate 15 was installed recently. On Friday, corridors at the new complex of New Market were cleaned. A similar exercise will be undertaken at the old market complex on Saturday. The association members also urged KMC to disinfect the market before it opens on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-market-traders-frame-set-of-safety-rules-to-resume-business-after-67-days/articleshow/76098630.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||Defer Maha Kumbh by a year, say Haridwar seers||HARIDWAR: A group of prominent seers in the city has demanded that the Kumbh Mela scheduled to be held next year be postponed by a year in view of the Covid-19 threat. The group which includes mahamandaleshwaras (a rank in Hindu religious hierarchy) of prominent ashrams, claims that the mela was in any case scheduled to be held in 2022 but had been preponed to January 2021. Swami Vishwatmanand Puri, general secretary of Paramadarsh Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Samiti (PAMS), told TOI, “The last Maha Kumbh was held in 2010 and the next one should have been organised in 2022. Some people, however, were trying to do it earlier and preparations for it were started too. But the move has been foiled by God making corona the reason for it.” He added that given the prevailing situation, “holding the Kumbh next year is beyond imagination.” “The state government, Centre, akhadas, religious organisations and devotees alike should resolve to celebrate the Mahaparv in 2022,” he added. The seers put forth the argument that there are precedents for holding the Kumbh in a different year than the one scheduled and most often, it has led to controversy. PAMS vice-president Swami Maheshwaranand Puri said, “In 1955, Swami Karapatri Maharaj, a renowned saint, declared on the basis of astrological calculations that the Kumbh at Ujjain should be held in 1956, while a group of Varanasi religious scholars held 1957 to be the appropriate year as per the principle of 12 years interval between two Kumbh fairs. The pressure of both groups being tremendous, the administration held the fair in both the years. While the Kumbh in 1956 attracted only a few thousand pilgrims, the one in 1957 was a great success.” He added that in 1989, the Maha Kumbh at Prayagraj was held 11 years after the previous Kumbh, which had also generated a lot of controversy at that time. Meanwhile, state administration officials remained non-committal, saying that any decision in the matter will be taken only after discussions with the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (apex body of the country’s akhadas), various government departments and the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/defer-maha-kumbh-by-a-year-say-haridwar-seers/articleshow/76097499.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Varavara Rao admitted to hospital in Mumbai||HYDERABAD: The 81-year-old writer, poet and activist Varavara Rao, who was arrested in connection with the 2018 Elgar Parishad case, was admitted to JJ Hospital in Mumbai after his health deteriorated on Thursday. Rao’s family members told TOI that Chikkadpally police informed them of the news at around 8 pm on Friday. However, the police officials were not aware of why he was taken to the hospital. “We had been suspecting for a few days that he was unwell. Initially, he was kept in a hospital inside the jail and we were told by authorities that he was doing well. But our fears turned true after he was shifted to JJ Hospital,” said professor K Satyanarayana, Rao’s son-in-law. The family alleged that the jail authorities were hiding facts about Rao’s health and staged a protest inside their house on Friday afternoon. Top brass of Hyderabad police were initially doubtful about the communication from Mumbai police and said the caller, who claimed to be a constable, could be an impersonator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/varavara-rao-admitted-to-hosp-in-mum/articleshow/76099576.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s combat plan: Less cooling, more of fresh air||NEW DELHI: Once Delhi Metro resumes its services, passengers will find a significant dip in the cooling at the underground metro stations. The reason is that underground stations will now be ventilated with fresh air during peak morning and evening hours, which will affect the cooling of the air-conditioning system, but will put to rest any Covid-19 related concerns of the passengers. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said that the air-conditioning and humidity level norms followed at its underground stations are as per guidelines set by the Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE) for operation of air-conditioning and ventilation system in the wake of Covid-19. “As per ISHRAE guidelines, air-conditioning temperature should be in the range of 24 to 30 degree Celsius and humidity levels should be in the 40% to 70% range. At Delhi Metro’s underground stations, we are already maintaining 27 degree Celsius temperature and 60% humidity,” a DMRC official said. “However, we will strictly ensure that the temperature and humidity levels remain the same and maximum fresh air will be provided inside the stations. There are no concerns regarding air-conditioning in metro stations and passengers don’t need to worry at all,” he said. After resumption of metro operations, a new protocol for operation of environment control system will be followed. “Between 4.30am and 8.30am, when metro is not much crowded and the temperature outside is still not high, 100% fresh air will be circulated as per open mode and there will be only ventilation,” he said. After 8.30am, when the peak hour begins, 100% fresh air will still be brought in under open mode but water cooled chillers of the air-conditioning would also be used to ensure a balance of ventilation and cooling. After 10.30am — when passenger traffic starts dipping — till 4.30pm, the air-conditioning will be operated in closed mode with just 10% fresh air. From 4.30pm to 7pm, again 100% fresh air will be circulated with water cooled chillers and after 7pm, there will be 100% fresh air ventilation in open mode. Before the resumption of services, some one-time measures will also be taken by DMRC as per ISHRAE guidelines. These include ‘flushing’ of the entire station area by operating the air-conditioning system of underground stations in open mode for 24 hours. Technicians who will carry out the testing and maintenance work will have to wear PPE and follow other safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metros-combat-plan-less-cooling-more-of-fresh-air/articleshow/76099609.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||Govt warns of locust attack on UP border||LUCKNOW: The state government has issued a warning for a possible locust attack in districts at the state border. A swarm of locusts passed by Lalitpur on Friday, said officials, but did not inflict any crop damage. “Some areas in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana have been under a locust attack. The possibility of an attack in districts along UP’s borders cannot be ruled out. The agriculture department and local administration have issued an advisory, asking people to take precautions in case the locusts cross into UP,” said an official. A team from the Centre is working along with district level teams to contain any possible locust attack. Locals have been asked to take measures like spraying insecticide through tractor mounted sprays, power sprays, sprayers used by local bodies and fire department vehicles. They have been asked to spray during night, when locusts rest in trees or on the ground, so that they can be effectively eliminated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-warns-of-locust-attack-on-up-border/articleshow/76100268.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Vadodara||Don’t add ‘university’ tag, three Gujarat institutes told||VADODARA: Three educational institutes in Gujarat are under the scanner after the University Grants Commission (UGC) directed them to restrain using the word “university” with their name in any manner. UGC released the list of 127 institutions of higher education on Wednesday which have been declared as “deemed-to-be universities”. List includes Ahmedabad-based Gujarat Vidyapith and two Vadodara-based institutes – the National Rail and Transportation Institute (NRTI) having its campus at Lalbaug, and Sumandeep Vidyapeeth having its campus at Waghodia. The commission has asked the institutes not to add the tag “university” in their advertisements, website, website addresses, e-mail addresses, letterheads, communications, hoardings among others, failing which the commission will take necessary action against the deemed-to-be university. “Instead, the institution may mention the word “Deemed to be University” within parenthesis suffixed thereto,” reads UGC’s joint secretary Dr Archana Thakur’s letter to this effect. “No institution, whether a corporate body or not, other than a university established or incorporated by, or under a central act, a provincial act or a state act shall be entitled to have the word “university” associated with its name in any manner whatsoever,” the letter states. This is not for the first time that UGC has issued such a directive to such institutes. In November 2017, following a Supreme Court order, UGC had written another such letter to more than 100 institutes across the country including Vadodara’s Sumandeep Vidyapeeth and Ahmedabad’s Gujarat Vidyapith. Gujarat Vidyapith got notified as “deemed-to-be university” in July 1963, while Sumandeep Vidyapeeth got notified in January 2007. NRTI, an institute that the central government touts as India’s first rail and transportation university, got notified on July 26, 2018 under section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956. The latest missive by the apex body of higher education in the country states that “it has been observed that in spite of the directions from the Supreme Court and UGC, some of these deemed to be universities are still using the word ‘university’ in one way or another.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dont-add-university-tag-three-gujarat-institutes-told/articleshow/76097519.cms||Prashant Rupera
May 30, 2020||Nashik||Medical students to appear for internal exams from home: MUHS||Nashik: Undergraduate (UG) medical students can appear for their internal assessment examination from their homes as Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has simplified the procedure for medical colleges to carry out the internal assessment examination — part of summer examination 2020. Ajit Pathak, controller of examination of the varsity, has directed all colleges to complete their internal assessment examinations by June 15 and allot marks to the students by the end of June. Barring homeopathy, UG students of all other streams will have to sit for the internal assessment examination. A student must garner at least 35% marks in the internal assessment exam to appear for the summer examination. The varsity has directed the colleges to intimate students a week before conducting the examination for each subject. The examination papers must be sent to students by emails/WhatsApp/SMS. “Since the students will appear for their exams from homes, the colleges must frame questions based on the open book exam pattern,” said Pathak, adding that since practical examinations would not be feasible the colleges must frame questions based on practical. According to Pathak, the students after writing the exam shall scan their answersheets in PDF format and mail them to their college. In case students are unable to do it they can take snaps of the answer sheets on their cell phones and send it via WhatsApp to their teachers. “If any student misses the internal assessment examination the respective college must ensure that the student appears for it after the lockdown is over. This simplified procedure is a one-time measure that MUHS has taken to conduct internal assessment examination in view of the Covid 19 pandemic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/medical-students-to-appear-for-internal-exams-from-home-muhs/articleshow/76099581.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Hospitals plunder patients on PPEs despite cap on price in Mumbai||MUMBAI: As stories of some private hospitals profiteering from the Covid-19 crisis continue to pour in, each upstages the previous in magnitude and insensitivity. Now it has come to light that a man with kidney disease was charged nearly Rs 60,000 for PPE kits alone for a fortnight in a south Mumbai hospital. The state on May 21 issued a notification capping charges for 80% of beds in private hospitals and refraining them from charging over a 10% markup on consumables. Of 22 complaints of overcharging and profiteering that have been received, Dr Sudhakar Shinde, the nodal officer to ensure implementation, said some were prior to May 21 and the rest were amicably resolved. The patient in question is a Reay Road resident aged 42. He was admitted to Masina Hospital, Byculla, on May 13 because of renal complications. Later, he was tested for Covid-19, and came positive. As his condition didn't improve, his family, after trying for three days, managed a Covid ICU bed in SevenHills, Marol, where he was shifted on Friday. "But at the time of discharge, we were given a bill of Rs 3 lakh, in which Rs 58,700 was for PPEs alone. The daily cost of a PPE worked out to Rs 2,500. Was it used just for my father?" asked the patient's son. PPE prices had skyrocketed at the beginning of the outbreak but stabilized within days. BMC sources said that now a set including an N95 mask comes for Rs 800-900. Masina defended the bill, saying it is reflective of PPE and protective gear the hospital deploys to ensure there was no risk to the patient and the staff. "The patient was in for dialysis and hence required multiple visits by the medical team, including dialysis technicians," said a representative of Masina. A state official said the BMC must deploy teams to see that the government's notification on hospital charges is implemented on ground. "Also, while there is a ceiling on bed and treatment charges, there is no cap on deposits hospitals charge. The minimum charged is Rs 1 lakh for Covid patients. Consumables are charged on whim," alleged Samajwadi Party MLA Rais Shaikh. "The solution is to appoint a nodal officer at each hospital."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hospitals-plunder-patients-on-ppes-despite-cap-on-price-in-mumbai/articleshow/76100964.cms||Sumitra Debroy
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Fan blade stuck in head, toddler makes 150km journey||INDORE: A 2.5-year-old boy travelled over 150km, with a fan blade embedded in his head, to have it surgically removed in Indore on Thursday The toddler was playing in his home in Khandwa when he ran into an uncovered pedestal fan that was spinning at full power. A blade pierced 2-3-inches into her skull, cutting into his left brain. He was operated late last night. Doctors say he will live. Thankfully, his parents didn’t try to pry it from his head and instead cut the blade from the fan and took the child to the district hospital. Doctors there patched it up as best as they could and referred him to Indore. The four-hour ride would have been excruciating for the little one but he endured it quietly. The family took him to MY Hospital, from where the boy was taken to Bombay Hospital for surgery. “When the boy was brought to us around 6pm, the blade was sticking out of his head,” said neurosurgeon Dr Atul Gupta, who performed the delicate extraction. It took around 45 minutes, he added. “Luckily, the boy was still conscious when he reached us, and the blade was unable to damage that part of the brain,” Gupta said, explaining that the blade penetrated one side of the head and didn’t enter deep into the brain, which helped minimise damage. “If the blade had penetrated a few more inches, the consequences might have been different. The boy is doing well after the surgery and will be discharged in a day or so,” said Gupta. But he may have seizures later on, he cautioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fan-blade-stuck-in-head-toddler-makes-150km-journey/articleshow/76098632.cms||Antriksh Singh
May 30, 2020||Nagpur||26 +ves in Naik Talao-Bairagipura take district past 500 mark||Nagpur: Naik Talao-Bairagipura in East Nagpur became the city’s fourth Covid-19 hotspot by registering 26 positive results on Friday, which also took the district’s tally of patients past the 500 mark.The epidemic spread in this area is evident from the fact that 24 of the 50 persons quarantined tested positive on Friday. The cluster is also linked to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) head office in Civil Lines. One of the positive persons is an attendant there. This led to testing and quarantining of 10 officials, including deputy municipal commissioner, veterinary officer and eight more staff.Total 43 persons, including the 24 from Naik Talao-Bairagipura, tested positive on Friday taking the district’s tally to 502. The latest 100 corona positive cases came in just eight days.A 23-year-old man and a 35-year-old man from Naik Talao-Bairagipura under NMC Satranjipura Zone were admitted at IGGMCH with fever on May 26, and tested positive on May 27. A very small area was notified as containment zone.The NMC team led by Dr Minakshi Mane quarantined 50 family members of the two persons. Two of the quarantined people had fever so they were admitted at IGGMCH while the remaining were in institutional quarantine centres. On Friday, 24 of them came positive while reports of some are awaited. NMC has quarantined another 60 persons from the area on Friday.The NMC attendant is a brother of the 35-year-old man. All 15 members of this family have reportedly tested positive.The attendant was working in the health department section situated on the 5th floor of NMC’s new administrative building till he was quarantined on May 27. Therefore, 10 officials and staff were tested and quarantined. Much depends on the reports of these 10 employees, as they are linked to many others at the NMC head office.Five family members and close contacts of a 72-year-old deceased from Satranjipura also tested positive. It was a home death on May 26, and NMC took the body to IGGMCH for testing and samples came positive on May 27. NMC had quarantined 34 persons earlier.This was the same area from where NMC teams had to return thrice 10 days ago, as people opposed testing and quarantining. After the death, NMC lodged a complaint against corporator Nitin Sathwane with the police. This has led to a controversy with corporators from both BJP and Congress threatening a no-confidence motion against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. They also lodged a complaint with divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar on Friday.Mundhe told TOI, “Our apprehension about cases in this area unfortunately proved right. We do not expect cases but our plan was to quarantine and test people, so that treatment can be given in time if there are any positive cases. But there was opposition three times. It clearly indicated interference and hurdle in containing epidemic, so complaint with police was lodged.”The number of cases from Satranjipura, the city’s first hotspot, have now increased to 128.Six from Mominpura containment zone, including a pregnant woman who went to IGGMCH for check-up also tested positive. A private doctor from Seva Sadan Chowk also came positive. Earlier, her husband, who is also a private medical practitioner had tested positive. The cases from this zone increased to 239.Two from Hawrapeth and two from Vasant Nagar in South Nagpur also tested positive. They were quarantined in connection with the 57-year-old who tested positive on May 26. The number of cases from this chain have increased to six.One each from RPTS institutional quarantine centre, Gaddigodam, Butibori and Mahadulla near Koradi in Nagpur Rural have also tested positive.The man from Mahadulla owns and drives a taxi. He had made three trips to Bihar in the last 15 days. He had fever, so he was admitted at GMCH and tested positive.This takes the number of cases from Nagpur Rural to 23.As per new guidelines, eight corona positive persons were discharged from IGGMCH, increasing number of discharged persons from the district to 369. With nine deaths, 124 are undergoing treatment at IGGMCH, GMCH and AIIMS.IAN*43 tested positive taking district’s tally to 502*It is second highest in a single day with earlier at 68 in 80 days*24 of total 50 quarantined from Naik Talao-Bairagipura came positive. With earlier two, total cases from this locality increased to 26 making it as city’s 4th hotspot after Satranjipura, Mominpura and Gaddigodam*Five from Satranjipura tested positive taking total of this zone to 128*Six from Mominpura containment zone tested positive increasing cases from this zone to 239*A pregnant woman went to IGGMCH for check up and tested positive*A private doctor from Seva Sadan chowk came positive and wife of private medical practitioner who tested positive couple of days ago*Cases from Hawrapeth chain rise to 8 with 4 new cases*One from RPTS institutional quarantine centre of Police-SRPF tested positive*A patient from Butibori admitted at a Dhantoli-based private hospital and on ventilator came positive*A taxi owner-cum-driver from Mahadulla who made trips to Bihar came positive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/26-ves-in-naik-talao-bairagipura-take-district-past-500-mark/articleshow/76099614.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 30, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon registers 5 more Covid-19 deaths||Nashik: The Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) has registered five coronavirus-related deaths between May 19 and May 23, taking the total number of Covid-19 fatalities in the textile town to 52. “Those who succumbed to the infection were admitted to Covid-19 facilities between May 13 and May 18 and the deaths occurred between May 19 and May 23, the reports of which were generated on Friday,” an official of the MMC said. The deceased included four men and one woman. They were admitted to Farhan and Sahara hospitals in Malegaon. In addition, Malegaon has reported three fresh cases on Friday, taking the total to 751. Of these 751, 52 have succumbed to the infection while 112 are being treated at various hospitals. The health officials on Friday conducted a special drive in Malegaon to identify elderly people or those suffering from any kind of ailments. The list of such people will help them to zero down on possible Covid-19 suspects. Meanwhile, the district has registered 16 new Covid-19 cases on Friday with Nashik city topping the list with 10 new patients. With the new addition, the total number of Covid-19 patients in the city jumped to 161. Of the 161 people, 50 have recovered from the contagion so far while eight have succumbed and 103 are recuperating in various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-registers-5-more-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/76099649.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Vend worker refuses to sell liquor in curfew hours, beaten to death||Ludhiana: A 28-year-old liquor vend worker at Kadoon village was allegedly murdered by a group of miscreants after he refused to sell them liquor in the curfew hours on Wednesday night. The victim, identified as Shatrugan Pardhan alias Bablu, belonged to Orissa, but had been working in the state for past about six years. Rajinder Kumar, owner of the liquor vend, said Bablu had been working with them for the last five years and he along with other worker used to live inside the vend. He said on Wednesday, five to seven miscreants came to buy liquor from his shop at around 11pm, but the worker refused to sell the same in view of curfew hours. The owner alleged that the accused then used abusive language against Bablu and thrashed him. He said the accused came to the vend again around 1 am for another round of thrashing. Police officials said Bablu had come out to attend nature’s call and incidentally the accused persons passing near the vend saw him and thrashed him. Bablu possibly died to injuries sustained in the attack. Cops said other vend employee Jeet Ram saw the miscreants throwing the body of his co-worker in field. They added that after that the accused fled the spot after which Jeet Ram informed the owner. Cops from Doraha police station reached the spot and started a probe into the matter. The police shifted the body to the civil hospital for the postmortem. Police later booked four accused under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. Inspector Devinderpal Singh, SHO, Doraha police station, said three of the accused, who belonged to Shahpur village, have been identified whereas fourth accused will be identified after the trio is arrested. He added that raids are being conducted to arrest the accused. The SHO said the accused were regular customers at the vend and they bought liquor on credit too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vend-worker-refuses-to-sell-liquor-in-curfew-hours-beaten-to-death/articleshow/76089488.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Will go to HC with Covid-19 death data ‘mismatch’, say corporations||NEW DELHI: BJP councillors in the three corporations have decided to approach Delhi high court with data of funerals of all those who died of Covid-19 to argue their case regarding mismatch in the number of deaths released by Delhi government. The high court had rejected a petition filed earlier to scrap the death audit committee. The three civic bodies are also planning to release daily reports on the number of Covid-19 related funerals from Monday. SDMC standing committee chairperson Bhupender Gupta said that all facts were not presented before the court by the last petitioner. “We have data from all hospitals. Will doctors lie while sending a body for the funeral?” he asked. Jai Prakash, standing committee chairperson of north corporation, said that 50 wood pyre platforms at Nigambodh Ghat were reserved for corona patients and an area had been demarcated for other funerals. “We will provide PPE kits to the cremation ground workers so that their fears can be allayed. People have been skeptical of the ash flying around during the traditional wood cremations,” he added. Meanwhile, the corporations claimed that wood-based cremations had increased the daily cremation capacity of Covid-19 infected bodies to 100. “Only CNG furnaces were being used to dispose of the bodies. The three CNG furnaces at Nigambodh Ghat could dispose of only 18 bodies, while the four units at the Punjabi Bagh facility processed 24 bodies daily. In addition to these facilities, bodies were also being buried in the grounds at Bahadurshah Zafar Marg, Mangolpuri, Madanpur Khadar and Mangolpuri Christian Burial Ground,” Radha Krishan, spokesperson of SDMC said. Now, the Punjabi Bagh facility can cremate 22 bodies daily on wood pyres, Nigambodh Ghat 16, Panchkuian Road 10, Karkardooma eight and the electric crematorium at Lodhi Road six. “The overall capacity has doubled from 45 bodies per day. The capacity can be increased if the situation arises. We are committed to deliver services at this critical time in coordination with all Covid-19 designated hospitals,” SDMC said in an official statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/will-go-to-hc-with-covid-death-data-mismatch-say-corporations/articleshow/76099662.cms||Paras Singh
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Leopard spotted near agricultural university, rescue operation on||HYDERABAD: A leopard was spotted on the campus of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State (PJTS) agricultural university on Thursday night. Some persons alerted the police officials after noticing the leopard lurking near PJTS university and the National Institute of Rural Development (NIRD) campus. The police officials went through the CCTV footage of the area and confirmed movement of the wild cat at around 8.30pm. “We informed the forest department after going through the CCTV footage. They have started a rescue operation. We have also alerted the residents of the area,” said S Balaraju, sub-inspector at Rajendranagar police station. While forest officials initially suspected it to be the same leopard that was spotted on the main road of Katedan on May 14, nothing has been ascertained yet. The leopard spotted near Katedan had escaped into a private farmland near National Highway 44. After combing the area for two days, forest officials said that the leopard moved away into the forest area near Chilkur via PJTS agricultural university. “As of now, we are not sure if it is the same leopard. We have to check. The cameras which captured the leopard are on the boundary of the campus. This leopard was captured lurking on the other side of the boundary wall which is part of the forest area. Our teams are installing a few camera traps to monitor its movements but there is no need to panic. If it is not too close to the human habitation, it is better to leave the animal alone,” said Sunita Bhagwat, chief conservator of forests for Rangareddy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-spotted-near-agri-univ-rescue-operation-on/articleshow/76099672.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Delhi||Last rite delays: Delhi government says taking urgent steps||NEW DELHI: The AAP government assured the high court on Friday that it was taking immediate steps to tackle the issue of delay in cremations of those who die due to Covid-19 and bodies piling up at mortuaries. It said the situation based on which the court had initiated suo motu proceedings on Thursday was a result of unavoidable circumstances due to reduced capacity of Nigambodh Ghat to handle bodies on account of snags in furnaces, workers refusing to handle Covid-19 deceased, sudden spike in the coronavirus cases and related deaths and relatives refusing to claim bodies. The authorities informed a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal that all steps are being taken to avoid such circumstances in future. In its May 28 order, the court had referred to news reports and observed that “bodies of those who died five days ago are yet to be cremated.” The government told the court that 28 such bodies were cremated on Thursday and the last rites of the remaining 35 would be performed by Saturday. Only those bodies will be retained where postmortem and investigations are to be carried out, the government added. The high court then cautioned the government to ensure that such a situation is not repeated and bodies should not be returned once they are brought to the crematoriums. It also asked Delhi government and the three municipal corporations to file a detailed status report and listed the matter for further hearing on June 2. During the Friday’s hearing, Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose said that urgent steps were taken to remedy the situation, including LNJP Hospital being authorised to divert bodies to crematoriums at Panchkuian and Punjab Bagh as well. He said the government has now allowed wood-fired traditional cremations in addition to electric and CNG furnaces, provided personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to all workers and bodies and extended the working hours of crematoriums to 7am-10 pm from the existing 9 am-4 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/last-rite-delays-govt-says-taking-urgent-steps/articleshow/76099809.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||Ganga river’s lockdown avatar much cleaner in UP||LUCKNOW: The lockdown avatar of the Ganga is not only appearing more pristine, but is actually much cleaner with a substantial reduction in bacteria, as is apparent in UPPCB sampling results for March 2020. The content of total coliform (TC) bacteria found in faeces, animal droppings and agriculture run-off reduced in the river water in March 2020 at most of the 22 sampling locations compared to January 2020 and February 2020 as well as March 2019. Kada Ghat in Kaushambi, which usually reports highest increase in pollution in terms of content of total coliform (TC) in Ganga, recorded only 4,000 TC as Most Probable Number (MPN) per 100ml of water in March 2020. The value in February 2020 was 4100 MPN/100ml and March 2019 was 26,000 MPN/100ml. In March 2018, the value recorded for TC at the same location was 32,000 MPN/100ml. As per monitoring standards followed by UPPCB, the MPN for the bacteria in 100ml water should not be more than 5,000. But in Ganga water at Kada Ghat, the annual average value recorded for TC has increased tremendously between 2012 and 2016. In 2016 it was 41,167, a sharp increase from 4,958 in 2012. Kada Ghat is where, apart from bathing and washing, bodies are burned or disposed of half-burned or even left without being burned. Other locations which record high TC count but where lockdown led to reduction in the number of bacteria in the river water were upstream of Kanpur; Shuklaganj in Kanpur; Tarighat downstream Ghazipur; upstream and downstream of Varanasi and Rasoolabad Ghat Prayagraj where the MPN for TC was 16,000 per 100ml of water in March 2019 and 3,400 MPN per 100ml of water in March 2020. In the downstream stretch of the river in various cities though there has not been much change in pollution indicators. The reason, sources said, could be drainage and sewage both flowing into the river. Lockdown also made more people stay at their homes than go out for work, with some working outside returning home thus adding to human and household waste from cities. Faecal Coliform also has a high concentration in Ganga water and is present in intestines of humans and warm blooded animals. Its source is bodily waste, animal droppings, agricultural run-off and sewage. Ecoli is the most harmful faecal coliform which can pollute water and cause serious illness. Drinking water infected with Ecoli can lead to nausea, intestinal disorders, diarrhoea and even death. At Kada Ghat, in March 2020, its MPN per 100ml of water was only 2,100 and at Rasoolabad only 1,700, but the number in March 2019 was 13,000 and 9,200 respectively. However, at sampling locations at Jajmau bridge; downstream of Kanpur; downstream of Prayagraj and at other stretches close to cities the concentration of faecal coliform in the river water has either not reduced much or even increased. At Jajmau, the value was 26,000 MPN per 100ml of water for faecal coliform in March this year and 17,000 MPN per 100ml of water in March 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ganga-rivers-lockdown-avatar-much-cleaner-in-up/articleshow/76100309.cms||Neha Shukla
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||1st RPF man succumbs to Covid||Ludhiana: Almost 24 days after Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel started testing positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana, a 49-year-old constable with the force died of the virus on Thursday. Belonging to Jalandhar, the constable had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18. He had fever for the past eight days and breathlessness for the past three days. He was first admitted to the mother and child hospital, near Vardhman Mills, on May 19, from where he was referred to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on May 22. Dr Anil Luther, medical superintendent, CMCH, said, “He was a known case of Covid bronchopneumonia and was referred from the civil hospital on May 22. He had fever and breathing difficulty.” “The constable was put on antibiotics, anti-pyretics and other supportive treatment. In view of respiratory distress, he was put on non-invasive ventilator. But he still continued to have fever and respiratory distress. So, he was intubated and put on mechanical ventilator. He suffered sudden cardiorespiratory arrest after which CPR was given as per the protocol, but the patient couldn't be revived. He was declared dead at 2.05 pm on Thursday.” Dr Amita Jain, senior medical officer, MCH, said, “He had high sugar levels on the date of referral and he was undiagnosed about diabetes. He complained of breathlessness on May 21, and his oxygen saturation was 92 but the required level is 95. He had been admitted to our hospital on May 19.” Other personnel worried So far 57 RPF personnel, who had come to Ludhiana for duty on Shramik Special trains, have tested positive for the virus. All other RPF personnel who had tested positive but now have been discharged under the new discharge policy are a worried lot. A 31-year-old personnel who had been quarantined at Diesel Shed said, “A total of 45 RPF personnel who were discharged recently want to undergo testing. This will give us clarification and satisfaction that we have defeated this deadly disease.” Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “This is the eighth death in the district due to Covid-19. The infection spreads in blood and damage other organs. However, other RPF personnel cannot be tested as we have to follow norms of Union and state governments.” The district has witnessed 13 deaths so far, including five from other district and states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/1st-rpf-man-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/76089501.cms||Mehak Jain
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||After 24 days of run, Railways applies temporary brakes on Shramik Spls||Ludhiana: With the local authorities claiming that a large number of migrant labourers have decided to stay back, the railway authorities decided to temporarily discontinue the Shramik Special trains from Ludhiana district from Friday. They, however, maintained that the service would be made available if the administration makes a fresh demand. The railway authorities on Thursday ran seven Special Shramik trains from Ludhiana railway station while carrying more than 10,000 migrant labourers and their families to their home states. This was in addition to the special train that left from a sub-station at Doraha carrying 1,600 passengers. Local officials said a large number of labourers had decided against leaving mainly due to the fear of undergoing quarantine in their home states. Besides, they also changed their mind after industrial units resumed operation. Many who had earlier got registration done for going home also abandoned their plans. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said in the past 24 days, as many as 194 trains departed from Ludhiana carrying 3 lakh migrant labourers to different districts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. Besides, railway authorities also operated five special trains from three different sub-stations Sahnewal, Doraha and Khanna for transportation of migrants to different districts of Uttar Pradesh. Keshav Prashad from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, who refused to go back after registering for the same, said, “I had come to Ludhiana about five months ago and worked in a unit here. I had registered to return home but I decided against it as I had to spend a lot of days in a quarantine centre.” Leaving the city in the last set of Shramik Specials, Mohammad Ansari said, “I stayed in Focal Point area with four of co-workers of a factory. Though we survived the initial days of lockdown, now we have run out of money.” Another migrant labourer Raju Kumar, who come to catch a special train along with his wife and two children, said, “We didn’t have money to pay our house rent. Moreover, there was no proper arrangement by the local administration to provide us essential items.” Notably, as many as 8 lakh labourers from Ludhiana had registered for travelling to their native places since the service was introduced. Divisional railway manager Rajesh Aggarwal said, “On Friday, no Shramik Special trains will be run from Ludhiana railway station. But if administration raises a demand in the coming days, we will pitch in for special trains at city station for ferrying migrant workers to their home states.” Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said, “We have launched another phase of registration for migrant labourers from Friday onwards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-24-days-of-run-railways-applies-temporary-brakes-on-shramik-spls/articleshow/76089513.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
May 30, 2020||Nashik||rFDA to take action against grocery stores||Nashik: The Nashik unit of the state Food and Drug Administration (FDA) would be taking action against grocery stores for selling santisers illegally. Only medical stories are authorised to sell santisers. Officials of the Chemists and Druggists Association of Nashik said that the FDA has already come out with a circular that sanitisers fall under the drugs category, following which it should be sold only in medical stores. The FDA has also instructed the manufacturers of sanitizers to ensure that the supply is only made to medical stores and not to grocery stores. Accordingly, the FDA officials would start taking action from Monday or Tuesday. Assistant commissioner of FDA (Nashik) Dushyant Bhamare said that they have already issued a notice that santisers should only be sold in medical stores. “It has come to our notice that the sale of santisers is rampant through the grocery stores. We have already communicated with their association to stop the sale of sanitisers as it contains ethyl alcohol. Since the situation is not improving, we have decided to start taking action soon,” he said. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, people are taking extra precautions and because of that, the sale of masks and sanitisers have increased. Even illegal sale of masks has been seen on roadside stalls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rfda-to-take-action-against-grocery-stores/articleshow/76099691.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||UP Board results by June third week||LUCKNOW: Despite resistance from teachers to evaluate UP Board class 10 and 12 answer scripts due to covid-19 pandemic, the process is on verge of completion. Around 96% scripts have been corrected in orange, green and red zones and 3.1 crore class 10 and 12 answer copies are scheduled to be corrected by May 31 with results scheduled for June third week. According to data shared by secondary education department, evaluation is complete in districts in green zone, which comprise 20 districts with 63 evaluation centres. There are 133 evaluation centres in 36 districts in orange zone. Of this, 131 centres in 35 districts have completed the evaluation exercise. Minimum answer copies have been corrected in 19 districts which fall in the red zone with maximum covid-19 cases. Of 85 centres in this category, copies have been corrected in 37 centres. This is also because the evaluation process in red zone kicked off from May 19 in comparison to green and orange zones, where the process started from May 5 and May 12 respectively. Pending evaluation work, said officials, will end by May 31, after which tabulation of results will begin in the run-up to declaration of results by June third week. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who holds the education portfolio, has asked officials to expedite evaluation so that results can be declared latest by June-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-results-by-june-third-wk/articleshow/76100325.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||Blackbuck poachers shoot & injure 7 forest guards in Madhya Pradesh's Guna||BHOPAL: Seven forest guards were injured when poachers shot at them in MP’s Guna district in the wee hours of Thursday after being caught killing blackbuck. This is the second such incident this month. On May 4, an unarmed forest guard was shot dead by poachers in Gwalior when he stumbled on their blackbuck ambush site. The Guna shooting happened around 2am when a forest team was sent to intercept a band of poachers. “Our team had information that there were poachers near Raghogarh. A team, led by the SDO, was sent. The poachers shot at them when they were asked to surrender. Some of our people were injured,” said Guna DFO Ramesh Vishvakarma, adding that the poachers have been identified and will be arrested soon. Watch Forest guards injured in shootout with Blackbuck poachers in MP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/blackbuck-poachers-shoot-injure-7-forest-guards-in-guna/articleshow/76098669.cms||P Naveen
May 30, 2020||Delhi||Coronavirus in Delhi: Source of infection in 30% of patients unknown||NEW DELHI: The authorities fighting the spread of the novel coronavirus are now faced with another challenge. The source of infection in nearly 30% of patients is unknown. Over a month ago, it was easy to pinpoint the source. In many cases, the contacts of a Covid-19 positive person are testing negative. Around 10 days ago, a middle-aged person tested positive for coronavirus. The location of this case wasn’t disclosed by the source. Adhering to protocol, around 15 contacts of the patient, including high-risk ones, were traced. However, none of them tested positive for the virus. This left the authorities baffled as they were unable to pinpoint the source of infection. Delhi government has established a network of district surveillance officers, who are equipped with an extended team working on a micro-level plan to check transmission of the virus. After the test report of a person is found positive, the elaborate exercise of contact tracing begins. “Once the contacts are listed, the supervisory officer informs the control room and gives their residential addresses. The control room, in turn, intimates the officers concerned for surveillance of the contacts. Local health workers, like ANM or ASHA personnel, monitor them for Covid-19 symptoms for 28 days. Those showing symptoms are tested,” said an official. High-risk contacts are those who probably touched bodily fluids of the positive person, like through respiratory system by living close, having direct physical contact, etc. “At the beginning of April, it was easy to trace a positive person’s contacts. Either they had foreign travel history or had come in direct contact with another Covid-19 positive person. At that time, the city was under lockdown and there were complete restrictions on the movement of people. Now that movement has increased, tracing of the source is getting tougher,” added the official. A health department official said that it was too early to state that community transmission of the virus had started. Since the city’s population density is high and people have started moving, spiralling of cases is imminent. Many people who didn’t have any symptoms also turned Covid-19 positive. Over 1,000 fresh cases were reported on Friday. Sources said nearly 80% Covid-19 positive people have been showing no symptoms, while many have mild or very mild symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/source-of-infection-in-30-of-patients-unknown/articleshow/76099706.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 30, 2020||Chennai||What lockdown? Autos operate freely in Chennai||CHENNAI: The prohibitory orders may be in place during the lockdown that is likely to be extended beyond May 31, but autorickshaws and share autorickshaws operate freely in the city and its suburbs. As many as 180 temporary check points have been set up across the city, apart from the regular check-posts, to monitor violators, but few autorickshaws, whose owners charge as they please, have been caught. On May 22, while relaxing some of the rules imposed while announcing the lockdown, the government had allowed autos and cycle rickshaws to ply in the state, carrying just one passenger. The government release announcing the relaxations further said autos could only ply between 7am and 7pm; that the driver and the passenger should wear face masks; that the vehicles should be sanitised three times a day; and that every passenger should be given a sanitiser to clean hands while stepping into the auto. The relaxation of rules, however, is not for autos in Chennai, where the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise. But, auto drivers in the state capital have ignored the norms and continue to ply on city roads. In crowded places like Parry’s and Broadway, some even carry two or even three passengers. In many places, there is no police presence and the only enforcers – steel barricades strategically placed to check violators – are no deterrent for desperate auto drivers. The law enforcers say they have been doing everything to ensure only essential vehicles come out on to the roads. A senior police officer said, “We are working in turns and booking cases against autorickshaws plying on the roads.” Police statistics show 502 cases were registered and 56 two-wheelers, 33 autorickshaws, two cars and 91 other vehicles were seized from 6am on Thursday to 6am on Friday for violating prohibitory orders. Separately, 15 autos were booked for violating traffic regulations in the same period. But, the reality is vastly different. Office-bearers of autorickshaw drivers’ welfare associations says their members have little choice. The more that 75,000 auto drivers in the city, they say, have been struggling to make ends meet since the lockdown began as their only source of income was stopped. Besides, they add, almost all drivers have taken loans money lenders and and finance companies and are forced to operate despite the rules in force. That is the only way they can keep their families from starving, they add.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/what-lockdown-autos-operate-freely/articleshow/76099710.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nashik||Nashik APMC reopens after 3 days||Nashik: The Nashik APMC, one of the largest wholesale vegetable markets in the district, reopened on Friday with farmers bringing their produce for auctioning. The market had shut its operations for three days from auctions for three days from May 26 to May 28 after a worker at the APMC tested positive for Covid-19. Moreover, 15 more poeple tested positive for the contagion in various localities near the APMC. The three-day closure of Nashik APMC had hit vegetable supplies to Mumbai by 40%. Around 500 tonne of the produce is exported to Mumbai every day from Nashik in nearly 150 vehicles. Apart from traders, farmer groups also directly supply vegetables to the state capital. However, the supply was affected to some extent due to the closure of APMC. Nashikites to face water cuts today Nashikites will face water cuts on Saturday as the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) is undertaking some pre-monsoon repair work. Civic officials said that the power supply for raw water pumping station of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) located at Gangapur will be halted by the power company owing to the repair work. The officials also said that the water supply will be restored on Sunday with low pressure, adding that the supply will return to normalcy from Monday onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-apmc-reopens-after-3-days/articleshow/76099708.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||Religious leaders urge Yogi to allow places of worship to open||Lucknow: Religious leaders on Friday wrote to chief minister Yogi Adityanath to allow reopening of places of worship with conditions and safety protocol as deemed fit by the government. Representatives of Sikh, Jain, Sindhi and other communities, led by chief of Islamic Centre of India Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, said religious places should be reopened while following lockdown norms. “Places of worship are closed since March 21. In 70 days of lockdown, those who haven’t been able to pray at holy places have had no solace and are slipping into depression,” Maulana Khalid Rasheed said. “All conditions for reopening of religious places will be accepted and wearing of masks and social distancing will be followed. Prior permission for any other gathering will be taken from the government,” the cleric added. The letter also had names of Rajendra Singh Bagga, Rakesh Chetri, Krishna Mohan Aacharya, Brahmakumari Radha, Kailash Chandra Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/religious-leaders-urge-yogi-to-allow-places-of-worship-to-open/articleshow/76100330.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Nashik||Electricity consumers decry rise in power bills||Nashik: The power consumer association of Nashik city has alleged that the energy bills of consumers have swelled in May by at least 10 times due to the new billing system implemented by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). “The power consumption during the month of April was at its lowest since the industries were shut down. Despite this, the electricity bills have inflated to at least ten times of their earlier bills and this is because of the shift in billing system from KWH (kilo watt hour) to KVAH (kilo volt ampere hour),” Sanjay Patel, an industrialist from the Ambad industrial belt said. The new billing system was implemented from April. It has resulted in changing of the units recording system which is taking a toll on the industrial consumers. “There are several technical factors involved in the bill calculation which could not be fulfilled as the industries were closed. The MSEDCL authorities should have considered such ‘contingencies’ before implementing the new billing system. The company and the government both should quickly take action and compensate the loss to the industries,” Sidddharth Varma, former consumer representative of Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) and the member of the consumer association said. The association and the industries have presented their demands to the MSEDCL to take corrective measures. The association has also urged the consumers to register a complaint in this regard and then clear the dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/electricity-consumers-decry-rise-in-power-bills/articleshow/76099743.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 30, 2020||Chennai||J Deepa, Deepak direct legal heirs of Jayalalithaa, says Madras high court||CHENNAI: Two days after declaring former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s niece J Deepa and nephew J Deepak Class II legal heirs for all her properties, the Madras high court fortified their legal status further by declaring them direct legal heirs. A modification to this effect was made by the same division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice Abdul Quddhose on Friday.Though the modification is only technical and has no further practical implication, it beefs up the legal status of Deepa and Deepak as rightful heirs of Jayalalithaa’s long list of assets in public perception. The judges made the modification in view of an inadvertent committed by them in declaring the siblings as Class II legal heirs under Section 8 of the Hindu Succession Act, which applies only to kin of a male died intestate. If a woman dies intestate, only Sections 15 and 16 of the Act would apply. The mistake happened since Deepa and Depak themselves filed the pleas seeking to declare them as Class II legal heirs of Jayalalithaa under Section 8 of the Act. Now, rectifying the mistake, the court has declared them as direct legal heirs of Jayalalithaa under section 15(2)(a) of the Act for the properties inherited by her from her mother and under section 15(1)(d) for her self-acquired properties. According to section 15(2)(a) – property inherited by a Hindu woman from her father or mother will devolve to heirs of her father. In the present case, the surviving heirs of Jayalalithaa’s father are his son’s (Jaya’s brother Jayaraman) children Deepa and Deepak. Similarly, as per section 15(1)(d) of the Act – the self-acquired properties of a Hindu woman will devolve to heirs of her father in the absence of her children, husband, father and mother. While the bench was about to conclude the proceedings after making the modifications, advocate-general Vijay Narayan informed the court that Deepa was demanding entry into Veda Nilayam, the Poes Garden residence of Jayalalithaa, temporarily under the state’s control following an Ordinance. The judges asked Deepa’s counsel to instruct her to resort to legal remedy if she is aggrieved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/deepa-deepak-direct-legal-heirs-of-jaya-says-hc/articleshow/76099745.cms||Suresh Kumar
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Activists seek details of leopard’s botched rescue from officials||HYDERABAD: Wildlife conservationists on Friday sought a details into the incident where a leopard was killed after being captured from Rajapet thanda in Nalgonda district. The conservationists have raised questions regarding methods adopted by officials to capture the wild cat. “There is something called Capture Myopathy, which affects wild animals while they are being handled or captured. If there are people around during the rescue, the situation must have been very stressful and that itself can cause a lot of problems,” said Dr Vidya Athreya of Wildlife Conservation Society, who is also India’s leading expert on leopard-human conflict. “Even if you give them a medicine or a tranquillizer in a normal dose, the stress caused by people around can change the physiology and kill the wild animal. If crowd is minimized, everything else will go peacefully,” added Dr Athreya. According to her, crowd management guidelines by the environment ministry are of utmost importance. M Rajeev Mathew, a wildlife conservationist, took to Facebook to raise several questions over the incident. “If the leopard was detected lying snared in the fence around 6.30 am in the morning, the forest officials reached the spot around 11 am. What took them four hours to reach the spot? Should not the vets be held accountable for dereliction of duty? Should not the forest staff be held accountable for inept handling?” questioned Mathew. Meanwhile, the forest department and zoo engaged in a blame game over who was responsible for the tragedy. Sources from the zoo claimed that the unscientific way in which the leopard was dragged into the cage after being tranquillized could have caused further injuries. “We are suspecting that the death could have occurred due to tranquillizer overdose. Chemical overdose can however be identified only after Viscera test results, that usually take some time,” said Nalgonda divisional forest officer Shantha Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-seek-details-of-leopards-botched-rescue-from-officials/articleshow/76099729.cms||Moulika.KV
May 30, 2020||Mysuru||K’taka urges I&B ministry to grant 3 channels on DD network||Times News Network Mangaluru: Karnataka has urged the ministry of information and broadcasting to provide at least three channels on DD network exclusively for use by department of public instruction. The state government has also sought directive from the ministry to make them mandatory channels for transmission by MSOs and DTH operators while suggesting that these channels be co-branded with DD and DPI as partners and included in must-carry list under Cable Act. In a letter to Prakash Javadekar, minister for information and broadcasting, S Suresh Kumar, minister for primary and secondary education said TV has been considered as the best suitable media for home-based learning in this challenging period. As per a survey carried out by DPI on availability of various ICT infrastructure including TV, mobile and smartphones, more than 95% of households in Karnataka have TVs. Suresh Kumar said accordingly, DPI has decided to continue the teaching/ learning process through TV media in Kannada medium. “To cater to the students and considering a long term strategy to run the schools by maintaining social distancing, Karnataka is in immediate need of minimum three exclusive channels for this process,” said Suresh Kumar noting that Karnataka has government schools in nine languages including Kannada, English and Urdu. He reminded Javadekar that the DPI officials have had discussions with local officials of Prasar Bharati and they have assured to provide the department with six hour time slot of three hours each in existing DD channel – Chandana on cost basis. Process of content creation by teachers is also on, he said. Since the government is facing hardships to meet capital expenditure in present time, the ministry must help the state out, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ktaka-urges-ib-ministry-to-grant-3-channels-on-dd-network/articleshow/76095503.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||No HC relief for Kurukshetra panchayats||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday refused to pass any directions on a petition filed by some village panchayats of Haryana’s Kurukshetra district, challenging the crop diversification scheme Mera Pani Meri Virasat, after the state government informed the court that it had reviewed its policy. The HC, however, permitted them to withdraw their petitions in order to challenge the new May 20 policy. During the hearing of the case, advocate general B R Mahajan submitted that the state government had revised its scheme on May 20. According to the new plan, a decision regarding ban on sowing of paddy in the restricted blocks would be taken after considering the situation of the water table in each village. With this, any village falling in the restricted blocks would not be automatically banned from sowing of paddy. Mahajan argued that since the main plea of the petitioners was against previous instructions, the relief sought by the petitioners was rendered infructuous because of the May 20 scheme. The matter reached the HC in the wake of a petition filed by Kanwar Kheri village gram panchayat and five other panchayats in Thanesar block of Kurukshetra district. The panchayats had sought directions to set aside the Haryana government’s order dated April 23, and May 9 restraining them from paddy sowing on panchayat land. The panchayats, in their petitions, had claimed that their villages remain flooded for most part of the year. The leaseholders of panchayat land have been sowing paddy in the flooded areas because of water accumulation. The panchayats also said the state government had banned paddy in villages having water level at 35-40 metres, but in their villages, the water was at around 30 metres. “Although the state government has declared that financial assistance of Rs 7,000 per acre would be provided for switching from paddy to maize/cotton/bajra/pulses, the panchayats would suffer a huge financial loss because the lease of Shamlat land, which used to be leased for around Rs 45,000-50,000 per acre, is now not going for even Rs 15,000 per acre after the government order and thus the panchayats are suffering direct loss of over Rs 30,000 per acre,” the petitioner villages had argued. The HC, however, refused to pass any order in the matter. It was also argued that on the one hand the state government said that due to the Covid-19 crisis, the auction of panchayat land was not possible and thus the lease be given to the earlier lessee by increasing 5% lease amount and on the other, due to restriction on paddy sowing, no one was ready to take the land on lease even on last year’s price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-hc-relief-for-kurukshetra-panchayats/articleshow/76099748.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||914 fined for ignoring masks, spitting in public||Ludhiana: Ludhiana police have fined more than 900 persons and registered 230 cases for violating Covid protocols and curfew timings. During lockdown 4.0 (from May 18 to May 26), police fined 841 persons for not wearing masks and 73 for spitting in public. Cops said two persons were fined for violating quarantine orders. Police officials said 1,300 vehicles were challaned for plying after 7 pm deadline. They said of these 340 vehicles were impounded. Ludhiana police said, “We request people to follow social distancing and mask-related guideline religiously as the threat of Covid-19 still exist.” Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the drive against violators will continue in the days to come. He added they would follow zero tolerance to such violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/914-fined-for-ignoring-masks-spitting-in-public/articleshow/76089545.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Peddler with Pak links held with 5kg heroin||Ludhiana: The Special Task Force (Ludhiana range) arrested a 37-year-old man with 5.04 kg heroin. The accused, identified as Partap Singh of Kotli Aulakh in Lopon Ke of Amritsar, has got Pakistan link, officials said. An STF team with the help of BSF officials had recovered 6kg heroin from the zero line near a BSF post in Ferozepur on Tuesday. They said Partap, who was talking over phone to his supplier based across the border, had managed to escape from the spot. Following a tip-off, an STF team had set up a checkpost on GT Road in Ludhiana. They added the police party stopped the accused, coming towards Ludhiana, on a motorcycle to supply drugs to his clients. Cops said the accused had hidden 5.04 kg in the ration bag given as part of Covid-19. STF officials said the accused is a farmer and he had been hooked to heroin for the past 18 to 20 years. They said a preliminary probe suggested that the accused knew some big smugglers of Pakistan. Cops said he had got the consignment from a supplier named ‘Dodi’ and had ordered the same through WhatsApp call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/peddler-with-pak-links-held-with-5kg-heroin/articleshow/76089556.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Delhi||New single-day peak for Delhi: 1,106 Covid-19 cases, 82 deaths||NEW DELHI: The capital’s Covid-19 death toll mounted to 398 with 82 fatalities that took place in the last one month being reported on Friday. The city’s total tally jumped to 17,386 with 1,106 — highest for a single day — more persons testing positive for the virus. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia of the 82 deaths reported, 13 took place on May 27. “The remaining 69 deaths have taken place over a period of 34 days. These cases are being recorded now due to late reporting by various hospitals or due to incomplete submission of information,” Sisodia said. The 69 deaths include 52 fatalities that had taken place at Safdarjung Hospital, a report for which was submitted by authorities a couple of days ago, he added. “The Delhi Death Audit Committee had looked into all these cases and given the figures. So, this rise of 82 seen at once,” the deputy CM said. Till April 30, Delhi had recorded only 59 Covid-19 deaths and in the last 29 days this number has gone up by 316 to reach 398. There has also been sharp rise in new cases with more than 1,000 new cases being recorded on Thursday and Friday. While the government hospitals designated for Covid-19 treatment still have vacant beds, the private facilities are overwhelmed. A senior doctor from Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, who tested positive for the viral infection recently, is reported to be seriously ill. Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Friday, “My Delhiites do not worry if you contract corona. Most of you can be treated in home quarantine itself. Still, if you need to be admitted to hospital, we have full preparations for it. I pray to the god for your good health and happiness.” As per last data, there are total 8,479 active cases of Covid-19 in Delhi at present. Of them, 2196 are admitted in hospitals. A total of 228 persons are requiring either ICU or ventilator support, signifying severe symptoms. There are 4,227 patients who are quarantined at home, mostly those with no symptoms or very mild symptoms, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-single-day-peak-for-city-1106-cases-82-deaths/articleshow/76099777.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chennai||Won’t reopen grain market at Koyambedu now: CMDA||CHENNAI: There is no plan to reopen the wholesale food grains market at Koyambedu complex in the near-future, the CMDA told the Madras high court on Friday, citing Covid-19 situation. The authorities made the submission on a public interest writ petition filed by Koyambedu Food Grains Traders’ Association president S Chandresan to reopen the market on the ground that the virus outbreak was rampant only in the vegetable market, and not in the food grains market. When the plea came up for hearing, the CMDA ruled out possibilities of reopening any portion of the market till the outbreak is contained. Recording the submissions, Justice K Ravichandrabaabu directed the authorities to consider the request of the association to permit the traders to remove the goods stuck in the closed market and adjourned the hearing to June 6. According to the petitioner, though Covid-19 cases were detected among workers and traders at the vegetable market within the sprawling complex, the petitioner claimed that officials had closed the shops in the whole sale food grain market too. While an alternative vegetable market was set up in Thirumazhisai, no arrangement has been made for grain market, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wont-reopen-grain-market-at-koyambedu-now-cmda/articleshow/76099760.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Pension revision issues: Haryana starts online grievance redressal system||CHANDIGARH: Haryana principal accountant general (accounts and entitlement) office has launched an online grievance redressal system for cases related to pension revision of state government pensioners. The facility has been started to resolve pension revision cases by the drawing and disbursing officer concerned, who will send information to the accountant general office through online process, Haryana principal accountant general Vishal Bansal said on Friday. The accountant general’s office will send the pension authority online to the drawing and disbursing officer, treasury and pensioner. Pensioners can also obtain the pension authority through user ID created at their own level. For this facility, they will have to register themselves on this system. He said pensioners can also contact on the toll free number 18001023292 and register their complaint on the online grievance redressal system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pension-revision-issues-hry-starts-online-grievance-redressal-system/articleshow/76099757.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||You are welcome: Capt to companies looking to move out of China||Candigarh: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday assured industry that there were ample opportunities in the state for companies wanting to shift their base out of China. In an interaction with industrialists through a video conference on ‘Action plan to revive Punjab economy post Covid lockdown’, Amarinder assured full support to industrial sector to ensure 100% operationalisation over the next few days. The chief minister also pointed out that the state government was already in touch with several countries to invite them to invest and set up industrial units in Punjab. He said it was a good sign that 78% industrial units in Punjab had already resumed operations with 68% of the migrant labour choosing to stay back in Punjab. He also directed industries and commerce department to expedite the process of providing clearances and ensuring further ease of business for industry to help them come back on track at the earliest. State industry minister Sunder Sham Arora said though a large number of workers had chosen to stay back, there were many who wanted to come back as a number of industrial units had started opening gradually. He added that the Punjab government was planning to write to the central government to arrange for trains to bring back such migrant workers. During the interaction, industrialists suggested short-term measures and urgent interventions required to support the economic revival of the state. Sushen Mittal, director of the Aarti Group, sought permission for technological upgrade of industry in red zones to ensure continuity of operations. As his company has already tied up with Tata Steel to start a scrappage plant by the end of this year, Mittal also underlined the need for a formal scrappage policy. Monte Carlo Fashions executive director Rishab Oswal urged for waiver of fixed electricity charges and formulation of an industrial park policy for within the local government areas. Gaurav Munjal, managing director of Hero Ecotech, suggested reduction of goods and service tax (GST), from 12% to 5% on cycles. Umang Jindal, CEO of Homeland Heights, wanted inclusion of real estate sector in Invest Punjab as any other industry and reduction in stamp duty charges for at least a \year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/you-are-welcome-capt-to-companies-looking-to-move-out-of-china/articleshow/76099750.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Aurangabad||70% of Maharashtra’s fine during lockdown imposed in Marathwada||AURANGABAD: Marathwada has emerged on top for traffic rule violations during the lockdown with around 70% of the total fine collected from errant motorists across the state — over Rs 4 crore of Rs 5.75 crore — being imposed in the region. Police from across the state had started imposing fine on motorists for effective implementation of the lockdown. While doing so, Aurangabad city police ended up imposing a fine of over Rs 2.23 crore, leaving behind the metro cities like Mumbai and Pune, since the lockdown came into force over two months back on March 23. At the same time, Hingoli and Beed districts avoided slapping fine and instead went ahead with registering of offences against the violators. As per figures available with the state home department, a total of 1,16,670 offences have been registered under section 188 of the IPC since the lockdown — leading to 23,314 arrests and seizure of 75,813 vehicles. “Rs 5,75,30,267 have been collected in fines from offenders,” tweeted state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday. With these figures coming to fore, allegations are being made that police used the lockdown period to achieve their annual target of slapping particular number of traffic violation cases and challans. When contacted, Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “The actual colection of the imposed fine has been about 10 to 20 per cent of the total fine imposed.” He added that policemen on field have been issued directives to act only against those stepping out of homes for no reason. He also suggested that people should buy groceries, vegetables, milk and other essentials from shops within a kilometre radius of their homes. Several commoners along with Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel, Shiv Sena MLC Ambadas Danve have expressed their anger over slapping of fines and vehicle seizure.“If a person steps out to purchase milk, how will he prove or convince a policeman that he is actually heading to purchase milk or vegetable?” Jaleel asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/70-of-states-fine-during-lockdown-imposed-in-marathwada/articleshow/76099763.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||KLF narco-terror network: NIA files charges against 10||MOHALI: The National Investigating Agency (NIA) has filed a chargesheet against 10 accused in cross-border narco-terror network to further terrorist activities of the outlawed Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF). The chargesheet was filed before a special NIA court here. Jajbir Singh Samra (resident of Tarn Taran), Harpreet Singh (Moga), Varinder Singh Chahal (Amritsar), Nirmal Singh (Batala), Satpal Singh (Amritsar), Hiralal (Amritsar), Harjit Singh (Amritsar), Jasmeet Singh Hakimzada (a resident of New Delhi who is in Dubai), Harmeet Singh (Amritsar) and Jasbir Singh (Amritsar) have been charged under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The case relates to the seizure of 500g of heroin and Rs 1,20,000 drug money on May 31, 2019 from three accused and was registered at Police Station Tarsikka, Amritsar (Rural) under the NDPS Act. It was re-registered by NIA on January 22, 2020 for investigation. The roles of Harmeet, a Pakistan-based self-styled chief of KLF, a banned terrorist organisation, and Hakimzada, a Dubai-based international drug smuggler and money launderer, have prominently emerged in running the narco-terror network to further the terrorist activities of KLF. The network included persons involved in smuggling/selling of heroin, militant elements and hawala operatives in Punjab, Delhi and Dubai responsible for the entire chain from the selling of the narcotic substance to channelising the proceeds to Dubai/Pakistan at the behest of Harmeet and Hakimzada. Both have been charge-sheeted as absconders and further proceedings are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/klf-narco-terror-network-nia-files-charges-against-10/articleshow/76099764.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Legal challenges haunt AP government as it completes 1 year||VIJAYAWADA: Several ambitious projects proposed by the AP government, including trifurcation of the state capital and introduction of English as medium of instruction in government schools, have not been able to take off due to legal tangles. As many as 65 decisions of YSRC government were challenged in court in the last one year. As chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy completes one year in office on Saturday, legal experts point out that officials could have made a thorough legal scrutiny of the decisions before making the announcement. It began with the decision to shift the state capital from Amaravati limiting it to just a seat of legislative power. YSRC government had proposed to make Visakhapatnam the executive capital and Kurnool the judicial capital. While the legislation was passed in the state assembly it was turned down in the legislative council, which was later abolished. Farmers, who gave up their prime land parcels for Amaravati, challenged in court the decision to shift the state capital. The decision to abolish the council was also challenged. Then came the government’s decision to introduce English as the medium of instruction in government schools. Soon after YSRC came to power, it cancelled the contract of Polavaram hydroelectric project awarded to Navayuga Engineering Company Limited. The legal battle on Polavaram is not yet over. The cancellation of power purchase agreements (PPAs) with renewable energy producers triggered yet another legal battle. With the matter being sub judice, the government could not implement its decision. Even the way the police handled the Amaravati protesters had invited judicial intervention. The high court had made serious comments in the matters of evicting people, who are beneficiaries of assigned lands, with the help of police, and the arrest of former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu at Visakhapatnam airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/legal-battles-hinder-key-ysrc-govt-projects/articleshow/76099754.cms||Srikanth Aluri
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: New quarantine rules will put our families at risk, say health workers||LUCKNOW: After resident doctors of SGPGIMS, employees of KGMU and doctors and medical staff of RMLIMS have also registered strong protest against new rules on ward-service period in Covid-19 wards and quarantine thereafter released by the government. Doctors’ contention is that the change of norms will expose their family members and non-covid patients to infection risk and take toll on their mental and physical health. While SGPGI Resident Doctors Association (RDA) members will wear black ribbons at work from Saturday, RMLIMS nurses have announced to stay ‘quarantined’ at institute’s hospital, instead of going home. Earlier, health workers had to serve for seven days in Covid-19 wards, during which period they had to stay in isolation at accommodation provided by the administration. After being relieved from duty, even if tested negative for infection, they were kept in 14-days passive-quarantine in the same facility with no contact with the outside world. Now, medical personnel will have to perform 14-day duty. During this period, she/he will be active-quarantined instead of going home, stay at a facility arranged by administration and work in hospital. After service period is over, she/he will be home-quarantined for two days, if tested negative and resume work in non-Covid wards from Day 17. Only those will be passive-quarantined who are directly exposed to risk like breach in PPE kit. The frontline workers of three premier institutes cited two reasons for opposing the new rules. One, working in PPE kits for long hours is physically taxing as it generates heat, hence 14-day duty at a stretch in Covid-19 ward will be exhaustive both mentally and physically, they said. Two, since incubation period of virus is 5-14 days, scientifically a personnel should be passive-quarantined for two weeks to be sure that she/he has not acquired infection during the service period and does not pose risk to anybody on resuming normal life. However, as per new rules, if a worker is sent home after service period and resumes duty in non-covid wards two days after, it will put both her/his family members including elderly and children as well as non-covid patients at risk, they added. Directors of SGPGI and RMLIMS sought a day’s time from their respective resident doctors to speak to the government. SGPGI RDA general secretary Dr Anil Gangwar said “Since we got no communication till late evening, we will wear black bands to work from Saturday.” RML Nursing Association president Amit Sharma said “We will stay in hospital and no go home, if demand is not met.” KGMU employees’ association president Pradeep Gangwar said they too will protest if rules are imposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-quarantine-rules-will-put-our-families-at-risk-say-health-workers/articleshow/76100333.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: After braving Covid-19, 260 cops return to work||CHENNAI: Two hundred and sixty police personnel across the state, of the 560 who tested positive for Covid-19, have recovered and are back at work. Almost of them have been getting calls from director general of police J K Tripathy and Chennai police commissioner A K Viswanathan asking them to care of their health. Those discharged from hospitals or covid care centres continue to be prescribed a restricted diet apart from medication advised by doctors. A police officer said, “We have strictly restricted non-vegetarian food except boiled egg, for these personnel.” Additional commissioner of police Prem Anand Sinha and east Chennai joint commissioner of police R Sudhakar are among those tasked with overseeing the needs of the recovered personnel. Commissioner iswanathan said, “I talk to police personnel admitted to the corona special ward at Mahanadhi Hostel on the IIT-Madras campus to give them confidence.” He has also asked other officers to spend at least 10-15 minutes a day talking to each covid-infected policeman or woman, instilling hope in them. “We have asked all police personnel aged above 55 and those above 50 with serious ailments to remain at home,” said an officer, adding that at least 4,000 personnel across the state have been identified in the above two categories for ‘home stay’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-braving-covid-260-cops-return-to-work/articleshow/76099776.cms||A Selvaraj
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||PSPCL extends bill payment till June 1||PATIALA: In view of hardships faced by residents amid Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited has decided to give more relief to the electricity consumers of the state. Chairman and managing director of PSPCL Baldev Singh Sran said on the directions of chief minister Amarinder Singh, the corporation has decided to extend the due date of paying electricity bills till June 1 for all the domestic, commercial (having current monthly or bi-monthly bills of up to Rs 10,000) and industrial consumers. He said all these bills that were payable from March 20 till the end of May can now be paid till June 1 without any late payment charges. The domestic, commercial and industrial consumers who are unable to pay their bills even up to June 1 have been given an option to pay the same in a maximum of four monthly instalments with only 10% per annum interest. The Punjab chief minister has also ordered not to disconnect any power connection for non-payment of bills till June 15. The security revision of all categories of consumers has been deferred till December 31. The demand notices of industrial and all other categories of consumers wherein the validity falls between March 20 to May 3 have been extended up to June 30 without payment of demand notice extension charges. In the case of industrial and all other categories of consumers (new as well as extension cases) whose feasibility clearance has been approved and the validity to submit the A&A form falls between March 20 to May 31, the same has been extended up to June without any financial liability. Besides, it has also been decided to release all pending connections by June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pspcl-extends-bill-payment-till-june-1/articleshow/76099774.cms||Manish Sirhindi
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Pursue school fee matter with grievance panel: Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: Refusing to entertain a petition seeking directions against charging of any fee other than tuition fee by private schools in Haryana, the Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the petitioner to pursue the matter with the grievance redressal committee, Panipat. “In the circumstances, we are not inclined to entertain the present petition at this stage firstly on account of the fact that none of the private schools have been impleaded as the respondents and secondly that the petitioner in respect of one particular instance has already approached the chairman of the grievances redressal committee and the matter is pending before the said authority,” the HC observed. The HC ordered that the matter shall be looked into and decided by the committee, Panipat, expeditiously. The matter had reached the high court in the wake of a petition filed by Bal Kranti Trust Bhiwani, seeking directions to prohibit private schools from charging fees other than tuition fees from students in Haryana. Responding to the petition, the counsel for the Haryana government informed that the grievance redressal committee is competent to decide the complaint filed by the petitioner and that it shall do so in accordance with law expeditiously. After hearing state’s reply, the HC asked the petitioner to pursue the matter with the committee, Panipat. Disposing of the matter, the HC also made it clear that any decision by Haryana on the issue shall be subject to the outcome of the matter pending before the HC and the apex court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pursue-school-fee-matter-with-grievance-panel-hc/articleshow/76099767.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||4 places in Howrah, Kol on Sujit’s map||Kolkata: Scores of fire department officers — at least three of them, senior — Trinamool party workers and several others had to be quarantined on Friday as they came in proximity of fire minister Sujit Bose who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday evening but before that, he had travelled across the city and surroundings — from Mirza Ghalib Street in Kolkata to Belur in Howrah, Salt Lake to Sreebhumi in Lake Town. Sources from the state secretariat said Bose had visited Nabanna on May 19, a day before Amphan, to attend a meeting on the state’s precautionary steps to tackle the cyclone. Bose’s home at Sreebhumi off VIP Road, where he and his wife are living in isolation, was on Friday morning barricaded. A massive sanitisation drive was launched on Canal Street, where all the gates of residential buildings and cars parked were sprayed with disinfectant. His office in Lake Town and the Sreebhumi Sporting Club, where he frequented, were also disinfected. Director-general of fire services Jag Mohan, deputy director Tarun Sinha and director in charge Avijit Pandey were among those who had accompanied Bose to the Bally fire station on Wednesday to receive the body of Sukanta Sinha Roy (27), auxiliary fire operator who was electrocuted while climbing a tree to cut branches. Even the kin of the deceased reportedly came in direct contact of the minister who had consoled Sinha Roy’s father. Bidhannagar Ward 38 councillor Nirmal Dutta, who had spent the better part of Monday with Bose, overseeing the cutting of uprooted trees in Salt Lake, has gone into home quarantine. So have six other party workers. “I remained confined to home on Friday. I will undergo a Covid test on Saturday,” Dutta said. Prominent party workers in Salt Lake Partha Chakraborty, Raja Bose and Dhruba Bose, who, along with Bose, had distributed relief and cleared roads, have also gone into home quarantine. “I have been at home since Thursday and advised all my party colleagues to do so. I don’t have any symptoms. But I fear test positive, the relief work for Amphan and lockdown in our locality will be affected,” said Chakraborty. Dhruba from Karunamoyee Housing said was taking all precautions, including taking homoeopathic immunity enhancement medicines. He plans to move into a New Town apartment to stay in isolation, away from his family. Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty said she met Bose well before a fortnight. “The last time I met Bose was before a fortnight. He has not visited Poura Bhavan for quite some time. It is not possible to know who all met him recently outside Poura Bhavan. All councillors are aware of the precautionary steps to be taken,” said Chakraborty.  Bose’s neighbours and residents of the area have also been tense as many visited him every day. He had also been involved in distributing food and relief materials among the needy in his Bidhannagar assembly constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-places-in-howrah-kol-on-sujits-map/articleshow/76098711.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Private firm may help handle 5,000 disaster control room calls||MUMBAI: The administration is planning to rope in a private agency's staff to help manage the load of 5,000 calls they are now receiving daily from Mumbaikars on various issues, as more staff from the civic body's disaster control room are getting infected with Covid-19. The control room's helpline, 1916, is handled by 48 staff in three shifts but 27 of them have been infected and over a dozen are not reporting to work. Earlier this week, a senior officer tested positive. BMC has decided to issue notices to staff not reporting to work, citing the 75% mandatory attendance rule, in place from earlier this month. Barely a dozen staff attend to the 5,000 daily calls, while earlier around 600 were received daily. A senior BMC official said, "We decided to rope in disaster management staff from 24 ward offices to attend calls at the headquarters. The calls vary from those seeking ambulances to beds at hospitals, complaints about people roaming around in containment zones and some asking when local train services will resume." The official explained that to attend these calls, domain knowledge is essential, adding that the staff to be roped will be used for data entry. The control room also plans to get on board around 10 doctors from civic hospitals to answer questions related to Covid-19. They include issues like, in case of one being asymptomatic, where must one go, or the the location of nearby Covid care centres. Civic officials said they hope that staff who tested positive last most recover and resume. Officials are also considering shifting operations to its secondary control room at Parel, where staff can ensure social distancing.  Last year, a replica of the control room was made operational, keeping in mind any unforeseen contingency, and in case the primary control room fails to function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-private-firm-may-help-handle-5000-disaster-control-room-calls/articleshow/76100981.cms||Richa Pinto
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Two more Mumbai cops die, toll 16; force seeks health department help||MUMBAI: Two more police constables succumbed to Covid-19, taking the toll to 16 in the Mumbai police force and 25 in the state on Friday. In the three recent deaths reported among policemen in the city, none had showed co-morbidities like hypertension or diabetes. Constable Deepak Hate, 53, died early on Friday, just a few hours after being discharged from Worli’s NSCI quarantine centre. An ambulance had ferried Hate till near his Worli home at 8pm. Around midnight, he complained of breathing trouble and was rushed to Nair Hospital, where he was declared dead before admission around 12.30am. Colleagues said it came as a shock that Hate succumbed despite being treated for 11 days, especially since he was not known to have any health issues. Constable Dilip Mohite, 54, from Dahisar police station died on Tuesday, a day before his Covid-positive result arrived. Mohite did not have any comorbidities either. “Mohite had complained of body ache and mild fever and was on leave. He consulted his family physician. On Tuesday, we learnt he had passed away at JJ Hospital,” said an officer. Mohite’s family in Andheri is being tested for Covid. TOI had reported that constable Jagdish Pote from Malwani police station succumbed to the coronavirus on Thursday. Pote too had no comorbidities. Hate had been working at the Bandra police station for five years. He complained of fever in the second week of May, and was admitted to the NSCI centre on May 18 after he tested positive. “Hate responded well to the treatment and was discharged as per the ICMR guidelines,” said an officer. “The reason for the sudden deterioration of Hate’s health is unknown. Only an autopsy can present a clear picture. Though Hate’s colleagues and family members claimed he did not have any health issues, it is not known whether he had any hidden problems,” said another officer. Hate lived with his wife and 2 children. Between May 23 and 28, 368 cases were reported in the city police. The trends are being studied to find out why they are getting infected so fast, said police spokesperson DCP Pranay Ashok. “We will analyse details of infected cops — whether they were showing symptoms, what were they suffering from, etc — and consult the state health department. This will help determine what additional precautions should be taken. Personnel above 55 are already on leave,” said Ashok. The Vasai-Virar region also saw a spike in infections among policemen, with 10 cops’ swab reports coming positive on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-more-mumbai-cops-die-toll-16-force-seeks-health-department-help/articleshow/76100980.cms||Nitasha Natu
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb substituted farm power subsidy with DBT: Mann||Chandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president Bhagwant Mann lashed out at the Punjab government on Friday, saying it had substituted farm power subsidy with direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme. Addressing media here, Mann said the state government’s decision was against the interests of farmers. The AAP MP added the step was an example of backstabbing farmers. He also said that the state government had succumbed to the central government’s pressure and had taken this step to become eligible for taking more loans. The Punjab government had on May 27 given in-principle approval to a few reforms to make the state eligible to avail additional borrowing of 1.5% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) amid Covid-19 as directed by the central government. This included formulation of the DBT scheme and its implementation in at least one district by December 31. Mann also attacked SAD, which is the alliance partner of the BJP in Punjab, for not taking up the issue with the central government of putting such conditions on Punjab government to harass farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-substituted-farm-power-subsidy-with-dbt-mann/articleshow/76099788.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Airport to do away with glass shield cams, deploy more staff for temperature scan to save time||KOLKATA: Barely two days into the airport’s restart post lockdown, two potential hazard points have emerged, one in the departure level and the other arrival. Recognising the problem, the airport operator met the security officers and health officials at the airport to discuss ways to resolve the issue early so that they don’t turn into festering problem when the flight count shoots up in a few days. While the airport handled 11 flights each on Thursday and Friday, it is expected to service more than 80 flights by June 1. The first problem that was identified is at the entrance where the time required to verify the credentials of individuals entering the airport and confirm if he or she is a bona fide passenger has gone up from 10-15 seconds per flyer to over a minute. “New SOPs adopted by CISF to check passenger identity and flight details from a distance to prevent Covid infection has led to long queues at the airport entrance. Unlike before when two CISF personnel would man each gate and enable two passengers to enter the terminal at a time from each gate, at present it is taking three-four times longer to process each passenger and only one is being allowed entry at a time,” an airport official said. When the system was reviewed on Friday, a mismatch between an addition technology incorporated to maintain social distance and the user emerged. While a glass shield has been installed at the entrance to all airports to provide protection to CISF personnel on duty, a camera had been installed before the glass wall in Kolkata where passengers were required to display their documents to be viewed by the CISF personnel on a monitor inside the glass chamber. “Many passengers faced difficulty in displaying the documents properly before the camera. This was needlessly consuming time and causing delay that led to the queue at the entrance to become lengthy. So CISF has been asked to do away with the camera as of now and allow passengers to show the documents at the glass wall where it can be viewed by the the CISF personnel on the other side,” the official said. Another congestion point was near the exit where only one person was present to check the temperature of passengers arriving in Kolkata. Even when there were multiple health staff present, they could not be deployed as the thermal scanners ran out of battery by early evening. On Tuesday, Airports Authority of India urged airport health unit to ensure deployment of more staff to undertake the scan and to keep batteries in reserve to ensure that the scanners were functional. “The medical unit was prompt to respond. From Saturday, four health staff will carry out the scans, ensuring speedier dispersal of passengers from the terminal. We are also coordinating with airlines to ensure that the flights are properly spaced out, both during departure and arrival, so that we can maintain adequate social distancing and prevent crowding, either at the entry or exit gates, or within the terminal,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-to-do-away-with-glass-shield-cams-deploy-more-staff-for-temp-scan-to-save-time/articleshow/76098718.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi: Armed Reserve SI commits suicide day before retiring||UDUPI: An Armed Reserve Police sub-inspector of Amasebailu police station allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree near the police station on Friday. The deceased is Mallikarjuna, 56, of Kalaburagi. He was in charge of the station for many years, and was supposed to be discharged from duty on Saturday, after which he was supposed to return to Munirah Bad, his hometown. On Thursday, Mallikarjun suffered from stomach pain and took treatment at a hospital near Amasabilu. That night he had dinner with all the staff at the police station. On Friday morning he did not come to the police station, hence his colleagues searched for him in the surrounding area. Later, at 7 am, a local found him hanging from a tree. It is suspected the he may have committed suicide due to a health problem or for personal reasons. A case has been filed at the Amasebailu police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/armed-reserve-si-commits-suicide-day-before-retiring/articleshow/76097695.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||‘No scope for more space to Haryana in assembly premises’||CHANDIGARH: Days after Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta raised the demand for more space in the shared Vidhan Sabha premises, Punjab assembly speaker Rana K P Singh on Friday said that there is no scope for giving more space to “younger brother” Haryana. “Principally, Punjab does not owe any more space to Haryana in the Vidhan Sabha building, because when the second meeting on the division of the assembly premises was held in November 1966, Punjab speaker was not even present,” Singh told TOI, adding that Haryana is now raking up the issue after over 50 years. “Since Haryana is our younger brother, we would have given it more space. But we do not have space even for our own ministers to sit in the assembly secretariat,” said the Punjab speaker. He said Punjab has made temporary arrangements for its ministers by carving out makeshift cabins in the Vidhan Sabha building and finding space for seating the staff is also a problem. Speaker Gupta had raised the issue, saying there is paucity of space for the Haryana MLAs as well as the staff members in the assembly secretariat. He said after Haryana was carved out of Punjab on November 1, 1966, the 66,430 sq.ft area of the Vidhan Sabha building was equitably divided, with the latter getting 62.9% of the total space and 37.1% going to Haryana. But, he claimed, Haryana is yet to get its full share of 37.1% and added that out of the state’s share, 20 rooms are still with Punjab. On his part, Punjab speaker explained that when the re-organisation of Punjab had happened in 1966, then chief engineer of Capitol Project at Chandigarh divided the Vidhan Sabha building between Punjab and Haryana. “After around eight months, then speaker of the Haryana assembly Shanno Devi had raised the issue that the division was not done correctly. So, a meeting was convened in November 1966 at the residence of then Punjab Vidhan Parishad head Durga Dass, which was attended by then Haryana speaker and other officers of the Chandigarh administration in the absence of Punjab Vidhan Sabha speaker. The division was made again,” said speaker Singh. Later, in 1968, then Punjab vidhan sabha speaker Darbara Singh wrote to then Haryana speaker Brigadier Ran Singh (retd.) that Punjab gives its consent to whatever decision was taken in November 1966 about the division of the assembly premises, he said. “Haryana did not say anything all these years and is now raking up this issue after 54 years,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-scope-for-more-space-to-hry-in-assembly-premises/articleshow/76099791.cms||Sanjeev Verma
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||SGPGI, KGMU stick to ICMR advice on HCQ for doctors, health staff||LUCKNOW: The World Health Organization (WHO) may have halted the trial of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) drug due to safety concerns but SGPGIMS and KGMU continue to give HCQ tablets to healthcare workers as per the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The duty roster that the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) has come up for doctors states that HCQ tablets (if needed) are to be taken by those on Covid duty. It also asks resident doctors to get their ECG done and evaluated before taking HCQ tablets. Doctors have been asked to follow latest ICMR guidelines for doses and use. King George’s Medical University (KGMU) is also giving HCQ tablets to employees and doctors on Covid-19 duty. In a statement, ICMR had recently said no major side-effects were found in HCQ in studies in India and its use in preventive treatment of Covid-19 should be continued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sgpgi-kgmu-stick-to-icmr-advice-on-hcq-for-docs-health-staff/articleshow/76100337.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chennai||As petition row erupts, DMK submits 6.23 lakh more petitions to CM office||CHENNAI: A day after a war of words broke out between food minister R Kamaraj and DMK spokesperson T K S Elangovan over Tamil Nadu chief secretary K Shanmugam being dismissive about the one lakh petitions the party leaders submitted to him a week ago, the DMK submitted another 6.23 lakh petitions, which it said were received from the public, to the chief minister’s office on Friday. The DMK said its Ondrivaivom Vaa helpline was receiving large number of complaints from people affected by the lockdown. DMK president M K Stalin submitted the second batch of 6,23,914 requests — received on the helpline — to the chief minister’s office, calling upon the government to act on them, said a press release from the party. The volume of petitions was an indication of the distress people were in, the party said. The petitions were emailed to the CMO, the release said. The party has also put up the details of the petitions on the website, www.ondrinaivomvaa.in. It said the helpline has so far received 18 lakh distress calls. The part has also asked its district secretaries to submit copies of the petitions to the district collectors concerned. Kamaraj on Thursday had alleged that the DMK was enacting a drama to seek political gains from its Ondrinaivom Vaa initiative. Noting that most of the petitions were bogus, Kamaraj said the DMK had misused the mobile numbers of many citizens to prefer fake petitions. During an inquiry conducted by district authorities, many ‘petitioners’ had said they were happy with the aid distributed by the state government, claimed Kamaraj. Replying to the accusation of the minister, DMK spokesperson Elangovan said Ondrivaivom Vaa initiative was meant to help unorganised workers and guest workers affected by the lockdown. Elangovan said it was childish on the part of the minister to level accusations of fabricating petitions on the DMK. Meanwhile, Stalin has convened an online meeting of its alliance parties on Sunday evening to discuss the Centre refusing to reserve seats for backward class students in medical education, as well as the way Centre and state government have handled the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdowns. DMK is in alliance with the Congress, MDMK, VCK, CPM, CPI, KMDK, IUML and other smaller parties. Apart from Stalin, TNCC chief K S Alagiri, MDMK chief Vaiko, CPM state secretary K Balakrishnan, CPI state secretary R Mutharasan, KMDK secretary E R Easwaran, VCK chief Thol Thirumavalavan and DK president K Veeramani will participate in the meeting and pass resolution on the two issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-petition-row-erupts-dmk-submits-6-23-lakh-more-petitions-to-cm-office/articleshow/76099789.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Star hotels to add 2,000 beds for viral fight||NEW DELHI: With the number of coronavirus cases on a surge, Delhi government on Friday decided to take over five starred hotels for conversion into temporary hospitals to augment the beds available for Covid-19 patients. The hotels will be linked with the nearest private hospital designated as a Covid-19 hospital. The government has also enlisted 10 other hotels for paid isolation stay for people with mild and pre-symptomatic Covid-19 signs. Officials said using hotels would add around 2,000 beds to available facilities. Some hotels so requisitioned are Crown Plaza in Okhla Phase-I, Surya in New Friends Colony, Siddharth in Rajendra Place, Jivitesh on Pusa Road and Sheraton at Saket District Centre, to be, respectively, attached to Batra Hospital Centre and Research Centre, Indraprastha Apollo, Dr BL Kapur Memorial, Sir Ganga Ram and Max Smart Super Specialty hospitals. In Delhi government’s three-tier health setup for Covid-19 patients, asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms are advised home quarantine, those a degree higher are sent to Covid-19 health care centres, while patients with existing ailments who require proper care are admitted to the hospitals. The government has so far identified 13 hospitals, two run by state government, three by the Centre and eight private ones as dedicated Covid-19 facilities. The addition of the five hotels will take the total number of beds available for Covid-19 patients in Delhi to over 11,000. While the 13 Covid hospitals collectively have around 4,500 beds, the facility at GTB Hospital with 1,500 beds will be up soon. In addition, around 117 private hospitals have also been asked to keep 20%, or 200 beds, for Covid-19 cases. Delhi government had earlier assured of 12,000 beds in hotels and banquet halls by the time the Covid-19 count reached 30,000. According to Friday’s government order, patients will pay up to Rs 5,000 in five-star hotels and a maximum of Rs 4,000 in 3/4-star facility per day. The patient may also have to pay up to Rs 5,000 daily for medical services and consumables. The hospital will also be allowed to charge Rs 2,000 per day for oxygen support, apart from the scheduled rates for tests and investigations. “The attached private hospital is required to provide sufficient manpower (doctors and nurses) as per norms. It is also required to provide oxygen supply, either in form of oxygen concentrator or cylinder in the extended Covid-19 hospital,” said the order issued by health and family welfare secretary Padmini Singla. The order adds, “… in case such patients turn severe at any point of time during their stay in the hotel, he/she shall be transferred/admitted in the attached private hospital at its scheduled rates”. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier said that many Delhiites preferred private health facilities instead of government-run hospitals. Those recommended for home quarantine can now opt for starred hotels on payment basis. On Friday, Delhi government released a list of 10 private hospitals with total capacity of about 1,900 rooms at pre-decided rates on single, twin and triple sharing occupancy. Covid-19 positive people with mild or pre-symptoms are eligible to be quarantined at home. Of the current 17,000 positive cases, more than 4,600 were in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/star-hotels-to-add-2000-beds-for-viral-fight/articleshow/76099800.cms||Atul Mathur
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR: Don’t travel unless necessary||HYDERABAD: After the death of migrants on Shramik Special, railway ministry on Friday appealed to people with co-morbidities, pregnant women, children below the age of 10 years and persons above 65 years of age to avoid travel by the trains, except when it is essential. The South-Central Railways issued the advisory for those who are most vulnerable of contracting Covid-19 and has requested all citizens to heed to its request. The railways has also asked the passengers to reach out to its helpline 139 and 138 in case of emergencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-dont-travel-unless-necessary/articleshow/76099780.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Nurse attacked with cricket bat, three booked in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A couple and their daughter were booked on Friday for allegedly assaulting a nurse who works at SevenHills Hospital, with a cricket bat. The accused filed a cross complaint. The two parties are neighbours. On May 24, around 8pm, nurse Sakina Khatun's nephew went to the accused's house, and was told not to enter, as his aunt treated Covid patients. Khatun and her relatives went there, and a heated argument turned violent when the male accused brought a bat and hit Khatun on the head. On Friday, the police learnt that a video of the incident was doing its rounds, and registered an FIR. No arrest has been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nurse-attacked-with-cricket-bat-three-booked-in-mumbai/articleshow/76100988.cms||Mateen Hafeez
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC-SCR meet for land acquisition||HYDERABAD: A meeting was held between GHMC and SCR officials to discuss issues pertaining to land acquisition. Several projects, including Road Under Bridge (RUB) were delayed in parts of the city as railway properties could not be acquired. SCR officials have also filed a case, requesting enhanced rate for properties that need to be acquired. Notification to acquire land for extension of Sangeet junction and Mettuguda junction were issued on Friday. “A three-member committee has been constituted to resolve the issue,” said city Mayor Bonthu Rammohan. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-scr-meet-for-land-acquisition/articleshow/76099793.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Covid-19 outbreak takes big toll on investment||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government, which signed MoUs for 54 projects worth Rs 73,741 crore during the Invest Karnataka meet held in February 2020, has managed to formalise 14 of them worth Rs 1,094 crore. Officials, while stating that Covid-19 impact has led to poor conversion, said implementation will improve in the coming months as the government is working on multiple strategies to not just realise most of the proposals from Invest Karnataka, but also mop up fresh investments by attracting newer firms. According to the industries department, over 31% of the Rs 1,094 crore investments finalised through 14 projects came from just one project. “Hyderabad-based Bhagiradha Chemicals and Industries is setting up a plant in Yadgir’s Kadechur industrial area. The firm’s investment as per government approval is Rs 345 crore and the project is estimated to provide employment to 1,200 people,” a senior official said. Of the 13 other projects, which together will invest Rs 749 crore and provide jobs to around 2,149 people, seven are by Telangana-based firms and one by a Gujarat company. The rest are from Karnataka. “The meet happened in the second week of February and the very next month, the state was hit by Covid-19. But our department has been working relentlessly to ensure that more projects are realised. Our new strategies won’t be limited to just what happened at Invest Karnataka,” said Gunjan Krishna, commissioner for industrial development. More than 70% of the 14 projects will come up in Yadgir, while the rest are shared between Belagavi, Dharwad and Hubballi. Industries minister Jagadish Shettar said: “While there’s been a lot of thinking about creating opportunities and avenues outside Bengaluru, the decision to hold the meet in Hubballi was to showcase North Karnataka as a destination for industries...” Shettar, while exuding confidence that the implementation rate would improve in the post-Covid scenario, said efforts are on to attract newer companies. “...We are in talks with multiple foreign firms as we speak. The department has identified several growth areas ranging from electronics to toys and from pharmaceutical to aerospace, and we are confident of seeing a large number of firms set up plants here in the near future,” added Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/of-mous-worth-rs-73k-cr-only-rs-1k-cr-investments-realised/articleshow/76098729.cms||Chethan Kumar
May 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Disabled son left to fend for self as both parents test positive for coronavirus||CHENNAI: “The past ten days felt like hell,” said Jayanthi*, a domestic worker who tested positive for Covid-19 . A day after she was moved to Stanley Medical College and Hospital, her husband too tested positive and was kept in isolation in their Thiruvottiyur home. But it was the plight of her disabled son that worried her the most. R Mahendran, her 23-year-old son who has severe intellectual disability and Down Syndrome, was left to fend for himself as both his parents were cut off. “He tested negative, which came as a relief. But my son is totally dependent on me, he needs round-the-clock support. He was left all alone,” she said. Jayanthi tried reaching out to friends, distant relatives, and neighbours to go and check on Mahendran, but in vain. “They all feared to contract the virus,” she said. Mahendran was receiving vocational training before the lockdown. He used to have a hard time dealing staying indoors, and would get restless and angry, said his mother. “My going away made it worse.” Mahendran refused to eat, sleep, bathe, cried and threw temper tantrums. Mahendran also attempted to run away to find his mother. S Namburajan, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently-Abled and Caregivers, contacted the official concerned from the Greater Chennai Corporation and requested them to either move the boy to the hospital so he can be near his mother or quarantine her at home. “They refused and suggested that they could move him to a community hall,” he said. Three days ago, Jayanthi tested negative and was reunited with Mahendran on Thursday. Mahendran has only been smiling since. “He had his first meal in four days. He’s just not letting me go. I am very happy,” she said. The incident has raised concerns about the lack of support system for people who need round-the-clock support like Mahendran. Experts said the existing system only focuses on treating the infected, but not providing care to those who are totally dependent on patients and left helpless and abandoned. “The disabled and senior citizens suffer the most,’ said Namburajan. “We need a proper plan to protect them too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/disabled-son-left-to-fend-for-self-as-both-parents-test-positive-for-virus/articleshow/76099802.cms||Aditi R
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Stage carriage permits: Private bus operators issued notices||JALANDHAR: Initiating the process to cancel repeated/multiple extensions of stage carriage permits beyond the permissible limit of 24 km, the Punjab transport department has issued notices to private bus operators for personal hearing, which is in pursuance of earlier notices issued to operators in August last year. Names of a few very prominent companies are not there in the first list of 138 operators who have been asked to appear for personal hearing. The state transport commissioner said that they would issue similar notices to all operators whose permits had such extension. These operators have been asked to appear before the state transport commissioner on a scheduled date and time. While names of companies belonging to former Congress minister Avtar Henry and his son Bawa Henry and Faridkot Congress MLA Kushaldeep Singh ‘Kicky’ Dhillon are there in the list, names of operators belonging to Badal family or their associates are missing in the list so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/stage-carriage-permits-pvt-bus-operators-issued-notices/articleshow/76099798.cms||IP Singh
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||Jobless and penniless, coolies to approach SC||LUCKNOW: Coolies at Charbagh railway station along with their counterparts at other stations in the country will soon approach the Supreme Court, seeking direction to railways to help them get livelihood as the lockdown has pushed them to the brink of starvation. There are around 20,000 coolies in the country. Of these, around 247 work at Charbagh station. The Porter Association of Charbagh Railway Station (PACRS) recently held a meeting of coolies across the country through video conferencing. “It was decided in the meeting that National Federation of Railway Porters (NFRP), with the support of all unions at various stations, will file a petition in the apex court seeking directions to railways to deploy coolies on goods trains and pay them fixed minimum wages. They have also asked for gloves and masks to be provided to them as a protection while working at railway stations,” said NFRP president Ram Suresh, who is also a leader of PACRS. “Coolies were the first ones to lose jobs after travel restrictions were imposed across the country to curb spread of coronavirus. The situation now is that coolies who survived on meagre wages earned by carrying luggage of passengers are falling short of food at home,” said chairman of All India Railway Laal Vardi Coolie Union Fateh Mohammad. Gopi (35), a coolie who works at the station, said that with regular trains suspended till June 30, they have little hope of earning. “I am left with no money to feed my family of four after two months without work,” he said. The union workers said it has been sending representations to central and state governments about their plight but to no avail. NFRP also wrote to Chief Justice of India for help on May 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jobless-and-penniless-coolies-to-approach-sc/articleshow/76100344.cms||Aditi Singh
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Liquor scam: SET will miss deadline, extension likely||CHANDIGARH: The Special Enquiry Team (SET), constituted to probe the liquor scam involving misappropriation of huge quantities of liquor from the godown of excise department in Sonipat and other districts, is set to miss the deadline, as one of its members, Subhash Yadav, an IPS officer, retired on Friday. The government is likely to give the committee an extension to have Yadav’s replacement. Constituted by the Haryana government, the committee had three members — T C Gupta, additional chief secretary (power), its chairman, and Subhash Yadav and a senior officer of the excise department as co-members. The committee was supposed to submit its report by May 31, when Yadav was also due to retire. But, the day being a Sunday, Friday was his last working day. There were also rumours of him getting an extension, but senior officials in the home and police departments said otherwise. “We shall certainly share the details (of scam) as and when available. Now, this issue is with the government and we shall speak only after the report is submitted,” said home minister Anil Vij. A senior official said, “The committee shall have another officer who will be picked up by the government. The committee has sought lots of information related to the probe from the police department also, so it will get an extension. State has power to give extension for three months.’’ SET chief Gupta, however, expressed his inability to make any comments in this regard. As on now, the SET has twice visited the site of godown in Kharkhoda town of Sonipat and the Sonipat office of excise and taxation department. More than 9,000 cases of liquor had gone missing from the Sonipat godown during the lockdown. The SIT constituted by Rohtak range police, has so far arrested Bhupinder, the kingpin, his associates Satish and ASI Jaipal Singh of Kharkhoda police station. Former SHO Jasbir Singh has already been sacked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/liquor-scam-set-will-miss-deadline-extension-likely/articleshow/76099801.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||CISF man succumbs to Corona, DMG work severely hampered||Kolkata: A head constable from the CISF, who was posted at the GRSE, became the second person from his unit to succumb to Covid-19 on Thursday. The 58-year-old man, said sources, was hospitalized on May 12. Sources said that he was suffering from chronic kidney disease and was under hemodialysis for the last two years. The other CISF personnel — the assistant sub inspector who had passed away on May 11 — reportedly had co-morbidities with a history of hypertension and diabetes. Earlier, an ASI posted at Indian Museum had died of Covid. In an official statement on Friday, GRSE stated that of the total 41 Covid positive cases detected among the CISF personnel posted at GRSE, 38 have been discharged. As on date, only one CISF personnel is under treatment. “CISF barracks at GRSE Main Unit have been sanitised and all personnel have been found to be Covid negative. Those discharged from hospital have been quarantined within the barracks in separate location,” they added. Two more positive cases were reported from the Police Training School (PTS) under Kolkata Police, taking the total number of personnel infected in the force to 92. The Disaster Management Group (DMG), which spent yet another day on the roads clearing uprooted trees in several parts of south Kolkata, faced a tough time. A little over 30 men formed eight teams to carry out the work after five from the DMG tested positive and sixty others were either sent to quarantine or were being tested. Sources said most of the DMG members are likely to receive their reports in the next two days. “Post Amphan, we were deploying 17 teams. On Friday, only a fraction worked. We are hoping for a change in the next few days,” said an officer from Special Forces, of which DMG is a part. Commissioner Anuj Sharma on Tuesday night sent out messages to different units of police individually, asking them to take all precautions against Covid. Police said that since cases are still rising, a standard SOP has been prepared. “We have asked seniors to monitor health conditions of each of our personnel. Anyone complaining of any symptom that resembles Covid is being tested and quarantined at Dumurjola in Howrah. Elsewhere at police stations, we are arranging for random tests,” said a joint CP .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisf-man-succumbs-to-corona-dmg-work-severely-hampered/articleshow/76098733.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops alert jewellers, banks against criminals hiding behind mask||Chandigarh: To address the concern of criminals hiding their faces under mask, the Haryana Police on Friday asked jewellers, banks and other establishments where heavy cash transactions take place to make sure that anyone entering the premises takes off the mask once in front of the CCTV camera. An order to this effect was issued by Haryana director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava to all district police chiefs (CPs and SPs), asking them to circulate the same among jewellers, banks, gold finance companies, etc in their respective jurisdictions. A notice in this regard can be displayed at the doors of such premises, he said. The DGP said wearing of face masks at work and public places have been made compulsory by the government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, with gradual relaxation in the lockdown, there is a possibility of criminal elements taking advantage of the face cover. Not only known habitual offenders, but new criminals could also indulge in anti-social activities like theft and robbery using the face cover. If an unfortunate incident happens, the criminals can be apprehended with the help of photograph captured in the CCTV, he pointed out. Apart from this, he also advised people against carrying too much cash while going out. He said jewellers and other such establishments without CCTV should install cameras at the earliest, and those who already have it must keep them in working condition. In case of an emergency, people can call police at PCR No. 100, he said. BOX: Don’t get cheated! The Haryana Police has urged people to inform them about anyone asking for money for getting lockdown passes issued. Additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said it has come to notice that some people active in social media are cheating gullible persons, especially the migrants, on the pretext of providing them movement passes. Some instances of use of fake lockdown passes have also come to light. In such cases, the police must be informed on the PCR number, he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-alert-jewellers-banks-against-criminals-hiding-behind-mask/articleshow/76099808.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Yoga, aerobics and diet: Senior cops stay fighting fit in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: With three policemen having lost their lives to Covid-19 in city and over 200 infected, senior cops are going all out to stay fit for frontline duties and strengthen their immunity. They have taken to yoga and aerobics while concentrating on having balanced diets and immunity boosters. Ajay Tomar, special commissioner of police, crime branch, said, “We regularly visit containment areas to review the situation, hold meetings with locals and have high chances of contacting potential Covid-19 carriers. If we are to protect others, we need to remain fit and protect ourselves.” “These are professional hazards and one cannot shy away. We have to face them bravely,” he added. Tomar said the best way to increase immunity is to exercise regularly. “I have made it a thumb rule to practice yoga and aerobics for half an hour before going to office. This increases my immunity and keeps me fit to fight Covid-19,” he said. Tomar added that he also took a balanced diet with vitamin and mineral supplements like zinc and iron. “We stay hydrated by drinking water frequently. The fluid intake and balanced diet increases immunity,” he added Masks, gloves, face shields and goggles have now become a part of routine life said Tomar. “Every day, we go out on rounds, meet people, attend meetings and hence masks, gloves, face shields and goggles are important tools for us to stay protected from Covid-19,” Tomar said. Another IPS officer, DCP Neeraj Badgujar echoed the same sentiments. “We have been advised by our seniors to do aerobics and yoga daily before leaving for office and improve our eating habits to increase immunity, as we have to go on rounds in affected areas,” Badgujar said. Boxes Over 100 cops aged above 55 removed from containment areas Bharat Somaji, Govind Patni and Girish Barot — all the city cops who died of Covid-19 were of the age of 50 and above. “Now we have decided to remove all policemen above the age of 55 years from containment areas and put them in police stations. If their police stations fall under containment areas or zones which are most affected by Covid-19, we send them on leave,” said Ajay Tomar, special commissioner of police, crime branch. Home quarantined policemen work from home DCP Neeraj Badgujar said that those policemen who have been home quarantined have been working from home. “They work on case papers and prepare investigation papers for other cases from home,” said Badgujar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/yoga-aerobics-and-diet-senior-cops-stay-fighting-fit/articleshow/76098738.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
May 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Panel to probe pregnant woman’s allegations of ill-treatment at hospital||MANGALURU: Following allegations of a pregnant woman who returned to Mangaluru from Dubai on May 12 being ill-treated at a private hospital and her apartment complex by the RWA, the Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner set up a nine-member committee under the leadership of Mangaluru Electricity Supply Company managing director Snehal Rayamane to look into these incidents. Abdul Aziz, a resident of Gandhi Park, Uppinangady, lodged a complaint with the district administration after the woman had a still birth. The woman who had been in institutional quarantine and had tested negative for the novel coronavirus, was in an advanced stage of her pregnancy. According to medical experts the district administration consulted, they felt that termination of pregnancy was the only way her life could be saved. The ordeal she suffered after her return to Mangaluru, the denial of medical attention leading to the still birth in particular triggered a spate of allegations against the hospital and the management of the apartment complex. Meanwhile, Sindhu declared Kenjar Tangadi, Barke in Muloor village and Sarapady Badagulipadi village in Mangaluru taluk as containment zones after six people in these localities were confirmed infected with Covid-19 in the past three days. Dakshina Kannada district currently has 59 active cases, while 39 patients have recovered from the infection and have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/panel-to-probe-pregnant-womans-allegations-of-ill-treatment-at-hosp/articleshow/76097732.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Hurricane in Haryana: 217 new Covid-19 cases in a day||CHANDIGARH: Haryana saw yet another spike in Covid-19 cases, as 217 people tested positive for the virus, taking the state’s count to 1,721. Gurgaon breached the 500 mark and its tally reached 520 as the district alone got 115 new cases. The 12% jump in brought down recovery rate to 54.6% and doubling rate from 17 days to 13. Also, 59 patients were discharged. There was no new death and the number of casualties stayed at 19. Faridabad got 31 new, taking its total to 307 cases, of which 162 are active. Among others, 19 cases were from Sonipat, seven each from Kaithal and Palwal, six each from Rohtak and Karnal, five each from Charkhi Dadri, Hisar and Rewari, three from Narnaul, two each from Nuh and Bhiwan, and one each from Panchkula, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kurukshetra. During the day, CM Manohar Lal Khattar had expressed the concern over sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. Health minister Anil vij too has indicated towards stern measures to prevent further spread in NCR and expressed apprehensions of faster spread after lifting of curbs in Lockdown 4.0. Kurukshetra civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh said a 22-year-old woman tested positive. Her family had arrived from Uttar Pradesh on May 26 and samples collected a day later. Also, six patients were discharged in the district. The Kaithal patients included three women and two children who came from Delhi, Gurugram and Bahadurgarh. (With inputs from Jaskaran Singh in Kurukshetra and Vijender Kumar in Kaithal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hurricane-in-haryana-217-new-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/76099814.cms||Manvir Saini
May 30, 2020||Chennai||Poondi gets 0.6tmcft from Andhra Pradesh||CHENNAI: Poondi reservoir received 0.6tmcft of Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh on Friday, taking the total Krishna water received in a year to a new of 8.1tmcft, PWD sources said. In the years so far, the neighbouring state had released a maximum of 7tmcft (thousand million cubic feet), a senior PWD official said. The AP government has released 7.5tmcft till April this year. AP has agreed to release another 0.6tmcft, which will take the total to 8.1tmcft, he said. Water from Kandaleru was released on Monday, reached zero point on Thursday night and Poondi reservoir on Friday. The official further said the timely release of water by Andhra Pradesh helped avoiding Poondi reservoir reach a dead storage level. Once the water level in a reservoir reaches dead storage level, drawing or releasing of water from the reservoir will be reduced, said the official. Water from AP is released for a period of 12 months, beginning in June every year. This period is called a water year. The current water year will end next month. The storage level at the Poondi reservoir on Friday was 396mcft, as against its full capacity of 3,231mcft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/poondi-gets-0-6tmcft-from-ap/articleshow/76099815.cms||P Oppili
May 30, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Finish Gouravelli, Gandipalli projects’||HYDERABAD: The Congress has demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao complete Gouravelli and Gandipalli irrigation projects, the works on which were started by previous Congress government. Referring to CM KCR inaugurating Kondapochamma sagar project on Friday, TPCC working president and ex-MP Ponnam Prabhakar said KCR should realise that Husnabad is also part of Telangana. Ponnam Prabhakar pasted a photo of KCR on a chair to remind the CM of his promise of completing Gauravelli and Gandipalli projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/finish-gouravelli-gandipalli-projects/articleshow/76099806.cms||---
May 30, 2020||India||Ailing people, kids, pregnant women should avoid travel: Railway||NEW DELHI: The railway ministry on Friday appealed to people with pre-existing medical conditions, pregnant women, children below 10 years and those above 65 to avoid train travel. Stating that a few deaths on Shramik Special trains were related to pre-existing medical conditions, the ministry said they aggravate the risk during the Covid-19 pandemic. There have been over half a dozen deaths on these trains while nearly 30 women passengers gave birth during their journey. An official release said persons with co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, cancer and immune deficiency conditions may avoid train travel unless essential. Railway minister Piyush Goyal also tweeted the appeal adding, “Safety of passengers is our biggest concern. So, we seek the cooperation of all citizens in this matter. In case of any distress or emergency, please do not hesitate to reach out to your railway parivaar and we will help you as always (Helpline number - 139 & 138).” Railway Board chairman V K Yadav said no woman with advanced stage of pregnancy would ever travel in such trains. “But there must have been some compulsions for them to travel. These are trying times for all of us,” he said. tnn Responding to whether they have found the exact number and reasons of deaths in such trains, Yadav said, “This is a sensitive issue. Loss of even a single life is very unfortunate. I won’t give any number until I have the exact reports. We are collecting from states and will share in due course.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ailing-people-kids-pregnant-women-should-avoid-travel-railway/articleshow/76100989.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Give cash or post dated train tickets to check labour exodus’||Ludhiana: June 1 is fast approaching and the fastener manufacturers fear the worst. With only access to 50% labour force, since most have left to their home towns, the business men said the government should give the labourers cash incentives to make them stay back instead of sponsoring their train trips. A large number of automotive manufacturing plants will re-open in the country on June 1 and city’s fastener manufacturers are having sleepless nights. Without adequate labour, they will not be able to complete orders from the auto companies and as a result will have to suffer huge losses, they said. Already under lot of pressure after remaining closed for 50 days due to lockdown, the fastener manufacturers are urging the state and central governments to introduce the incentive scheme as soon as possible, as only this would prevent the labour exodus. Speaking to TOI, Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasteners Manufacturers Association of India, (FMAI) said, “The main reason for the great exodus is the free train service due to which even those workers who do not have to go back to their native places are boarding the trains and going back home. Whether its state government or the central government, both have failed to realise that this free train service has become like a curse for the industry. If the movement of labour from Ludhiana and Punjab continues, the factories, which have opened after almost two months and have suffered huge losses already, will permanently shut down.” According to Bhamra, if the government is not giving cash incentives, it could give them post dated train travel coupons that the workers can utilise later — this, he is of the opinion, will prevent them from leaving immediately, when they are needed here the most. Atul Sethi, vice-president of FMAI, said, “Fastener industry is passing through a very bad phase in the last one-and-half years. We were already facing unprecedented recession and then the 50-day lockdown happened, which pushed us further into crisis. Now, when the lockdown has been lifted from factories, we are faced with the problem of arranging labour to run our factories. As of now, only 40-50% of our workers are reporting on duty, we are really feeling helpless.” According to Kuldeep Singh, general secretary of FMAI, “The government should certainly introduce a scheme rewarding the workers who decided to stay back. This will certainly help in boosting their morale. Also, Punjab government should urge governments of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to run free trains to send back those who are willing to come back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/give-cash-or-post-dated-train-tickets-to-check-labour-exodus/articleshow/76099823.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||Congress workers from Sanwer, Rau join BJP||BHOPAL: More than 100 Congress workers from Sanwer and Rau assembly constituencies of Indore district joined BJP in the presence of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state president VD Sharma, at BJP state head office, on Friday. Chouhan said that former CM Kamal Nath had insulted former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia when the latter threatened to hit streets to solve problems of the public. All new members will join hands to strength the party's base in the region, he said. “During last 15 months, Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh has turned the state into a den of corruption. The MLAs could never meet the chief minister. They used to seek a chance to enter Vallabh Bhawan (secretariat) to get their works done. Congress also betrayed farmers in the name of loan waiver and when Jyotiraditya Scindia raised the issue and warned to hit streets in favour of the public, he was insulted by Kamal Nath. Under Scindia's leadership, Tulsiram Silawat and his colleagues had quit their post to save Madhya Pradesh. We will join hands to strengthen the state,” said Chouhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-workers-from-sanwer-rau-join-bjp/articleshow/76097725.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||101 released from Howrah hospital, highest in a day||Kolkata: A total of 107 Covid-19 patients were cured and discharged from hospitals in the state on Friday, of whom 101 were together released from Sanjiban Hospital in Howrah alone, registering the highest single-day figure from any coronavirus facility in Bengal. The same day, 277 fresh cases were detected in the state, the second largest single-day spike, the highest being 344. Doctors pointed out that several of whom admitted at the Howrah’s Phuleswar hospital had various comorbidities. “Among them was a 50-year-old woman with a history of breast cancer and heart disease. Despite being on ventilation for 34 days, she remained extremely positive. We are happy we could send her home,” said Dalia Mitra, medical director, Sanjiban Hospital. The oldest among those who went home was an 82-year-old man with asthma and high blood pressure. Being down with severe Covid pneumonia, he had to be treated in the ICU on non-invasive ventilation for 14 days. The youngest of the lot was a one-year-old boy. A seven-month pregnant woman also figured on the list of 101 discharged. “It has been a revealing journey for us, with the support of 200 healthcare workers, who have been living in the hospital itself to fight the pandemic,” Mitra added. The 320-bed hospital, requisitioned by the state government for Covid services, is now the biggest private dedicated coronavirus facility in Bengal. It has so far treated and discharged 354 patients, including 22 children. “Since the beginning of April, we have been working as a Covid hospital, on instructions of chief minister. We will continue to carry out our responsibility till the end of the pandemic,” said Subhasis Mitra, director of Sanjiban Hospital. Friday witnessed 277 more people in Bengal testing positive for Covid-19, taking the tally of infected to 4,813. With 1,775 patients being cured and released from hospitals so far, the discharge rate has come to 36.8%. Seven people succumbed to the virus in the past 24 hours. “With a large number of migrants returning home, domestic flights arriving in the city and residents breaking social-distancing norms after Cyclone Amphan hit Bengal, cases are bound to rise,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/101-released-from-howrah-hospital-highest-in-a-day/articleshow/76098740.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
May 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana minister Anil Vij for reducing containment time||CHANDIGARH: Haryana health minister Anil Vij has asked the Union health and family welfare minister Harsh Vardhan to reduce the period of isolation of an area after being declared a containment zone to 14 days from current 28 days. Sharing this information with the media during a video interaction, Vij also justified the sealing of four districts adjoining Delhi, saying this has been done in accordance with the guidelines of Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) as well as courts. “So far as sealing is concerned, l will continue with this, unless MHA amends the guidelines following further extension of lockdown. MHA guidelines clearly spell out restrictions on movement at inter-state borders, with exceptions of medicos, paramedics, other health and sanitation workers and those on Covid duty. We have just implemented the same,’’ said Vij. Vij also talked about sending expert teams to NCR districts to gather details of new Covid-19 patients, trends, etc for deciding further course of action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vij-for-reducing-containment-time/articleshow/76099816.cms||Manvir Saini
May 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Domestic, international wings operate together after two months||KOLKATA: For the first time in over two months, both the domestic and international wings of Kolkata airport operated on Friday. The domestic wing handled 10 flights while the international wing handled two Vande Bharat flights for the Indians who had been stranded abroad and repatriated home. Two repatriation flights arrived from Yangon in the afternoon and Colombo in the evening. The flight from Yangon, which arrived at Kolkata airport around 3.15pm, had 15 passengers on board, including an infant. The other flight from Colombo flew in around 7.32pm with 33 passengers, including an infant. While the Yangon flight flew onward to Delhi with the remaining passengers, the Colombo flight first halted at Bhubaneswar before flying to Kolkata. Earlier, two Vande Bharat flights had operated between Dhaka and India. All passengers, including the infants, were quarantined in hotels for seven days, following which they will have to stay in home quarantine for another seven days, if they do not display any Covid-19 symptoms. At the domestic airport, there were 10 arrivals during the day and 11 departures. Yet, the number of passengers who flew in (1,786) was more than the one that flew out (1,447).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/domestic-intl-wings-operate-together-after-2-mths/articleshow/76098744.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court extends Dayanidhi Maran, T R Baalu’s anticipatory bail to June 10||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Friday extended the relief granted to senior DMK leaders and Lok Sabha members T R Baalu and Dayanidhi Maran, from police arrest in cases registered under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, till June 10. On May 23, Justice M Nirmal Kumar directed police not to take any coercive action against the duo till May 29, while admitting the pleas moved by the two to quash the FIRs registered against them in Coimbatore. On May 13, Dayanidhi Maran and T R Baalu met chief secretary K Shanmugam to submit about 1 lakh petitions for lockdown relief received from people during DMK’s Ondrinaivom Vaa campaign. They later told media that Shanmugam humiliated and treated them as “third rated and oppressed” citizens. Taking offence to the remark, several complaints and subsequently FIRs, were registered across TN. The two had sought anticipatory bail. Hearing the pleas on Friday, the court extended the interim relief and adjourned the hearing since the petitioners sought time to respond to prosecution’s counter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-extends-maran-baalus-anticipatory-bail-to-june-10/articleshow/76099821.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: Hamirpur hits 101, Himachal Pradesh nears 300||SHIMLA: Fourteen people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, with one of them being a 75-year-old man on dialysis and the state’s tally nearing the 300-figure mark. Eight of the new cases are from Hamirpur and the district’s tally has breached the three-figure mark to settle at 101. Also, five cases are from Kangra and one from Una. Now, the state has recorded 295 cases. In Hamirpur, four patients returned from Delhi, a man and a wife from Ahmedabad in Gujarat, a woman from Mumbai, and a 57-year-old man from Rajasthan. In Kangra, three patients came from Thane in Maharashtra. The other two came from Delhi, including the man on dialysis. In Una, a 44-year-old man from Singha village, with travel history of Mumbai, tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hamirpur-hits-101-hp-nears-300/articleshow/76099824.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lightning strikes kill 3 in Srikakulam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Three people and seven sheep died upon being struck by lightning, which was accompanied by thunderstorms and rains, in north coastal Andhra Pradesh on Friday. According to sources, the deceased were identified as Salapu Sriramulu (60), Senapati Achyutha Rao (16)—both from Gitanapalli village of Vangara mandal in Srikakulam district— while Vaddapu Sankara Rao (40), from Sriharipuram village of same mandal. Seven sheep were also killed in these lightning strikes in Regidi mandal. Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam, in its weather bulletin, stated that moderate to severe thunderstorms affected Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Prakasam, Kadapa and Chittoor districts on Friday evening. Therlam in Vizianagaram district received the highest rainfall in at 40mm while Ravikamatam in Visakhapatnam district received 30mm of rainfall. Srikakulam’s Hiramandalam received 37mm of rainfall till Friday evening. “The thunderstorms were accompanied strong gusty winds reaching 45kmph and moderate to heavy rains in isolated places,” CWC officials said. The sudden change in weather conditions has brought people some respite from scorching heat, with the maximum temperature touching 45 degree Celsius across the state for the past week, a senior IMD official told TOI. While these maximum temperatures would continue at some places during the day, thunderstorm activity will be observed in the afternoon hours for next few days, the IMD official added. The state government’s Disaster Management Authority asked local bodies, including municipal corporations, to take all precautionary steps to protect from sun strokes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lightning-strikes-kill-3-in-skulam/articleshow/76097769.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu advocate-general notice to R S Bharathi on contempt plea||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu advocate-general has ordered notice to DMK organising secretary and Rajya Sabha member R S Bharathi as to why criminal contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him, on a complaint from an advocate. The complaint sought to initiate contempt court proceedings for Bharathi’s alleged remarks degrading judges from oppressed sections of society. Advocate-general Vijay Narayan issued the notice after perusing the plea of advocate A Antony Raj and directed Bharathi to file his response in two weeks. Antony said Bharathi’s speech on February 14 at an indoor meeting was ‘very offensive, demeaning and derogatory’. Hearing of central crime branch police’s plea to cancel Bharathi bail, granted within hours of his arrest, was adjourned to May 30. His interim bail till June 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ag-notice-to-bharathi-on-contempt-plea/articleshow/76099829.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: In biggest 1-day surge, Tamil Nadu adds 874 cases, tally crosses 20,000||CHENNAI: On the eve of the Tamil Nadu government’s meeting with its expert medical committee on easing the lockdown, the state’s Covid-19 count surged past 20,000 with 874 cases reported on Friday, the highest single day increase so far. Chennai accounted for 614 of the new cases, taking its tally to 13,362 or 66% of the state’s total of 20,246. Nine deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 154. Chief secretary K Shanmugham told TOI that while the lockdown would continue, relaxations would depend on the ground reality and directions from the Centre. Health secretary Beela Rajesh saw a silver lining in 765 patients being discharged from various government and private hospitals across the state, taking the number of those cured to 11,313. On Wednesday, director of medical education directed doctors from other district to report to Chennai for Covid duty. At least 600 doctors on a contract basis too will be joining work soon. “That is more than 50% of the positive cases. We now have fewer active cases,” she said. However, she admitted that “With increasing influx of migrants and possible relaxations of lockdown, we may have more cases soon within the city and outside.” On Friday, of the 874 cases 141 were people who had returned from other states. Since May 9, 1,000 people who had returned from abroad or other states have tested positive. NIE epidemiologists say Chennai has a higher rate of infection compared to the rest of TN. The doubling time for Tamil Nadu is nearly 16 days compared to 14 days in Chennai. “Chennai’s neighbours also continued to add cases. On Friday, Chengalpet registered 61 new cases, Kancheepuram 12 and Tiruvallur nine. The state health department has allotted 150 beds for Covid patients in each of the four peripheral hospitals in Royapettah, Tondiarpet, Anna Nagar and ESI hospital in KK Nagar. On Wednesday, Director of Medical Education directed doctors from other district to report to Chennai for Covid duty. The order that runs into eleven pages deputes specialists including oncologists, psychiatrists, paediatric surgeons, neurosurgeons and surgical gastroenterologists to various Covid care centres. And 600 doctors on a contract basis too will be joining work soon. A bulletin released by the state health department on Friday evening said six passengers who returned from Maharashtra by air tested positive. Among those who opted to travel by road, there were 129 positive cases from Maharashtra, three from Kerala, one each from West Bengal, Telangana and Karnataka. At least 131 passengers from other countries have reported positive till Friday and 155 passengers who returned from other states and have been kept under railway quarantine have reported positive till Friday. Villupuram, Kanyakumari, Erode and Ariyalur had one case each from within the district. A 33-year-old man admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Thursday died hours after admission. He had no comorbidities. The oldest on the list of casualties was an 86-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension who was admitted to a private hospital. The man died on Thursday. There were two more deaths in Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital– a 70-year old woman and a 66-yearold woman -- on Wednesday. An 85-year-old man and a 77-year-old man died at then GH on Thursday. A 62-year-old woman, a 63-year-old man and a 58-year-old woman died in private hospitals in Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-biggest-1-day-surge-tn-adds-874-cases-tally-crosses-20000/articleshow/76099833.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Goa||Lokayukta: Govt’s ‘party moh’ behind mining report rejection||Panaji: Goa Lokayukta justice (retd) P K Mishra compared the Goa government to Dhritarashtra and Gandhari from the Mahabharat and said that ‘Putra Moh’ seems to have been replaced by ‘Party Moh’ in public administration. Referring to the state government rejecting his report recommending action against politicians and bureaucrats in the mining lease renewal case, Mishra rued the many Shakunis and their “appropriate” advice, noting the dichotomy of shouting from the rooftops about eradicating corruption while paying lip service when an opportunity to do so arises. “The non-acceptance of the report is along expected lines, given the usual attitude of protecting the privileged and the powerful, political compulsions, and the tendency to pre-judge matters without discerning the relevant materials in their proper perspective,” Mishra said. “Only a Dhritarashtra and/or Gandhari would be unable to perceive anything sinister in what happened on January 12, 2015, and it seems there is no dearth of Dhritarashtra or Gandhari these days in Mera Bharat Mahan,” Mishra said. “For that matter, it also seems that there is no dearth of Shakuni in rendering appropriate advice,” he said. “Putra Moh seems to have been substituted by party Moh or other kinds of Moha in the system of public administration and shouting from the rooftops regarding eradication of corruption, while only paying lip service when the question of actual eradication crops up.” He also said posterity may rightly question why the public exchequer should be depleted by establishing institutions like the Lokayukta or Human Rights Commission if their reports are to routinely be rejected without the attention they deserve. Recently, the state government rejected the Lokayukta’s report that recommended an FIR be registered by the directorate of vigilance’s anti-corruption branch (ACB) against former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, former mines secretary Pawan Kumar Sain, and former mines director Prasanna Acharya in connection with the alleged ‘corruption and criminal conspiracy’ regarding the renewal of 88 mining leases between November 2014 and January 2015. Misra said personal honesty of an individual, though laudable, is not enough. Maintaining institutional integrity is the hallmark of a good administrator and the most basic foundation of ideal public administration. “At the cost of repetition, this institution hereby reiterates the finding and observation made in its report and submits this special report on the case to the governor as contemplated by Section 16(3) of the Goa Lokayukta Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lokayukta-govts-party-moh-behind-mining-report-rejection/articleshow/76100355.cms||Murari Shetye
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Married man marries again, booked for duping 21-year-old||BHOPAL: A man, who was married to a cop’s daughter for four years, married a 21-year-old woman during lockdown. The accused even brought his fake parents and relatives at the bride’s house to attend the ceremony. The accused told his first wife that he is in Betul for some work and can’t come back due to the lockdown. The incident came to light within two days of his marriage, as his new wife picked up a call on his cell phone while he was in the washroom. The caller introduced herself as the wife of the accused. Subsequently, the matter was reported to Awadhpuri police on Thursday. Both wives were called to file a complaint. The man’s first wife has sought time. Meanwhile, acting on the complaint filed by the second wife, police registered a case against the accused on charges of duping the woman by concealing the information of first marriage and started investigations. The accused was on the run and search was on to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/married-man-marries-again-booked-for-duping-21-yr-old/articleshow/76098753.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||How many people are walking on roads inside state, HC asks Uttarakhand||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday directed the state government to quantify the number of migrant workers who have entered the state and are walking to their homes. The court has also directed the state and the Indian Railways to inform the number of days it will take to bring back all the registered migrant labourers stuck in various states across the country. The division bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe said that while it will be difficult for the government to ascertain the number of migrants workers, in various states, who have chosen not to wait for trains and are walking hundreds of miles to Uttarakhand, the government can easily ascertain how many of them have entered the state but are still walking to their homes. The directions from the bench came while it was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that has highlighted the plight of migrant workers forced to walk hundreds of kilometres. The court also suo motu impleaded the general managers (GM) of the North and North Eastern Railway as well as divisional railway managers (DRM) of Moradabad and Izzatnagar in Bareilly. The bench then ordered both the state and the railways to furnish detailed break-up of the number of the stranded migrants in each state who have registered to come back and the number of trains which will be used in the process. The court has also directed the state government to provide district-wise information explaining how many of the registered migrants want to travel to which district, the number of buses that will be deployed to ferry them to their homes and the number of days it will take for all migrants to reach home. When the state government pointed that 15 of the 100 buses sent to New Delhi to bring back migrants came empty, the court said that both the Centre and the state should widely publicise about the arrangements they have made to bring back migrants since a large number of stranded people are still walking on roads and reaching Uttarakhand. The court has given the Centre, the state and the railways time till Wednesday to respond, when the matter will be taken up next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/how-many-people-are-walking-on-roads-inside-state-hc-asks-ukhand/articleshow/76097759.cms||Prashant Jha
May 30, 2020||Pune||Decision on final-year university examinations likely after vice-chancellors meet Maharashtra CM today||PUNE: The decision on final-year university exams is likely on Saturday after a meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and all vice-chancellors of the universities in Maharashtra. Higher education minister Uday Samant on Friday tweeted that the CM would meet the university vice-chancellors on May 30 (Saturday) at 12:30pm and discuss the issue. On April 29, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had issued guidelines regarding the conduct of examinations and academic schedule for 2020-21. Based on the guidelines, a state-level committee was formed and it submitted recommendations to the state government on May 6. As per the recommendations, all diploma, undergraduate and postgraduate students (except those in medical, agriculture and animal husbandry universities) were to be promoted as per the UGC guidelines and the state committee recommendations. The only exception were the final year/semester students. The universities formed committees to analyse how best they could conduct the examinations, when the higher education minister in a broadcast through social media platform said he was concerned about how social distancing and other safety measures could be followed during exams. He said he has written to he UGC on May 17 seeking permission to cancel even the final year examinations and issue guidelines on ways to promote the students. Most university officials were against this decision and many feared that the career of final-year students would be jeopardised due to it. A vice-chancellor on the condition of anonymity said, “We are hoping that Saturday’s meeting will finally clear the air regarding final year examinations. Examinations are being held by many states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/decision-on-final-year-university-examinations-likely-after-vice-chancellors-meet-cm-today/articleshow/76099828.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Quarantine over, brothers can’t enter their house||UDUPI: Two siblings have not been allowed to enter their house even after completing 14 days of quarantine. They are spending time at a bus stop at Udupi. Vishwu Shetty Ambalapady, a social worker, said the duo had not got their second Covid-19 test report and as per the governments’ new guidelines they were sent home for home quarantine. However, their neighbours and relatives insisted that the duo get the second report. “The brothers came to Udupi from another district 14 days ago. Although they were advised home quarantine, they had to opt for institutional quarantine owing to objection from public. Though their swabs were taken, the report was not received, and doctors sent them home,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/quarantine-over-brothers-cant-enter-their-house/articleshow/76097771.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Chennai||In biggest 1-day surge, TN adds 874 cases, tally crosses 20,000||Chennai: On the eve of the Tamil Nadu government’s meeting with its expert medical committee on easing the lockdown, the state’s Covid-19 count surged past 20,000 with 874 cases reported on Friday, the highest single day increase so far. Chennai accounted for 614 of the new cases, taking its tally to 13,362 or 66% of the state’s total of 20,246. Nine deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 154. Chief secretary K Shanmugham told TOI that while the lockdown would continue, relaxations would depend on the ground reality and directions from the Centre. Health secretary Beela Rajesh saw a silver lining in 765 patients being discharged from various government and private hospitals across the state, taking the number of those cured to 11,313. On Wednesday, director of medical education directed doctors from other district to report to Chennai for Covid duty. At least 600 doctors on a contract basis too will be joining work soon. “That is more than 50% of the positive cases. We now have fewer active cases,” she said. However, she admitted that “With increasing influx of migrants and possible relaxations of lockdown, we may have more cases soon within the city and outside.” On Friday, of the 874 cases 141 were people who had returned from other states. Since May 9, 1,000 people who had returned from abroad or other states have tested positive. NIE epidemiologists say Chennai has a higher rate of infection compared to the rest of TN. The doubling time for Tamil Nadu is nearly 16 days compared to 14 days in Chennai. “Chennai’s neighbours also continued to add cases. On Friday, Chengalpet registered 61 new cases, Kancheepuram 12 and Tiruvallur nine. The state health department has allotted 150 beds for Covid patients in each of the four peripheral hospitals in Royapettah, Tondiarpet, Anna Nagar and ESI hospital in KK Nagar. On Wednesday, Director of Medical Education directed doctors from other district to report to Chennai for Covid duty. The order that runs into eleven pages deputes specialists including oncologists, psychiatrists, paediatric surgeons, neurosurgeons and surgical gastroenterologists to various Covid care centres. And 600 doctors on a contract basis too will be joining work soon. A bulletin released by the state health department on Friday evening said six passengers who returned from Maharashtra by air tested positive. Among those who opted to travel by road, there were 129 positive cases from Maharashtra, three from Kerala, one each from West Bengal, Telangana and Karnataka. At least 131 passengers from other countries have reported positive till Friday and 155 passengers who returned from other states and have been kept under railway quarantine have reported positive till Friday. Villupuram, Kanyakumari, Erode and Ariyalur had one case each from within the district. A 33-year-old man admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Thursday died hours after admission. He had no comorbidities. The oldest on the list of casualties was an 86-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension who was admitted to a private hospital. The man died on Thursday. There were two more deaths in Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital– a 70-year old woman and a 66-yearold woman -- on Wednesday. An 85-year-old man and a 77-year-old man died at then GH on Thursday. A 62-year-old woman, a 63-year-old man and a 58-year-old woman died in private hospitals in Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-biggest-1-day-surge-tn-adds-874-cases-tally-crosses-20000/articleshow/76099830.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Dehradun||In biggest spike, Uttarakhand records 216 Covid-19 positive cases, or over 40% jump, in a day||DEHRADUN: In probably the biggest spike in Covid cases in the Himalayan states, Uttarakhand on Friday reported 216 novel coronavirus cases taking the state’s tally to 716. This was an over 40% jump and the sharpest single-day spike the hill state has seen so far. The highest, 85, cases were reported in Nainital district, of which 80 had taken the Shramik Special from Faridabad to Lalkuan. Nainital chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Bharti Rana said that the train carrying passengers from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Gurgaon and a few others states had reached Lalkuan on May 27. She said, “We have quarantined all the passengers and in the first round of testing, 80 samples were found Covid positive.” Last week, Nainital district had reported over 90 Covid cases and all of them had taken the Shramik Special from Mumbai that reached Haridwar on May 20. A health department official said, “With over 200 cases reported in the district in a week, it’s getting very difficult to find beds for everyone. We have requested the administration of various districts to take back their residents who were tested here but are from another district.” Meanwhile, Dehradun also reported 72 new Covid cases on Friday. Of the new cases, five are vegetable vendors and stockists from Niranjanpur Sabzi Mandi while the others are returnees from places such as Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh who all were in home quarantine so far. Dehradun CMO Dr BC Ramola said that of the 72 new patients from Dehradun, 23 were moved to Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) till the time of filing the report. “The other patients will either be moved to GDMC or to AIIMS Rishikesh,” he added. On the same day, Almora reported 21 new cases, followed by eight in Bageshwar and Tehri each, five each in Udham Singh Nagar, Haridwar and Pauri. Uttarkashi reported four new cases, followed by two in Rudraprayag and one in Pithoragarh. With 23 patients recovering on Friday, the total recoveries in the state reached 102. While 1,439 new samples were collected from across the state on May 29, the health department is awaiting reports of over 4,000 samples, collected between May 23 and 27. The current recovery rate in the state is now around 13%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-biggest-spike-ukhand-records-216-covid-ve-cases-or-over-40-jump-in-a-day/articleshow/76097778.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||Patients +ve, KGMU unit, 2 hosps shut for sanitization||Lucknow: Five doctors and nine nurses were among 18 health workers of three hospitals quarantined on Friday after patients they came into contact with tested positive to novel coronavirus infection. The three medical facilities have been partially closed for 24 hours for sanitization. A three-year-old boy from Pilibhit suffering from blood cancer tested positive when he came for a chemotherapy session at KGMU. “Six health workers, including three nurses, who came in contact with the boy have been quarantined and are being tested,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. A 50-year-old from Sultanpur undergoing heart treatment at a private hospital on Shaheed Path tested positive, following which four doctors and six nurses were quarantined. Two health workers, including a doctor in a private hospital in Gomtinagar Extension were quarantined after a 45-year-old patient from Sant Kabir Nagar admitted for liver abscess tested positive. A private diagnostic centre in Gomtinagar Extension has also been closed for 24 hours for sanitization as the patient underwent a CT scan here. “A list of employees and technicians who came in contact with the patient has been sought for testing,” said CMO office spokesperson, Yogesh Raghuvanshi. The patients of private hospitals have been shifted to SGPGI. Samples of health workers and family members of patients have been sent for testing, said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/patients-ve-kgmu-unit-2-hosps-shut-for-sanitization/articleshow/76100354.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal Covid-19 recovery rate better than Madhya Pradesh average||BHOPAL: The number of Covid-19 patients in Madhya Pradesh are now doubling over a period of 20 days, while the national average, in this regard, is 13.9 days, reads a status report presented by the state government on coronavirus situation in the state before the MP high court. A division bench headed by chief justice A K Mittal had sought a status report on the pandemic in MP, in response to a bunch of petitions on the issue. As per the status report, till May 24, there were 6,665 coronavirus-infected persons in the state, 3,408 of them had recovered, leaving 290 dead and 2,967 still battling the virus. While, the number of coronavirus active cases in the country as on May 24, was 73,560. MP ranked sixth in number of Covid-19 positive cases in the country. Talking about Bhopal, the report said that 15,878 persons per million had been tested for coronavirus in Bhopal as against 1,641 persons per million in the state. The average of positive cases in Bhopal was 3.1 as against the state average of 4.9 . The recovery rate in Bhopal was 63 % as against the state average of 51 %. The report further said that coronavirus-infected persons were there in 43 of the 52 districts and a total of 802 containment areas have been created all over the state. After submission of the status report, the division bench disposed of four of the nine petitions relating to coronavirus pandemic in the state while hearing on remaining five petitions will take place on June 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-covid-recovery-rate-better-than-state-average/articleshow/76097742.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||City taxpayers welcome instant PAN generation, demand quick corrections too||Ludhiana: Most taxpayers and the tax professionals in the city welcomed the instant PAN number generation facility by using Aadhaar card, launched by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday. But some insist the reform is not complete if the government does not allow the correction in PAN particulars instantly as well. Speaking to TOI, Nitin Chawla, an auto parts trader, said, “Generation of PAN number instantly is a great move indeed and will help the future taxpayers immensely. The earlier system of generating acknowledgement number first and then waiting for the PAN number to be allotted and despatch of the PAN card was a long procedure. However, government must also start the system of instant correction and updation in the PAN number particulars. Presently, it is difficult to get the corrections done and again we have to complete a lot of formalities, only then corrections can be done.” According to Manoj Gupta, a tax professional, instant PAN number generation will simplify the process. “But, in order for it to be a complete success, the finance minister should also ensure that correction in name or date of birth or other minor changes or mistakes should also be done instantly, if supported by sufficient proofs in this regard,” said Gupta. Sachin Shourie, an advocate, is also happy that the new system will do away the long waiting period. But he too insists the government should include corrections of personal particulars the same way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-taxpayers-welcome-instant-pan-generation-demand-quick-corrections-too/articleshow/76099827.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Now you see it, now you don't: BMC stamp on flyers' hands||MUMBAI: Travellers flying into the city, who are being stamped by the civic body to maintain home isolation for 7-14 days, have reported that the stamp gets wiped out after just one shower, and often with much lesser effort. In March, the BMC and State authorities had begun stamping passengers entering the country and expected to remain in home quarantine on the back of their hand. The stamp includes the date up to which the person needs to remain in home quarantine. A city-based photographer who came from Nagpur on one of the first flights on May 25 said, "Once we deplaned and were checked for temperature, my hand was stamped. I then sat in a car to get home and used a wet wipe to sanitize my hands and belongings. The stamp immediately faded. When I reached home and showered, it had disappeared. I will complete the home quarantine, but someone else could misuse it," he told TOI. International passengers had a similar experience. Rahul Sondi, a student who returned to the city on the first Air India London-Mumbai flight said, "I was quarantined in a hotel for 14 days. The BMC then tested me for Covid-19 and even though the result was negative, they stamped my hand for a further 14 days of home quarantine. I moved back home on Sunday and there was no sign of the stamp on Monday." However, a civic official said air travellers had downloaded the Arogya Setu app which can be used to keep a check. "Even if the stamp is gone, people must be responsible and not step out without completing the quarantine," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-you-see-it-now-you-dont-bmc-stamp-on-flyers-hands/articleshow/76100992.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
May 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Affected locals protest outside homes||VISAKHAPATNAM: Residents of around 10 villages affected by the styrene vapour leak from the LG Polymers plant in RR Venkatapuram staged protests right outside their homes on Friday. They demanded that the government shift the plant from RR Venkatapuram and arrest the plant’s management on grounds of negligence. The protestors further demanded that the government issue health cards with lifelong validity to people of the affected areas, set up a super-specialty hospital in the area, and give compensation to people living in three-km radius of the plant. They also demanded that the police revoke the cases lodged against protestors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/affected-locals-protest-outside-homes/articleshow/76097806.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Rly to appoint health workers at city station to handle ‘Shramik’ emergencies||Ludhiana: The death of a 60-year-old migrant labourer, who was travelling in one of the Shramik trains, rattled the railway authorities so much that they have decided to appoint a team of health workers in the city station premises. The team will offer emergency health services to migrants labourers waiting to catch long distance trains. Railway authorities’ decision will aid passengers who do not have adequate resources in the train heading towards Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Several incidents have come to the fore in the last few days, when the temperature soared really high, making it difficult for people. The migrant labourers are one of the worst affected as they have been forced to stand in long queues for undergoing the verification and health screening before boarding the train. Sources in the railway department have revealed that almost every single train heading towards Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were being delayed by several hours in this hot and sweltering season resulting in heat-related complications among the passengers, including death. Apart from that, lack of proper management in handling the large number of migrant population is becoming another reason for illness of migrant labourers who are travelling in special trains for several hours without proper availability of food and drinking water, said sources. An official from cleaning team on condition of anonymity said, “Local railway authorities have received the instructions from higher authorities of the division that necessary arrangements must be made to provide clean drinking water in water taps.” According to him, migrant labourers have alleged that the railway authorities have not made any arrangements in stations that the special train cross through and that they were forced to drink the water from toilet. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar confirmed that a team of health workers will be available at the station. “Especially now, it is so hot that the railways decided to have the team ready in case of emergencies. We have also made all necessary arrangements for handling essential medical services to passengers travelling in Shramik trains. The division authorities have released new set of guidelines, taking the extreme heat into consideration,” added the director. “To make sure that migrant labourers are getting clean drinking water from taps, local railway authorities have decided to collect samples of the water from taps twice a week,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rly-to-appoint-health-workers-at-city-station-to-handle-shramik-emergencies/articleshow/76099835.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
May 30, 2020||Goa||Must cap number of people entering Goa to protect state: Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday suggested that the number of persons entering Goa be capped, after a problem arose at Mapusa’s Asilo hospital due to a larger-than-expected number of entrants. “Something has to be done to cap the number of people entering the state every day,” Rane told reporters. The problem at the district hospital, he said, arose since the number of people who came in to Goa on Thursday were far greater than anticipated. “There was an issue,” he said. “We cannot just keep increasing the number of machines for Covid-19 tests to increase the speed of testing. However, all these issues will have to be discussed by CM Pramod Sawant, and I’m sure he will.” Insisting on strict protocols for the management of Covid-19, he said that such measures are required to remove any scope of community transmission of the novel coronavirus. “Till today, we have kept Goa safe,” he said. “We have done a pretty good job compared to other states.” He said that he isn’t worried about the present, but about the future. “My worry is the inflow of people to the state, and how do we manage,” he said. “We need economic activity, but at the same time, we also need strict measures to live with Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/must-impose-cap-on-no-of-people-entering-goa-every-day-rane/articleshow/76100358.cms||Bindiya Chari
May 30, 2020||Lucknow||Woman who died of stroke in Lucknow had Covid-19||LUCKNOW: The test report of a 55-year-old woman, who died on Thursday morning at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) due to brain haemorrhage, came out to be positive for novel coronavirus infection on Friday. She is the third patient in the city to have lost battle with Covid-19 since the outbreak on March 11. The deceased, Rafia Siddiqui, was a resident of Barood Khana in Golaganj. She was the first Covid-19 patient from the locality. She was buried on Thursday itself according to Covid-19 protocol. In-charge of trauma centre, KGMU, Dr Santosh Kumar said, “She was gasping for breath due to brain haemorrhage when she was brought to the hospital around 2am. She was taken to the ICU for ventilator support as her oxygen level was below 60% but collapsed before intubation could be done.” “The patient had comorbid conditions like hypothyroidism, diabetes and high blood pressure. It is possible that brain hemorrhage was caused by high blood pressure and by the time attendants brought her to the hospital, blood oxygen dropped and her heart stopped functioning,” he added. Hailing from a lower-middle-class family, Rafia is survived by her husband and two daughters. Family members told doctors that she was complaining of headache for three days and taking painkillers. They rushed her to hospital when she fell unconscious in the wee hours of Thursday. Her swab sample for Covid-19 test was taken as a mandatory procedure required for every emergency patient. CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “Swab samples of her family members and contacts have been sent for testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-who-died-of-stroke-had-covid-19/articleshow/76100357.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Team of experts from South Korea held back||VISAKHAPATNAM: A team of experts sent by LG Polymers from South Korea who had come to the city to investigate the possible reasons and effects of the styrene leak from the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram have been held back by the city police. The police are now seeking legal opinion on whether they can allow the team to fly back to Seoul. Speaking to TOI, RVSN Murthy, ACP (Dwaraka zone) said, “At present, all eight people along with a few senior officials of LG Polymers are staying at a hotel on Beach Road. We have received a request that the team wants to fly back. We will allow them to leave the country only after seeking legal opinion.” Murthy is one of the senior cops investigating the styrene leak incident. Visakhapatnam airport officials said that the team of experts were scheduled to fly back to Seoul at 11:40pm on Friday in a chartered flight. However, the airport received information in the afternoon that their flight has been rescheduled to Saturday for the same time. “Following a high court directive on the matter, we seized the passports of the directors and some other senior officials of LG Polymers. We are not sure whether we can allow this team to leave the country after the court directive. There is no specific direction from the court to arrest anyone. We are seeking legal opinion,” a senior official said. Meanwhile, the high court on Friday asked LG Polymers India to file a counter affidavit with additional details on the employees who are going into the plant for maintenance and the measures taken by them to ensure the logs are maintained. The HC posted the matter for further hearing to June 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/team-of-experts-from-south-korea-held-back/articleshow/76097779.cms||Arpit Basu
May 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Murder case of Covid-19 positive man solved||LUDHIANA: The Division number 5 police have solved the murder case of the 19-year-old Karan Chaudhary of Janakpuri, who had tested positive with Covid-19 after death. After arresting the accused on Friday, sample for his Covid-19 test was also taken. The arrested accused has been identified as Rajwinder Singh, 19, of Manjit Nagar. Accoring to the police, the accused just wanted to rob the victim. But on May 13, when the accused tried to rob him, Karan fought back. The accused stabbed him with a sharp-edged weapon and escaped. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurcharanjit Singh, incharge of bus stand police post, said, “The accused is habitual drinker who murdered Karan while attempting to rob him. The police have recovered murder weapon from his possession.” The ASI added that Karan had left his home in a hurry, following a spat with his family members. He did not carry any valuables on his person. And when he reached Manjit Nagar, the accused intercepted him and murdered him. The accused did not find anything on the body of victim. The police are investigating to know past criminal record of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/murder-case-of-corona-positive-man-solved/articleshow/76099832.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Elderly duped of Rs 3 lakh in KYC update fraud||PUNE: A 68-year-old woman from Wakad lost Rs3.07 lakh to cybercrooks in a Paytm update fraud on February 27 and 28. She lodged an FIR with the Wakad police on Thursday. On February 27, the woman received a message regarding her Paytm account needing an update. She called the number and the person told her to download an application and give her personal and bank details in the app. “Rs2.95 lakh was siphoned off from her account. The following day, Rs12,500 was further debited from the account,” an officer said. The woman lost Rs3.07 lakh through two transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-duped-of-rs-3l-in-paytm-update-fraud/articleshow/76099838.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Pune||Scrap vendor admits to kin’s murder||Pune: A scrap vendor surrendered before the Koregaon Park police on Friday and admitted to have killed his brother in-law with a stick two days ago over a past dispute. The body of Akshay Kulkarni (22) was found at an open ground behind bungalow no.4 on Queens Garden Road. The arrested vendor, Santosh Mancharam Chavan (25) of Somwar Peth, and Kulkarni were in the business of scrap material. Police said Kulkarni’s sister, Nikita, had left Chavan on May 25, following which a dispute broke out between the victim and the suspect. Senior inspector Pramod Patki from Koregaon Park police said, “Chavan and Kulkarni met at the open ground the evening of May 26 and abused each other over the issue of Nikita refusing to get back with her husband. Chavan picked up a tree branch and brutally attacked Kulkarni, killing him instantly. He fled the spot.” The officer said Chavan led the investigators to the crime scene after surrendering. “Kulkarni’s body was sent to the Sassoon hospital for an autopsy and a report is awaited,” Patki said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scrap-vendor-admits-to-kins-murder/articleshow/76099834.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 30, 2020||Ranchi||Coronavirus kills Giridih man as Jharkhand records biggest single-day spike||RANCHI/RAMGARH/SINDRI: One Covid-19 patient from Giridih died at a private hospital in Ranchi on Thursday night taking the state toll to five, state health officials confirmed on Friday, when Jharkhand recorded its biggest single-day surge in number of Covid-19, detecting 45 fresh cases. The state had detected 42 cases on May 20,. The total cases in the state has now crossed the 500-mark. Of the 521 cases recorded so far, 299 are active while 217 have recovered. Notably, Jharkhand recorded its first 200 cases in 45 days and the next 200 came in just 12 days. The last lot of 120 were detected in just four days. Among the 45 fresh cases, East Singhbhum, Hazaribag and Ramgarh recorded the highest single-day spikes. While East Singhubhum topped the chart with 14 case, Hazaribag reported 10 and Ramgarh had nine. Koderma reported seven, Dhanbad three cases and two from Bokaro. All 45 cases were migrants returning from different states. In Hazaribag, those who tested positive are from different villages of Barkagaon and Barhi blocks. In Ramgarh, all nine are residents of Ramgarh sadar and Chitarpur blocks. A Hazaribag district official said, “We are making arrangements to shift the patients to the Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital at the earliest.” Jamshedpur, which had not detected a single case for more than 40 days since the outbreak in the state, started reporting cases from urban pockets in the second week of May. A district official said, “All 14 persons who tested positive on Friday are residents of various areas of Jamshedpur city.” In Koderma, all seven cases had travel history of visiting high-risk states, including Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/virus-kills-giridih-man-as-jharkhand-records-biggest-single-day-spike/articleshow/76098963.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 30, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand high court allows liquidation of firm after 41 years||RANCHI: A petition related to liquidation of a company, which was pending for the last 41 years, was eventually disposed of by the Jharkhand high court on Thursday. The petitions were filed in 1979 for liquidation of Nalanda Ceramic and Industries for payment of dues to several creditors, which included banks, Bihar State Financial Corporation and individuals. Himanshu Mehta, lawyer appearing on behalf of the official liquidator, said, “The court of Justice A K Choudhary disposed of the matter after ordering that the company would be deemed to be dissolved after a sum of amount, equalling more than 21% of the assessment value made by the official liquidator, is paid to secured creditors within a period of one month.” He added that took time for the revival of the case after it was dismissed for default, issuing of notices to the parties, removal of defects and evaluation process of the company. Mehta also said there were hardly any buyers for the company in the initial phase as it was located in an extremist-affected Angara block. He also informed that it took a considerable time for the document of the case to arrive at Jharkhand high court after the bifurcation of Bihar and creation of Jharkhand. A copy of the court order is yet to be uploaded on the official website of the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-high-court-allows-liquidation-of-firm-after-41-years/articleshow/76098653.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Jamshedpur||No bail for hotel owner, others||JAMSHEDPUR: The court of the district judge on Friday refused bail to the owner of a hotel, Rajiv Duggal, and four others — Sharad Poddar, Laddo Mangotiya, Rajat Jaggi and Deepak Agarwal — who are accused in a case under Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. Mangotiya, Jaggi and Agarwal were picked up by a police team from the bar of Alcor hotel on April 25. They were allegedly partying there in violation of lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/no-bail-for-hotel-owner-others/articleshow/76104655.cms||---
May 30, 2020||Jamshedpur||Coronavirus kills Giridih man as Jharkhand records biggest single-day spike||RANCHI/RAMGARH/SINDRI: One Covid-19 patient from Giridih died at a private hospital in Ranchi on Thursday night taking the state toll to five, state health officials confirmed on Friday, when Jharkhand recorded its biggest single-day surge in number of Covid-19, detecting 45 fresh cases. The state had detected 42 cases on May 20,. The total cases in the state has now crossed the 500-mark. Of the 521 cases recorded so far, 299 are active while 217 have recovered. Notably, Jharkhand recorded its first 200 cases in 45 days and the next 200 came in just 12 days. The last lot of 120 were detected in just four days. Among the 45 fresh cases, East Singhbhum, Hazaribag and Ramgarh recorded the highest single-day spikes. While East Singhubhum topped the chart with 14 case, Hazaribag reported 10 and Ramgarh had nine. Koderma reported seven, Dhanbad three cases and two from Bokaro. All 45 cases were migrants returning from different states. In Hazaribag, those who tested positive are from different villages of Barkagaon and Barhi blocks. In Ramgarh, all nine are residents of Ramgarh sadar and Chitarpur blocks. A Hazaribag district official said, “We are making arrangements to shift the patients to the Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital at the earliest.” Jamshedpur, which had not detected a single case for more than 40 days since the outbreak in the state, started reporting cases from urban pockets in the second week of May. A district official said, “All 14 persons who tested positive on Friday are residents of various areas of Jamshedpur city.” In Koderma, all seven cases had travel history of visiting high-risk states, including Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/virus-kills-giridih-man-as-jharkhand-records-biggest-single-day-spike/articleshow/76104509.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 30, 2020||Ranchi||Migrant push to take Jharkhand tally to 1,600 in 2 weeks: Health secretary||RANCHI: The arrival of migrants and stranded persons from across the country might push Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally to over 1,600 by June 15, the state government projected on Friday. “Two weeks ago, we had close to 250 cases. As on date, there has been more than 470 cases. If we go by the current trend, then Jharkhand will have close to 1,600 cases within the next fortnight,” health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said. While there were 259 active cases till Friday evening, East Singhbhum had the highest of them (37) followed by Hazaribag (36), Koderma (30), Ranchi (26), Garhwa (22), Gumla (20), Ramgarh and West Singhbhum (15 each), Giridih (13) and Dhanbad (10). Chatra, Deoghar, Godda, Dumka and Jamtara have no active cases at present. While the state’s positivity rate is 0.82%, five districts have rates higher than 1%. “The positivity rates in Garhwa (5.8%), Bokaro (5%), Koderma (2.94%) and Ranchi (1.55%) are particularly high,” Kulkarni added. Jharkhand’s Covid growth rate stood at 6.4%, higher than the national average of 4.9%. However, the state’s mortality rate is 1.05%, lesser than the national average of over 3%. While Jharkhand’s doubling rate stood at 11.1 days, districts like Dhanbad, Bokaro, Latehar, East Singbhum, West Singhbhum, Dumka, Hazaribag, Simdega and Koderma have reported doubling rates in between four and five days. Kulkarni said the state’s test rate improved to 1,526 cases a day, but it is still below the national average. Close to 58,000 persons have been tested so far across the state, including 33,000 returning migrants. “In all, around 10% of total migrants have been tested so far,” he added. Kulkarni said that 20 Truenat machines are expected to arrive in Ranchi on Saturday. The department said 8,669 beds across 207 hospitals have been earmarked for Covid-19 patients. Of them, 500 are ICU beds and 3,350 have oxygen support. There are 215 ventilators in all. The government said there are 134 containment zones in Jharkhand. “Among the 29,604 samples collected from these zones, 263 have tested positive,” Kulkarni added. Speaking before Kulkarni, state disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal said over 5 lakh people have returned to Jharkhand since May 1. “Of them, 2.57 lakh have come in 143 special trains while 1.85 lakh came in buses. Approximately, 1 lakh people came in their own vehicles and on other forms of transport,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/migrant-push-to-take-jharkhand-tally-to-1-6k-in-2-weeks-health-secy/articleshow/76098585.cms||Dhritiman Ray
May 30, 2020||Ranchi||RTF decides to observe National Day of Mourning on June 1||RANCHI: The ‘Right to Food Campaign’ (RTF) said that it will observe June 1 as the ‘National Day of Mourning’ in memory of those who passed away owing to reasons linked to the lockdown. Representatives of the group from Jharkhand, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Odisha made the declaration during a press conference held on a digital platform on Friday. “The lockdown was enforced by the government all of a sudden without proper planning. As a result, poor people, especially daily wagers, suffered the most. They continued to be victims of government apathy even when the lockdown was eased. For instance, 27 people have died in Jharkhand alone during transit or owing to hunger, among others,” Asharfi Nand Prasad, the convener of RTF Jharkhand, said. Prasad said the activists have asked supporters and citizens to observe a two-minute silence any time according to their convenience between 9am and 11am on June 1. “We also appeal to people to wear black badges and stand in solidarity but while maintaining social-distancing norms. The protest would be carried out wherever labourers and farmers want to express their solidarity with the victims of government apathy,” Prasad added. In a press statement issued later, the organisation said, “There were 205 road accident deaths during transportation of labourers, and another 114 people have died owing to hunger or other issues linked to the lockdown.” The activists also criticised the way in which labourers were sprinkled with bleaching solution at some places. “Around 17 lakh labourers from Bihar were left stranded in other states. So when they were allowed to move, hundreds of them in desperation came walking or in rickshaws and carts, and some of them died during transit,” Nivedita, a member of RTF Bihar, said. She further alleged that non-governmental organisations were not allowed to help common people during the early phase of lockdown. Balram of RTF Jharkhand said, “Maybe, for the first time in the history of the railways, trains lost their direction and travelled all over the place. For instance, a train meant for Balia in Uttar Pradesh reached Gujarat.” The activists also decided to observe the week from June 2 to 9 as accountability week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rtf-decides-to-observe-national-day-of-mourning-on-june-1/articleshow/76098324.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
May 30, 2020||Jamshedpur||Ensure smooth power supply in Jamshedpur within 72 hours: Banna||JAMSHEDPUR: State health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta on Friday directed the Jharkhand State Electricity Board (Jamshedpur division) and the East Singhbhum district officials to ensure uninterrupted power supply in the non-Tata Steel administrated areas under the Jamshedpur (West) assembly constituency within the next three days. On Friday, Gupta, who is also the Jamshedpur (West) MLA, held a high-level meeting with the power officials on the matter here at circuit house. During the meeting, which was also attended by DC Ravi Shankar Shukla, Gupta warned of action against them, if the power situation is not taken care of. “The officials have been instructed to collect pending power bills from well-to-do business establishments and factory owners, instead of harassing the poor residents who are suffering from frequent and long power outages,” Gupta said after the meeting. The power supply in different parts of Mango, MGM, Olidih, Baliguma, Transportnagar, Sonari and Kadma is erratic with residents complaining about power cuts for the last 10 days. “Erratic power supply in Kadma, Sonari, Mango and Azadnagar happened due to the damage of AB switch in the transformers,” Gupta said. Around 225 transformers reported damage of AB switches in the Jamshedpur (West) assembly constituency. “Out of the total identified transformers, 80 have been replaced with new AB switches and the remaining will be replaced shortly,” Gupta said. “Officials have been directed to increase the capacity of the Baliguma power grid. Instructions have been given to identify a place for setting up a new power sub station in Baliguma in Mango,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/ensure-smooth-power-supply-in-steel-city-within-72-hrs-banna/articleshow/76098247.cms||B Sridhar
May 30, 2020||Ranchi||Rims junior doctor on Covid-19 duty alleges rape bid by senior resident||RANCHI: A junior doctor on Covid-19 duty at the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences’ (Rims) accused a senior resident doctor of the hospital of molestation and trying to rape her on Wednesday night. The accused is absconding and police have been booked him under various sections of the IPC. In a written complaint to the hospital management on Thursday evening, the girl had demanded an FIR be lodged against the accused, identified as Dr Arun Kumar Maurya. The hospital authorities forwarded the complaint to station-in-charge of Bariatu police station where an FIR was lodged on Friday. Rims director D K Singh said, “It is a very unfortunate incident and the management will not hesitate to take strict action against the accused. The girl, along with her head of department (anaesthesia) had met me on Thursday evening to hand over the complaint. I forwarded it to the station-in-charge of Bariatu police station for legal action, as per her request.” Asked if the hospital administration will conduct an internal inquiry into the incident, Singh said, “If she asks for an internal inquiry, we will hand over the case to the women’s cell at Rims to investigate the matter at their level.” The accused, Dr Maurya, worked at the critical care unit, and the girl was at the isolation ward when the incident happened. According to sources at Rims, the complainant and the accused were on Covid-19 duty at the new trauma centre from May 21 to May 27. While Dr Maurya used to head home after his duty hours, the girl was putting up on the fourth floor at the Rims paying ward. On Wednesday night, the accused had allegedly chosen to stay back after his shift was over, the sources added. A group of junior residents assembled at Bariatu police station on Friday and demanded immediate arrest of the accused and cancellation of his medical license. A few of the protesters alleged that police downplayed the matter because the accused is a relative of a noted city-based nephrologist. “Police have failed to discharge their duties as they have not been able to arrest the accused yet. We have assembled here with a request to arrest him at the earliest,” a junior doctor said on anonymity. Officer-in-charge of Bariatu police station, Sapan Mahta, said, “We have raided several places to nab the accused but he is absconding.” Mahta said the accused was booked under sections 376 (rape) and 511 (attempt to commit an offence) of the IPC. He added,“We have written to the Rims management, requesting it to get the girl tested for Covid-19 after her quarantine period ends, so that we can produce her before a judicial magistrate to record her statement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-junior-doc-on-covid-duty-alleges-rape-bid-by-senior-resident/articleshow/76098232.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 30, 2020||Ranchi||No bail for hotel owner, others||JAMSHEDPUR: The court of the district judge on Friday refused bail to the owner of a hotel, Rajiv Duggal, and four others — Sharad Poddar, Laddo Mangotiya, Rajat Jaggi and Deepak Agarwal — who are accused in a case under Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. Mangotiya, Jaggi and Agarwal were picked up by a police team from the bar of Alcor hotel on April 25. They were allegedly partying there in violation of lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-bail-for-hotel-owner-others/articleshow/76098680.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
May 30, 2020||Ranchi||8,440 swabs tested in Hindpiri: Jharkhand government tells HC||RANCHI: The state government on Friday informed the Jharkhand high court that restrictions from a few localities in Hindpiri area, where no Covid-19 cases were found in the last 28 days, have been lifted. The court was also informed that a total of 8,440 samples from the area was tested for the virus. This comes after the court recently sought information about the number of tests and the overall situation in the Hindpiri containment zone. Hindpiri came under the administration’s lens after the first Covid-19 case, a Malaysian woman, surfaced from the area. Soon enough, other cases were spotted from the area and subsequently, all entry and exit points were blocked and Hindpiri was converted into a containment zone. The government made the submissions before a division bench comprising Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice S N Prasad during the hearing of PILs related to curbing of Covid-19 in the state. Advocate general (AG) Rajiv Ranjan informed the court that there are around 45,000 persons living in Hindpiri. “Samples were collected from as many as 8,440 suspected persons through several contact-tracing drives in the area,” he said. Citing examples, the AG told the court, “On May 2, door-to-door screening of 38,000 persons were conducted, following which, samples of 13 suspected persons were sent for Covid-19 tests. A similar exercise was also conducted before Eid, during which, 26 samples were sent for tests. During these two screenings, nobody was found to be Covid-19 positive.” The AG further said so far 4.5 lakh migrant workers have arrived in the state and all of them have been screened. “Out of the total, the administration sent samples of 30,000 migrants for Covid-19 tests who showed some symptoms of the virus,” he said adding, “Those with symptoms are being kept at institutionalised quarantine centres and the rest are kept under 14-day mandatory home quarantine.” Indrajit Sinha, a lawyer taking part in the hearing, said, “The government in the affidavit said ICMR has sent a strategy for Covid-19 testing in the country, which is being strictly followed. I wanted to raise some issues related to Hindpiri on which the court asked me to give a written submission.” During the hearing, the court also orally mentioned that the state government should be allowed to work and observed that one cannot ask for every minute detail regarding its functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8440-swabs-tested-in-hindpiri-jharkhand-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/76098615.cms||Sanjay Sahay
May 30, 2020||Jamshedpur||Kolhan districts asked to create flying squads for quarantine centre inspection||JAMSHEDPUR: Kolhan divisional commissioner Virendra Bhushan on Friday said he asked deputy commissioners of East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts to prepare flying squads for surprise inspection of the quarantine centres under their respective jurisdictions. “I have written letters to all the deputy commissioners in this regard so that quarantine centres are regulated in a better way,” Bhushan said. The squads will monitor availability of food, water and electricity at these centres,” he added. Incidentally, migrants at a centre in Macha under Patamda block refused to take food on Thursday night and demanded that they be released. Patamda block officials released 10 migrants on Friday and assured to release the rest, if their Covid-19 test reports turned are negative. Around 8,000 migrants have returned to Kolhan since May 1. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum administration announced that the Integrated Data Capturing and Reporting System (IDCRS) will be launched from May 31. The objective of IDCRS is to store data of migrants in a digital format to help track them. DC Ravi Shankar Shukla asked the district education superintendent, Vineet Kumar, to deploy schoolteachers at checkpoints for collection and entry of migrants’ data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/kolhan-districts-asked-to-create-flying-squads-for-quarantine-centre-inspection/articleshow/76098205.cms||B Sridhar
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Parsis upset with Punchayat over Covid-19 victims' cremations in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Parsis in the city are upset with the Bombay Parsi Punchayat (BPP) for not making a representation either to the BMC or state government to allow them to practise their traditional funeral rites for community members who died Covid-19 positive. The Punchayat, which manages the Doongerwadi property where Parsis are laid to rest has taken the view that pall bearers could get contaminated while handling Covid-19 victims. Over the past month, more than half-a-dozen cases of Parsis who died Covid-19 positive being forcibly cremated were reported in Mumbai and a few more in Vadodara and Ahmedabad. Some of their distressed relatives narrated their tragic experiences on social media, leading to protests within the community. Parsi activists point out to a recent Bombay high court order which had ruled in favour of Muslims and allowed them to bury their community members who died Covid-19 positive. The court had observed that the dead have "a right to decent burial according to his or her religious rites" and had added that there was no scientific data by the World Health Organisation to indicate that cadavers spread coronavirus. For over a thousand years, Parsi Zoroastrians in India have practised an ancient system of disposing of their dead (sky burials). Bodies are placed in open-to-the-sky large consecrated wells called the Dakhmas where they are desiccated under the harsh rays of the sun and eaten by birds of prey. In Mumbai, the Parsi dead are taken to the 350-year-old Doongerwadi complex, a 55-acre verdant forest at Malabar Hill. Almost 90% of the community in Mumbai still prefer this method of disposal. Said advocate Khushru Zaiwala, "The BPP trustees have refused to even make representations to the BMC or state government. They have failed in their duties as trustees by conveniently looking the other way." Activist Zoru Bhathena said that no Parsi can be forced to be cremated when they don't want to and the "BPP's inaction results in exactly this happening". In a letter to the BPP, Bhathena stated, "This discrimination between Covid positive and Covid negative corpses follows no rationale nor medical logic, as dead bodies do not spread viruses. Access to Doongerwadi has never been denied based on such diseases. Even during the plague epidemic, Doongerwadi was functioning for all Parsis." Responding to widespread criticism for its inaction, the BPP finally released a statement on Wednesday. It said the method of consignment of the dead includes giving the body a ritual bath. "It means our pall bearers will have to touch the body at various stages, and hence be subject to infection," said the trustees. Further, the BMC has informed the trustees that a Parsi victim of Covid-19 would not be given a death certificate to be taken to Doongerwadi. "The board of trustees discussed this at length and felt it would be prudent to follow the government's directive," said the statement. The BPP also feared that in case anyone gets infected at Doongerwadi, the authorities would place the entire complex under quarantine and "we would not be able to consign our other dead there either".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parsis-upset-with-punchayat-over-covid-19-victims-cremations-in-mumbai/articleshow/76101019.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
May 30, 2020||Mumbai||Dharavi reports 41 new patients, 2% dip in daily growth rate of cases||MUMBAI: Dharavi reported 41 new Covid-19 positive cases on Friday, taking the total tally to 1,715. According to BMC data released on Friday, the average daily growth rate of positive cases is around 4.9%, a nearly 2% drop compared to 6.7% two weeks ago. This week, 30-40 new cases were reported daily in the slum colony; in fact, on Wednesday, the number had dipped to 18. In comparison, on May 3, 95 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported and on May 15, 83. Civic officials said that the average doubling of Covid-19 positive cases in Dharavi is improving-it has touched 31 days. On Sunday, it was 21 days. Doubling time is the estimated days it takes for cases to double; the higher the rate, the fewer the new infections. But civic officials do not want to take this 'slowing down' trend lightly and are ensuring enough beds are made available in the quarantine facilities set up in the slum colony that houses around 6.5 lakh registered population. Also, a 5,000 sq m open plot opposite Mahim Nature Park, which has been converted into a 200-bed dedicated Covid care centre, will become operational on Monday. Assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar said the increase in cases in Dharavi is due to aggressive testing. Officials said till date, around 5,000-plus tests have been conducted on locals who display any symptoms. "These include 3,450 tests done at the ward-level and 1,200 tests done via fever camps in the area. Besides, tests were done on people who directly went to Sion and KEM hospitals," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dharavi-reports-41-new-patients-2-dip-in-daily-growth-rate-of-cases/articleshow/76101024.cms||Richa Pinto
May 30, 2020||World||Trump says he spoke to PM Modi, govt denies it||NEW DELHI/WASHINGTON: India made it clear that US President Donald Trump's remarks suggesting a recent conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his reference to the PM being in a bad mood over tensions with China may be out of place with officials pointing out that the two leaders had not spoken since April 4. For the second consecutive day, India distanced itself from a Trump statement. On Thursday, it made it clear that Trump's offer for mediation — he tweeted that he had "informed" India and China about his readiness to do so — was not needed in view of bilateral mechanisms. The brush-off after Trump’s bid to insert himself into a high-stakes boundary dispute did not seem to dampen Trump's spirits who told journalists on Friday, "I did speak to Prime Minister Modi. He is not in a good mood about what’s going on with China." Indian officials were quick to point out that the last time Modi and Trump spoke on the phone was on April 4, when the conversation was dominated by the US asking India to ease the ban on hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) exports. In other words, there has been no recent engagement between Modi and Trump. China’s official media Global Times observed when the first offer was made: "The latest dispute can be solved bilaterally by China and India. The two countries should keep alert on the US, which exploits every chance to create waves that jeopardise regional peace and order." In Washington, Trump told reporters, "I like Modi. I like your Prime Minister a lot. He’s a great gentleman. A great gentleman. They have a big conflict going with India and China. Two countries with 1.4 billion people. Two countries with very powerful militaries. India is not happy, and probably China is not happy." He prefaced his remarks, with a little bit of pumping from a fawning Indian journalist, about how popular he was in India, with recollection of his trip to the country and how "they like me in India certainly more than the media likes me in this country". Trump is known to be a phono-hog who breaks protocol all the time for informal conversations with friends, but critics also suggest he is a fantasist who makes up things — for instance when he claimed Modi asked him to intercede in India’s problems with Pakistan over Kashmir. Trump’s offer to mediate between India and China comes at a time when the two countries are negotiating a particularly tough de-escalation after Chinese troops stopped patrolling by Indian soldiers at several points in eastern Ladakh, leading to stand-off situations in Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley. The Indian government’s decision to swiftly correct the record vis-a-vis Trump would help in making negotiations with Beijing smoother. India has a long history of not accepting third-party mediation. But for China, already wary of India’s growing relationship with the US, boundary negotiations would become immeasurably more difficult if the US was put in the mix.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-he-spoke-to-pm-modi-govt-denies-it/articleshow/76101044.cms||Indrani Bagchi
May 30, 2020||India||Trump says he spoke to PM Modi, govt denies it||NEW DELHI/WASHINGTON: India made it clear that US President Donald Trump's remarks suggesting a recent conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his reference to the PM being in a bad mood over tensions with China may be out of place with officials pointing out that the two leaders had not spoken since April 4. For the second consecutive day, India distanced itself from a Trump statement. On Thursday, it made it clear that Trump's offer for mediation — he tweeted that he had "informed" India and China about his readiness to do so — was not needed in view of bilateral mechanisms. The brush-off after Trump’s bid to insert himself into a high-stakes boundary dispute did not seem to dampen Trump's spirits who told journalists on Friday, "I did speak to Prime Minister Modi. He is not in a good mood about what’s going on with China." Indian officials were quick to point out that the last time Modi and Trump spoke on the phone was on April 4, when the conversation was dominated by the US asking India to ease the ban on hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) exports. In other words, there has been no recent engagement between Modi and Trump. China’s official media Global Times observed when the first offer was made: "The latest dispute can be solved bilaterally by China and India. The two countries should keep alert on the US, which exploits every chance to create waves that jeopardise regional peace and order." In Washington, Trump told reporters, "I like Modi. I like your Prime Minister a lot. He’s a great gentleman. A great gentleman. They have a big conflict going with India and China. Two countries with 1.4 billion people. Two countries with very powerful militaries. India is not happy, and probably China is not happy." He prefaced his remarks, with a little bit of pumping from a fawning Indian journalist, about how popular he was in India, with recollection of his trip to the country and how "they like me in India certainly more than the media likes me in this country". Trump is known to be a phono-hog who breaks protocol all the time for informal conversations with friends, but critics also suggest he is a fantasist who makes up things — for instance when he claimed Modi asked him to intercede in India’s problems with Pakistan over Kashmir. Trump’s offer to mediate between India and China comes at a time when the two countries are negotiating a particularly tough de-escalation after Chinese troops stopped patrolling by Indian soldiers at several points in eastern Ladakh, leading to stand-off situations in Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley. The Indian government’s decision to swiftly correct the record vis-a-vis Trump would help in making negotiations with Beijing smoother. India has a long history of not accepting third-party mediation. But for China, already wary of India’s growing relationship with the US, boundary negotiations would become immeasurably more difficult if the US was put in the mix.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trump-says-he-spoke-to-pm-modi-govt-denies-it/articleshow/76101017.cms||Indrani Bagchi
