May 31, 2020||India||Coronavirus cases cross 300-mark in Himachal as 18 more test positive; 24 recover||SHIMLA: The number of coronavirus cases has crossed the 300-mark in Himachal Pradesh as 18 more cases were reported in the state on Saturday. Six of the 18 fresh cases are from Hamirpur, five from Kangra, four from Una and three from Solan district, officials said. The number of total cases has now reached 314. Coronavirus lockdown: Latest updatesMeanwhile, 24 people including the lone patient from Kullu district were cured of the virus on Saturday, they said. Majority of the fresh COVID-19 cases recently returned from outside the state. With this, the number of active cases in the state now stands at 197. While 111 COVID-19 patients have recovered, six have died, the officials said. More on Covid-19  Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage  Lockdown 4.0: What's allowed and what's not in the three zones  It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign  MHA's guidelines for home isolation  Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Hamirpur has the highest number of active cases at 78, followed by 50 in Kangra, 18 in Una, 16 in Solan, 11 in Bilaspur, nine in Chamba, seven in Shimla, six in Mandi and two in Sirmaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-cases-cross-300-mark-in-himachal-as-18-more-test-positive-24-recover/articleshow/76113780.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||College students come forward to help Amphan victims||Cyclone Amphan has almost destroyed several parts of West Bengal leaving thousands of people homeless and starving. To help these Amphan victims, students of different city colleges have come forward. While some are collecting donation for the chief minister’s relief fund, others are going to the affected areas to help the victims build basic infrastructure. Jadavpur University students have been collecting money and clothes for the victims and some of the students have already gone to Sundarbans to distribute the collected items among the victims. Students of Asutosh College have also started collecting money for the chief minister’s relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/college-students-come-forward-to-help-amphan-victims/articleshow/76113833.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
May 31, 2020||Shimla||Speculations over, Sanjay Kundu takes over as new Himachal Pradesh Police chief||SHIMLA: Ending speculation about who would succeed Himachal Pradesh Director General of Police Sita Ram Mardi, the state government has appointed Sanjay Kundu, a 1989-batch IPS officer, as the new DGP. Kundu was to succeed DGP S R Mardi on May 31, but it being Sunday he took over charge on Saturday itself. The HP government has made his appointment on the recommendations of Civil Services Board. Kundu is considered close to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and was principal secretary to CM, as well as holding the charge of principal secretary (excise and taxation), vigilance and principal resident commissioner Himachal Pradesh government at New Delhi. When the BJP came to power in HP under Jai Ram Thakur, Kundu was on central deputation as joint secretary in the ministry of water resources. Before that, he was posted as additional DGP (law and order) at the HP police headquarters. When BJP government in Himachal Pradesh came under opposition attack after assistant town planner Shail Bala was shot dead by a hotelier during a demolition drive on May 1, 2018, in the presence of heavy police force, the Jai Ram Thakur-led state government had recalled Kundu by cutting short his central deputation. On his return, Kundu was appointed as the additional principal secretary to the CM and then principal secretary to CM and also given the charge of key departments like excise and taxation and vigilance. He was also heading the quality control cell. Kundu has done a post-graduate programme in public policy from the University of Minnesota, where he was also a Fulbright Humphrey Fellow. He is a graduate of National Defence College, New Delhi, and Harvard University, where he completed a programme on ‘International Security and Strategy'. He has worked in leadership roles with the United Nations and served as police commissioner within the UN system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/speculations-over-sanjay-kundu-takes-over-as-new-hp-police-chief/articleshow/76114285.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Two arrested in Haryana for sending two men to US illegally||JIND/KAITHAL: Jind police have arrested two travel agents who duped two men from Loan and Kalwan villages of Narwana town by sending them to the United States of America illegally. The two victims were deported on May 19 and tested positive. The accused have been identified as Jagdish, a native of Mohri Jagir village of Karnal district and Om Prakash from Israna town of Panipat district. Jagdish duped Loan villager by taking Rs 12 lakh and Om Prakash cheated Kalwan's resident by charging nearly Rs 10 lakh for his illegal services. The police booked them under Section 420 (cheating) and produced them in local court, which sent them on three-day police remand. According to the police, four from Jind district were made to enter United States through Ecuador, Panama and Mexico in 2019 by different agents. But they were all apprehended and jailed. Dhamtan chowki incharge, who arrested the accused said, "They are in three-day remand for interrogation and hopefully we will get to the bottom of this," more he added. Talking to TOI, Kaithal superintendent of police, Shashank Kumar Sawan, said, "We have registered 15 first investigation reports (FIRs) in Ambala, Kaithal and other districts of agents duped several persons by charging lakhs and sending them on illegal routes. However, no arrest have been in the district until now. We have launched a probe into the matter," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-arrested-for-sending-2-men-to-us-illegally/articleshow/76114289.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Sidhu Moose Wala firing case: Three more get bail||SANGRUR: A local court on Saturday granted bail to three more persons, including a policeman and two others in the case related to Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala using his personal 9MM pistol to fire a few shots at the Ladda Kothi Police centre firing range on May 1. Those granted bail include head constable Gagandeep Singh, Inderveer Singh Grewal and Karam Singh Lehal. On Wednesday, the court granted bail to five persons in the same case, including four policemen, ASI Balkar Singh, head constable Gurjinder Singh and constables Harwinder Singh and Jasveer Singh along with shooting player Jung Sher Singh. The player was booked by the police along with constable Ganagdeep Singh, Inderveer Singh Grewal, Karam Singh Lehal and Moosewala. The case was registered against nine persons, including the singer under Sections 118 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act on May 5. On May 17, certain sections of the Arms Act were added to the FIR on the intervention of Punjab and Haryana High Court. The cases were registered against the accused after a video showing Moose Wala firing from an AK-47 automatic weapon at Badbar police range went viral on the social media. The next day, another video showing the singer firing his personal 9MM pistol emerged and Sangrur police registered the second case against all the accused at Dhuri police station. Eight of nine accused have been granted bail by the Sangrur court but they are still wanted by Barnala police in the case registered in Dhanaula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/moose-wala-firing-case-3-more-get-bail/articleshow/76114292.cms||Manish Sirhindi
May 31, 2020||India||‘Lockdown extension will affect school education in country’||National Council of Educational Research and Training director Hrushikesh Senapaty speaks to Manash Pratim Gohain on a range of issues the council is presently working on – from guidelines for reopening of schools to online education. Excerpts:How badly has the coronavirus outbreak impacted school education?The month of April has been a loss. However, at the behest of the HRD ministry, we designed an alternative calendar for a month to mitigate the loss and ensure basic learning outcomes when students were confined to their homes. At present the summer vacation is on and we are preparing another alternative calendar for subsequent months in case the situation remains unviable. If lockdown continues there will be an adverse effect. Despite the hype over online classes, the reality is majority of children don’t have access. There are no substitute to teachers and technology cannot replace them. Though in this crisis we are taking help of technology, but later it will be supplementary. The government has launched the E-vidya initiative with each class having a dedicated channel. The class-wise content focuses on learning outcomes as textbooks vary from state to state. We will start some national level programme — more of animation, demonstration and interactives. This will be aimed at the under-served sections. We are building on audio programmes for community radio. Are schools ready for blended learning?Blended learning requires digital infrastructure and it takes time to build infrastructure. Many of our teachers too aren’t aware of online learning, but are now making sincere effort to catch up. During this period, we have learnt many things and we will be future ready to face any challenge any time now. Schools reopening is a major challenge now?The ministry asked NCERT to prepare guidelines which will be issued soon. We have submitted the proposals and the MHRD is finalising it. We have suggested various alternative measures including staggered opening, protocols on social distancing protocol, health and hygiene, and odd-even sort of arrangements. MHRD and NCERT have also received feedback from parents and students on over exposure to digital screens?NCERT has also submitted a set of proposals for online education in schools which the ministry is likely to issue as guidelines. This sudden exposure to digital screens with no standard practice will place physical and mental stress on students. Online teaching is not simply making students sit in front of the screens for long hours. Children’s attention span is short. So online teaching has to be rich in content and activity. NCERT has initiated national curriculum framework review? What is the focus?The MHRD will set up the steering committee for which it asked for NCERT’s proposal which we have submitted. The new curriculum framework will be linked to the new national education policy with a focus on curriculum for early childhood education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-extension-will-affect-school-education-in-country/articleshow/76114490.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
May 31, 2020||India||'Have to live with Covid & sustain ourselves'||Goa has been successful in containing Covid-19 cases and has maintained itself in the Green Zone. In an exclusive interview, chief minister Pramod Sawant speaks to Vijay Desouza and Murari Shetye of his plans to take the state ahead through difficult times. Excerpts:What are the challenges before the government in the post-Covid scenario? We need to have a gradual exit plan. We cannot open everything, but we will have to move step by step. Goa is one state that has supported economic activities all through the lockdown. Even in the first phase, we had allowed pharma and food industries. We are proud to say that one consignment of HCQ medicines for the US went from Goa. We have taken one step at a time and have slowly started most of the economic activities in the state. How do you see the state managing the pandemic and the economy? Going by what the experts say, I think coronavirus is going to be there for at least another two years. We have to live with corona and also economically sustain ourselves. And for that we need to develop immunity within ourselves. There has been lot of confusion about the SOP. What we have seen is that every second day there is a new SOP. Will we see another SOP now? This is a new virus and we are all experiencing it for the first time. No one has an experience of dealing with it. There are no standard protocols to follow in the fight against Covid. We look at the prevailing situation and decide. We discuss with various experts and take a considered decision. The other day, we got information that 4,000 people will enter Goa and we felt it will be difficult to test all of them as our testing capacity is limited to 1,000. So, we made a last-minute change to the SOP. Now, we have kept it simple: Either come with a negative certificate from an ICMR-approved lab or undergo a test. We are thinking of continuing with the current SOP. If more than 1,000 people enter the state on a single day, then the test results will get delayed. When do you plan to start the new academic year? We will assess the situation in the state, discuss it with educationists and then take a decision. We will also wait for the HRD ministry’s decision before we decide when to start the academic year. As you know, we set an example by conducting the SSC exams and we are proud of it. SSC exams are going on smoothly without any problems. Considering that restaurants and malls are going to open in another week, are you also looking at starting casino activities anytime soon? No, not at all. We want to allow restaurants to open so that people who go to work and depend on them for tea and snacks are not deprived of it. Besides, it will also help these restaurants and small eateries to get some business. The state had asked the Centre for a Rs 2,000 crore financial package. What is its status? We have asked for the package but are yet to hear from them. Considering the states have been given the option to additionally borrow 5% of its GSDP, is the state planning to go for additional borrowing? We will borrow additionally only if required. Currently, our borrowing capacity is around Rs 2,600-odd crore and it will now go up to Rs 3,200 crore. I am hopeful that the financial condition of the state will improve after another six months. These are very difficult times for us. There is hardly 20% revenue collection and it has been showing slight improvement. We are seeing a 5% increase in revenue collection every month and in the next six months, the revenue collection is expected to go up to 75%. That is the reason we will manage the show within the limit. It is a tough time for us to carry out development and sustain the state. Do you plan to cut down on any of the social welfare schemes or put infrastructural projects on hold? No. Not at all (on plans to scrap social welfare schemes). And we are not coming out with any big projects. We may have to cut down on some other works to manage the finances. So, how do you propose to reduce the government expenditure?We have to look at our subsidy bill and see what is actually needed and how much is needed. We will have to cut down on unnecessary subsidies. We are still to take a look at the subsidy bill. But we will soon review all the subsidies and then take a decision. There has been a freeze in hiring by the government. Will it continue, or do you see any recruitment possibilities soon? We are not looking at recruiting people for now. We have given permissions to recruit people on contract basis where there is a need. But three months from now, we will have to start recruiting people. There are several vacancies in many of the government deparments and they need to be filled. I am hoping we will be able to do it. But we will take a decision to recruit depending on the financial condition of the state. Considering the unemployment rate of Goa is high, how do you plan to generate jobs in the state? Only the private sector can help the state in generating jobs. The MSMEs, IT and pharma industries can help the state in creating new jobs in the state. We are already in discussion with them and we are hopeful of a positive outcome. You had said Goa would welcome those companies that want to move out of China. Has any company shown interest in shifting base to Goa? We are in touch with the central government and they have provided us with the data on the number of companies that are interested in investing in India. We have put forth our case and I am hopeful that the Centre will help us in identifying the companies that are interested in setting up in Goa. We are thinking of giving some concessions in various forms to those companies that prefer Goa. We have not yet finalised what concessions we would want to give them, but we will definitely come out with a plan shortly to attract these industries. You must be aware that industrialists find it difficult to set up shop in the state. Even with an investment promotion board, there is no single window clearance which industrialists want. How do you intend to change for ease of doing business? We are coming with an amendment to the investment promotion act and more powers will be given to the board. This will ensure a one-stop solution for the industrialists. There is a perception that the state executive committee, a body consisting of senior bureaucrats, is taking the decision and you go by it. Do you agree with the view? That is not true at all. First, the decision is taken at my level, then it is discussed at SEC. Before going to SEC, the chief secretary, the health secretary and the revenue secretary discuss the issues with me. I discuss those issues with the ministers, including health minister Vishwajit Rane, over phone and only then it is presented at the SEC. After the SEC discusses it, it again come back to me for the final approval and only then is it announced. I have changed the SEC decisions two to three times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/have-to-live-with-covid-sustain-ourselves/articleshow/76114616.cms||Vijay de Souza
May 31, 2020||India||Conduct sero-survey to track Covid spread: ICMR to states||NEW DELHI: Looking to devise public health strategies to manage Covid-19 cases as the lockdown eases, the Indian Council of Medical (ICMR) has asked states to conduct sero-surveys — blood-based diagnostic tests — to measure the coronavirus exposure in varied sections of the population to track any wider spread of the disease for prevention and cure. ICMR has said these tests could possibly be carried out in key populations that include vendors and owners as well as staff working in grocery shops, pharmacists, restaurant staff, employees of banks, posts, couriers and telecom offices and air travel staff. Also those staying in slums, old-age homes, orphanages, homeless shelters, hostels, prisons, drivers, bus conductors, staff in municipal bodies as also farmers visiting large markets, migrant workers, journalists, police personnel and health care workers could be tested. Drawing a wide arc for the sero-survey, ICMR has said individuals in containment zones and patients with HIV, tuberculosis, Severe Acute Respiratory Illness, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disorder, those on dialysis and others will also be covered. “Sero-surveys help understand the proportion of population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection including asymptomatic individuals. Depending upon the level of sero-prevalence of infection, appropriate public health interventions can be planned and implemented for prevention and control of the disease. Periodic sero-surveys are useful to guide the policy makers,” the Council said in a letter to states. The Council added that such surveys in high risk or vulnerable populations also help track those who have been infected in the past and have now recovered. To conduct the sero-survey, ICMR has developed an IgG ELISA test and recommended states to use the specific antibody test kit. To ensure adequate availability of the kits, ICMR has also shared the technology with several pharma companies without an exclusivity clause. Highlighting that these kits are not useful for detecting acute infection, ICMR said IgG antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of infection and last for several months after the individual has recovered. Therefore, the IgG test is helpful only to indicate episode of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the past. The states must decide the number and frequency of tests they would want to carry out depending on requirement and situation in that particular area. ICMR has stated that the indigenous kit it has developed has high sensitivity (ability to correctly identify actual positive cases) and specificity (ability to measure healthy people who do not have the antibodies against the virus).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/conduct-sero-survey-to-track-covid-spread-icmr-to-states/articleshow/76114626.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 31, 2020||India||India, China talking though diplomatic, military channels to resolve Ladakh standoff: Rajnath Singh||NEW DELHI: India and China are talking through diplomatic and military channels to resolve the ongoing troop confrontation in eastern Ladakh, said defence minister Rajnath Singh, adding even the major 73-day Doklam face-off in 2017 had also been defused through bilateral dialogue. The minister, in a couple of interviews to television channels on Saturday, did not directly answer whether Chinese troops had actually intruded deep into Indian territory across the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. “There are perceptional differences with China over the LAC,” he said, but added in another interview later in the day that the Chinese soldiers had “come a little further than they used to earlier” to make the “situation different this time”. Singh’s remarks are the first by a senior minister since violent clashes between rival troops on May 5-6 after People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers intruded around 1-3 km into what India considers to be its territory on the northern bank of Pangong Tso (Tso means lake), Galwan Valley region and Demchok in eastern Ladakh. Since then, the PLA troops have further consolidated their positions at the four to five face-off sites by digging trenches, building bunkers and extending roads in the high-altitude region, while being backed by over 5,000 soldiers amassed within Chinese territory across the LAC. The PLA, for instance, is “blacktopping” an earlier make-shift track in the disputed “Fingers 4 and 5 (mountainous spurs)” on the northern bank of Pangong Tso. India, of course, has evenly matched the PLA build-up by moving forward troops of the Leh-based 3 Infantry Division into their “operational alert areas”, while several rounds of talks between the local military commanders have failed to break the deadlock till now, as earlier reported by TOI. “India’s policy has been very clear that we want good relations with all our neighbours. But sometimes, circumstances arise with China that things like this happen. They have happened in the past also,” said Singh. Both countries have made it clear that they want to resolve the present troop confrontation peacefully. “India’s effort is to ensure that border tensions do not increase…China also agrees,” said Singh. To a question on whether Beijing was arm-twisting New Delhi, the minister said India had a strong and committed leadership that will not allow the country’s self-respect and dignity to be hurt under any circumstances. Referring to the Doklam face-off near the Sikkim-Bhutan-Tibet tri-junction in 2017, he said: “It appeared at that time that the situation was very tense. But we did not step back… Ultimately, we were able to resolve the situation.” Singh said he had told his US counterpart Mark Esper on Friday that India and China already have existing bilateral mechanisms to resolve problems and that they had already been set into motion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-talking-though-diplomatic-military-channels-to-resolve-ladakh-standoff-rajnath-singh/articleshow/76114630.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Patna||Two dalits beaten to death in rural Patna||PATNA: Two dalit youths were beaten to death by co-villagers in rural Patna on Friday night. The bodies were recovered on Saturday morning from a drainage around 2km away from their Ramnagar Manjhi Tola village under Ghoswari police station in Barh subdivision. The deceased were identified as Soldier Manjhi (19) and Debvrat Manjhi (17). They were cousins. SP (Rural) Kantesh Kumar Mishra said both were beaten to death by rods and sticks. “They had gone missing on Friday night. Vipin Yadav, Pankaj Yadav, Manish Yadav and Kamlesh Yadav are the named accused. Pankaj is evading arrest, while the other three have been arrested. The family members suspect that the cousins’ murder was a fallout of a fight they had with the accused over playing loud music one month ago,” he said. Ghoswari police station SHO Sanjeev Mauaar said two bloodstained thick wooden sticks and cloths were recovered from a garden outside the village where both were beaten up. Their bodies were probably dragged to a dry drainage for misleading the police,” the SHO said. “Severe bleeding through nose and ears caused their death. Multiple injury marks were found on their bodies. They were also stabbed probably with some blunt metallic objects,” the SHO said, adding the bodies were handed over to families after postmortem at Barh Sadar hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-dalits-beaten-to-death-in-rural-patna/articleshow/76112844.cms||Debashish Karmakar
May 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt to follow Centre’s ‘Unlock 1.0’ norms||PATNA: The Bihar government is likely to follow most of the “Unlock 1.0” guidelines issued by the Centre on Saturday evening, allowing continued restrictions in containment zones till June 30 with a slew of relaxations in other areas. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani said Bihar will follow the relaxation guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA). “It is mentioned in the guidelines that religious places, malls, hotels, restaurants and hospitality services would resume from June 8. For relaxation of these services outside the containment zone, the state will follow the standard operating procedure, which would be issued by the ministry of health and family welfare,” Subhani said. Welcoming the Centre’s directive, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi told TOI that the state government may come up with its own guidelines in line with the MHA orders. JD(U) functionaries also welcomed Unlock 1.0. “We welcome Centre’s decision as it is aimed at bringing the country back on track. The decisions were taken after feedback from the states, hence Bihar government will ensure its strict implementation,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said. Sources said most DMs in the video-conferencing with CM NItish Kumar on Friday had unanimously backed extension of lockdown till June 15 along with several relaxations, including opening up of block headquarters and allowing intra-state movement of buses as regular movement of trains is also slated to start from June 1. They were also in favour of allowing schools to open from July 1 and religious, cultural and social gatherings to be prohibited till at least June 15 and night curfew from 9pm. However, there were mixed reactions from residents and experts from the city. “The fourth phase of lockdown already allowed several economic activities. With the new guidelines, people will get more freedom to move around, which will only result in an increase in Covid cases,” said Pritee Prasad, a Kadamkuan resident. Indian Medical Association secretary Sunil Kumar too echoed a similar sentiment. “With relaxations in almost every activity, the government has itself invited threat for people. The rate at which the pandemic has spread in Bihar in the past 10 days following some relaxations shows allowing more activities will only lead to more trouble,” Kumar said. Industries bodies, however, said the new guidelines will help in improving the state’s economy. Bihar Industries Association’s Subodh K Goel said this is a welcome step. “It’s high time that we started adapting to living with Covid-19 as a new normal. Giving relaxations to economic activities will help ease the falling economy of not just the state but the entire country,” Goel said. Kishore Kunal, secretary of Mahavir Mandir, is grateful to the government for allowing religious activities. “We have a plan in place to restrict the number of visitors. An alphabetical system for devotees will be introduced if the temple reopens,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-to-follow-centres-unlock-1-0-norms/articleshow/76112650.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Wildlife safaris likely to reopen from tomorrow||JAIPUR: Safaris at tiger reserves and sanctuaries in the state are likely to reopen from June 1 after a two-month gap. These parks were closed during the peak season in March to curb the spread of coronavirus. Though any official announcement was not made by the government till Saturday night, directions were given to the administrations at Sariska Tiger Reserve, Ranthambore National Park, Jhalana forest reserve, Kumbhalgarh Wildlife Sanctuary and others to reopen. On Saturday, in view of the preparations to reopen Ranthambore for tourists, the department officials held a meeting with the representatives of drivers and guides of Ranthambore, where new rules were discussed. A senior forest official at RNP said, “As a precaution, all tourist vehicles will be sanitised before going and after coming from the park tour. Sanitisers will also be arranged for tourists.” As per the initial standard operating procedures (SOP) submitted to the government, safari vehicles with 50% capacity should be operated in the park. It will also be mandatory for the drivers, guides and tourists to wear masks. DFO, Rajsamand, Fateh Singh said, “Kumbhalgarh and other wildlife sanctuaries in the district will likely reopen from June 1. SOPs have been issued for the same.” The SOPs also states confidence building measures with tourists. It reads, “Ticket booking must be online to the maximum extent. Also, one place where required manpower and resources are available for implementation of guidelines may be opened by DCF in-charge,” An official source said, plans are afoot to reduce the safari rates for tourists, however, no concrete decision has been taken so far. The decision to open the parks has brought a sigh of relief in the related business community. The industry has already suffered heavy losses due to coronavirus in the past after most hotel bookings were cancelled. “All types of related businesses and industries had suffered – tourism included. It was peak tourist season for wildlife. The decision will help recover the industry soon,” said a tour operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wildlife-safaris-likely-to-reopen-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76114173.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||People suffered most during Modi government rule: Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Terming the second tenure of PM Narendra Modi as ‘worst’ for the majority of the common people in India, CM Ashok Gehlot in a series of tweets slammed Modi government’s tenure as one of those periods in the Indian history when people suffered the most and faced unbearable hardships. “Even after six years of trial and error on the economic front, we still see no silver lining how Govt is going to revive the economy, provide jobs and look after the people, who have no money, no work. A thriving economy under UPA has been completely destroyed by NDA,” reads a tweet. The attack came at a time when Modi government is reaching out to the common man to mark the first anniversary of his second term. Gehlot further said, “Under Modi ji, the democratic, liberal ethos of India as an inclusive society has been completely undermined. NDA is tampering with the autonomy of institutions, PSUs are being sold & communal harmony is being disrupted with a divisive agenda. Instead of taking the nation forward, NDA Govt is taking it backwards.” Calling Modi government, a mute spectator to the suffering of the people, Gehlot minced no words in saying that Modi government would be remembered as the time when lakhs of people lost everything and faced unbearable hardships during the lockdown. “The nation saw a most insensitive Govt least bothered about lives or livelihood of crores of Indians,” said Gehlot. Taking a swipe on Modi government, state transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said that the first anniversary of Modi government will be marked by widespread hunger, unemployment and corruption. “The stimulus package of Rs 20 lakh crore is the latest hollow promise made by Modi. They have even failed to show how Rs 20,000 crore will be spent on providing people any sort of relief,” said Khachariyawas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-suffered-most-during-modi-govt-rule-gehlot/articleshow/76114181.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Metro services to stay shut||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Metro has decided that the its service will remain suspended till further notice. The metro service between Vastral and Apparel Park is the only stretch that has been inaugurated and was operational. However, the service has been suspended since the central government announced the in March. Metro officials in a statement said: “In light of the guidelines issued by the union ministry of home affairs, services of Ahmedabad Metro will remain closed for commuters till further notice. The date of the opening of services will be decided based on assessment of the situation by appropriate authority and Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation (GMRC).” Meanwhile, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Ahmedabad Janmarg Limited have still not decided on restarting AMTS and BRT bus services in the city. A decision is expected to be taken by Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/metro-to-remain-closed/articleshow/76113644.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Three spas raided, owners booked||AHMEDABAD: Sarkhej police on Friday cracked down on spas operating in the Ambli area of Bopal. According to police, three spa owners were booked under Section 188 of the IPC, the Epidemic Act, and the Disaster Management Act.According to Sarkhej police officials, while they were patrolling in the area, they saw a spa called Water Lilly open near Bopal Circle. “We have booked its owner, Devesh Contractor, 51, of Paldi. Spas are not currently allowed to operate,” said a police official. Then the cops went to Nil Spa in the same area. “The spa was open and hence we booked its owner, Imransha Kadarsha Fakir, 29, of Telav in Sanand,” the official said. “The third establishment we raided was Belona Spa. We booked its owner, Sachin Chanda.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-spas-raided-owners-booked/articleshow/76113693.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Nashik||71 personnel serving in Malegaon put in institutional quarantine||Nashik: As many as 71 police personnel, who were serving in Malegaon for the last two months as part of the Covid-19 bandobast, have been given rest and sent to institutional quarantine. They have been kept in quarantine at a hostel of the social welfare department in Adgaon. A large number of police personnel have been deployed in the textile town since March 22. Under the guidance of SP Arti Singh, a fever clinic has also been set up by the Dr Vasant Pawar Medical College, Adgaon, for the rural police. The medical experts at the fever clinic guide the police personnel on the importance of social distancing, diet, preventive measures to avoid the infection and increasing one’s immunity. The rural police said that more than 180 police personnel have contracted Covid 19 while serving in Malegaon. However, 150 of them have recovered from the infection.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/71-personnel-serving-in-malegaon-put-in-institutional-quarantine/articleshow/76113055.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||Containment zones strictly guarded by police across state: HM Anil Deshmukh||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday praised the police force across the state for diligently guarding the containment zones round the clock. He said 2.25 lakhs cops have performed their duty during the lockdown to break the Covid-19 chain. Deshmukh, sharing statewide data while speaking from his residence-cum-office in city’s Civil Lines, underlined that 1.19 lakh offences have been registered under section 188 of Indian penal code (IPC) for breach of lockdown norms. Around 23,533 arrests were also made for various offences to enforce lockdown in the state. Highlighting the role played by Nagpur police under CP BK Upadhyay, Deshmukh said adequate arrangements were made at the different containment zones in the city, including vigilance, to enforce Covid distancing and use of masks. “Nagpur police’s role of shifting almost 2,000 people from the Satranjipura locality to different institutional quarantine centres was commendable,” said the home minister. “We have maintained sound law and order across the state, including Nagpur. Police efforts also included strengthening the security layers around the cordoned-off areas,” said Deshmukh. According to the home minister, police had to take tough stances wherever people did not cooperate. “Otherwise we had managed the containment areas well so far which is evident from our state’s overall performance in tackling Covid,” he said. Deshmukh admitted about people in some containment areas, like Pandhrabodi, locality in city, protested as they weren’t happy. “There was protest in Pandhrabodi as an area within 3-km radius having population of 2.5 lakh was cordoned off. We have curtailed containment zones, including at Pandhrabodi, wherever there was scope. Now, instructions have been give to focus on reducing the zones wherever possible,” he said. He denied any report was submitted to him against city police. “CRPF was sent to city and elsewhere as we wanted to give our exhausted cops some respite. We had demanded 20 companies of CRPF. Around 12 companies came and were sent to different hotspots across the state,” he said. City police have so far registered 2,650 cases under section 188 IPC and seized 3,075 vehicles. Around Rs83 lakh was collected for traffic violations through 24,901 challans. Deshmukh appreciated city’s high recovery and discharge rate and said it was due to collective efforts of the divisional commissioner (Sanjeev Kumar), collector (Ravindra Thakare) and NMC chief (Tukaram Mundhe). “There were some coordination issues which have been sorted out. There would be an all-agency review and coordination meeting soon under me to further streamline the process,” he said. The minister made it clear there was no intention from the state government to target any community through quarantining and containments. “We approached the quarantining system scientifically and created containment areas only after positive case was found to stop the spread,” he said. Police personnel also need to keep themselves and their families safe, he stressed. “I have interacted with the State Reserve Police Force personnel, spoke with those who are taking treatment and those discharged. There are dedicated hospitals and fever clinic for cops in every district,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/containment-zones-strictly-guarded-by-police-across-state-hm-anil-deshmukh/articleshow/76114199.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 31, 2020||Patna||48,000 reach Bihar by 32 trains||PATNA: Altogether 48,000 people returned from Gujarat and 10 other states to different places in Bihar under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) by 32 Shramik special trains on Saturday. Around 18 lakh migrant workers and others have been brought back to the state by 1,500 trains since May 2. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said special trains from Erode, Tiruppur, Egmore, Tiruvallur, Chennai and Chengalpattu in Tamil Nadu reached Barauni, Hajipur, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Biharsharif, Madhubani and Jehanabad with about 12,000 people. “Carrying 3,000 passengers, trains from Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh and Jirania in Tripura reached Bettiah and Gaya,” the CPRO added. While special trains from Rohtak, Panipat, Faridabad and Ambala in Haryana returned to Katihar, Bhagalpur, Araria, Purnea and Biharsharif, one from Ludhiana reached Saharsa with migrant workers. “Two special trains from Delhi, carrying about 3,100 migrant workers, reached Purnea,” Kumar said, adding that the district administration and railway officials made sure that they were screened properly on their arrival. Approximately 3,200 people reached Motihari and Patna from Vapi and Morvi in Gujarat, while 1,400 came back to Patna from Kalyan in Maharashtra. Two Shramik special trains from Jalalpur in Uttar Pradesh reached Katihar and Saharsa with 3,000 passengers. Besides, 16 other trains ferried 20,000 migrant workers to different places under Samastipur and Sonepur divisions of the ECR. Meanwhile, Danapur senior divisional commercial manager Adhar Raj told this newspaper that the commercial wing of the division was collecting feedback from the migrant workers and others travellers about the arrangements made for them during the journey. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar has issued an advisory that no migrant worker should go hungry. “A special care team has been formed to address problems of migrant workers on the spot,” the DRM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/48000-reach-bihar-by-32-trains/articleshow/76112660.cms||Kumod Verma
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: From jewellery to potato, shops see a Covid-19 change||KOLKATA: Jugal Biswas, 55, did not have any plans of converting his business in 2020 but the lockdown dried up his income from his jewellery store, forcing him to sell groceries, potato and egg from his outlet in Bagbazaar in north Kolkata. Girish Vasandani, 40, had just started picking up the pieces after a fire ravaged his shop in Bagri Market when the lockdown came into effect. The businessman who had by now learnt to swim against the tide immediately shifted gears, making masks and sanitizers to keep his family afloat. Biswas and Vasandani are just two examples out of several thousands in Kolkata who were forced to change their vocations and take up whatever came their way to make ends meet during the prolonged lockdown and subsequent income losses. The fortunate ones invested their reserves for switching to businesses that were in demand during the lockdown, like selling essential items and masks. Others who did not have much savings had to borrow from family and friends to start selling fish and vegetables. “I have a small jewellery store but who will buy them when people are struggling for even basic needs. So, I was sitting at home fearing about the future of my family when a friend approached me with the business idea of selling grocery items in my shop. Initially, I was hesitant selling grocery in my jewellery store but then I realised I will have to adapt to the changing times. Today, I am not earning much but at least I am not having to dip into my savings,” said Biswas. The pandemic and the shock to the economy also forced many people to learn on the job to adapt to their new vocations. Vasandani, a resident of a complex on Convent Road, did a crash course on making masks and sanitizers and got down to work the phone lines. “I am not making abnormal profits but at least I am not sitting idle,” said Vasandani. “The market is highly competitive, and I am new to this business, but the response has been decent. It is also keeping me busy and I have acquired a new skill.” Lockdown also pulled many people out of their comfort zone and hurled them at the deep end of the pool. Rakesh Singh recalled his life as an app-cab driver before the lockdown when he would earn close to Rs 20,000 every month. “The vehicle was air-conditioned, and I would get a lot of rides. Life was not bad,” said Singh, a resident of Sikdar Para off Harrison Road. “But lockdown came as a rude shock, making me realise that everything is over. The business ride aggregating will also change in the wake of the pandemic. I was really tensed about my future. But I have a family to support, so I rented a van rickshaw and started selling bread in the mornings and vegetables in the evenings,” said Singh. The testing times have also strengthened bonds within the family. For many like Bijon Ghosh of Banamali Chatterjee Street, their life partners have extended a helping hand during the lockdown and eased their anxieties. Ghosh, with the help of his wife Poly, has converted her garments shop to a grocery store. “I had no other option. I own a pool car and my wife runs this small garment store. The income from pool car dried up and the store was also shut. My wife then proposed I convert her shop into a grocery store,” said an emotional Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-jewellery-to-potato-shops-see-a-covid-change/articleshow/76113715.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
May 31, 2020||Patna||Thundershowers, squall lash Patna||PATNA: Squall with thundershowers lashed Patna and other districts on Saturday evening. Weathermen said thunderstorm activities with lightning may continue over the next two days, especially in the evening hours. Patna Meteorological Centre said several districts in central and western Bihar, including Patna, Rohtas, Kaimur and Buxar districts witnessed turbulent weather. Satellite images showed cloud patches moving towards Bihar from east Uttar Pradesh. It issued warnings for thunderstorm and lightning with light to moderate rain in Gopalganj, Siwan, Darbhanga, Bhojpur, Arwal and Aurangabad districts. Patna witnessed thundershowers with squall for an hour from 7pm. As per Patna Meteorological Centre, the wind speed was in the range of 45-65 kmph. A Met official attributed the turbulent weather to amalgamation of high temperature with moist easterly winds blowing in the region. “Moisture incursion was also taking place from a cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand. The moisture feeding is expected to continue till Sunday which, in turn, is expected to lead the recurrence of thundershowers till Monday, especially in the evening hours. Hot and dry westerly winds are expected from Tuesday, but maximum temperature is expected to remain under 40 degrees C,” he said. Pre-monsoon thundershowers apart, the southwest monsoon is also progressing swiftly and is expected to reach Bihar between June 13 and 16. The India Meteorological Department on Saturday said conditions were becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some parts of south Arabian Sea, Maldives-Comorin area and southeast Bay of Bengal. The wing of southwest monsoon from the Bay of Bengal reaches Bihar through northeastern districts of Katihar, Kishanganj and Purnea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/thundershowers-squall-lash-patna/articleshow/76112679.cms||Piyush Tripathi
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Stuck students can take CISCE exams from where they are||KOLKATA: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has allowed ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) candidates to take the remaining exams from any state, city or district they are in at present. The requests for a change in the examination centres, however, have to be formally routed through their schools within June 7. On Saturday, Council chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon wrote to the heads of the affiliated schools that the decision has been taken since CISCE has received requests from schools and guardians. “In our state, many students study in the Hills schools and returned home before lockdown. They requested they be allowed to appear for the remaining exams from their current cities of residence,” said a city school principal. “There are several Board examinees who left the city or district after CISCE suspended the tests and before the lockdown was enforced. Now, it is not possible for these students to return to their respective registered centres. Thus, the Council has decided to provide some relief,” the principal said. After receiving the requests, schools may upload them on the CAREERS portal of CISCE. No payment will need to be made for the requests. However, despite relaxations, if there are candidates who fail to take the examinations owing to being impacted by Covid-19, they can take them at the time of the compartmental exams.  CISCE schools in Bengal have students from Thailand and Bangladesh as well. While there is a presence of affiliated schools in Thailand, those who have returned to Bangladesh may have to come to India or wait till compartmental exam dates are announced. “We will soon send a detailed guideline about conducting the remaining exams to the exam centres,” said Arathoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stuck-students-can-take-cisce-exams-from-where-they-are/articleshow/76113754.cms||Somdatta Basu
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali MC to carry out road patchwork||MOHALI: The fund-starved Mohali municipal corporation (MC) has refrained from carrying out the road re-carpeting work and has decided to do the patchwork. Mohali MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said the patchwork will be done at a cost of Rs 60 lakh to Rs 70 lakh. Garg said the MC has not been able to collect funds due to Covid19 lockdown. Property tax is the major revenue and the same has not been deposited by the public due the curfew. He said, “We are not left with extra funds except the amount to be paid for the work already allotted earlier. The MC is not in a position to spend money on re-carpeting the roads. We still have to get Rs 50 crore from Gmada.” The roads in Mohali are already in shambles with potholes. The monsoon will further damage the roads The MC commissioner, however, said they will complete the patchwork before the monsoon. On the other hand, residents feel that the road repair work should be a continuous process. They believe that the MC has always failed to plan in a better manner before carrying maintenance works. Gurbaz Singh, a resident of Sector 71, said, “We have been living in Mohali from past decade, but have never seen roads in good shape. We always come across potholes on roads which gets worse during the rainy seasons. The MC lacks in vision and planning to carry out timely maintenance.” Residents maintained that the condition of roads in densely populated sectors of the city is in a poor shape. The main road bisecting the Mohali city into two parts, connecting Phase VI to Phase XI, has various spots where one encounters big potholes. Similarly, roads in the new sectors are also in the same condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-mc-to-carry-out-road-patchwork/articleshow/76113795.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Son of retired DSP shoots himself with father’s revolver||AHMEDABAD: A 30-year-old man, Samir Bharwad, son of a retired DSP, committed suicide by shooting himself with his father’s licenced revolver at his resident in Monark City-1 in Shela here on Saturday morning. The victim’s father, Chagan Bharvad, had retired about five years ago.According to police, Samir had shot himself with his right hand, pointing the barrel of the .32 bore revolver under his throat. Samir is survived by his wife Parul and a four-year-old son. Police said the motive behind the suicide is still unknown. Bopal police have registered a case of accidental death. According to DSP K T Kamaria of Ahmedabad Rural police, they were informed of the incident by Sudhir — brother of the victim — at about 10.30am. Sudhir has mentioned in his statement that he got a call from his younger sister Deepika that something has happened to Samir. According to his statement, he went to Samir’s house and saw the body lying on the bed on the ground floor of the house with blood streaming out from the lower side of his throat and his father’s revolver lying beside his ear. He has further stated that Samir and his wife were talking till about 3am in the night. Samir had checked his chequebook and passbook and then sat in the gallery of the second floor of the house. “Samir then told his wife to get some tea and then asked her and their son to go to sleep, mentions the statement,” said Kamaria. After having a cup of tea, Samir, who works as event manager in a sports club, went to the ground floor of the house and shot himself with his father’s revolver. According to the statement, Samir’s wife got up at about 10am and went to the ground floor only to find Samir lying on the cot with blood coming out of his throat. Reasons for his suicide unknownDSP Kamaria said the body was sent for post-mortem examination and the revolver was handed over to the forensic experts. The reason behind the suicide is unknown as there was no suicide note found. However, as Samir was reportedly checking his chequebook and passbook right before committing suicide, the reason could be monetary. Kamaria said the investigation of the case is been handed over to inspector R R Rathwa of Bopal police station. Parents were in DholkaPolice sources said that Samir’s parents had gone to Dholka to attend a social function. They were to return on Saturday. “However, they rushed back home as soon as they were informed about the incident. We could not take their statements as they were in deep shock,” said a police official. Samir used to live with his wife, son and parents in Monark City-1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/son-of-retired-dsp-shoots-himself-with-fathers-revolver/articleshow/76113502.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Unlock 1: CM Vijay Rupani lifts more restrictions||AHMEDABAD: Removing odd-even formula for operations of businesses, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, in a late announcement on Saturday night, cleared the path for uniform operations of shops, establishments and offices across Gujarat. Hours after the ministry of home affairs published guidelines for the month-long Unlock-1 phase, June 1 to June 30, the Gujarat chief minister released guidelines for the state, effective June 1.The decision comes as a major relief to traders and businessmen. “Extending operational hours for shops and offices and removal of the odd-even formula will help traders cater to businesses for longer hours. This is indeed a welcome decision. However, taking a cue from Delhi and Mumbai, the relaxations must now also be extended to shops and establishments within containment zones. The easing may be time-bound but needs to be given so that economic activity resumes there,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Trader Federation (GTF). Tanna specifically mentioned that one of the largest wholesale markets in Ahmedabad, is closed due to restrictions within the containment zone and stock worth crores is left unsold. Apart from shops and establishments, malls, hotels and restaurants will finally be allowed to resume operations from June 8, in accordance with the MHA guidelines. “The decision is indeed a welcome step as the hospitality sector was among the worst hit due to Covid-19. One week will be enough time for hoteliers to sanitize their premises and train staff members on the upgraded standard operating procedures,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA), Gujarat. The easing of the curfew has further relieved restaurants and eateries, which were losing most of their business due to timing restrictions. Liquor stores have also been allowed to resume operations. Mall owners are gearing up to resume operations as well. “We will sanitize the premises and put in place a strict protocol to limit the entry of people to ensure the safety of all persons. Once the government gives guidelines, it will give us better clarity on operations,” said Aditya Shah, CFO, Gulmohar Mall in Ahmedabad. The chief minister has made it clear that wearing masks will be mandatory in public places and any violation will attract a penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-lifts-more-restrictions-under-unlock-1/articleshow/76113465.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mercury dips across Gujarat, Ahmedabad remains one of the hottest||AHMEDABAD: With strong easterly winds blowing in most parts of Gujarat on Saturday, temperatures dipped for the third consecutive day. Almost all parts of Ahmedabad experienced moderate to strong winds in the afternoon and evening hours. However, Ahmedabad remained one of the hottest places in the state a with maximum temperature of 41.7 degrees celsius. Surendranagar was the hottest place in the state at 41.8C. While the maximum temperature for the city was at par with the normal, the minimum temperature of 29.7C was two degrees higher, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. “No large change in maximum temperature very likely over the region during next three days,” the IMD forecast. On Sunday, the maximum temperature is likely to remain around 41C in Ahmedabad. For the next four days, the IMD has forecast light rain/thundershowers in places such as Surat, Narmada, Bharuch, Valsad, Navsari, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Gir Somnath, Junagadh along with Union Territories of Diu, Daman, Dadra and Nagar Haveli. IMD officials termed this pre-monsoon activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mercury-dips-across-state-city-remains-one-of-the-hottest/articleshow/76113675.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Patna||Won’t rest till JD(U) MLA’s arrest: Tejashwi||PATNA: A day after an FIR was lodged against leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, his mother and former chief minister Rabri Devi, elder brother Tej Pratap and other party members for violating social distancing norms, the RJD leader on Saturday said such moves will not deter him from seeking justice. “If you think you can intimidate us by filing cases against me and my party leader then you are living in illusion. We wouldn’t rest until your favourite criminal MLA is arrested & justice is done. As LoP, I won’t let Bihar become a lawless state,” tweeted Tejashwi. Tejashwi, along with other RJD legislators and party members, had gathered outside the 10, Circular Road bungalow allotted to Rabri to march to Gopalganj and meet the kin of triple murder victims. He had demanded arrest of JD(U) MLA from Kuchaikote, Amrendra Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, who has been named in the FIR lodged by survivor JP Yadav, an RJD leader. However, the district administration did not allow the RJD leaders for inter-district movement in the lockdown, following which they protested and raised slogans against the government. Later, they met Bihar Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary and demanded a three-day special session of the House to discuss the deteriorating law and order situation and the government’s failure to tackle Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wont-rest-till-jdu-mlas-arrest-tejashwi/articleshow/76112788.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kochi||NRK forums in Gulf to charter flights to Kerala||Kochi: With the state clearing apprehensions that it is not opposed to private chartered flights from the Gulf region, organizations working for the welfare of non-resident Keralites have started registration of passengers. Two organisations — Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre (KMCC) and Kerala Business Forum (KBF) — in Qatar have announced plans for repatriation of Malayalis from Qatar. “Centre has allowed associations to arrange chartered flights. Next step is registration. The details have to be sumbitted to the embassy which will contact the state for a formal permission. We had contacted the state and they don’t have any objections,” said K R Jayaraj, president, Kerala Business Forum. KBF is planning to accommodate five persons, who cannot afford tickets, free of cost in each chartered flight they operate. KMCC president S A M Basheer said they would give priority to people who are sick, pregnant women, workers who have lost jobs, visitors with expired visas and students. “So far, embassy was not willing to accept an application form. Now, they have officially advised to submit a list of people with complete details, local address, etc,” said Aji Kuriakose, director, Magic Tours, a premium tour company based in Doha, and member of KBF crisis cell. Consulate general of India in Dubai has stated that organizations arranging such flights should not accept ticket charges from those who register. The cost of the flights and that of seven-day institutional quarantine should also be borne by organizations that charter the flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nrk-forums-in-gulf-to-charter-flights-to-kerala/articleshow/76113050.cms||Binu Karunakaran
May 31, 2020||Patna||Locust attack: Drones to spray chemicals||PATNA: Agriculture minister Prem Kumar on Saturday said the state government will use drones for spraying chemicals to tackle any possible locust attack. Five western Bihar districts bordering eastern UP — Kaimur, Buxar, Siwan, Gopalganj and West Champaran— are living under the fear of locust invasion. “Till now, locusts have not entered Kaimur. I contacted officials in UP. They said locusts had turned towards MP, but here in Kaimur we are not taking any chances,” Kaimur DM Dr Nawal Kishor Choudhary said, adding, he held a district-level meeting, besides alerting BDOs and circle officers as well as farmers. The minister said officials at the state headquarters held a meeting on Friday to collect feedback including, seeking advice from experts at agriculture universities and seeking assistance from Krishi Vigyan Kendras. Further, the use of traditional methods like using drums and ‘nagaras’ as well as beating plates and tin cans to create noise to scare away the locusts have also been advised. A detailed advisory has also been issued asking officials to procure special chemicals to be sprayed using drones when locust invasion takes place in any area. The invasion of swarms started from Africa, entered Pakistan through Yemen and Iran, and then entered India through Rajasthan in April, reports said. By mid-May, they entered UP hitting western Agra and Jhansi areas, and also threatened to sweep across the Gangetic basin on the east. “Locusts have not yet entered Kaimur district, but farmers are fearful. The locusts eat vegetables, leaves, crops and also leaves of trees,” Mohania MLA from Kaimur Niranjan Ram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/locust-attack-drones-to-spray-chemicals/articleshow/76112861.cms||Abhay Singh
May 31, 2020||Patna||Won’t rest till JD(U) MLA’s arrest: Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: A day after an FIR was lodged against leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, his elder brother Tej Pratap and other party members for violating social distancing norms, the RJD leader on Saturday said such moves will not deter him from seeking justice. “If you think you can intimidate us by filing cases against me and my party leader then you are living in illusion. We wouldn’t rest until your favourite criminal MLA is arrested & justice is done. As LoP, I won’t let Bihar become a lawless state,” tweeted Tejashwi. Tejashwi, along with other RJD legislators and party members, had gathered outside the 10, Circular Road bungalow allotted to Rabri to march to Gopalganj and meet the kin of triple murder victims. He had demanded arrest of JD(U) MLA from Kuchaikote, Amrendra Pandey alias Pappu Pandey, who has been named in the FIR lodged by survivor JP Yadav, an RJD leader. However, the district administration did not allow the RJD leaders for inter-district movement in the lockdown, following which they protested and raised slogans against the government. Later, they met Bihar Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary and demanded a three-day special session of the House to discuss the deteriorating law and order situation and the government’s failure to tackle Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wont-rest-till-jdu-mlas-arrest-tejashwi/articleshow/76112793.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Varanasi||Barbers in Varanasi wear PPE while giving haircut||VARANASI: Apart from the corona warriors who compulsorily take all necessary precautions to protect themselves from Covid-19, many barbers of the city, with a sense of responsibility and awareness, have begun to wear personal protective equipment while attending to customers. Donning overalls, masks and gloves, they ask customers to bring their own scarf/towel for cover during a haircut. Each customer is sanitized before the haircut. “I wear the PPE before opening my salon. Although it is a bit suffocating and tiresome to work like this, it is very essential for our safety,” says Arvind Kumar Sharma, who runs his salon on Chandpur-Lohata Road. As most of his co-workers are stuck at their homes due to the lockdown, he works alone in his salon. Whenever a customer enters the salon, he makes them apply sanitizer before letting them sit for a haircut or shave. Subhash Sharma, another barber on Chandpur-Imdustrial Estate Road in Manduadih area, says, “It is not only our duty but a dire necessity to keep ourselves safe as well as our customers.” “It was my family members who made me understand the gravity of the situation and persuaded me to wear PPE while at work,” adds Subhash. Similar are the views of Nakul Sharma, who owns a salon in Churamanpur Muraila area. “For our safety, we should follow the advice of our Prime Minister Modiji,” he says, adding, in such a crucial time he entertains only his regular customers. “I refuse services to strangers politely. I also deny service to those who do not bring their towel/scarf with them. Most of the people are aware of the risk, and hence, get their own towel/scarf,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/barbers-wear-ppe-while-giving-haircut/articleshow/76114155.cms||Binay Singh
May 31, 2020||Vadodara||In Covid times, two-year-old cured of rare lung disorder||VADODARA: She was facing severe cough and breathing problems since last few months so doctors suggested a Covid-19 test. When the test result of Navya Soni came negative, her parents were relieved. But their joy was short- lived as her condition was diagnosed as pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) – a rare disease found in one person per 15 lakh births. And the two-year-old girl, has recovered well from for PAP at Kashiba Gordhandas Children’s Hospital (KGP) in the city. “It’s a rare condition that happens due to abnormal sedimentation of protein in the lungs. It causes breathlessness and creates shortage of oxygen too. We diagnosed Navya’s condition some days ago and admitted her to KGP on May 21,” said Dr Dharmesh Patel, pulmonologist at KGP. “To treat PAP, we have to insert tubes in the lungs via throat and wash out the protein with saline. But it was a tough task in this case as the patient was too young while the tubes used for the treatment are available only in adult size. We had to make lot of modifications locally to make small size tubes that could enter Navya’s lungs,” Patel told TOI. A team of five doctors namely Patel, Dr Amit Dave, Dr Falguni Naregal, Dr Rajan Chanpura and Dr Hitesh Desai and nurse Geeta Nair then began Navya’s treatment on May 22. “We washed her right lung first with two litres of saline and four days later the left lung was washed with 1.2 litres saline. It was a complex procedure and we had to be very careful to not insert more saline in the lungs. It took us several hours to remove the protein sedimentation but the treatment was successful,” Patel added. She is being kept under observation in KGP till her condition improves. Samples of the protein removed from Navya’s lungs will now be sent to an institute in the United States to ascertain if her condition is hereditary. “Earlier, she would go breathless after walking a few steps but now she is feeling better. The treatment was successful and we are now hoping that Navya recovers soon,” said Navya’s father, Kunal Soni who works in a pharmaceutical company in the city. Patel said he contacted some big and reputed hospitals in other states and they confirmed that a patient as young as Navya was never treated for PAP earlier in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-covid-times-two-yr-old-cured-of-rare-lung-disorder/articleshow/76112048.cms||Tushar Tere
May 31, 2020||Patna||Drive to remove encroachments from drains to resume tomorrow||PATNA: After more than two months of the lockdown, the Patna district authorities will resume anti-encroachment drive to clear major drains in the city from June 1. DM Kumar Ravi on Saturday ordered the formation of six teams for the drive and deployment of sufficient number of magistrates, police officers and officials of departments concerned for the purpose. The decision was taken at a pre-monsoon review meeting of Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (BUIDCO) and Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday. The DM directed PMC officials to remove encroachment from Badshahi Nala near Mahuli, Marcha Mirchi and Gyan Ganga. “There are around 20 trees near Gyan Ganga bookstore which are obstructing the de-silting work and water flow of Badshahi Nala. We have asked the water resource department to shift the trees to other location to ensure no obstruction in the flow of water,” he said. The executive engineer of the power department was instructed to ensure uninterrupted power supply at the sump houses. The DM directed PMC officials to prepare an action plan and expedite desilting of major drains located in Patna like Boring Canal Road and Ashiana-Digha road. “The cleaning of all large, medium and small drains should be complete by June 15,” Ravi said. He also assured BUIDCO officials that land for construction of temporary sump houses would be made available. BUIDCO has been tasked with constructing 27 temporary sump houses in Patna. There are currently 39 permanent sump houses in the city. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said around 70% de-silting work on small and medium drains have been completed, while the remaining would complete by June 15. “We are facing some issues and obstruction on cleaning of Badshahi Nala at a few points, which the DM has assured will sorted out soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/drive-to-remove-encroachments-from-drains-to-resume-tomorrow/articleshow/76112706.cms||Faryal Rumi
May 31, 2020||Bhubaneswar||For now, Puri off passenger train grid||Bhubaneswar: The East Coast Railway (ECoR) on Saturday decided that trains starting and terminating in Puri will now do so in Bhubaneswar till further orders. It took the decision following an advice from the state government. Recently, the Indian Railways announced to run 200 trains with a new time table from June 1. Out of these, nine trains, including two originating and terminating in Puri, will run through Odisha. On June 1, the Purushottam Express will originate from Bhubaneswar instead of Puri. Similarly, Bhubaneswar station will be the originating and terminating point for Sealdah-Puri Duronto Express. “But empty rakes of the trains will be moved to Puri for maintenance. Puri has a coaching depot to handle several trains,” official sources said. Last year, the ECoR ran around 200 special trains for Rath Yatra besides the regular trains. But this year, even scheduled trains have been stopped. Sources said the state government does not want Puri to be crowded ahead of Snana Jatra or Rath Yatra. “The actual reason for the decision is yet to be known. But the government might have taken this step to discourage crowd during the festival,” said a senior government official. Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb on Saturday said it will not be possible to allow devotees to gather at the Badadanda in Puri during these festivals in view of the pandemic situation. He requested government to take precautionary steps. In a related development, the ECoR may run five intra-state trains in Odisha by the first week of June. It will include two inter-city and three special trains. “There may be changes in the number and schedule,” said a senior railway official. “We can maintain social distancing in trains. It is low cost and easy mode of commuting, so intra-state train services should start,” said Dilip Sahu from Ganjam. The Odisha government has already allowed running of intra-state train services. Bus services were started on Thursday. About 40 pairs of trains, including local passengers and inter-city express, were being run in the ECoR jurisdiction till March 22. The train services were stopped due to lockdown restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/for-now-puri-off-passenger-train-grid/articleshow/76113060.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||IIT-Kgp end-sem evaluation process tweaked||Kolkata: IIT Kharagpur, which has closed the current semester without the end-semester examinations, will replace them with other considerations to evaluate students’ performance. This will include grades of mid-semester examinations, assignments and viva voce, among others. A committee has been formed to decide on these factors, along with the grading scheme, supplementary examinations and department change. The institute will issue a circular based on the decision of the senate meeting on May 27. “It is not possible for the final semester students, who have bagged jobs, to remain without any clarity on the terminal semester exams. Hence, we could not further delay the exams,” a source said. Senior faculty members have also indicated that the senate decided after consulting senior authorities, the ministry of HRD and students. “Though the details of the decision will be available only after the committee decides on the rules, students will not face any disadvantage. Subjects or laboratory work which could not be completed shall be kept out of the grading system,” assured the faculty member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-kgp-end-sem-evaluation-process-tweaked/articleshow/76113763.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Patna||8 killed in separate incidents||PATNA/BEGUSARAI: Eight people, including a two-month-old girl and a home guard jawan, were killed in different incidents in four districts in the last 24 hours. One Roma Devi (21) and her two-month-old daughter were killed in a massive explosion inside their house at Bariyarpur in Munger district around 2am on Saturday. SHO Rajesh Kumar Ranjan said the woman’s father, Dashrath Sah, has accused his son-in-law Amit Sah (25) of planting the bomb. In Begusarai, a home guard jawan and two women were shot dead in separate incidents. The home guard jawan, Rajwardhan, was shot dead when he tried to stop three people riding a motorcycle. One Rita Devi (50) was killed in an exchange of fire between two groups of people at Hardia village. Criminals also shot dead one Pramila Devi at Samsa village under the Naokothi police station area in the district. In Madhepura, a former sarpanch, Niwaschandra Yadav (43), was shot dead at Lauwalagan Purvi village under the Chausa police station area on Friday. One Bansi Prasad (75) and his son Lalan Prasad (45) were killed by criminals at Tarao village under the Belao police station area in Kaimur district on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8-killed-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/76112820.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Malls, restaurants get going to put new-normal rules in place||KOLKATA: Malls, restaurants and hotels that have been shut for over two months received a much-needed booster shot on Saturday with the government announcing the decision to unlock the sectors from June 8. While all of them had prepared SOPs, they will now hasten to put the plans into action from Monday, demarcate social distancing lines, conduct drills with staff and make last-minute changes before the facilities are thrown open to public. Mall owners and managers were particularly delighted to restart. “We have done the necessary preparations for opening up. All SOPs are in place. Over the next week, we will disinfect the mall and conduct drills to ensure that everything works with clockwork precision,” said Merlin group chairman Sushil Mohta, who has developed Acropolis Mall and also in the consortium that had developed South City mall. He though acknowledged the initial challenge of explaining the new normal to visitors and said a campaign would be carried out on the social network to educate customers on how to conduct themselves and be safe in a public environment. For the hospitality industry, the decision evoked mixed reaction as many were puzzled why bars remained off limits when off-shops and restaurants had been allowed to function. Office bearers of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India (HRAEI), the umbrella organisation representing the hospitality industry in the city, said revenues at eateries without bar services would be a challenge, particularly when social distancing norms would mean fewer covers. “Why not bars that contribute to a big chunk of the business?” asked HRAEI president Pranav Singh in dismay. Association secretary Sudesh Poddar, too, felt the order was bitter-sweet and would have been more palatable had liquor been allowed to be served alongside food. But restaurants that do not liquor licence didn’t complain. “We have been delivering food and are now delighted to welcome back customers. We have adopted an SOP for contactless dining and maintaining social distancing norms. Due to Covid-19, the industry has taken a big hit and it will now depend on each individual, be it restaurant owners or staffers or patrons, to take care of themselves, to ensure that safety is maintained so that we all can look forward to a better tomorrow,” said Shiladitya and Debaditya Chaudhury, partners of Chowman and Oudh 1590. Aminia owner Kabir Azhar, too, was glad. “Honestly, I did not expect that we would be able to start from June 8. We have a week to quickly put things in place before we welcome back patrons,” he said. The Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism & Hospitality (FAITH), the national federation of 10 organisations in the tour, travel and hospitality industry, welcomed the move as well. “FAITH and its 10 founder member associations would like to thank the government for allowing commencement of business operations of hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services during Unlock 1. We look forward to closely working with the tourism ministry and with state governments for harmonizing opening guidelines and for generating domestic tourism demand during unlock 1 & unlock 2,” said ITC executive director and FAITH chairman Nakul Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malls-restaurants-get-going-to-put-new-normal-rules-in-place/articleshow/76113704.cms||Subhro Niyogi
May 31, 2020||Erode||Expert team to review syllabus: Tamil Nadu minister||ERODE: A 16-member high-level expert team will review the possibilities of reducing a portion of syllabus for the current academic year, state school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said. Making the statement at Gobichettipalayam in Erode district on Saturday, the minister said the findings will be submitted to the chief minister and the final decision will be taken based on it. “As number of working days will be reduced due to the lockdown, the government must trim the syallabus,” he said Ruling out the opening of schools now as Covid-19 cases were raising, the minister also said board exams results of Class X and Class XII would be declared in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/expert-team-to-review-syllabus-minister/articleshow/76114182.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Crime against women dips 66% in Rajasthan due to lockdown||JAIPUR: Amid lockdown, the rate of crime against women in Rajasthan has decreased by 65.8% from March to April. Same trend was visible in the number of cases registered in April 2020 as compared to April 2019 which showed a reduction by 69.9%. Though, according to data, there has been a reduction in crime against women, cases of dowry deaths and abetment of suicide for dowry increased between March and April 2020. According to the data compiled by the police, rape cases registered in the state during April this year, saw a decrease by 45.4% from the previous month. As compared to April 2019, the rape cases in the same month this year also reduced by 58.7%. “Overall crime rate has reduced in the state due to the lockdown and we are hoping that this trend will continue for the remaining year as well but we are at the same time also prepared that gradually cases might go up. Swift investigation and arrests especially in cases of crime against women as well as children have also helped in bringing the numbers down. We will continue to ensure that crime does not increase in the state even when the lockdown guidelines are eased,” said a senior police official. As per the data released by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) released in January this year for the year 2019, Rajasthan had witnessed an alarming increase in the number of rape cases registered across the state in last two years with an increase of 81.45%. While 3,305 rape cases were lodged in 2017, the number kept rising with 4,335 in 2018 to 5,997 in 2019. Overall the crime against women increased by 49.14% in the state. Apart from rape, complaints of harassment and eve teasing were also high in number. There was an increase of 22% in cases of rape under POCSO Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crime-against-women-dips-66-in-raj-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/76114196.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Timetable of remaining board exams announced||Ajmer: Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) will conduct the remaining board exams of class XII from June 18 to 30 while board exams of class X will be held between 27 and 30 June. The timetable was issued a day after the decision to conduct the exams of remaining subjects was taken by chief minister Ashok Gehlot at a review meeting on education on May 29. RBSE chairman DP Jalori said on the directions of state government, the board has decised to hold the social sciences exam of class x on June 29 and mathematics on June 30. Similarly, mathematics paper of class XII will be held on June 18, IT and programming on June 19, geography on June 22, home science on June 23, drawing on June 24, Hindi literature, Urdu, Sindhi and other language papers on June 25. Officials said the timetable has been released on the official website of the board.RBSE secretary Arvind Kumar Sengwa said according to the directions of the high court and chief minister, there will be arrangements of social distancing and new examination centres will be created.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/timetable-of-remaining-board-exams-announced/articleshow/76114188.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ajmer||Timetable of remaining board exams announced||Ajmer: Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) will conduct the remaining board exams of class XII from June 18 to 30 while board exams of class X will be held between 27 and 30 June. The timetable was issued a day after the decision to conduct the exams of remaining subjects was taken by chief minister Ashok Gehlot at a review meeting on education on May 29. RBSE chairman DP Jalori said on the directions of state government, the board has decised to hold the social sciences exam of class x on June 29 and mathematics on June 30. Similarly, mathematics paper of class XII will be held on June 18, IT and programming on June 19, geography on June 22, home science on June 23, drawing on June 24, Hindi literature, Urdu, Sindhi and other language papers on June 25. Officials said the timetable has been released on the official website of the board.RBSE secretary Arvind Kumar Sengwa said according to the directions of the high court and chief minister, there will be arrangements of social distancing and new examination centres will be created.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/timetable-of-remaining-board-exams-announced/articleshow/76114194.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Pune||Teen cyber victims don’t report ordeals||PUNE: Earlier, easier access to smartphones and internet have left many teenagers vulnerable to cyberattacks. A survey found that about 80% of 1,148 children between the ages 10 and 17, surveyed across 18 schools in Maharashtra, did not report cybercrimes to parents, teachers or police. The survey was conducted between October 2019 and February 2020 by Responsible Netism and Cyber Peace Foundation (CPF), jointly with the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT). The study found that these children had fallen victim to hacking, cyber-bullying, being threatened online, harassment by strangers and even receiving pornographic content. “Low barrier for entry to smartphone ownership and affordable data plans have made children more vulnerable online,” Vineet Kumar, CPF founder, said. The study also revealed some certain trends — children revealed that they were dependent on/addicted to their devices and that it affected their studies. The survey underscores the need for educating the children on personal safety in the cyber space and also self-regulation. “Technology companies are not stringently safeguarding children’s interests. Genuine and honest responses from children are an appeal to us adults, caregivers and policymakers to protect them in the cyberspace,” Responsible Netism’s founder-president Sonali Patankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teen-cyber-victims-dont-report-ordeals/articleshow/76114193.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
May 31, 2020||Nashik||Nashik industries praised for keeping Covid-19 at bay||Nashik: The Nashik district administration has appreciated the industrial units for adhering to the social distancing norms after they were given permissions to start production activities in their units. Over 600 companies with more than 60,000 employees were permitted to resume work in various places and different sectors. District collector Suraj Mandhare said as there have been no cases of Covid-19 from the industrial parts, he gave go-ahead to private firms. “The industries have been working smoothly and appear to be observing all the safety measures told to follow. If things remain the same way, we will have the economic activities gearing up. We hope the things continue and improve,” he said. Mandhare, however, expressed his concern over the rising cases after things started opening up. “It appears that after stores started opening, some people are lacking the gravity of the situation. This is going to affect the society and not the individual, hence every single person has to be vigilant against the contagion one hundred percent of times,” he added. He warned that if the same carelessness is continued, harsh decisions have to be taken. “The administration and the health agencies are well prepared to ensure they respond to each and every call of Covid-19 at any given time. From the start, we have kept vigil on district check posts and the health checkups. Given the current situation, if people fail to keep the spread under check, they will invite trouble,” the collector said. He thanked the health agencies, police, and other department officials for doing their job efficiently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-industries-praised-for-keeping-covid-19-at-bay/articleshow/76113064.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 31, 2020||Pune||Police quiz Solapur deputy mayor||Pune: The Sangvi police are questioning the deputy mayor of Solapur Municipal Corporation in a case of cheating that involves illegal sale of an apartment at Sangvi in 2018-19.  Police had registered a cheating case against five persons in September 2019. “We already arrested three. The deputy mayor’s role became apparent during questioning. We will arrest him once his role in the crime is established,” senior inspector Dnyaneshwar Sabale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-quiz-solapur-dy-mayor/articleshow/76114195.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||Proactive testing of travellers helps detect ten cases in Nagpur Rural||NAGPUR: The proactive measures adopted in Nagpur Rural has helped in detection of 10 corona positive cases and containing the spread of Covid-19. Reports of many samples are awaited as special camps concluded a couple of days ago. “A few from other parts of the state and country have started to return to their hometowns and villages. Therefore, special camps were organized in various parts of Nagpur Rural to test travellers as well as some high-risk patients,” divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI. The team of the state’s health department and Zilla Parishad were monitoring travellers and taking swab samples of persons with some type of symptoms. On May 23, two persons from Kamptee and Dahegaon in Saoner tehsil, who were Mumbai returnees, tested positive. Swab samples of the duo was taken as a proactive measure. On the same day, a 25-year-old man from Butibori along with his father came to AIIMS and gave swab samples. The two tested positive. The youngster had returned from Mumbai. In a similar manner, three more persons from Kamptee, who were Pune returnees and Sonuli in Kalmeshwar tehsil, who was a Mumbai returnee, tested positive. The team led by district civil surgeon VD Paturkar, district health officer Dr Dipak Selokar and additional district health officer Asim Inamdar conducted special camps in all 13 tehsils of Nagpur Rural in the last few days. Two persons from Mannatkhedi, a remote village in Sawargaon Primay Health Centre Area in Narkhed tehsil, tested positive as their swab samples were collected in the camp. Reports of many are awaited. Apart from these positive persons, a girl, who returned to Kondhali from Nagpur, had also tested positive. A car owner-cum-driver of Mahadulla near Koradi made few trips to Bihar and fell sick. He got admitted at GMCH and tested positive a day ago. A 44-year-old man from Ghumgaon was suffering from fever and breathlessness. He went for a check up to AIIMS and tested positive on Saturday. A 73-year-old man from Bhusawal came to his son’s residence at Hingna and was admitted at a private hospital in Dhantoli. He tested positive on Friday and died at GMCH’s Isolation ward on Saturday. In the last month, two persons from Kamptee and Kanhan, who also came from other states, had tested positive. Overall, 15 persons tested positive from Nagpur Rural. However, the Nagpur Rural count is 24. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has shifted counting of cases of SRPF personnel and policeman who were deployed at containment zones in the city, tested positive and are residents of Nagpur Rural. Similarly, Nagpur Rural is also taking into account a resident of Mominpura who shifted to Panchgaon near Kharbi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/proactive-testing-of-travellers-helps-detect-10-cases-in-ngp-rural/articleshow/76114176.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 31, 2020||Kochi||Repatriation flights reach Kochi||Kochi: Two repatriation flights reached Kochi on Saturday, each from Dubai and Abu Dhabi. The Air India Express flight (IX 1434) landed at Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) at 5:43pm with 181 passengers including four infants. The second flight IX 1452 operated by Air India Express from Abu Dhabi landed at 7:32pm with 181 passengers. Out of these, two passengers, who were found symptomatic were sent to the isolation ward of Ernakulam medical college. Another Air India Express flight (IX 1476) from Doha too landed at Cial at 9:47pm with 185 passengers. On Sunday there are special chartered flights from Nigeria, besides the services already announced in Vande Bharath Mission. M/S Air Peace flight is scheduled to land at Cial at 08:30 with 300 pax. With the ministry’s endorsement of carrying out chartered operation in international sector comes into effect, more airlines are gearing up to start evacuation flghts. Also, a flight operated by Air India Express from Dubai is scheduled to land at 5:25pm. Meanwhile, Cial reported 18 domestic operations on Saturday. The airport endorsed nine arrivals and nine departures in the domestic sector on Saturday; of that 6 arrivals and 7 departure services were operated till 5:49pm with 579 inbound and 449 outbound passengers. Six arrivals and six departures were cancelled. The cancelled arrival flights include three from Mumbai and one each from Hyderabad, Chennai and Delhi. The departure flights cancelled included three from Mumbai and one each from Hyderabad, Chennai and Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/repatriation-flights-reach-kochi/articleshow/76113066.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Air India flight brings back 137 Odias stranded in Chicago||Bhubaneswar: An Air India flight carrying 137 stranded Odias from Chicago arrived here at Biju Patnaik International Airport on Saturday morning. The special flight came via Delhi, where passengers were shifted to another aircraft and brought here. Airport officials said the flight landed here at 4.30am and the air traffic control was intimated about the schedule. An airport officer said the crew of six members flew back to Delhi with the empty aircraft after the passengers de-boarded. The state government coordinated with the airport personnel on following the protocol of mandatory health screening and ensuring home and institutional quarantine as per the norms. The government had said people from the rural areas will be sent to the quarantine centres, while those from the urban areas will have to follow home-isolation norms. Sources in the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) said those who stay under the BMC jurisdiction would remain under home quarantine. A BMC official said the respective district administrations took their passengers on separate buses. Nearly 500 Odias, who were stranded in Dubai, Kuala Lumpur and Chicago, have been brought back here on special flights. The people, who returned from Chicago and Kuala Lumpur, were mostly students, professionals, tourists and businessmen. They got stranded after all international and domestic flights were suspended following the announcement of a nationwide lockdown on March 24. Airport director V V Rao said there was no intimation of further evacuation flights coming to the city from foreign countries. “Chicago was the last of the evacuating flights. We have not received further information on any more rescue flights coming here,” the director added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/air-india-flight-brings-back-137-odias-stranded-in-chicago/articleshow/76113074.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amid export gloom, pharma shows resilience||AHMEDABAD: Even as the Covid-19 pandemic has crippled exports across sectors, the pharmaceutical space has shown some resilience. Pharma exports did manage to grow in April, albeit by 1%, and expected to grow further in May. India’s pharmaceutical exports grew by 0.25% year-on-year basis to US $1,531 million during April 2020, shows pharmaceutical export promotion council (Pharmexcil) data shared by Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA). The exports had declined by 23% in March as the Covid-19 outbreak paralyzed global supply chains. The exports had grown by 7.7% and 11.72% in February and January, respectively. “The growth of 0.25% may seem minuscule in normal circumstances. However, it becomes significant given the fact that exports from many other sectors have taken a major hit due to the pandemic. Pharma export offers a silver lining in these difficult times,” said Viranchi Shah, national senior vice-president, IDMA. According to industry players, exports made a turnaround after mid-April. Till then, there were supply and logistical challenges with disruption in port operations and restriction on exports of several formulations. Gujarat is among the top pharma producing states in India. The state accounts for 28-29% of India’s total pharma exports and 32-33% in domestic market. “We expect pharma exports to grow further in the month of May,” Shah added. Pharma exporters expect the growth rate to hover around 1% in May. The domestic market, however, bore the brunt of the lockdown. The domestic market witnessed a negative growth of 12% in April. “While sales of drugs for chronic diseases such as diabetes and cardiac ailments continued to grow, other segments such as anti-infectives and dermatology saw a decline hitting the growth rate in the domestic market. OPDs at hospitals were closed, which further brought down the sales in the local markets,” said an industry player.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amid-export-gloom-pharma-shows-resilience/articleshow/76114205.cms||Kalpesh Damor
May 31, 2020||Pune||Man held for stalking minor girl in Pune||PUNE: The Kondhwa police on Friday arrested a tempo driver (25) from Pisoli for stalking a minor girl for the past five months. Police said the driver visited the girl’s (17) residence and proposed her on Thursday. She and her parents then lodged an FIR. The FIR stated that the suspect threatened to abduct and rape her if she refused his proposal. “He misbehaved with my parents when they told him to leave,” the girl said in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-for-stalking-minor-girl/articleshow/76114197.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Tuticorin villages tense after man beheaded in caste rivalry||TUTICORIN: Tension gripped Thalaivanvadali and Keela Keeranur villages in Tuticorin district after the brutal murder of a 22-year-old man on Friday night in what is suspected to be a casteist murder. He sustained 35 stabs on his body and his head with cut wounds was found abandoned 400 metres away on Saturday. Over 500 police personnel have been deployed in the area to avert a retaliation. P Sathyamurthy, a thevar, had two cases registered against him last year including one under The Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. “While this case was dropped due to mistake of facts, he was charge sheeted in an attempt to murder case that is pending trial,” superintendent of police Arun Balagopalan told TOI. The murder was said to be the fallout of a standoff between youths in the two villages for close to a year. Last year, Keela Keeranur villagers, most of whom are dalits, opposed the burial of a person from the other community. Sathyamurthy played an instrumental role in ensuring that the final rites were performed despite opposition by the other group. Police said there were skirmishes in the villages recently but were not reported to them. On Friday evening, Sathyamurthy went out of his house but did not return till 9 pm. His relatives and friends who went in search of him were stunned to find him beheaded half a kilometre away. Villagers of Thalaivanvadali resorted to protest and initially did not allow the police to send the body for autopsy without the head. Later, they agreed on the SP’s assurance that the head will be retrieved and the accused arrested. Arumuganeri police sent the body to the Thoothukudi MCH for autopsy. Meanwhile, a group from Thalaivanvadali damaged fences and tin sheets of houses at Keela Keeranur in retaliation, following which heavy police deployment was made. The SP said 10 people have been secured for their direct and indirect role in the murder. Arun Balagopalan added that the accused belong to three different castes of which two of the key accused who stabbed the victim were dalits. They were found to have been under the influence of drugs. The accused were booked under various sections including 302 (punishment murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 120(b) (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tuticorin-villages-tense-after-man-beheaded-in-caste-rivalry/articleshow/76114202.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Pune||335 cadets pass out from NDA in muted ceremony||PUNE: A total of 335 cadets graduated from the National Defence Academy (NDA) on Saturday. NDA Commandant Lt Gen Asit Mistry presided over the function, which was attended by passing out cadets and some faculty members. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the passing out ceremony of the 138th course had to be scaled down. In all, 226 cadets from the army, 44 from the navy and 65 from the air force graduated from the academy. In addition, 20 cadets from friendly foreign countries also passed out. Battalion cadet Captain Shivam Kumar won the President’s gold medal, Cadet Captain Mukesh Kumar won the President’s silver medal and cadet Captain Parth Gupta won the President’s bronze medal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/335-cadets-pass-out-from-nda-in-muted-ceremony/articleshow/76114204.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 31, 2020||Nashik||Twins who lost their mother test negative||Nashik: The 2-day-old twins, born at the Ahmednagar civil hospital, tested negative for Covid-19 a day after their mother succumbed. The mother, who had given birth to the twins on Thursday, died early on Friday morning. The deceased had undergone cesarean section after going into labour suddenly. “The lab reports of the twins arrived this morning (Saturday). The swab samples were taken on Friday,” district officials said. The woman, who was from the Ghatkopar area of Mumbai, had come to her parents’ home at Nimblak village on the outskirts of the Ahmednagar city. She was admitted to the civil hospital after she developed breathing problems. Later, she tested positive for novel coronavirus. “The paediatrician at the hospital is looking after the twins. We will discharge the newborns in the next few days and hand them to their father. We will brief him on an appropriate diet of babies, including intake of milk,” hospital sources added. In the meantime, seven more individuals, including five of a family, tested positive in Ahmednagar district on Saturday. While the family resides in Ahmednagar city, the remaining two patients are from the Sangamner area of the district. The total number of Covid 19 positive cases in Ahmednagar is 124 so far. While 68 patients have recovered from the illness, 11 have succumbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/twins-who-lost-their-mother-test-negative/articleshow/76113068.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Madurai||Grasshoppers seen in Tamil Nadu not locusts, says agriculture department||Krishnagiri/Kanyakumari/Chennai: The agriculture department and Krishi Vigyan Kendra have clarified that the insects spotted in Neralagiri village in Krishnagiri as well as two villages in Kanyakumari district were grasshoppers and not the locusts ravaging crops in some northern states. Thousands of insects had swarmed Neralagiri since Friday evening. The matter was brought to the attention of Veppanahalli MLA P Murugan. On Saturday morning, agriculture department officials and KVK insect researchers in Piyur visited the village along with district collector S Prabhakar collector. On closer inspection, they confirmed that the insects were not Schistocerca gregaria, which is commonly known as desert locust. State agriculture secretary Gagandeep Singh said it was not possible for locusts from the North to enter southern states. The officials advised the farmers to spray neem oil with water to control the grasshopper. In Kanyakumari, farmers of Mulavilai and Vettukuli villages in Thiruvattar taluk saw thousands of big grasshoppers preying on banana, rubber and other leaves and also covering bushes and plants in the two villages. They measured two to three inches, had stripes of dark green and pale yellow. “As a group of 50 to 100 grasshoppers on a banana plant, they destroyed a sizeable portion in less than an hour,” said Padmanabhapuram MLA T Mano Thangaraj who visited the place. District collector Prashant M Wadnere sent a team to the spot with scientists from the KVK and officials of agriculture and horticulture departments. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University in Coimbatore later confirmed that it is a species known as spotted or ‘coffee grasshopper’ (Aularches milliaris) that affects coffee plantations. KVK scientist and programme coordinator K Thirukumaran said that ‘coffee grasshopper’ is easily controllable by spraying Malathion 50 EC pesticide by mixing 2 ml in 1,000 ml water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grasshoppers-seen-in-tamil-nadu-not-locusts-says-agriculture-department/articleshow/76114207.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Constable caught with foreign liquor worth over Rs 72,000||AURANGABAD: A police constable with the Aurangabad city police was caught carrying seven boxes of foreign liquor of over Rs 72,000 from Jalna. The constable is facing stringent action from the department. The suspect, in his uniform, was travelling from Jalna to Aurangabad along with his four friends, carrying seven boxes of foreign liquor of over Rs 72, 000. The car with registration number MH-20-EG-9212 was intercepted on late Wednesday night by the police personnel posted at the checkpost set up by Badnapur police station. Preliminary probe has revealed that this policeman intentionally wore the uniform to skip the screening at the checkposts. Badnapur inspector Maruti Khedkar said after checking the car, seven boxes of foreign liquor was found. “The liquor found with them was beyond permissible limit and they failed to justify possessing a large quantity of liquor in the car,” said Khedkar. Authorities in the Jalna police informed about the suspect’s alleged act immediately to the senior police officers. The senior police officers in Aurangabad city confirmed receiving the information about the constable, who is currently posted at the Kranti Chowk police station. “The constable is facing suspension and departmental inquiry. Depending on the findings, he will face stringent action,” said an assistant commissioner of police. An offence was registered against all of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/constable-caught-with-foreign-liquor-worth-over-rs-72000/articleshow/76113075.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Virus infects 36 more, fatal for 2 in Punjab||Chandigarh: Punjab recorded 36 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 2,233. Two more deaths were in the state, one each from Jalandhar and Ludhiana, taking the number of casualties due to the virus to 44. The source of infection of 11 new cases is out of Punjab — including a patient each in Mohali and Tarn Taran who returned from abroad. Thirteen of the new patients are contacts of people who had already tested positive. Eight cases each were reported from Amritsar and Pathankot, five from Bathinda, four from Mohali, two each from Hoshiarpur, Fazilka, Patiala and Sangrur, and one each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur. Five more cases were reported in Amritsar, but these were yet to be added to the state bulletin on Covid-19. In Sangrur, the cases include a vegetable vendor and a truck driver with no travel history. In Bathinda, two of the patients include a prisoner and an anganwadi worker. In Amritsar, eight patients are contacts of people who tested positive earlier, one each is from Hathi Gate, Green Avenue, Gilwali Gate and Baba Bakala, and the 13th patient had returned from Delhi. The Gurdaspur a case was reported from Saraspur village. As 1,967 patients have recovered till date, there are only 222 active cases. At the same time, 18 patients were discharged from hospitals on Saturday. These include 12 from Ludhiana, three from Patiala, two from Bathinda and one from Muktsar. Amritsar district tops the chart with 61 active cases, followed by Pathankot (31), Jalandhar (25), Ludhiana (24) and Hoshairpur (23). (With inputs from Amritsar )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/virus-infects-36-more-fatal-for-2-in-punjab/articleshow/76114220.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Hailstorm & rainfall bring mercury down in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: After continued heat wave conditions, mercury took a dip across the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessed a drop of 4 to 5 °C. The dip in mercury was result of hailstorm, overnight rainfall and dust storm. Kota remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 42.0 °C was recorded, the Met report said. Attributing the dip in the mercury to the active western disturbances and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office said that in the next couple of days hailstorm, dust storm and rainfall would occur at many places in the state. People in Jaipur woke up amid drizzles which guided the mercury to take a dip. A minimum temperature of 21.6 °C, almost six degrees below normal was recorded in the city. It was followed by relatively pleasant afternoon as a maximum temperature of 35.2 °C was recorded. Throughout the day cold breeze continued across the city. In the evening, drizzling was witnessed at many places in city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hailstorm-rainfall-bring-mercury-down/articleshow/76114221.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Councillor’s death: Eight doctors put on APO||JAIPUR: Eight doctors of Mahila Chikitsalaya have been put on awaiting posting order (APO) in a case of alleged carelessness in which 26-year-old councillor Rukhsana Mansoori had died on Eid (Monday). Mansoori was the youngest councillor of the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC). She was elected as councillor at an age of 21. Her parents alleged that they rushed her to Mahila Chikitsalaya on the eve of Eid but the doctors did not admit her saying that they did not have enough staff. She was sent back to her home. In the morning, her condition deteriorated and she was again brought to the hospital where she died before the doctors could start the treatment. A committee constituted by the SMS Medical College principal found that there were eight gynaecologists on the duty. All the doctors have been put on APO due to their alleged carelessness in dealing with the situation. The incident is an eye opener as even councillor of a ruling party has been given such shabby treatment that lead to her death. At a time when crores of rupees are being spent on maternal care by the Centre and the state government to prevent mortality, such incident due to carelessness of hospital employees spoils all such efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/councillors-death-eight-doctors-put-on-apo/articleshow/76114215.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Conman posing as cop nabbed||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad rural police have nabbed a 30-year old man, who was moving around in the industrial areas, posing as a cop. An offence against the accused has been registered with the Chikalthana police station. He is suspected of extorting money from people while claiming to be a cop. As per a preliminary probe, the arrested accused identified as Yogesh Sathe hails from Tongaon. Earlier, he managed to give the police a slip by posing as a police constable serving with Mulkundwadi police station. Chikalthana police station’s assistant inspector Mahesh Andhale said that for the past couple of months there were reports of some policeman moving and extorting petty cash anything between Rs 200 to Rs 500 from people in Shendra MIDC industrial area. Aurangabad (rural) superintendent of police Mokshada Patil told TOI, “Uniform is earned and those misusing by falsely claiming to be a cop, will face action.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/conman-posing-as-cop-nabbed/articleshow/76113081.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 31, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: Stone quarrying draws NGT lens||CUTTACK: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered a high-level probe into the alleged grant of permit to a private party for quarrying, collecting and removing road metal stones (minerals) from 9.68 acre under Papadahandi tehsil in Nabarangpur district without environmental clearance. A resident of the area, Rajendra Kachim, had filed a petition seeking the NGT’s intervention against the illegal grant of permit by the tehsildar for quarrying operations within 300 metre of a school, a water body and cultivable land in Ushigam village. The petition expressed apprehension that grant of permission for the quarrying operation would pave the way for air pollution, degradation of environment, destruction of forest and agricultural land and water bodies of the area. The NGT’s principal bench in New Delhi, comprising justice S P Wangdi (judicial member), Nagin Nanda (expert member) and Siddhanta Das (expert member), took up the case for hearing through video-conference on Friday. The bench said, “We deem it essential to constitute a committee comprising the collector, Nabarangpur, the divisional forest officer, Nabarangpur, and the Odisha State Pollution Control Board for jointly visiting the project in question and submitting a factual and action-taken report on the various aspects set out by the applicant.” “In the event it is found that the permit has been granted without obtaining environmental clearance, consent to establish and consent to operate, the state PCB shall be at liberty to take action against the private party in accordance with law and prohibit further activity apart from imposing necessary environmental compensation,” the bench directed in its order. The NGT expected the inspection to be conducted within two weeks with the state PCB as the nodal agency for coordination and providing logistic support. While issuing a notice returnable in 30 days, the NGT posted the matter to July 17, expecting by then a report of compliance in terms of the directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/stone-quarrying-draws-ngt-lens/articleshow/76113091.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
May 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Army doctor loses Rs 90k to QR code scam||PUNE: A fraudster, on the pretext of purchasing an army doctor’s used furniture online, duped her Rs90,000. The fraud occurred via an online marketplace on May 28, when the 39-year-old complainant posted an advertisement selling her sofa and chairs. The suspect contacted her, offering to purchase the furniture for Rs20,000. He sent her a QR code through a UPI application. In the complaint, the doctor stated that when she scanned the code and entered her four-digit authorization PIN, Rs40,000 was debited from her account. She called up the suspect, who apologized for the “technical error” and sent her another code. This time, when she scanned it, she lost Rs50,000 from the count.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-doctor-loses-rs-90k-to-qr-code-scam/articleshow/76114213.cms||Asseem Shaikh
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||From visiting temples to salons, citizens want to do many things||Nagpur: Enjoying a cup of hot coffee with friends or taking long walks with pets in the garden, citizens shared what’s the first thing on their mind starting June 1, the day the lockdown is lifted. After being at home for over sixty days, craving for fresh air of the outside world has become a necessity for everyone. Citizens can’t wait to go out and enjoy their own little freedom. Engineer Rushikesh Kalkar has a long list of plans to explore post lockdown, but the first things he is craving for is a road trip alongside nature and a campfire by gazing at the stars. “Cannot wait for the relaxations. I desperately need a road trip to clear my mind and enjoy nature. I’m craving to play football or cricket with my friends at the ground,” he said. For law student Akshata Nakshine, who is currently enjoying her quarantine with her two fur balls and dogs, can’t wait to take them to the park and enjoy some street food too. “I’m badly missing street food. I want to take both my dogs for a nice walk in the park, where they can play while I can enjoy some street style peanuts or chaat,” she said. Citizens are waiting for little moments of happiness in the outside world and want to cherish them. Some desperately want to go back to work. “I’m a teacher and I miss going to school and meeting my students. No matter how much we scold them for getting on our nerves, they fill our days with joy. I can’t wait to be back and teach them and pray with them in the assembly” said Debashree Chaterjee. Apart from work places, senior citizens and the working class want to go to temples. Temples were shut right after the lockdown was imposed in the city. “I miss attending prayers in the temple. The first thing I will do after lockdown is visiting Ganesh Tekdi or Hanuman Mandir in Telankhedi,” said Kavita Shah. Salon appointments are long pending in everyone’s list. Soumya Bharti, who is also craving to take a trip to watch the sunrise from different places, wants to crash at the salons to get herself pampered. “It’s been such a long wait. I don’t want to watch the sunset or sunrise from my terrace anymore. I want to travel to places. I need to visit the parlour and also get some beauty treatment done,” she said. Senior citizen Madhukar Banubakode, who has an ardent interest in fitness, cannot wait to go out and exercise with his friends in the park. “I want to begin my fitness routine again by attending fitness classes in the city. I will meet my old friends and make heath our priority while we do a variety of exercises and yoga together,” he said. Doting mother Anamika Sinha, who has two young kids, cannot wait to step out of the house and meet her mother. “I cannot wait to go out and meet my mom at her place. It’s been so long since I’ve seen her,” she said. Her elder son Arnav keeps himself busy with creative activities. “I want to go out and play with my friends and enjoy lip-smacking food at restaurants,” he said. Entrepreneur and theatre artist Lalit Ghavghave said, “I will be meeting my friends post June 1. As an artist, I would love to watch a play and also eat my favourite Pavbhaji,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-visiting-temples-to-salons-citizens-want-to-do-many-things/articleshow/76114211.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||Youth ends life, another dies of ailment in Q-centre||Chandrapur: Two persons, who were under institutional quarantine at the Government Engineering College, died in different rooms on Saturday morning. The deceased included a 30-year youth, who killed himself and the other, a 40-year-old, died of an ailment. However, the exact reasons for the deaths is yet to be ascertained. Official sources said the youth from Sham Nagar was put under institutional quarantine after he returned from Nagpur. He ended his life at the room provided to him at the girl’s hostel on the college campus. The other deceased was put up at the residential building along with his family. He was from village Sirpur in Wani tehsil of Yavatmal. He died while he was asleep. District collector, Dr Kunal Khemnar, CEO Rahul Karidile, Additional SP Prashant Khaire and SDPO Shilwant Nandedkar visited the campus for inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/youth-ends-life-another-dies-of-ailment-in-q-centre/articleshow/76114225.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 31, 2020||Kochi||Advanced HIV treatment centre to be set up in state||Kochi: To address the difficulties being faced by HIV patients, who need third line antiretroviral medicines to keep HIV virus low, Kerala State Aids Control Society (KSACS) has approached national society to set up a centre, which will provide third-line treatment, in Thiruvananthapuram. Currently, the patients get third-line medicine from Tambaram in Chennai, where they have to travel to every month. “With lockdown in place, the patients are unable to travel to Chennai to get the medicines. 26 HIV patients currently need third-line treatment medicines. KSACS, with the help of our counterparts in Tamil Nadu, transport the medicine from Tambaram to Kerala. Since their immunity is very low, HIV patients are highly vulnerable to Covid-19,” said Dr Ramesh R, project director of KSACS. There are around 12,000 HIV patients in Kerala undergoing first- and second-line treatment at antiretroviral therapy centers in the state. Third-line treatment are for those with very high presence of HIV virus in their body and which could not be brought down in first- and second-line treatments. Different drug combinations are tried on the patient depending on the viral load in his or her body. Viral load in the body of the patient is examined during each period of treatment. Third-line treatment is started when the first- and second-line treatments are proven ineffective to bring down the presence of virus. Dr Ramesh said, KSACS has given strict instructions to HIV patients to keep away from gatherings and always wear masks. Usually they collect medicines from ART centers every month. With Covid-19, the society has started giving them medicines for three months. If the ART centers are far away from the houses of patients, KSACS has arranged medicines at ITPC centers in their area in order for them to avoid travelling long distances and prevent exposure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/advanced-hiv-treatment-centre-to-be-set-up-in-state/articleshow/76113080.cms||T C Sreemol
May 31, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Stone quarrying draws NGT lens||Cuttack: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered a high-level probe into the alleged grant of permit to a private party for quarrying, collecting and removing road metal stones (minerals) from 9.68 acre under Papadahandi tehsil in Nabarangpur district without environmental clearance. A resident of the area, Rajendra Kachim, had filed a petition seeking the NGT’s intervention against the illegal grant of permit by the tehsildar for quarrying operations within 300 metre of a school, a water body and cultivable land in Ushigam village. The petition expressed apprehension that grant of permission for the quarrying operation would pave the way for air pollution, degradation of environment, destruction of forest and agricultural land and water bodies of the area. The NGT’s principal bench in New Delhi, comprising justice S P Wangdi (judicial member), Nagin Nanda (expert member) and Siddhanta Das (expert member), took up the case for hearing through video-conference on Friday. The bench said, “We deem it essential to constitute a committee comprising the collector, Nabarangpur, the divisional forest officer, Nabarangpur, and the Odisha State Pollution Control Board for jointly visiting the project in question and submitting a factual and action-taken report on the various aspects set out by the applicant.” “In the event it is found that the permit has been granted without obtaining environmental clearance, consent to establish and consent to operate, the state PCB shall be at liberty to take action against the private party in accordance with law and prohibit further activity apart from imposing necessary environmental compensation,” the bench directed in its order. The NGT expected the inspection to be conducted within two weeks with the state PCB as the nodal agency for coordination and providing logistic support. While issuing a notice returnable in 30 days, the NGT posted the matter to July 17, expecting by then a report of compliance in terms of the directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/stone-quarrying-draws-ngt-lens/articleshow/76113095.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
May 31, 2020||Varanasi||Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 63.25% in Kashi||VARANASI: With the registratioin of 166 Covid positive cases from March 21 to May 29, Varanasi has achieved Covid-19 recovery rate as 63.25% and fatality rate as low as 2.4%. Of the total 166 positive cases registered, 63 are migrants in Varanasi. In neighbouring districts, migrants returned from Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi and other states are taking the graph higher. After the union health ministry, on May 26, released the country’s figure of Covid recovery rate as 41.61%, TOI on Saturday took stock of the same in Varanasi and surrounding districts. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal informed, “Varanasi recorded 166 positive cases till Friday night. Of it, 112 have been cured and discharged from hospitals while four have died. Active cases have reduced to 50 in isolation wards of DDU district hospital and BHU hospital. This shows the current recovery rate as 63.25% while fatality rate as 2.4%.” As per records of district administration and CMO, first case in Varanasi was reported on March 21 when a migrant of Pindra area who returned from Dubai, tested positive. After the Tablighi Jamaat attendees and other natives returned to the district, many more were found positve and contact tracing led to a further rise in the Covid graph. The number of infected persons reached close to 30. Thereafter, a drug wholesaler emerged as a super spreader and infected 12 personas, while 13 infected policemen also added to the tally. Besides, many contacts of infected persons were left untraced. When the influx of migrants from Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat and other states started from mid May, many of them, specially those returning from Mumbai started dominating the tally. Similar trend was evident in neighbouring Jaunpur and Ghazipur, where the positive cases came to light after many TJ attendees were found infected. The graph did not rise further for sometime. However, in past 20 days, both the districts have witnessed a massive rise in the Covid number. Commissioner Agrawal said, “Currently, there are 103 cases in Ghazipur and 159 in Jaunpur. In Ghazipur, 37 have become cured while 66 are being treated. But in Jaunpur, the number of active cases are 132. Patients of both the districts are being treated at level-1 facilities.” “Recovery rate in Ghazipur and Jaunpur are low as maximum cases have come to light in the past fortnight,” added Agrawal. Chandauli was the last district of the state which opened its account in the state’s tally of Covid-19 cases on May 14. Till Friday, the commissioner said, Chandauli recorded 21 cases. All positive patients in Chandauli are migrants, said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-recovery-rate-stands-at-63-25-in-kashi/articleshow/76114167.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Allahabad||Indian Railways issues guidelines for passengers||PRAYAGRAJ: Following government orders to ply 100 pairs of passenger trains on various routes, Indian Railways has announced several directives to be followed by the passengers before boarding these trains. Public relations officer (PRO) of North Central Railways’ Prayagraj division SK Gupta, said, “Passengers will have to arrive around two hours before their train’s scheduled departure and can enter Prayagraj Junction from gate number 4. They would be allowed to exit from the Civil Lines side of the station.” It would be mandatory for them to wear face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rlys-issue-guidelines-for-passengers/articleshow/76114200.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Allahabad||How extended lockdowns are changing dynamics of families||PRAYAGRAJ: With fourth phase of lockdown coming to an end, and people expecting its further extension, families across the country and in the city are facing mobile addiction and behavioural problems in children. The psychiatrists in the OPD of MLN divisional hospital (commonly known as Colvin hospital) have noticed increase in the number of parents bringing their children with problems of mobile addiction and behavioural changes. After detailed analysis, several deficits were observed in the family dynamics during the lockdown. Clinical psychologist at MLN hospital, Dr Ishanya Raj said, “After meeting so many patients and doing counselling of them and their wards, we observed some factors influencing the family dynamics during the lockdown, which include less interaction with children, poor parenting practices, impaired parenting style in form of distorted communication, reinforcement of maladaptive behaviour, poor supervision etc.” For instance, in any household, many a time adults in the family are seen busy in the world of internet, mobile, television and social media. “Due to current nuclear family structure, children do not have the opportunity to play and involve in other recreational activities which lead to more use of mobile phones by them like playing games, social media, web series etc, which is a worrying factor”, said Dr Ishanya Raj. Some children use mobile phones for more than 12 hours in a day or more due to absence of interaction among family members, which can lead to behavioural issues. “Recently, we come across a case wherein the parents thought that their son was at fault. But on close analysis, we found that the father is in the Army, mother a teacher and sister a medical student. Thus everyone is busy on their mobile or internet throughput the day. This is a problem of the entire family and is the genesis of changing family dynamics”. According to Dr Rakesh Paswan, consultant psychiatrist in the same hospital, “Through detailed analysis of the parenting style, the deficit areas need to be identified, and with the use of psychological interventions, these kinds of issues can be tackled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/how-extended-lockdowns-are-changing-dynamics-of-families/articleshow/76114219.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi records two new Covid-19 cases, Chandauli its first virus death||Varanasi: Chandauli, which was the last district of the state to open its account of Covid-19 case on May 14, registered first death due to infection while two new cases in Varanasi, Ballia, Ghazipur each and one in Mau district came to light on Saturday. District magistrate Chandauli Navneet Singh Chahal confirmed, “A 30-year-old native of Amra village in Dhanapur block of district died at SSL hospital of BHU in Varanasi during the course of treatment. He had returned from Nasik in Maharashtra on May 15 and on becoming symptomatic he had been admitted to ICU of BHU hospital on May 27. He is survived by parents, pregnant wife and three children, who were being examined in contact tracing process.” DM Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma said that BHU laboratory issued 171 reports in which a 67-year-old native of Badi Piyari locality, who is a retired government employee, was found infected. On suffering many complications, he had gone to BHU hospital voluntarily when his sample was taken. A 44-year-old man of Pragya Nagar colony in Lanka area, who works as lab technician of community health centre Aurai in Bhadohi district, has also been tested positive. Sharma said that after becoming symptomatic he had given his sample in Bhadohi and returned home in Varanasi. When the lab test report was received in Bhadohi he was also found infected. Now, total Covid-19 positive cases in Varanasi reached to 168. Of it 111 have become cured and discharged from the hospital while four had died. Total active cases in the district have become 53, he said adding, with the including of Pragya Nagar and Badi Piyari in the list of hotspot areas the number of hotspots in the district has become 87. In Ballia, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases reached to 42 with the detection of two new patients, said DM Ballia Hari Pratap Shahi. In Mau district, a youth of Majhwara Mishrauli area, who had returned from Mumbai with his friend on May 15, has been tested positive. DM Mau Gyan Prakash Tripathi said that the sample of this youth had been taken on May 24. As apart from staying his residence after returning from Mumbai he had also gone to the place of his in-laws in Sodasar village of Kopaganj area all his family members as well as in-laws have been quarantined. Total cases in Mau has reached to 23 now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/varanasi-records-two-new-covid-19-cases-chandauli-its-first-virus-death/articleshow/76114184.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
May 31, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Data bank for migrants to help them land jobs||PRAYAGRAJ: As thousands of labourers native to UP continue returning home after being rendered jobless due to the lockdown, the office of the labour commissioner in Prayagraj has started the process of preparing a data bank of migrants being offered jobs by various agencies. Many of these migrants have been employed by Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) project, public works department, UP Rajkiya Nirnam Nigam (UPRNN) and contractors. The district administration is in contact with the departments which are providing jobs to skilled and semi-skilled labourers. Deputy labour commissioner Rakesh Dwivedi said, “As soon as a migrant labourer enters the district, his/her details are noted down by the authorities under 27 heads. These details include their names, place of residence, vital statistics, area of expertise and skills, and if they are interested in being employed or not.” The information thus collected will be entered into a database. If an agency needs labourers, the department can get details of available workers with just a few clicks, he added. In the past two weeks, the department has forwarded the names of over 600 labourers who would be employed by UPRNN. The agency plans to hire around 400 workers for its projects in Prayagraj and Pratapgrah. 200 more labourers will be employed for DFC projects in Karchana and Meja. Dwivedi said that the employment exchange has also started ‘skilled mapping’, wherein a labourer’s skill will be noted down and would be helpful in searching for jobs in different agencies. He also said that the state government is mulling making the database public by uploading it on its official website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/data-bank-for-migrants-to-help-them-land-jobs/articleshow/76114226.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Flogged girl was forced to lift lover on shoulders||VADODARA: Chhota Udepur police arrested two more persons in connection with the brutal flogging of a 16-year-old girl as a punishment for eloping with a 20-year-old youth. On Saturday, police also arrested the youth and booked for abducting the girl by luring her with marriage. In fact, the girl was not only flogged with wooden sticks by her uncles and other men, but also made to walk in village after mounting the paramour on her frail shoulders. The video of the girl walking through the village, carrying him on her left shoulder, had also surfaced on May 28. Police said that the two persons arrested on Saturday and recorded this draconian punishment and circulated the video. Police said that this video was also shot on the same day when she was flogged, but it went viral two days later. “In the flogging video, the youth is not seen, but the other video shows that he is being carried by the girl which is also a form of inhuman punishment given by villagers. Investigation has revealed that the new video was shot before the girl was beaten up near the village school,” said sub-inspector DM Vasava of Rangpur police station. The girl was continuously flogged till the wooden stick of one of the perpetrators broke. She was then dragged by her, slapped, pushed the ground and kicked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/brutalized-teen-was-forced-to-carry-lover/articleshow/76112096.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Covid-19 testing system installed at Thrissur MCH||THRISSUR: To speed up Covid-19 testing, an automated nucleic acid extraction system was installed at Thrissur Medical College Virology lab on Saturday. The machine was imported from Germany utilizing Rs 40 lakh from Ramya Haridas’s MP fund, said officials. The automated nucleic acid extraction system has a testing capacity of 24 at a time and will provide results of Covid-19 samples within three hours, said officials. The new machine can be used to test all virus-related diseases, said officials. Meanwhile, Thrissur MP T N Prathapan handed over 10 ICU cots (special beds for Covid-19 isolation wards) to the medical college. The ICU cots was funded by PM Foundation Charitable trust, said officials. The isolation ICU of the medical college, constructed utilizing Rs 25 lakh from Pratapan’s MP fund, was inaugurated at a function. Thrissur district collector S Shanavaz presided over the meeting. MP Ramya Haridas, MLA Anil Akkara, Thrissur medical college principal Dr M A Andrews also attended the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-testing-system-installed-at-thrissur-mch/articleshow/76113107.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmers must pay for priority cotton sale||Aurangabad: The cotton farmers of Beed have to pay extra to sell their yield on priority due to the daily limit drawn at government authorised centres. Apart from this, the condition to purchase only grade I cotton at government authorised purchase centres has put the farmers in a fix. After the local Congress unit raised the issue with the Beed district collector on Saturday, the collector’s office issued fresh directives to ensure cotton purchase before monsoon hits the district. Farmers, who had produced cotton in Beed could not sell it as markets were shut. However, after various stakeholders took up the issue with the government, the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) started procuring the cotton from farmers. According to Prashant Pawar, social media head of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee, the token system of the government under which farmers get their turns to sell cotton is confusing. On a ground visit to a government authorised purchase centre in Maida-Pokhri Beed, TOI found long queues of trucks of cotton which farmers had brought from their villages. Ashok Jamkar, a farmer who had come to sell his yield at the ginning factory, said he has to hire a private truck to transport cotton. “The vehicle costed me Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 a day. If my turn to sell does not come today, I will have to come the next day and pay the vehicle rent for another day. So, I am paying Rs 500 to get my turn on priority,” the farmer said. In a letter submitted to the district collector on Saturday, the issues of cotton growers were raised by Pawar on behalf of Congress party. A notification issued by Beed collector Rahul Rekhawar on Saturday evening stated all farmers wanting to sell their cotton should register their names with their local agricultural produce market committee between June 1 and June 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmers-must-pay-for-priority-cotton-sale/articleshow/76113111.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||NGO, cops help Nepalese migrants with bus permit to reach home in Nagpur||NAGPUR: One can see the Himalayas from my house at Dhading village in Nepal, said 27-year-old Vinay Tamang who worked in the city as ‘Chinese’ cook. With no earnings, depleting savings and high daily expenditures along with room rent, Tamang and the others like him had been desperately trying to leave the city for the last one month but found no help. Sources stated that sensing their desperation to return, this group was also fleeced by some crooks. Finally, a bus with around 30 Nepalese migrant workers, mostly working as ‘Chinese’ cooks, left city on Saturday. They would have to cover nearly 1,500 kms to reach their respective places in Nepal and at different localities along the Indo-Nepal border, including Sunauli. The bus was flagged off by Zilla parishad member Salil Deshmukh, also running an NGO ‘Koshish Foundation’, in presence of Zonal DCP Vinita Shahu and DCP, traffic, Vikram Sali who took efforts to secure permit for their bus to cross several states, districts and tehsils until it reaches the Sunauli’s Indo-Nepal border, around 1,200km from city. Around 15 from this bus would cross the border to enter Nepal from where they would head towards their respective villages. They are expected to reach the village by Monday night, but they would have to remain at quarantine centre for another two weeks before re-uniting with their families. “My parents and siblings are waiting for me and my family,” said Vinay who had come to city around few years back. “It’s safer now at the villages and also economical. We would work for some time at our farms,’ he said. Vinay intends to come back as his children are studying at a school in Nagpur. Vinay’s neighbour at Dhading village in Nepal,, Indralok Tamang, said he was expecting the lockdown to open but it’s extension broke his heart. The Nepalese group met one Sanjay Thakur who introduced them to Abhijeet Raut. It’s learnt Raut took the group to state home minister Anil Deshmukh’s son Salil. Salil said the Nepalese had hired the bus but he and his team arranged for their passes with the help of senior police officials like DCPs Sali and Shahu. “The senior officials spoke to different authorities in various states to ensure permission. We have provided the group with enough ration to last for two weeks, packaged food, snacks, sanitizers and water bottles. Getting the permission issued for a cross-border journey was a tricky challenge but we had to do something,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngo-cops-help-nepalese-migrants-with-bus-permit-to-reach-home/articleshow/76114241.cms||Soumitra Bose
May 31, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Aide plotted gangster Anurag Sharma’s murder, held||RAMPUR: Police have claimed to have solved the case of murder of gangster Anurag Sharma with the arrest of his close aide and three sharpshooters. Anurag's right-hand man Chatarpal Singh is the mastermind of his boss's murder, claimed police. The gangster was shot dead in the evening of May 20 at Aghapur road here. Chatarpal was named as eyewitness in the FIR filed by Anurag's wife. Rampur superintendent of police Shaghun Gautam also announced Rs 25,000 to the police officials who cracked the murder mystery. The sharpshooters have been identified as Babu, Raj Kishore and Pawan. The weapons used in the murder of Anurag were also recovered from the house of Chatarpal. Police recovered one .32 caliber pistol, two .315 caliber country-made weapons, four live cartridges of .315 caliber, two shells of .315 caliber and one motorcycle used in the crime. SP Gautam said, "Chatarpal Singh had hatched a conspiracy to kill gangster Anurag Sharma to settle scores and also wanted to capture his boss’s business. To misguide the police, Chatarpal also orchestrated the fake attack on himself after the murder of Anurag." According to police, a total of 38 criminal cases -- including murder, attempt to murder, rape and robbery –had been registered against Anurag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/aide-plotted-gangster-anurag-sharmas-murder-held/articleshow/76113109.cms||Nazar Abbas
May 31, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Inexplicable’: Man positive after 23 days||PATIALA: A 38-year-old man from in Patiala district tested Covid-19 positive 23 days after returning from another state. Health officials said he was asymptomatic so far. The infected person, a combine worker, returned to his native Lanja village with his cousin from Uttar Pradesh on May 5. Health authorities placed them under 14-day home quarantine, during which both were asymptomatic. Officials decided to take their samples for testing on May 28, following which one was declared positive on Friday. This has left authorities perplexed. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “There are a number of scientists working on the virus at the world level. I am too small to comment on it. Samples of family members of the patient were taken for testing. Recently, one of our health care workers tested positive, but samples of all her 26 family members and contacts, including her husband and children, turned out to be negative. Five ASHA workers who were her colleagues also tested negative. Some things are inexplicable.” Nirmal Singh, 42, cousin of patient, suspected foul play. “We see some conspiracy behind this or the failure of kits being used by the government for testing,” he said. Dr Sumit, an epidemiologist in Patiala, said samples of the two cousins were taken a few days after they completed their home quarantine period. “The sampling procedure takes four-five hours per person. A large number of our health staff is working hard to trace contacts of all those who contracted the infection. We are collecting over 300 samples daily on an average. The incubation period can vary from person to person,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/inexplicable-man-positive-after-23-days/articleshow/76114236.cms||Bharat Khanna
May 31, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: BJP MLA’s son-in-law, friend arrested for ‘thrashing, robbing’ biker||BAREILLY: Ajitesh, son-in-law of BJP MLA Rajesh Mishra, alias, Pappu Bhartaul, and his friend were arrested for allegedly thrashing a youth and snatching his cell phone after a minor road mishap in Premnanagr area of Bareilly district late on Friday night. According to police, the youth was on his way home after buying medicines for his friend’s father when his bike hit Ajitesh’s SUV and the latter and his friend thrashed the youth and snatched his cell phone. Police said Ajitesh and his friend Vaibhav Gangwar were booked under IPC section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and other relevant sections. Notably, last year, Ajitesh and Sakshi, Bhartaul’s daughter, had released a series of videos accusing the MLA of threatening them with their lives after they eloped. After their marriage, Bhartaul reportedly snapped all ties with his daughter and son-in-law. Complainant Deepanshu Maheshwari said, “When I overtook Ajitesh’s car, he chased and waylaid me in the middle of the road. Thereafter, he and his friend thrashed me and snatched my phone. SHO Balbeer Singh and his team rescued me.” The SHO told TOI, “We checked CCTV footage and spoke to witnesses only to find that Ajitesh and his friend had thrashed the youth. Following which, a case was registered under relevant sections. Both the accused were sent to jail on Saturday. The youth was admitted to a hospital. He is stable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bjp-mla-bhartauls-son-in-law-friend-arrested-for-thrashing-robbing-biker/articleshow/76113115.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||KMC to plant over 50,000 saplings in Kolkata||KOLKATA: KMC plans to identify and barricade spots, from where large trees were uprooted by Cyclone Amphan, marking “territories” so that new saplings can be planted at those very places. The step will be taken to save the now-empty spots from being usurped by hawkers, clubs or even state and civic agencies to carry out projects, like road widening or beautification of pavements. The civic body may also form a citizens’ forum that will not only assist the KMC in its drive to replant trees to compensate for the huge loss of greenery but also to look after the saplings later. After holding a meeting with state forest minister Rajib Banerjee and senior environment department officials on Saturday, urban development minister Firhad Hakim said more than 50,000 saplings would be planted in Kolkata, particularly in places that suffered a colossal loss of greenery. Chosen by experts, these saplings will be of deep-rooted trees that can withstand storm. But Hakim had a word of warning for some traders and real estate developers: “A section of traders doesn’t hesitate to chop off a full-grown tree that stands tall in front of their shops or establishments or obstruct views. This must end or else we will act tough.” According to forest minister Rajib Banerjee, an estimated 16 lakh trees fell and greenery on about 1,600 sq km was damaged across eight districts, including Kolkata, by the cyclone. “A huge amount of oxygen-generating source have been destroyed and this needs to be replenished,” he said. Banerjee told TOI on Saturday that his department had decided to take up a drive to transplant around 17,000 trees, which were uprooted in eight south Bengal districts, to Kolkata, Howrah, Bidhannagar and New Town. “About 4,500 trees, which are 20-ft-high and more than 10 years old, and about 12,500 trees, which are over 16-ft-high and are over three years old, have been found to be retrievable. Those will be transplanted,” Banerjee said. After replanting, special care will be required for several months to see that they gain stability to live on. He said the ‘Kolkata Regreening’ programme would be launched on World Environment Day on June 5. “About 1.5 crore saplings are supposed to be planted under Sabuj Shri scheme across Bengal. Another 2 crore trees were added. Post-Amphan, a target has been set to plant another 3 crore trees, taking the total target to 6.5 crore in the next one year,” the forest minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-to-plant-over-50k-saplings-in-city/articleshow/76113839.cms||Saikat Ray
May 31, 2020||Kanpur||Covid positive woman from Unnao village dies, 20 of family quarantined||Kanpur: A Covid positive woman, 65, from Piprasar village of Unnao died at Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital in Kanpur on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Her native village, Piprasar, was sealed. As many as 1200 villagers have been home quarantined and 20 members of the woman’s family were quarantined at Saraswati Medical College of Unnao on Saturday. “The deceased woman had returned from Gujarat on May 17 along with her daughter and son-in-law. She tested positive for coronavirus on May 28 and was admitted to Unnao district hospital. However, her condition deteriorated and she was shifted to Kanpur’s LLR hospital on the same day. She died in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday during treatment,” informed Dr Pankaj Pandey, official of Unnao district health department. “Her cremation will be conducted as per Covid-19 protocol,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-positive-woman-from-unnao-village-dies-20-of-family-quarantined/articleshow/76114271.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
May 31, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Samajwadi Party to give Rs 1 lakh to man who killed self||BAREILLY: A day after a jobless man from Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri killed himself leaving behind a suicide note purportedly with a stinging rebuke of the government’s public distribution system (PDS) "dole", the Samajwadi Party (SP) has promised Rs 1 lakh for the aggrieved family while Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra shared the letter on Twitter to take potshots at BJP's one-year of governance at the Centre. Left without any job since the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, 45-year-old Bhanu Prakash Gupta decided to plunge before a speeding train in Maigalganj of Kheri district on Friday, but not before stating that “one cannot survive with just wheat and rice”. Gupta was based in Shahjahanpur district for 15 years and used to work in a restaurant. “I am committing suicide due to unemployment and poverty. I used to get just wheat and rice from the government quota. But, what about other items? The local shopkeeper refused to give us more pulses, oil, milk, tea on loan some time ago. From where can I get the vegetables and medicines?" he allegedly wrote in the suicide note. Talking about his severe hardship, Gupta also wrote, "I am feeling very weak and suffering from knee pain and fever for the last several days. My elderly mother is also ill for the last two years. We are all suffering." His death has now taken a political colour. Besides SP, Priyanka Gandhi shared the man's suicide note on her Twitter account on Saturday, and urged the people to read it. She wrote that the "letter may not reach you like BJP's letter with grand celebrations of drums on its completion of one-year of governance". Some SP workers led by former district vice-president Kranti Singh also met Gupta’s family in Maigalganj and informed them about the money. The local administration has also stepped in. Mitauli (Kheri) SDM Digvijay Singh has provided a ration kit to the man's family. Singh also provided some money on Saturday and has assured the family of Rs 30,000 compensation. "We would be able to provide an immediate support of Rs 30,000 to his family under the family beneficiary scheme. Since his death was a suicide and not an accident, his family would not be eligible for compensation under the accidental death scheme. We would see if we can provide relief to the family through other schemes," the SDM told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/day-after-man-kills-self-in-kheri-sp-to-give-rs-1l-priyanka-shares-his-letter/articleshow/76113118.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
May 31, 2020||Chennai||Asymptomatic patients can be tested, but we don’t want abuse of kits: Tamil Nadu minister||CHENNAI: Hospitals are now actively resuming normal services including elective surgeries and this has led to a debate among surgeons, labs and patients on whether those undergoing surgery can be tested for the viral infection. Health minister C Vijaybaskar , however, clarified that doctors can prescribe tests of patients undergoing elective procedures. They can also prescribe tests for women expected to go into labour within a week. Several private labs turned down tests quoting guidelines issued by the state government on May 18. Corporate hospitals, including those who had labs, told doctors not to send samples of asymptomatic patients for testing. “We accept patients only with influenza like symptoms. We don’t test patients even if they come with a doctor’s prescription. Pregnant women will be tested a week before delivery if they show symptoms. If people have close contacts who have tested positive, they will be tested only if they submit a copy of the patient’s test report and prove their relationship with government IDs,” a doctors running a chain of labs in Chennai said. While the order did not ban testing patients before elective procedures, it says: “No emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of test.” Doctors say officials from Greater Chennai Corporation insist that asymptomatic patients including pregnant women can’t be tested as the category does not figure in the guidelines. “Surgery outcomes are poor if the asymptomatic patients are Covid-19 positive. They also increase risk of mortality by up to 50%,” said Fortis Malar cardiologist Dr Pradeep G Nayar. “It will also compromise the health condition of doctors and nurses.” Officials at the directorate of public health said all government hospitals were testing pregnant women a week before delivery. “There is no ban on testing if the doctor is clear that the patient needs it. We only don’t want indiscriminate testing to “allay fears” in asymptomatic individuals. This may lead to abuse of kits,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. “RT-PCR is a precious resource now. It cannot be wasted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/asymptomatic-patients-can-be-tested-but-we-dont-want-abuse-of-kits-min/articleshow/76113836.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 31, 2020||Kochi||4 new positive cases in Idukki district||Idukki: The district recorded four more Covid-19 cases, including a three from a family, on Saturday. A 66-year-old Munnar resident and his 61-year-old wife and 24-year-old son tested positive on Saturday. The man and his wife left Chennai on March 19 for medical treatment. They returned from Chennai through Kumily route on May 16 along with his son. They reached Munnar by taxi and continued in home quarantine. A 28-year-old Chinnakkanal resident who tested positive had reached Karipur airport and was admitted in Manjeri medical college with Covid-19 symptoms. The youth worked in hotel sector in Kuwait. Presently, eight patients are under treatment for covid in Idukki district, said officials. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/4-new-positive-cases-in-idukki-district/articleshow/76113117.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Hospitals warned against inflating patient bills||CHENNAI: The state health department will issue guidelines to cap cost of Covid-19 tests and in-hospital treatment depending upon the kind of facilities and hospitals, health minister C Vijayabaskar said on Saturday. The government has also asked a team of experts if it can incentivise people lodged in government facilities though they tested negative for the viral infection. The decision to make treatment at private hospitals affordable and quarantine stay rewarding was discussed in detail at the expert medical committee meeting chaired by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday. “We have been receiving complaints about hospitals and labs fleecing patients for tests. We do not want them to profit from the pandemic. We warn doctors and hospital managements to ensure they don’t inflate bills,” Vijayabaskar said. Reports said hospitals sought Rs 3 lakh in advance for admissions and labs charged up to Rs 15,000 for RtPCR test, though the government cap is Rs 4,500. The committee members said they had intense brainstorming sessions with the government-made five key recommendations – aggressive testing, incentivising quarantine, restricting crowd gathering and ramping up medical facilities. WHO chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan and National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur recommended that government should test more aggressively to identify cases including asymptomatic patients. Doctors have also recommended pool testing so the number of tests can be ramped up. “Increase in number of cases should not worry us when we test more people to find cases. It is also important for people to wear masks as they step out for work,” Dr Kaur told reporters. Nevertheless, the increase in number of cases is pushing up mortality and the number of people who are “dangerously- ill”. Doctors at the Apollo Hospitals, for instance, pointed out that nine of its 37 patients were on ventilators. “More the numbers, greater the complications and death. Our ICUs are busy. We have asked for a dashboard on a common portal where people can see the number of normal and ICU beds, isolation rooms and shared rooms available in every hospital real-time. This will ensure patients don’t run around from one hospital to another,” said infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian. While the doctors agreed with the government that lockdown should continue in hotspots like Chennai, they wanted economic activities to resume with adequate caution. “There will be no public transport. Gyms, hotels or places of worship can’t open in Chennai as crowding can increase risk of infection and death,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. “But we told them that offices can open with small attendance. Poor people, particularly daily wagers and bread winners, moved into quarantine facilities due to poor living conditions, must be incentivised for their monetary loss. Government has agreed and will be making a formal announcement soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hospitals-warned-against-inflating-patient-bills/articleshow/76113844.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat farmers take digital route to voice grievances||RAJKOT: In normal times, they would have braved the blistering heat and hit the roads. But farmers from villages across Gujarat will be now going ‘digital’ to voice their burning issues with the state government. In a first, nearly 10,000 farmers are expected to join a digital rally by going live on a social networking site on Sunday. They will also hold symbolic fast at their houses to voice a plethora of grievances against the government policies. Around 32 farmer leaders including Dr Kanu Kalsariya, Pal Ambaliya, Sagar Rabari, Rajsinh Shekhavat and Jayesh Patel will address the gathering on social media Messages urging farmers to join the digital congregation have been widely circulated in Whatsapp groups. The timings of speeches of the leaders have been fixed and farmers will join this gathering from their mobile handsets. They will be also be able to express their opinions. The issues range from meagre returns for the farm produce to crop loan and crop insurance. The latest issue to be discussed is procurement of chickpeas by the government agencies. The government had earlier announced procurement of up to 2,500 kg chickpeas from each farmer, but from Saturday, the rules were changed. As per new rules, if the cultivation is in less than 1.5 hectare area, the government will procure 360 kg from one farmer and if the acreage is more than 1.5 ha, the agencies will procure 540 kg. Government agency procures chickpeas at Rs 975 per 20kg while market price is around Rs 700- Rs750. Farmer rights activist and Kisan Congress chairman, Pal Ambaliya said, “A farmer can’t afford to come to the agency to sell small quantity of stock. Someone coming from 20km far has to bear the fuel and labour cost of loading and unloading. He can’t afford to sell just 360kg.” Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) leaders, who will also address the digital rally, submitted a memorandum to Rajkot collector on regarding the chickpeas issue. Ratan Dodiya, a farmer leader from Surendranagar said, “Crop insurance scheme is designed only to benefit the insurance companies. We will discuss all these issues and any farmer from any corner may join and given opinions and suggestions.” According to leaders, farmers have started sending their video messages expressing their desire to join this event and observe one-day fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/guj-farmers-take-digital-route-to-voice-grievances/articleshow/76113129.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Pvt hospitals to face action for closure’||Aurangabad: With a large number of complaints pouring in about private hospitals and clinics remaining closed amid the lockdown, Shiv Sena MLC Ambadas Danve has warned of action against such establishments in ‘Sena’ style. The warning comes after Danve visited different parts of the city, especially slums and the areas dominated by the lower-income groups. “Not everyone can afford to visit five-star private hospitals. Keeping hospitals and clinics closed is nothing but criminal,” said Danve. Echoing him, former Congress district president Syed Akram stated that poor people were suffering as they had no where to go for getting treatment for common ailments. “We have decided to start help desks at public places to keep a track of the hospitals remaining shut amid the lockdown. Once these hospitals are identified, they will be asked to resume operations, failing which they will face action,” said Akram.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pvt-hospitals-to-face-action-for-closure/articleshow/76113134.cms||Mohammed Akhef
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||With 33 more Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand tally touches 749||DEHRADUN: With 33 fresh coronavirus cases reported in Uttarakhand on Saturday, the state tally of the virus has now reached 749.  On the day, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj’s wife Amrita Rawat also tested Covid-19 positive. Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava told TOI that the minister’s wife has been moved to All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Rishikesh. "We will be abiding by all the rules laid down by the Government of India regarding Covid-19 positive cases. The patient's contacts are being traced," DM Srivastava added. With this, not only the tourism minister but the entire state cabinet, including the chief minister, has now come under lens as Maharaj had attended the recently-held cabinet meeting where all the ministers along with CM Trivendra Singh Rawat were present. Notably, Amrita Rawat was state's tourism minister and also held other portfolios like Culture and Women’s Empowerment during Harish Rawat government. However, she was sacked by the former chief minister when she left the Congress to join the BJP. Meanwhile, a 22-year-old youth who was tested positive from a private lab in Dehradun reached Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) on his scooter and asked the doctors to admit him. The boy, who claims to have no travelling history, informed the doctors that he might have caught the infection during his visit to the market. “The youth and his entire family have got themselves tested voluntarily and only he turned out to be positive,” Dehradun DM told TOI. Among the 33 new cases, 21 were reported from Dehradun. “In Dehradun, seven contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient from Niranjanpur Sabzi Mandi were found infected with the virus. Further, 10 people who returned to the state from Maharashtra were also tested Covid-19 positive. Besides these, four other cases were also found in Dehradun,” informed additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant. As over 249 cases have been found in the state in the last 40 hours, the health department is now struggling to keep hospital beds for the positive cases. The spike has been the sharpest in Dehradun and Nainital. The pendency of rate of medical reports is also increasing in Uttarakhand as the health department was awaiting sample results of over 5,200 cases on Saturday at the time of filing this report. On the day, Nainital reported five new cases and 4 each were found in Haridwar and Tehri districts respectively. Among the 33 new cases reported on Saturday, 22 had returned from Maharashtra. Dr NS Khatri, Covid-19 nodal officer from GDMCH, informed that that all the Covid-19 beds in the facility are currently occupied and the hospital administration is now turning wards dedicated for suspected Covid-19 patients into wards for active Covid-19 cases. “We are shifting suspected cases to our ENT ward to get 48 more beds for Covid-19 positive cases. Arrangements are also being made to shortlist at least 50 more beds where we can keep Covid-19 patients as cases are rising with each passing day,” he added. The situation is no different at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College. Dr Arun Joshi, chief medical superintendent of the medical college in Haldwani informed that at present, over 200 beds of the hospital are occupied. Among these, 150 are Covid-19 positive cases and others are suspected cases. “We have the capacity to accommodate around 350 patients, both suspected and active. As cases are rising with each passing day, we are making attempts to ensure 500 beds in Covid-19 wards,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-33-more-covid-19-cases-uttarakhand-tally-touches-749/articleshow/76113131.cms||Ishita Mishra
May 31, 2020||Allahabad||Naini jail inmate, 3 others test positive for Covid-19||Prayagraj: An inmate lodged in Naini Central Jail was among the four persons who tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on Saturday in Prayagraj district. With the four new cases, the district’s tally reached 86. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “Two men from Phulpur, a man currently lodged in Naini Central Jail and 50-year-old man from Kareli were diagnosed with Covid-19 on Saturday.” Sahai said the two patients from Phulpur were aged 54 years and 45 years and had returned from Mumbai on May 26. They were advised institutional quarantine. The nodal officer also said that one of them had been suffering from fever since the past two days and was brought to Swaroop Rani Nehru (SRN) Hospital on Friday. Their samples were collected on Saturday itself. The third patient was a 50-year-old man from Kareli. Health department officials said the patient had not travelled anywhere in the past one month. “We are trying to find out how he might have been infected. The man had complained of fever and cough and then went to SRN Hospital. His sample was collected and he tested positive for the virus on Saturday. The officials are finding out about the travel history of the man’s domestoc help, who used to visit the latter’s house.” In addition, a 25-year-old inmate lodged in Naini Central Jail also tested positive for Covid-19 during a random sampling test on Saturday. Officials said that the inmate was brought to the central jail on May 24 and his sample was taken on May 28. The inmate is currently asymptomatic. Till now, 86 novel coronavirus cases have been reported in Prayagraj district, of which 24 are active cases. While 59 patients have recovered, three have died of the virus in the district. Meanwhile, timely intervention of police averted a major incident when members of two rival communities came to loggerheads near Mehrauda Mosque road on Saturday, while defying lockdown guidelines. Police have arrested 12 persons from both the groups and seized sticks. Inspector (Sarayinayat) said that the accused had violated lockdown guidelines and had been arguing in the open over a petty issue. A case under sections 147, 149, 160 and 188 of the IPC and section 7 of CLA Act was registered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/naini-jail-inmate-3-others-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76114228.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: 20-year-old youth murdered for ‘stalking’ girl||KANPUR: A 20-year-old youth was murdered for stalking a girl in Begumpurwa under Babupurwa police station on Friday night. The girl’s 19-year-old brother and his friend (20), both identified as Waris, were detained on charges of killing the youth. An FIR was lodged against the two and the girl’s father. The deceased was identified as Mehmood Alam, an embroidery artisan and a resident of Begumpurwa. SSP Anant Deo confirmed that the accused brother of the girl, during interrogation, admitted to have murdered Mehmood because the latter had been "stalking and harassing" his sister for a long time. “The incident occurred at 11 pm on Friday when the girl’s brother and his friend waylaid Mehmood on his way. A heated argument ensued between them over the issue, and soon after, in a fit of rage, the girl’s brother attacked Mehmood with a knife, leaving him critically wounded," said Babupurwa inspector Rajiv Kumar Singh. "Mehmood was rushed to Ursala Horseman hospital from where he was later referred to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital. He succumbed to his injuries during treatment at LLR hospital," added the inspector. The police, on being alerted, swung into action and managed to nab the accused. “An FIR has been lodged on the basis of a complaint against the two accused and the girl’s father under relevant sections of IPC and further investigations are on,” said Singh. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/20-year-old-youth-murdered-for-stalking-girl/articleshow/76114244.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Forest department to set up five machans in defunct rubber factory to tranquilize tigress||BAREILLY: The forest department has decided to set up five machans (raised platforms) at locations where a stray tigress has been spotted in the past in the abandoned rubber factory, 18 km from Bareilly city. Officials said experts will wait at these machans and fire darts on spotting the elusive tigress to tranquilize it Divisional forest officer Bharat Lal said, “We will construct five machans at least 15-feet height at those places where the tigress frequents. According to the plan, a team of four to five experts will wait on each machan. On spotting the tigress, the experts will fire the dart to tranquilize it, said Lal. The DFO added that a team from Dehradun's Wildlife Institute of India will soon visit Bareilly to assist the forest department in the operation. An adult tigress has taken shelter in the abandoned rubber factory over two months ago. Forest officials said due to the presence of tunnels, trenches, tanks, old buildings and machines on the campus of defunct rubber factory, it is difficult to tranquilise the big cat here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forest-dept-to-set-up-five-machans-in-defunct-rubber-factory-to-tranquilize-tigress/articleshow/76113120.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 31, 2020||Kochi||Apartment owners’ association act tough as number of home quarantine cases increase||Kochi: As the number of people under home quarantine increases in many apartment complexes in Kochi city, flat owners are putting stringent regulations to check the movement of residents and visitors. Owners’ associations are confused about disposing waste generated from flats where people are quarantined. V K Shankarankutty, president, All Kerala Apartment Owners’ Apex Association, said when owners return to their homes, the association cannot stop them from entering the buildings. It’s mostly NRIs and NRKs who have bought apartments in the city. While measures are taken to safely dispose waste collected from apartments where people are quarantined, office-bearers of some owners’ associations said they are worried about people flushing disposable gloves and masks into toilets. This leads to leakage and troubles in pumping of sewage. Regarding precautions taken at apartment complexes, Shankarankutty said restrictions have been placed on the entry of visitors. “Instead of being alert, people are scared and anxious. There are problems associated with this fear factor. There are also issues related to waste disposal,” he said. When people arrive from abroad or other states, they are directly taken from the vehicle to their flats. Nobody else is allowed to use the lift at this time. It’s after sanitizing the lifts that other residents are allowed to use them. Some apartment complexes block family members of those quarantined for coming out of their spaces. All arrangements are made to supply them provisions and other requirements. Hawkins George, president of Skyline Riverdale Association, said senior citizens confined to their homes are the most worried lot. “Elderly people are used to walking in the park and attend programmes at the club house inside the apartment complex. As these places are closed and people being confined to their homes, they feel isolated. Then the association decided to place chairs at lawns and encourage senior citizens to sit and chat by maintaining social distancing and other Covid-19 protocols,” he said. Tenants at apartment complexes have a tough time. Abhishek K Sasi, a student of Rajagiri College of Applied Sciences and Management, recounted his experience after returning to the city from his hometown at Pathanamthitta. “I have three more exams left and I wanted to get back to my apartment at Kakkanad. When I came back, the apartment owners’ association did not allow me to stay there. They insisted on getting a health certificate and wanted me to report at police station. However, I was allowed to pick up my belongings and leave,” he said, adding that he is staying at friend’s house. “The exams are in June. Once it gets over, I will go back to my native place,” he said. There are also people who want to check out flats available for rentals. Obtaining permission from apartment owner’s association to enter flat complexes has become a trouble for both owners and tenants. “Many owners are abroad or are residing in other states. The conversation between the broker, tenant and owner happens over the phone. But tenants are unable to finalise the deal as permissions are often denied permission to enter the apartment complex and check the property. It has become a time consuming and tedious process,” said Francis Johnson, a real-estate broker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/apartment-owners-association-act-tough-as-number-of-home-quarantine-cases-increase/articleshow/76113141.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Three booked for ruckus at isolation ward||UTTARKASHI: Three persons, including a Covid-19 positive patient, were booked for creating nuisance in the isolation ward of district hospital late on Friday night. The patients were unhappy with the alleged mismanagement in the isolation ward. This is the third such instance involving a Covid-19 positive case in the district. According to hospital sources, the three patients, all migrant workers, claimed their wards are not being sanitised properly and they are not getting their medical reports on time. They all started strolling in the ward while shouting and making video clips of the facility. The hospital officials had to dial 100 to control the situation. Inspector Mahadev Uniyal, in-charge of Uttarkashi police station, told TOI, “Three patients were creating nuisance in the isolation ward and were loitering around without wearing face masks. They have been booked under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and 51(B) the Disaster Management Act.” Meanwhile, chief medical superintendent of Uttarkashi district hospital Dr SD Saklani said, “We are keeping Covid-19 positive cases in separate wards and are sanitising isolation wards several times a day. Besides, all the staff members are trying their level best to provide all possible facilities and support to the admitted cases. However, some migrants are not supporting us and resorting to unruly behaviour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-including-covid-19-patient-booked-for-creating-ruckus-in-isolation-ward/articleshow/76113146.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Rugby boys tackle green destruction in Maidan, restore Amphan mess||KOLKATA: Paul Walsh has been going to Maidan every Saturday morning for 15 years to oversee the training of his Jungle Crows rugby team, comprising hundreds of boys and girls. This Saturday though was different: no children chasing after the rugby ball, no bruises or scratches to tend to, no yelps of delight on scoring a try. Walsh was there with a group of players to clean up the mess left behind by Cylone Amphan and replant some of the trees that had been partially uprooted. Walsh and his team had surveyed the patch of Maidan they play on opposite Ispat Bhavan on Chowringhee a day after the cyclone and were devastated by what they saw. The place was littered with shattered trees. Some of the old priceless trees, along with many young trees that Jungle Crows had planted around the patch of green they had adopted as a rugby field, had been uprooted. Around eight years ago, TOI had helped Walsh carve a rugby ground out of a section of the Maidan that was in utter disuse. The Army, which owns the Maidan, had also extended its support that saw a garbage dump, that was being used as an open toilet, turn into a lush green ground where children now play the game. “While some large and really old trees may be difficult to save, the partly damaged younger trees could be salvaged. Accordingly, the team went about cutting off the sections of the crown that were damaged and then pulled the trees into place,” Walsh said. WWF India state director Saswati Sen said it would take time to get the beautiful Maidan back to some normality but it was getting a helping hand. “This is a small yet crucial step towards nursing the damaged trees. Other clubs are also chipping in to restore the Maidan,” she said. Naturalist Arjan Basu Roy, who had been involved in helping Jungle Crows reclaim the rugby field, said it was heartening to see Walsh and his team be the first to come to the aid of the Maidan and attempt to heal its wound. Walsh, a former British diplomat (he had given up a promising career and stayed on in Kolkata to teach rugby to kids), said, “We’ve been shaken, a bit bruised and for sure shocked by events. But like every good rugby player, we’ve shaken off the hit and got back into the game.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rugby-boys-tackle-green-destruction-in-maidan-restore-amphan-mess/articleshow/76113846.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Arrive 90 mins before train departure: Rlys||Nashik: Passengers will have to arrive at least 90 minutes prior to the scheduled departure of their train so that the railways can carry out proper checking as per the Covid-19 advisory before they board the trains. “Only passengers with confirmed reservation tickets will be allowed to board the trains provided their health checkup is normal at the time of boarding the train,” said Railway sources. No person will be allowed even at the railway station without undergoing thermal screening. Each passeneger should download the Arogya Setu application in their mobile. Any passenger who is found to have symptoms of Covid-19 will not be allowed to board the train. Such passenger will be given a no-travel certificate by the ticket checker, which can be used to get complete refund for the ticket. Prior reservation in special trains up to 120 days The Railways has decided to increase the advanced reservation period to 120 days from the date of travel. Earlier, when the Railways decided to run special trains across the country from June 1, it had announced the reservation period for 30 days. The reservations under the new railway policy will start from 8am on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/arrive-90-mins-before-train-departure-rlys/articleshow/76113145.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Tiger spotted again, now in Bellampally||Hyderabad: An adult male tiger named A2, which moved into the tiger corridor of Kawal in Telangana from Maharashtra a few months back was sighted again near Goleti and Kairiguda areas in Mancherial district on Friday night. Forest officials confirmed that the tiger has now reached the outskirts of Bellampally area in the district. On receipt of information, the forest divisional officer of Bellampally placed three tiger tracking teams to track and monitor the movement of the tiger. “A2 has moved towards Murliguda and Dharmaraopet forest areas on the same night when it was sighted. At present, it is not anywhere near Bellampally town,” a forest official told TOI. While sources from the forest department say that this could be the same tiger which was sighted wandering at Khairiguda open cast mines in Komaram Bheem Asifabad district last week, forest officials say that there is no proof yet to identify if they are the same tigers. Officials also inform that tiger sighting in Mancherial and Asifabad are not unusual as they are part of the tiger corridors in the state. “As this is a tiger corridor area, it is not an unusual sighting. Forest department has been constantly monitoring the tigers crossing the corridor while creating awareness among villagers to maintain a safe distance from wild animals,” said Mancherial district forest officer Shivani Dogra, who also holds charge as DFO Komaram Bheem Asifabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-spotted-again-now-in-bellampally/articleshow/76114272.cms||Moulika.KV
May 31, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Farmers can avail 70% subsidy on insurance for milch animals||MADURAI: The animal husbandry department has urged livestock farmers to approach the nearest government veterinary facility for subsidized insurance for milch cows and buffaloes. Officials said that subsidy will be given up to 70% for those below poverty line and 50% for those above poverty line. As the subsidy will be given to only 2,300 milch animals on a first-come-first-serve basis, officials have urged farmers to approach them at the earliest. While registration of animals eligible for subsidy has already started, they will start making payment to the insurance company after collecting the share from farmers, an official said. District joint director of animal husbandry Dr D Suresh Christopher said as the insurance is meant for milch animals, farmers having animals with new born calves can apply. “There has been a good response for the subsidized insurance among farmers ever since the scheme was launched a few years back. 2% value of the cow or buffalo will be charged as premium for the insurance cover for one year,” he said. One family can get benefit for a maximum of five animals only, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-can-avail-70-subsidy-on-insurance-for-milch-animals/articleshow/76114273.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Amritsar||No power for 5 quarantine violators in Punjab, notices to 67||BATHINDA: The power connections of five people who flouted home-quarantine norms have been disconnected on the orders of the Muktsar district administration, while show-cause notices have been issued to 67 violators asking why power should not be discontinued to their residences. Muktsar additional deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said this action has been initiated after all entreaties to people flouting home quarantine norms went unheeded. "Out of the 67 persons who have violated protocol, 13 are from Muktsar sub division, 16 from Malout sub division and 38 from Giddarbaha sub division. The district police have also been asked to initiate legal action against those persons," he said. As per the order issued on Friday, the state health department has imposed a fine of Rs 2,000 on all people who violate quarantine norms. According to new Punjab government guidelines, all domestic travellers entering Punjab who are found asymptomatic or test negative will have to remain under home quarantine for 14 days. International passengers who test negative also have to remain under home quarantine for 7 days after mandatory stay at paid institutional quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/no-power-for-5-quarantine-violators-notices-to-67/articleshow/76114280.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Mobile medical units to visit villages to collect pool samples of migrants||BAREILLY: After a large number of migrants tested positive for Covid-19 recently, the health department has decided to send mobile medical units (MMUs) to the villages with a high influx of returnees to collect their pool samples. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “MMUs will be sent to the villages with a high influx of migrants for the collection of random pool samples of those people who have not been tested yet. The samples will be tested for Covid-19 and if a pool turns out to be positive, we will collect individual samples.” According to officials, most of the Covid-19 cases reported in the past 10 days are of migrants. So far, MMUs were being sent to temporary shelter homes to collect pool samples of migrant workers lodged there, they said. “Many migrants have been turning up to the hospital on their own or at the request of villagers to get themselves examined for Covid. Even the health department has been appealing to people to inform the control room if a migrant returns to their village or locality,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mobile-medical-units-to-visit-villages-to-collect-pool-samples-of-migrants/articleshow/76113172.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Locals flock at post office following rumour promising Rs 15,000 in accounts||HARIDWAR: Residents of slums reached Jwalapur post office in large numbers, flouting all social distancing norms, to open accounts on Saturday. They were following a rumour that claimed the government will credit Rs 15,000 in their accounts. Police somehow managed to disperse the crowd. Circle officer (city) Abhay Singh told TOI, “Police asked the post office management to clarify the situation but people wouldn’t listen. At last, we managed the crowd by giving out token numbers to open accounts at the post office.” Similar incidents were reported a few days ago in Haridwar and Kanakhal post offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-flock-at-post-office-following-rumour-promising-rs-15k-in-accounts/articleshow/76113169.cms||MS Nawaz
May 31, 2020||Madurai||No masks worn, no social distancing in streets, shops as Madurai folk drop guard||Madurai: The Madurai corporation is constantly making repeated announcements through amplifiers at 25 places in the city, urging residents to ensure social distancing and wearing masks in public places. But, these appeals are being thrown to the wind by most of the public, especially auto drivers, salespersons and traders who are found without masks. At Suguna store junction in Anna Nagar, an autorickshaw driver, waiting to pick-up passengers and salespersons in a nearby grocery store, who deal with hundreds of customers are found without masks. Even shopkeepers in some pharmacy stores are not wearing masks. Social distancing is also not followed in public places and shops. While tea and coffee shops are allowed to sell only takeaways, they are seen selling to customers coming there in disposable and even glass cups in violation of the rule. “It is difficult to wear mask continuously as it is itching and sweating,” said a tea shop owner from Bibikulam. “As the government started easing lockdown restrictions, people are under the impression that the infection has gone away. Madurai can go back to red zone if there is cluster of positive cases. Stringent action should be taken against those who do not wear mask and allow people to gather in commercial establishments,” said V P Manikandan, a social activist. A corporation health official said they have been levying Rs 100 penalty on those not wearing mask. About 100 people are fined in a day on an average in each of the four corporation zones. “We will increase vigilance and take action against those who are not wearing mask. Shops, which do not adhere to social distancing will also be taken to task,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-masks-worn-no-social-distancing-in-streets-shops-as-madurai-folk-drop-guard/articleshow/76114274.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Monitor, strictly enforce anti-spitting Act: HC to state govt||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday said that the state government should not limit its role to just issuing circulars on enforcing the Uttarakhand Anti-Littering and Anti-Spitting Act, 2016 in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic but should ensure proper monitoring and implementation of the Act. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that sought strict enforcement of the Act, a division bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe said, “The state government should not rest by merely issuing a circular to the district magistrates and the chief executive officers of urban local bodies. Monitoring and taking corrective action, wherever proper implementation of the 2016 Act is found wanting, is of utmost importance.” The court issued the directive after the state government informed the bench that it has directed all district magistrates, municipal commissioners and executive officers to punish anyone violating the said Act. It added that the additional secretary for urban development had issued two orders to all DMs on May 22 and 26 in this regard. The PIL had stated that there is enough scientific material to prove that novel coronavirus spreads through nasal droplets due to which spitting in public places is dangerous. It added that strict enforcement of the Act would help curb the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/monitor-strictly-enforce-anti-spitting-act-hc-to-state-govt/articleshow/76113168.cms||Prashant Jha
May 31, 2020||Madurai||Govt can’t curb OTT releases, says minister||Tuticorin: Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju has said that releasing new films on over-the-top (OTT) platforms is unhealthy for the film industry as well as the government as it results in revenue loss. He said this after taking part in various events in Tuticorin on Friday evening and Saturday. “Jyothika-starrer Ponmagal Vanthal produced by Surya was released on one such platform on Friday. The industry opposed it but the producer offered an explanation for releasing it now on the online platform due to the lockdown,” he said and added that the government cannot do anything about it directly. He also said that everyone should be able to see films, but OTT makes it only accessible for those who have internet access and facilities. However the Union and state governments have no control on it as companies like Amazon are USA-based. He said that producers, distributors, theatre owners and leading actors would soon come forward for deliberations and work out a solution and the government is ready to play a facilitator’s role.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-cant-curb-ott-releases-says-minister/articleshow/76114277.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Builders hopeful as sand supply restarts||Vijayawada: Over two months into the lockdown, construction activities in Krishna district are gradually picking up pace again after the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation (APMDC) resumed the supply of sand in containment zones. The APMDC had stopped the supply of sand in containment zones in the state as the number of positive Covid-19 cases started to increase. The halt in construction activity affected close to 20,000 workers from Jharkhand and Bihar who were taking shelter with local builders. In a report on May 25, this paper had highlighted how the shortage of sand had hit builders and construction workers in Vijayawada city. Following representations by industry bodies to allow booking sand online for non-containment areas, the APMDC started accepting online orders for all areas. Construction activities have picked up since then. “Finally we are happy to start our works after two months. Hundreds of migrant workers were taking shelter in our work site and it became a huge burden on us to feed them. We are happy that sand orders have been revived and most of our builders have started works,” said K Narayana, a city-based builder. Meanwhile, as part of pre-emptive measures, authorities at the labour welfare department have directed builders to take necessary measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 at construction sites. Masks have been made mandatory at the site and hand sanitizers should be provided. In addition, builders have been directed to take measures to maintain physical distancing at the project site. “We are very much concerned about the health of our workers. We are checking the temparature of every construction worker who attends duty and only permitting the healthy workers. Healthy diet is provided to them so that they can get strength and immunity,”said K Raju Kumar, a city-based builder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/builders-hopeful-as-sand-supply-restarts/articleshow/76113170.cms||Venu Lanka
May 31, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Asymptomatic to be shifted out of GMC if Covid-19 cases shoot up||KOCHI: Anticipating an increase in Covid-19 cases in Ernakulam district in the coming days, asymptomatic people and those with mild symptoms will be shifted to independent institutions such as Adlux Convention Centre in Angamaly to bring down the burden on health workers at Government Medical College (GMC), Kalamassery. The shifting will start once the number of Covid patients at GMC, which is a tertiary-care centre that is now attending to only Covid patients, touches 50. Health officials said of the 22 cases (as on Friday) undergoing treatment at GMC, only five to six have symptoms and the rest are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms.  “Institutions such as Adlux Convention Centre, which has 200 to 250 bed capacity, will keep a watch on such patients. Centres with 20 to 25 bed capacity each have been identified in each taluk in the district for it. As these patients need only observation, doctors will check them every four days. The GMC will then treat only serious cases. We will not overburden any hospital in the district,” said a district health official. District medical officer N K Kuttappan said the district administration has prepared an action plan regarding this. “We have discussed the plan with district administration,” Kuttappan said. On less number of patients in Ernakulam despite people coming from abroad and other states, Kuttappan said caseload may increase in coming days. “People reaching the district by air, train or road have been placed under quarantine. They do not come in contact with others. People coming to Ernakulam from outside Kerala are less compared to those from other districts in the state. Now, we are able to manage the caseload in Ernakulam. But we cannot say how many days the existing situation will continue. Less number of cases does not mean that the district will not report more cases,” he said. Eight doctors, including house surgeons, and 20 to 30 nurses have been engaged in treating Covid-19 patients at the GMC. “The health workers have been working on shifts of four hours. The district administration will take the call on the patients. But a decision will be there definitely since Kalamassery GMC is a tertiary centre for treating serious Covid-19 patients. We can accommodate around 250-300 patients with serious cases at the GMC,” said Dr Ganesh Mohan, regional medical officer, GMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/asymptomatic-to-be-shifted-out-of-gmc-if-cases-shoot-up/articleshow/76113230.cms||T C Sreemol
May 31, 2020||Chennai||More NRIs seek seats in Chennai schools, want to return after tough time abroad||CHENNAI: After facing job loss and an uncertain future on foreign soil, many non-resident Indians (NRIs) are looking to relocate to the city and start fresh once the Covid crisis fades. Young parents among the lot are desperately knocking the doors of schools here to get their kids enrolled for the coming academic year. Several city schools said they received up to 10% more admission requests in the past two months, mostly from NRIs. Principals say the demand would go up once international flight services resume and the NRIs get here. Bala Vidyamandir Senior Secondary School in Adyar has received many requests from NRIs, said the school management. “The requests were mostly from those living in the Middle East. The requests have increased by 5% to 10% after the Covid-19 crisis set in,” principal R Srinivasa Raghavan said. A few parents living within the country are also looking to move back to their native. “Some sought seats for Classes X and XII and want to get the admission confirmed before they relocate,” he added. “Demand for seats in city schools has increased due to returning NRIs but most do not have seats to offer,” said S Namasivayam, senior principal of Maharishi Vidyamandir Senior Secondary School in Chetpet. “If parents prefer schools in outer areas like Avadi, Mambakkam and Vandalur, we can meet the demand.” Zion and Alwin group of schools in Tambaram has received more than 150 admission inquiries from across the world. “Most seek seats in CBSE schools. Some parents say they want to return to India due to the Covid-19 threat while some say they were offered work from home options by their MNC-employers,” said N Vijayan, chairman of the group. R Srinivasan, an applicant, has sought two seats in a city school. “My brother-in-law is working in a pharmaceutical company in Oman. He is returning to India to take care of aging parents. Since his kid is studying in a CBSE school there, we have approached a CBSE school in Chennai,” he said. The second seat was for the son of friend returning from Abu Dhabi. CBSE has capped student strength per class at 40 in affiliated schools and many institutes are in the process of regrouping and reducing the number of students. This leaves fewer seats and schools may not be able to accommodate children of NRIs. “CBSE and government should give exemption to this rule considering the global crisis,” principal of a city school said requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-nris-seek-seats-in-city-schools-want-to-return-after-tough-time-abroad/articleshow/76113855.cms||A Ragu Raman
May 31, 2020||Surat||Cases surfacing from green zones a big worry for Surat||SURAT: The spike in Covid-19 cases in Surat city continued with 45 more testing positive on Saturday, the third consecutive day when the number of those infected were more than 40. Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said the new cases are coming from green zones is a matter of concern. "Now, cases are surfacing from from areas where not a single case has been reported till now in the city. One Covid-19 patient has come from Bhimpore area. This should worry all us,'' said Pani, who has again made a fervent appeal to people to take precautions as per protocols. "Lockdown relaxations have been given to boost economic activities. But that does not mean that lockdown has been lifted. I urge people to take this very seriously,' he said. On Saturday, Katargam zone reported 15 cases followed by Limbayat (12) and Udhna 10. Meanwhile, a person in City Light area was fined Rs 20,000 after he flouted home quarantine rules and opened his shop. “we urge people to report such incidents to SMC or police so that strict action can be taken against them,'' the civic body chief said. Also, two more patients also succumbed to the virus. The deceased persons - Kalpesh Markna (34), a resident of Hirabaug in Varachha (A) zone and 63-year-old Govind Salat from Katargam zone - were also suffering from heart ailment, official sources said.  In all, 97 patients are in critical care of which seven are on life-support system. As many as 29 Covid-19 patients were discharged in Surat on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cases-surfacing-from-green-zones-a-big-worry-for-surat/articleshow/76113185.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kolhapur||Institutional quarantine must for returnees from red zones||Nashik:The district health department of the Nashik Zilla Parishad has decided to put every person, who is returning to the rural parts of the district from the red zones, in institutional quarantine to contain the spread of the infection. More than 1,100 people from across the district have been infected with Covid-19. Health officials said that 159 cases were found in the rural district until May 29. District health officer Kapil Aher said that the cases have increased after people started arriving from Mumbai, Pune and other Covid affected areas. Aher said that on the instructions of ZP CEO Leena Bansod, every person coming from a Covid-19 hotspot would be put in institutional quarantine. On the backdrop of this issue, the district health department has decided to increase the bed capacity at Covid Care Centres which have been set up at the primary health centre (PHC) level. 30,000 people have returned to Kolhapur district so far Around 30,000 people from Covid-19 hotspots have returned to Kolhapur since May 3, after certain relaxations were announced. So far, throat swab samples of 17,500 people have been collected and the test reports of 3,220 people are pending. District collector Daulat Desai said, “Most of the Covid-19 patients are the people who were infected at their location before May 3. We are reviewing the cases post May 3 and it primarily shows that the role of the village and ward-level committees is the key to stop the spread.” “The ones who have returned from covid affect areas should be kept in isolation. The committee has to ensure that the home quarantined people follow social distancing,” said Desai  Desai also said “For graduate doctors, Rs 2,000 per day will be given and to specialists or the postgraduate doctors Rs 3,000 will be given. The doctors will get insurance cover and free treatment if they get infected in spite of the use of protective gears.” -Inputs from Kolhapur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/institutional-quarantine-must-for-returnees-from-red-zones/articleshow/76113173.cms||Santosh Sonawane
May 31, 2020||Madurai||Hassle-free loans for SHGs, vendors to kickstart economy: Minister||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu government will provide hassle-free loans to self-help group (SHG) members and roadside hawkers at minimum interest through cooperative banks in order to kick-start the economy, cooperation minister Sellur K Raju said on Saturday. He took part in an event organized by the Madurai Corporation to distribute free immunity boosting vitamin tablets, zinc tablets, homeopathic medicine and kabasura kudineer powder 2,100 poor people from 467 families in Madakulam. Talking to reporter, Raju said that SHG members, who receive loans can start making payments after six months. Interest for the loans will be 10.36%. Similarly, roadside hawkers, tea shop owners and vegetable vendors can avail Rs 50,000 loan at lower interest rates. They can get the by just providing a copy of their ration card. The loan can be repaid for up to 350 days. Later in the day, he distributed around Rs 2 crore loans to 330 SHGs. He lauded the corporation for various initiatives taken to prevent spread of Covid-19 including deployment of vehicles to sell vegetables and fruits, mass disinfection activities and distribution of immunity boosters to 1.5 lakh poor families free of cost. Free food is being provided with optional egg to ensure that no one goes hungry, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hassle-free-loans-for-shgs-vendors-to-kickstart-economy-minister/articleshow/76114283.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cop commits suicide in Dausa, probe begins||JAIPUR: Dausa police has launched an investigation into the death of one of its head constables who committed suicide in Sainthal police station’s family quarters on Friday night. His body was handed over to his family after autopsy on Saturday morning. Police have not found any reason yet to suggest why the cop took his own life. In preliminary questioning, his family has been unable to give clues to police. This is second suicide by a policeman in Rajasthan in just a week’s time. The deceased head constable was identified as 43-year-old Giriraj Bairwa whose body was found around 8pm on Friday. Anil Chauhan, additional SP Dausa, told TOI, “The reason behind the suicide is unclear as there was no suicide note, but it does not appear to be due to a professional reason. We are looking at all possible angles and there are high chances that Giriraj took his own life due to personal reasons though we have not found any concrete evidence till now.” The deceased policeman was cremated at his village in Alwar and is survived by wife as well as five children. “We have requested that SDM Dausa must conduct a separate investigation into the suicide as it is a serious matter that a cop killed himself,” added Chauhan This suicide comes just a week after Bishnoi killed himself on May 23 at his residence in Rajgarh. Cops found two suicide notes, but they did not specify any reason for the SHO’s death. Officials also started an investigation spearheaded by state crime branch and will initiate a judicial enquiry as requested by the family. The matter also raised questions about the internal politics which had been apparently plaguing Bishnoi which he had mentioned to his friend. The locals as well as politicians had staged a protest and cops lodged an FIR against a few of them. With many speculations floating around, the crime branch team claimed that they are yet to find any foolproof reason behind the suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-commits-suicide-in-dausa-probe-begins/articleshow/76114523.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Not being allowed to draw water, say Dalits||ALWAR: A group of people in Bharatpur district’s Khera village under Nadbai police station area have alleged that upper caste locals were not letting them draw water either from hand pumps or the RO water plant there. According to the complainants, when few them went to fill water from the RO plant on May 27, the accused landed up there and threatened to kill them if they took water. “The upper caste people threatened us with dire consequences if we tried to take water from the hand pump or the RO plant. They even assaulted us physically and a person was attacked with a knife. We cannot survive if we are refused to fill water,” said a complainant. A case was registered at Nadbai police station under the SC/ST Act following which investigating officer Anil Meena reached the village to take the statements of the complainants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/not-being-allowed-to-draw-water-say-dalits/articleshow/76114524.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Install new Ravidas idol in 2 days: Bhim Army chief||HARIDWAR: Three days after a Saint Ravidas idol was removed from the Namami Gange ghat in Haridwar, Bhim Army chief Chandrasekhar Azad visited the spot on Saturday and issued an ultimatum to police asking them to install a new idol on the same spot in two days. Meanwhile, police have arrested a man, Happy from Chandighat slum, in connection with the vandalism. He was produced before the court and sent to 14-day judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/install-new-ravidas-idol-in-2-days-bhim-army-chief/articleshow/76113190.cms||MS Nawaz
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||Remove hanging cables by weekend, top cop tells force||Kolkata: Police commissioner Anuj Sharma has asked his personnel to try and remove all wires lying unattended in the city by this weekend. Though the responsibility lies with the KMC, the police effort is to ensure citizens’ safety. OCs have been asked to ensure cable operators are apprised of the ground situation and told to clear the wires. “The power situation has greatly improved, but uprooted and hanging poles still dot the suburbs. It is important to prepare a list so that it can be shared with agencies concerned for action,” police said. Various police divisions said main roads had cleared of cables. “We are coordinating with cable operators and expecting 80% of the job to be over by Sunday morning. The city is likely to go back to normalcy from Monday, with almost everything, except educational institutes, opening. We have to ensure at least major roads and pavements are free for use,” an officer said. Police are also coordinating with KMC to cut dangerously leaning trees on lanes and bylanes. Cops said they would continue the work despite a surge in Covid cases. Two cops from Garfa PS have now tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/remove-hanging-cables-by-weekend-top-cop-tells-force/articleshow/76113858.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Not being allowed to draw water, say Dalits||Alwar: A group of people in Bharatpur district’s Khera village under Nadbai police station area have alleged that upper caste locals were not letting them draw water either from hand pumps or the RO water plant there. According to the complainants, when few them went to fill water from the RO plant on May 27, the accused landed up there and threatened to kill them if they took water. “The upper caste people threatened us with dire consequences if we tried to take water from the hand pump or the RO plant. They even assaulted us physically and a person was attacked with a knife. We cannot survive if we are refused to fill water,” said a complainant. A case was registered at Nadbai police station under the SC/ST Act following which investigating officer Anil Meena reached the village to take the statements of the complainants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/not-being-allowed-to-draw-water-say-dalits/articleshow/76114533.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Police to book youth who supplied bidi packets to Covid-19 patient at hospital||PILIBHIT: The police are all set to lodge an FIR against a 25-year-old man, identified as Ajay Sharma of Dal Chan locality in Pilibhit, who supplied bidi packets to a Covid-19 patient at LH State Ayurvedic College Hospital. According to official sources, the patient persuaded Ajay Sharma, who was at the Covid-19 ward, to buy him bidi packets. The incident took place on Friday evening. Notably, district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav had prohibited tobacco stores from opening temporarily in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The police rushed to the spot after being informed by an anonymous person and recovered the bidi packets from the patient. Circle officer of Pilibhit city Praveen Malik said a written complaint is awaited from the end of the health department after which an FIR would be lodged. “Whether the accused was to be kept in quarantine jail or institutional quarantine, will be decided by the remand magistrate, before whom the accused will be produced after lodging the FIR,” he said. However, chief medical officer Dr Seema Agarwal said the youth would be kept in institutional quarantine after his arrest. When asked whether any action would be taken against staff for the lapse, Agarwal said, “I will seek an explanation from the concerned staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-to-book-youth-who-supplied-bidi-packets-to-covid-19-patient-at-hospital/articleshow/76113181.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 cases cross 1,000 mark in Vadodara||VADODARA: The number of Covid-19 cases in Vadodara crossed 1,000 with 28 new cases being reported since Friday evening. The total number of cases now stands at 1,023 with 42 persons losing their lives. The fresh cases included two vegetable vendors and a doctor from the anaesthesia department of the SSG Hospital. The doctor had been deputed to the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad for Covid-19 duties and is believed to have been infected there. He started feeling unwell and was tested positive. He has been advised home isolation. The two vegetable vendors were from the rural parts of the district. One of them was from Sundarpura while the other was from Por. The man from Sundarpura used to operate a school van, but started selling vegetables as the schools were closed. The fresh cases include nine each from the north and east zones of the city, six from the south zone as well as two each from the west zone of the city and the rural areas outside the city limits. The cases were identified from 136 samples of persons from the city and district. The 1,023 cases detected so far include 38 cases from the district outside Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits and eight from areas outside the Vadodara district. The remaining cases are from the city. As many as 13 persons were discharged in the city including one from a private hospital, five from SSG Hospital, two from GMERS, Gotri Hospital and five from a Covid Care Centre. With the fresh discharges, 591 Covid-19 patients have been discharged either form various facilities or home isolation even as 390 remain under treatment. Those under treatment include 10 on oxygen and six on ventilators or BIPAP machines. The condition of the remaining patients is said to be stable or they are even asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-cases-cross-1000-mark-in-city/articleshow/76112111.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Madurai||Woman, 70, dies in Madurai as cases climb||Madurai/Trichy: A 70-year-old woman who had returned to Madurai from Chennai last week died of Covid-19 at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Friday, making it the third death to be reported in the district. On Saturday, with 55 Covid-19 cases in the ten southern districts, the total number of cases in the region has climbed to 1,455, excluding cases from airport and railway quarantine. The 70-year-old woman who was from Karungalakudi in Madurai tested positive for Covid-19 and died on Friday. GRH dean Dr J Sangumani confirmed that the woman had co-morbid conditions, uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension. According to health officials, the woman had returned from Thiruvottriyur in Chennai last week. The death may be cross notified and declared as a Chennai case. The woman’s body has been cremated as per protocol. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 18 new Covid-19 cases with Trichy and Nagappattinam contributing five each case to take the tally to 886 on Saturday. On Saturday, there were 10 local Covid-19 cases in Madurai and nine cases from Airport and Railway quarantine. Among them, four had returned from Chennai, while two were cases of those from containment areas with ILI symptoms. A 33-year-old woman frontline worker from Samayanallur and two of her close contacts also tested positive for Covid-19. Under railway quarantine, seven people, including a two-year-old girl, who returned from Mumbai via train tested Covid-19 positive in Madurai. In the airport quarantine, a 26-year-old man who had returned from Delhi and a 25-year-old man who had returned from Chandigarh tested Covid-19 positive. Meanwhile, three people who had come from Kuwait to Thiruvananthapuram airport tested Covid-positive in Kanyakumari. Kanyakumari also saw four Covid-19 cases of those who returned from Chennai and one man from Gujarat. Tirunelveli district reported seven cases of which four were Maharashtra returnees. The district also saw around 40 more cases in railway quarantine, mostly migrants who had returned from Mumbai. Tuticorin district on the other hand reported 15 cases on Saturday. Dindigul, Theni, Tenskasi and Sivaganga districts all reported one case each on Saturday. The five new cases in Trichy were all returnees from Chennai and other states. Trichy collector S Sivarasu said that 70 patients were discharged from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy. The five cases in Nagapattinam include an 8-year-old girl, a native of Sirkazhi. She is the daughter of a food delivery man in Chennai, who has been undergoing for treatment at Mayiladuthurai government hospital. A 43-year-old woman, also from Sirkazhi, who was undergoing treatment in Chidambaram for some other ailments also tested positive. Other cases include a private bus driver, its cleaner and a man. The driver and cleaner had travelled to Uttar Pradesh to drop guest workers there .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-70-dies-in-madurai-as-cases-climb/articleshow/76114296.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||‘Locust control is difficult in hot weather’||JAIPUR: Locust Control Organisation (LCO) officials on Thursday said that containing the insects in the blistering heat is a big challenge as the weather is favourable for the swarms. LCO and agriculture department officials engaged in containment activities said during shivering cold conditions, locusts stay on the ground from the evening to morning (around 6pm to 9am) which gives ample time to the authorities to contain them through sprays. TOI on Thursday spoke to senior agriculture department and LCO officers in Jodhpur who have been keeping a tab on locusts since May 2019. “In the winters, moisture wets the wings of locusts, which makes it difficult for them to fly until they get clear sunlight. However, in summers, locusts settle only by 11pm or midnight and start flying from 6am,” said Dr LK Gurjar, LCO deputy director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locust-control-is-difficult-in-hot-weather/articleshow/76114527.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 31, 2020||Nashik||30.58L benefit from Shiv Bhojan thali||Nashik: As many as 30.58 lakh people from across the state have availed the midday meals, popularly known as ‘Shiv Bhojan thalis’, offered by the state government at subsidised rates since May 1. “The Shiv Bhojan thali has served 30.58 lakh people with the state government giving Rs 50 and Rs 35 per thali in the urban and the rural areas. The not-for profit organization is allowed to charge up to Rs 10 per thali from the customer,” said state minister for food and civil supplies Chhagan Bhujbal. Over 834 centres spread across the state offered the meals at subsidized rates. The supplies department has distributed food grain to 1.48 crore ration-card holders, who are beneficiaries of the public distribution system (PDS). “The department has distributed 70.79 lakh quintal of grain. Strict action has been taken against those providing sub-standard quality of grain to the beneficiaries,” said Bhujbal. 20.26 lakh quintal wheat, 15.75 lakh quintal rice and 21,614 quintal sugar were distributed from the 52,428 fair price shops among the beneficiaries. Bhujbal further said that the state’s ‘portability’ scheme had helped many workers who have gone out of their home-district for job and got stuck due to the lockdown. “In Maharashtra, people go far to far-off places in search of their jobs after November period. Many workers got stuck due to the lockdown. Thorough the ‘portability’ scheme, 4.22 lakh workers were able to buy ration from the fair price shop nearest to them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/30-58l-benefit-from-shiv-bhojan-thali/articleshow/76113207.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Food joints defy lockdown in Rudrapur||RUDRAPUR: Even as the state government has enforced strict social distancing and other precautionary measures to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus, several eateries and food cart owners were seen conducting business in violation of norms in Rudrapur. Throwing social distancing norms to the wind, gatherings of customers were seen at these food joints. “We have received complaints regarding eateries and food cart owners in slum settlements and other residential colonies. The police department has been apprised of the matter. It must be very clear that only delivery of food is allowed during lockdown,” Rampal Singh, mayor of Rudrapur Municipal Corporation, told TOI. Sanjay Juneja, president of the city traders’ union, echoed the mayor’s sentiment and said, “Food is sold at these joints in guise of home delivery. Police should take immediate actions against such vendors.” However, several workers have advocated opening of eateries in the city. “These eateries and food carts are the only source of food for us. We understand that these joints do not provide hand sanitisation facility or follow distancing norms but what other option do we have,” said Manish Arya, an employee at a unit in Pantnagar industrial area. Meanwhile, sub-divisional magistrate Mukta Mishra has assured stringent action against owners of these food joints which defy lockdown rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/food-joints-defy-lockdown-in-rudrapur/articleshow/76113214.cms||Aakash Ahuja
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun DM puts 5 new areas in containment zone, holds meet on infra projects in Rishikesh||DEHRADUN: Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava on Saturday, issued a notice that put five areas in Dehradun and Rishikesh under containment zones. These areas are Herbertpur, Jeevangarh, and Adarsh Nagar (Jolly Grant) in Dehradun and Shivaji Nagar and Bees Bigha Colony in Rishikesh. In a meeting held with officials of various departments, Srivastava gave instructions for completion of ongoing infrastructure projects. The DM asked the officials of Uttarakhand Pey Jal Nigam, Rishikesh, to expedite the work of installing sewage treatment plants and sewer lines in various parts of Rishikesh along with making necessary arrangements to ensure adequate work for unskilled and skilled workers. In addition, DM Srivastava also instructed the maintenance wing of Uttarakhand Jal Nigam of Rishikesh sub-division to connect the sewer lines to buildings and also update the database of sewer connection of hotels, dharamshalas, ashrams, and disposal septic tanks. A deadline of 15 days has been fixed for inviting tenders and initiation of the work. For disposal of solid waste, the DM has asked officials at Rishikesh Municipal Corporation to ensure door-to-door garbage collection, outsourcing and deployment of additional sanitation personnel, and formation of Mohalla Sanitation Committees in every ward. The civic body has also been asked to impose user charges on identified bulk garbage generators, including hotels and dharamshalas. For sanitation workers of trenching grounds, wearing safety kits has been made mandatory. To encourage sanitation work among all city wards, the official has asked the Rishikesh Municipal Corporation to reward the best performing wards. Besides, the collection of social responsibility funds from commercial establishments will also be initiated. During the meet, the sub-divisional magistrate of Rishikesh was asked to ensure the removal of encroachment near Rambha river and other parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-dm-puts-5-new-areas-in-containment-zone-holds-meet-on-infra-projects-in-rishikesh/articleshow/76113210.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana for classes in schools from June 15||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana education department has suggested to the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry to allow opening of schools from June 15. The state government has also suggested to cut holidays in the session ahead. In a communication sent to the Union ministry, Haryana’s education department has proposed to start classes in schools for Class X and XII from June 15. Later, classes for Class VI to XI are to be resumed from July 15. The state has suggested to do away with 15-day winter break and offs on second and fourth Saturdays. This, according to education department officials, would help cover for the forced holidays during lockdown. The government has also suggested to run all schools in two shifts. Morning shift could be for junior students and evening for senior students. Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said the communication was consequent to routine discussion with Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, who took regular update from state education ministers across India. “Our idea is to bring education system in schools on the track as soon as possible. So far as classes are concerned we have already suggested to have a batch of 15 students per classrooms, and let the schools call them on alternate days. This will help in strict adherence to principle of social distancing,’’ said the minister. “Now, the Union ministry has to decide. We are hopeful of a pan-India decision in this regard soon,” he added. Private Schools Managements Association president Kulbhushan Sharma said his association welcomed the move. “We have already expressed keenness to shoulder responsibilities for state government,” said Sharma. It was in the first week of May, the state government allowed to open administrative blocks of all schools for the purpose of maintenance and other work. Lockdown has also triggered a fee controversy as the parents have launched agitation against the demand of monthly fee raised by school managements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-for-classes-in-schools-from-june-15/articleshow/76114298.cms||Manvir Saini
May 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Delay at WTE plant irks GVMC chief||VISAKHAPATNAM: Commissioner of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) G Srijana on Saturday expressed dissatisfaction over the ongoing delay in the construction works of the 15 megawatt (MW) waste-to-energy (WTE) plant inside Kapuluppada dumping yard. The commissioner, along with key GVMC officials, visited the plant site on Saturday. In February 2016, the GVMC had entered into a concession agreement with Jindal Infrastructure, Transportation, Fabrication (JITF) for construction of the plant. The GVMC allocated nearly 15 acres of land in the dumping yard for the plant in 2017. Four years after the agreement, the plant is yet to be operational. Srijana asked representatives of JITF to bring the issues to her attention. “We cannot afford further delay,” she said. As per the earlier agreement, the GVMC will deliver 950 metric tonnes of waste on a daily basis to the plant. Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Corporation Limited will undertake construction of a power evacuation facility and procure power from the plant for 25 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/delay-at-wte-plant-irks-gvmc-chief/articleshow/76113213.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Madurai||Railways to run 8 spl trains from June 1||Southern Railway will start running eight trains from June 1 within Tamil Nadu as part of measures to resume services in a phased manner. The train services connecting Madurai, Trichy, Coimbatore and other districts will be operated after a gap of 68 days. Two pairs of trains will connect Madurai and Trichy, while one pair will connect other major destination in the south. According to a statement, train no. 02636 Madurai – Villupuram superfast special will leave at 7am , Dindigul at 8am, Trichy at 9.15am, Ariyalur at 10.10am and reach Villupuram at 12.05pm. Train no. 02635 Villupuram – Madurai superfast special will leave at 4pm , Ariyalur at 5.25pm, Trichy at 6.40pm, Dindigul at 8.05pm and reach Madurai at 9.20pm. Train no. 02627 Trichy – Nagercoil superfast special will leave at 6am, Dindigul at 7.15am, Madurai at 8.15am, Virudhunagar at 8.57am, Tirunelveli at 11.10am and reach Nagercoil at 1pm. Train no. 02628 Nagercoil – Trichy superfast special will leave at 3pm and reach Trichy at 10.15pm. Train no. 02084 Coimbatore – Mayiladuthurai special will leave at 7.10am and reach Mayiladuturai at 1.40pm. Train no. 02083 Mayiladuthurai – Coimbatore special will leave Mayiladuthurai at 2.50pm and reach Coimbatore at 9.15pm the same day. The train will not run on Tuesdays. Meanwhile, passenger reservation counters and online websites opened for booking from 4pm on Saturday for the special trains. Railway officials said that only a minimum of two counters will be functional for booking tickets. In view of the extended time limit for claiming refund and to maintain less crowd refund will not be granted. Railways have also advised passengers to make optimum use of online ticket booking facility to avoid crowding at the stations. Passengers have to arrive at the station 90 minutes before the train departure, where they will be screened. While a few hundred seats were booked on day one, hundreds more are still available. More seats were booked for Monday’s journey, followed by Tuesday whereas more than 1,000 seats are available in the Trichy to Nagercoil train from Wednesday to Saturday. In the Nagercoil to Trichy train, more than 1,000 seats are available from Tuesday to Saturday. A similar trend was seen in the Villupuram to Madurai train and its pairing train. Officials from Trichy railway division said that around 20% of Trichy quota was booked on all the three trains on the first day. A senior official from said the number of bookings were good on Saturday evening. He also expressed hope that the number would escalate on Sunday. Senthil Kumar, who wanted to book a ticket to Madurai for his brother, said “I have dropped the idea because its difficult to drop him at Villupuram and come back. He also has to go some 100km from Madurai.” Sources say the patronage for the special trains is likely to be low as passengers from Chennai will not be able to reach Villupuram or Katpadi which is more than 100km away without public transport. Those who reach from Madurai and Coimbatore may not find it convenient to travel by road to Chennai because the trains reach late at night. “Trains are not being operated from Chennai because the city is a red zone and the number of cases are high. We want to avoid passengers from Chennai and do not expect passengers to travel to Villupuram and Katpadi to board these trains because getting epass for boarding trains will be difficult,” said a senior railway official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/railways-to-run-8-spl-trains-from-june-1/articleshow/76114293.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Surat||12 test positive in Surat villages||SURAT: Surat district on Saturday recorded highest single-day cases with 12 persons found infected. The new cases were reported from villages of Palsana, Mahuva, Olpad and Choryasi talukas. Till date, 112 cases have been reported in the district. Surat district has reported two deaths due to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/12-test-positive-in-surat-villages/articleshow/76113211.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Madurai||Online workshop to create Covid-19 awareness||Madurai: Around 50 volunteers including NSS students were given online training on creating awareness on Covid-19 at the grassroots level. The one-day workshop via video conferencing was jointly conducted by Madurai Kamaraj University Constituent Model Arts and Science College (MKUC MASC), Thirumangalam and MS Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation. The workshop on ‘Psycho social care during Covid-19’ was inaugurated by state revenue minister R B Udhayakumar in the presence of MKU vice-chancellor Dr M Krishnan and Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) dean Dr Sangumani J. As part of the training, MKU Registrar (in charge) Dr Sankar Natesan gave a lecture on the scientific and physiological aspects of Covid-19 and building immunity and G Gurubharathy, principal, MS Chellamuthu Institute of Mental Health and Rehabilitation on mental health amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/online-workshop-to-create-covid-19-awareness/articleshow/76114302.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Swarms keep officials on their toes in Kota, Baran||Kota: Around 1.5-km-long and nearly half-kilometre-broad locust swarm that entered the residential areas of Kota city on late Friday evening, from the adjoining Rawatbhata forest area, kept the agriculture officials on their toes throughout the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The locust swarm made its way into other localities of the city on Saturday afternoon, and as a result, many locals took to beating drums, plates and bursting crackers to scare them away. Another locust swarm on Friday evening entered the villages in Shahabad area of Baran district from Shivpuri forests in Madhya Pradesh. However, following the operation throughout the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, it flew away from the district towards Guna in MP on Saturday morning. Meanwhile, the locust swarm that entered Kota city’s residential areas in Vallabh Nagar, Kotri and around JDB College, caused panic among the locals, said deputy director, agriculture, Kota, Ramniwas Paliwal. After the locusts settled over the trees on Friday late evening, 5-6 tractors and three fire tenders were deployed late at night in Vallabh Nagar and surrounding areas to spray Chloropyriphos over the resting insects and the operation to kill the pests continued till 5am on Saturday, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/swarms-keep-officials-on-their-toes-in-kota-baran/articleshow/76114532.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon records 90 +ve cases, highest in a single day so far||NASHIK: Jalgaon district registered 90 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the maximum cases being reported in a single day, taking the tally of positive patients to 679. With the district reporting at least 150 new patients in the last 72 hours, authorities from the district administration are appealing to the citizens to stay indoors and step out only if extremely necessary. The numbers of the cases have spiked especially in the last ten days. On May 21, Jalgaon district had 346 positive cases and 40 deaths with 133 patients already discharged. The numbers of positive cases have doubled since then with the death toll standing at 77. While Bhusawal talukas has reported the maximum cases (160), the district headquarters has registered 143 patients and Amalner 128 patients. The other eleven regions in the district make up for 248 positive cases. District Collector Avinash Dhakne has appealed to the people to get themselves tested in the government and private hospitals instead of waiting for the symptoms to grow. “While the numbers of cases are on the rise, so is the numbers of deaths. We have appealed to the people with diabetes, heart ailments, respiratory illnesses, cough, cold and fever to go to the nearest hospital and get tested for Covid-19,” Dhakne said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-records-90-ve-cases-highest-in-a-single-day-so-far/articleshow/76113218.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 31, 2020||Surat||Maha broker cheats Surat coal businessman of Rs 33 lakh||SURAT: Umra police booked a broker from Tarapur in Maharashtra on Friday for allegedly cheating a local businessman of Rs 33 lakh. The accused was a broker in a coal deal and failed to pay the supplier even after getting the payment. Police booked broker Balbir Singh based on a complainant by Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Vesu. The accused has been booked for criminal breach of trust and criminal intimidation. Local coal businessman, Jaswinder, was contacted by Balbir in 2018 with an offer for a deal in coal. After discussions, the complainant had sold coal through Balbir in January 2018. After few days, when Jaswinder was yet to receive payment for the deal, he reminded Balbir for payment. However, Balbir started to evade payment and kept giving dates. After that, Jaswinder recently shot off a mail to the buyer directly demanding payment for the coal. The buyer replied that the payment has already been made to Balbir. Following confirmation of payment, Jaswinder contacted the accused again and demanded his dues. But Balbir continued to dole out promises only. The complainant then even visited Tarapur to recover payment, but after repetitive attempts Balbir threatened Jaswinder of dire consequences if he continued to demand money again. “Police are collecting evidences related to the case. Questioning of the accused will reveal exact details of the case,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/maha-broker-cheats-surat-coal-businessman-of-rs-33-lakh/articleshow/76113233.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Gurgaon||13 from MLA’s family, staff positive in Haryana's Bhiwani||ROHTAK: Nine family members of Bhiwani BJP MLA Ghanshyam Saraf, including his wife, son and daughters, and four staffers were among the 15 new cases of Covid-19 emerging in the district on Saturday, said a district health department official. However, MLA Saraf himself tested negative, said Bhiwani’s Covid-19 district co-ordinator, Dr Rajesh Kumar. “All those testing positive were shifted to hospital for treatment after their reports confirmed their health status on Saturday evening,” he said. The samples of MLA Saraf and his family members were taken and sent for test to PGIMS, Rohtak, after one of his personal assistants was confirmed as a Covid-19 patient two days back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/13-from-mlas-family-staff-ve-in-bhiwani/articleshow/76114306.cms||Sat Singh
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Meet promises made earlier: N Uttam Kumar Reddy to Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday said chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao should first fulfil promises made earlier to farmers before giving ‘surprise gift’ to them. Referring to CM KCR’s announcement about farmers receiving good news soon, the PCC chief said: “The CM should be ashamed of himself for making another promise to the farmers despite not fulfilling promises made earlier. He should first implement Rs 1 lakh crop loan waiver promise, pay Rythu Bandhu financial assistance without any conditions, start paying compensation to farmers for crops damaged due to unseasonal rains and thunderstorms, dump the idea of doing away with Rythu Bandhu sop on the pretext of regulated cropping pattern.” The Nalgonda MP said KCR should withdraw the proposed new agricultural policy, which forces the farmers to grow crops suggested by the government. Farmers were carrying out cultivation due to the irrigation projects constructed during the Nizam’s era and Congress regimes. The KCR government did not construct a single project with the intention of benefiting farmers. “Kaleshwaram was constructed only to get commission from contractors. The chief minister is misleading people by showing the ayacut of Sriram Sagar Project as that of Kaleshwaram,” Uttam added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/meet-promises-made-earlier-uttam-to-kcr/articleshow/76113867.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Madurai||Playschools struggle for survival as lockdown drags on indefinitely||Madurai: With no clarity yet from the state government regarding reopening and functioning of playschools, the schools and their staff are struggling financially and face an uncertain future.“For the last three months, playschools have had no source of income and are struggling financially. In Madurai district alone, there around 150 playschools with 1,500-2,000 teachers and caretakers, all of whom have been affected. Most playschools are run by women entrepreneurs. With no income, many are also unable to pay rent which may force them to close down,” said Calvary N Thyagarajan, president, Madurai preschools welfare association. He further said that though many representations and discussions have been put forth by preschool associations, so far there has been no clarity from the state government for playschools to reopen.On the other hand, parents are also hoping for playschools to reopen soon since they are at their wits’ end taking care of their children especially as they too have slowly started returning to work. “Playschools shutting down is a big blow for parents too. As of now, we are trying to be in touch with our students and giving them activities to do with parents at home but it is only a temporary fix. Online classes are not possible for them since for parents, the whole idea behind playschools is for their children to learn socializing and fall into a routine,” said Jeya Rajesh, correspondent, Kutties Villa, Anna Nagar and Teppakulam.Further, teachers also stressed that students who have remained confined within their homes during lockdown are facing a lot of stress. Playschools are also actively discussing how to conduct classes when they reopen including preventive measures for Covid-19 like social distancing, using hand sanitizers and wearing masks, which would be highly difficult for such young children. The schools are hoping to reopen at least before ‘Vijayadasami’ season by September-October, which usually sees the most number of new admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/playschools-struggle-for-survival-as-lockdown-drags-on-indefinitely/articleshow/76114300.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 8 locust attacks in 8 days, administration ready to tackle menace||JAIPUR: With eight locust attacks taking place in Jaipur district in the past eight days (since May 23), including two on Saturday, and the district being declared as ‘Locust Invasion Endangered Area’, the collector has directed the officials of agriculture and other departments to formulate a ‘coordinated strategy’ to handle the crisis, looking at the possibility of the flying pests laying eggs in the coming 10-15 days. Locust swarms attacked a village in Jamwa Ramgarh tehsil and another village in Amber tehsil on Saturday. The insects were eliminated on Saturday night. “We have been successful in eliminating 60-80% of the locusts. The operation to eliminate them is carried out at night. In eight days (from May 23 to May 30), eight locust attacks took place in Jaipur. It is likely that the locusts may start breeding after 10-15 days. So, we have to be prepared for that situation. A detailed plan has been chalked out for this,” said B R Karwa, deputy director, agriculture zila parishad (extension). On May 23, the operation to eliminate locusts was conducted in two villages of Kishangarh Renwal tehsil; on May 24, in two villages of Jaipur tehsil; on May 26, in a village in Bassi tehsil; on May 27, in a village in Jamwa Ramgarh tehsil and another in Chomu tehsil. On May 29, in four villages of Jamwa Ramgarh tehsil and another village in Bassi tehsil. We also carried out two operations on Saturday night,” he added. The latest operation was carried out at 1am on Saturday and 80% locusts were eliminated. Pesticides, i.e, lemda silothrin (5%) and “chloropyriphos (50% EC) were sprayed using three fire brigades.  The collector has instructed the officials of the agriculture department to ensure protection of water bodies while spraying pesticides. He also asked the officials of Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited to ensure uninterrupted supply of electricity so that water tankers can be filled for spraying of the pesticides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/8-locust-attacks-in-8-days-admn-ready-to-tackle-menace/articleshow/76114531.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||5 cops suspended, ACP shifted for leading protest||Kolkata: In a first action taken after multiple protests by junior personnel of the Kolkata Police, Lalbazar has suspended one assistant sub-inspector and four constables for leading an agitation at the fourth battalion barracks in Salt Lake on Friday. An ACP was transferred. The action was taken after intimating the home department. The action came before governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted his concern over repeated protests among the uniformed men. Lalbazar clarified that there were specific grounds of misconduct this time that attracted the action. So far, no action has been reported for the previous two protests reported from Police Training School and Garfa police station. A case in this regard was registered against the accused cops at Bidhannagar police station and departmental inquiry initiated against the cops. Trouble had broken out at the Kolkata Armed Police 4th battalion camp on Friday evening when a group of policemen staged an agitation, demanding better infrastructure after a cop reportedly fell ill with Covid-like symptoms. They alleged that the officer had sought leave after feeling unwell but his plea was turned down. A picket was posted at the camp gates after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-cops-suspended-acp-shifted-for-leading-protest/articleshow/76113866.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Swarms keep officials on their toes in Kota, Baran||KOTA: Around 1.5-km-long and nearly half-kilometre-broad locust swarm that entered the residential areas of Kota city on late Friday evening, from the adjoining Rawatbhata forest area, kept the agriculture officials on their toes throughout the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The locust swarm made its way into other localities of the city on Saturday afternoon, and as a result, many locals took to beating drums, plates and bursting crackers to scare them away. Another locust swarm on Friday evening entered the villages in Shahabad area of Baran district from Shivpuri forests in Madhya Pradesh. However, following the operation throughout the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, it flew away from the district towards Guna in MP on Saturday morning. Meanwhile, the locust swarm that entered Kota city’s residential areas in Vallabh Nagar, Kotri and around JDB College, caused panic among the locals, said deputy director, agriculture, Kota, Ramniwas Paliwal. After the locusts settled over the trees on Friday late evening, 5-6 tractors and three fire tenders were deployed late at night in Vallabh Nagar and surrounding areas to spray Chloropyriphos over the resting insects and the operation to kill the pests continued till 5am on Saturday, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/swarms-keep-officials-on-their-toes-in-kota-baran/articleshow/76114534.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Purana Basti residents seek regular garbage collection facility||DEHRADUN: With no door-to-door garbage collection facility for residents of Purana Basti, senior citizens living in the areas nearby like Inder Road are having a tough time dealing with the waste that is piling up daily. The residents said that they are even ready to pay extra to prevent the spread of infection. A resident, Col (retd) Arun Sareen said, “We are extremely troubled with the garbage that has piled up near our houses as it is a potential health hazard. The repeated reminders to the municipal corporation has only provided temporary relief.” Another resident Suresh Kapoor said, “The municipal authorities tell us that private vehicles have been deployed to pick up garbage from the basti, but there are many families who cannot afford to pay Rs 100 a month for the purpose. As a result, waste that has piled up and stray animals feeding on it pose a much bigger threat.” However, Dalanwala East ward counsellor Nikhil Kumar said, “Private vehicles are already engaged in picking up waste.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/purana-basti-residents-seek-regular-garbage-collection-facility/articleshow/76113234.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Majority people have returned, our focus on contact tracing: Chief secy||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh, on Saturday, said that majority of the locals stuck in other states have been brought back while adding that efforts are underway to bring the remaining stranded locals to the state. According to official data, 2.66 lakh people had registered to return to Uttarakhand and more than 1.81 lakh stranded locals among them have already been brought to the state. Coming to agriculture, the chief secretary informed that the state government has approved a “Sorting and Grading” centre in Aarakot area of Uttarkashi district to help the apple growers. “The centre will help in sorting, grading, and stocking of apples to boost income of apple growers,” said Singh. At present, the state has 83 growth centres and the government recently approved 11 new centres. Notably, locals would be given training in different sectors, including agriculture, horticulture and tourism, in these growth centres. The chief secretary further said that the state’s present focus is on contact tracing of Covid-19 positive cases. “Following contact tracing, the authorities were successful in tracing seven Covid-19 infected cases in Dehradun and four such cases in Tehri district on Saturday,” said Singh. Through the 727 positive cases reported till Friday evening, the authorities were able to trace 3,730 suspected cases. The samples of these cases have been collected and sent for Covid-19 test. Singh pointed out that the state will have the capacity to check 1,000 samples per day by next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/majority-people-have-returned-our-focus-on-contact-tracing-chief-secy/articleshow/76113242.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||SEB on prowl: Over 7k booked in 15 days||Vijayawada: The newly-formed Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) is making its presence felt. In the last 15 days since the bureau was formed, 7,200 people have been booked. The SEB was constituted to curb the illegal manufacturing, bottling, sale and transportation of liquor as well as illegal sand mining and smuggling. The cases registered by the bureau points to the scale and seriousness of the problem. Non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) is flowing from neighbouring states such as Telangana and Karnataka, where the price of liquor is relatively low. Smugglers in large numbers are indulging in the transportation of NDPL into the state to make a quick buck. Speaking to TOI, Vinit Brijlal, the SEB commissioner, said that the bureau is a relatively new force, only 15 days old and that the lockdown has been a learning experience for the bureau. “We have identified the various ways in which illegal liquor transporters go about their business and that experience is helping us now in strict enforcement and in protecting porous borders from leaking in NDPL.” The SEB commissioner observed further that the SEB is the first integrated force comprising different law enforcement agencies which bring together their own respective intelligence and skill sets. “We are now strengthening our intelligence gathering network— both human and technical— to make our borders fool proof,” Brijlal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seb-on-prowl-over-7k-booked-in-15-days/articleshow/76113874.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Government acts on Andhra Pradesh medico body’s plea, slashes fees for PG courses||VISAKHAPATNAM: The decision of the state government to lower fees by 40-80% for postgraduate courses in private medical colleges has brought relief to aspiring medicos in the state. Doctors under the Andhra Pradesh Junior Doctors Association (APJUDA) had earlier this month submitted a representation to the state fee regulation committee (APFRC) on lowering fees, which were increased between 2017-19. On May 29, GO No. 56, revising the fee structure for academic years 2020-23, was passed. Speaking about the fee reduction, president of APJUDA Dr N Deepchand said, “This move of the APFRC will benefit at least 1,200-1,500 PG medicos and aspiring PG students across a dozen private medical colleges in the state. Between 2017-2019, fee structure was exorbitantly increased without consultating committees and medicos. We thank APFRC for this decision.” As per the new fee structure under GO 56, for clinical degrees, category A or convener quota (50% seats) will cost Rs 4.32 lakh, down from the existing Rs 6.90 lakh. Fees for category B or management quota (25% seats) have been reduced from Rs 24.20 lakh to Rs 8.64 lakh and category C or NRI/institutional management quota (25% seats) fees have been fixed at Rs 50 lakh, down from around Rs 75 lakh in 2017. Fees have also been lowered for paraclinical and non-clinical degrees for convener, management and NRI quotas. Andhra Pradesh Junior Doctors Association had submitted a representation on lowering fees, citing the exorbitant rise in fees for PG courses between 2017-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-acts-on-state-medico-bodys-plea-slashes-fees-for-pg-courses/articleshow/76113237.cms||Sulogna Mehta
May 31, 2020||Surat||Daman spruces up beaches to lure tourists||SURAT: Tourists from the dry state can’t wait to get back to their nearest favourite watering hole in Daman after the two months of lockdown. And to greet them, as well as the regular beachgoers, the beaches of Jampore and Lighthouse have been adequately spruced up with additional attractive features. With the easing of lockdown rules, residents from the Union Territory are visiting the newly developed road and uploading videos and photos on social media, which are grabbing eyeballs. “I keep visiting Daman for business but always avoided going to beaches. I am a teatotaller and so they never lured me. But now, looking at the videos and photos of the beaches after makeover, I will definitely plan a visit to these beaches with my family,” said Kaushik Patel, a businessman from the city. “The beach front road is part of a massive development plan in Daman and it will boost the tourism. We hope that all type of tourists will come to the UT now,” said Gopal Tandel, president of Daman Hotel Owner’s Association. “The new development will of course boost the tourism. After complete transformation the beaches will attract more people now,” said Sandip Bhatt, owner of a restaurant. Not only beaches, but the administration has also developed 4 km seafront road connecting both the beaches which did not exist till now. Entire stretch has lighting and protection wall with footpath. The road also has plantations, viewing gallery and parking spots. Bhatt expects the local administration to provide more employment opportunities to the locals as well. Praful Patel, administrator of Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli said that the seafront road has been developed on Moti Daman side in the first phase while development in Nani Daman is underway. “To give a complete tourism experience we are developing many other facilities. An aviary is being developed in Jampore where tourists can spend time inside it with over 300 type of birds,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/daman-spruces-up-beaches-to-lure-tourists/articleshow/76113264.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
May 31, 2020||Shimla||Groom, baraat get home with bride after 71 days||DHARAMSHALA: What would have been a marriage celebration for this Una-based family in West Bengal turned out to be a harrowing experience. The 17 members of the family reached West Bengal on March 21, after which lockdown was announced. They came back home after 71 days. Block medical officer at Kutlehad area of Una district, Dr N K Angra discharged them late on Friday evening after they completed their quarantine period. Naresh Kumar Sharma, the priest who officiated at the wedding ceremony, said they were originally supposed to come home from Kolkata on March 24 but were stranded due to imposition of lockdown. The family had contacted rural development minister from Una district, Virender Kanwar who made arrangements for them in Bengal. State authorities arranged a bus for them on May 14 and after completing a three-day journey by road, the family reached Una on May 16, after which they went into institutional quarantine in Kutlehad. On May 23, a youth among them tested positive for Covid-19. Samples of others in his contact chain were found negative. Dharampal Negi, a revenue official monitoring the quarantine centre said there were 18 persons including four children. “The person found positive is under treatment at the Covid care centre while 17 of them have been discharged and they were advised to stay in home quarantine for one more day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/groom-baraat-get-home-with-bride-after-71-days/articleshow/76114313.cms||Shri Puri
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||KRMB to meet on June 4||Hyderabad: The KRMB is meeting on June 4 at 11 am to resolve the issues between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. KRMB member-secretary A Paramesham on Saturday intimated to both the states. Both the state governments have lodged complaints against each other over new lift irrigation projects and also utiliation of Krishna waters. Telangana has complained over Rayalseema lift irrigation project proposed to draw water from Pothireddypadu head regulator. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/krmb-to-meet-on-june-4/articleshow/76113887.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hubballi||Don’t force borrowers to pay EMI, Dharwad DC tells bankers||DHARWAD: Following complaints from borrowers that banks were pressurising them to pay the loan instalments despite the Centre announcing a moratorium of three months, deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan on Saturday warned of taking stern action against such bankers. Chairing a meeting of managers of nationalized, scheduled commercial banks and micro finance companies here, she said the lockdown due to Covid-19 has brought all economic and farming activities to a halt and the government is trying to help affected people by offering incentives and launching various schemes. Under such circumstances, forcing borrowers to pay EMIs is improper, Deepa said. “There are complaints to the lead bank about bankers forcing customers to repay. If any specific complaint is received, action will be initiated against the bank concerned,” she warned. District lead bank manager Ishwar, ZP CEO B C Satish and others also spoke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dont-force-borrowers-to-pay-emi-dharwad-dc-tells-bankers/articleshow/76113609.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Private schools in Hyderabad lean on technology, to begin online classes this week||HYDERABAD: With no clear guidelines from the Telangana government on reopening of schools, many city private schools are set to commence online classes from the first week of June. From Google meet-ups to pre-recorded videos and online tasks, schools are adopting new methods to engage students. As uncertainty over resumption of physical classes looms large, schools have unilaterally framed their own models to resume classes for the 2020-21 academic year. Adopting to more hybrid models of teaching, school managements have issued a detailed plan to students with time-table, mode of online classes, assessments etc. “For senior students, we will upload the lessons and pre-recorded videos and share the link with them so that they can access any time and from anywhere. Subsequently, we will have live classes once a week wherein students will interact with the teacher and get their doubts cleared,” said Shailaja Gopinath, principal of Delhi Public School, Secunderabad, adding that topics that were otherwise covered in one session in a physical classroom are split into two in virtual classes. To make virtual classes interactive and interesting, schools are adopting online quizzes, brain teasers and challenges. “Virtual learning will further be made interesting with anecdotes, case studies, discussions, quiz and audio-visual engagements,” read a detailed virtual learning plan of action, issued by Glendale Academy. Schools will also celebrate important events such as Telangana formation day, World Yoga and Music Day, Vanamahotsav virtually. While school managements are a step ahead in planning the ensuing academic year, Telangana school education department is yet to frame guidelines for physical reopening of schools. “We have not taken any call on framing guidelines for reopening of schools. We are waiting for a nod from the education minister,” said Ramana Kumar, additional director, school education department. According to sources, state education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy is planning to hold a review meeting with all the stakeholders including teachers, parents and school managements and subsequently constitute a sub-committee. The sub-committee will finalise guidelines on physical reopening of schools after considering suggestions from all stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-schools-lean-on-tech-to-begin-online-classes-this-week/articleshow/76113880.cms||Preeti Biswas
May 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Now, RBKs to look after Andhra Pradesh farmers’ needs||VIJAYAWADA: Marking the first anniversary of the YSRC government, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Saturday launched Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) through video conference. The RBKs will supply seed, fertilizers and seedlings to agriculture, aquaculture and horticulture farmers. The centres will also help farmers improve soil by carrying out soil tests, which will enable them decide on better crop patterns and develop a better link with the market. The chief minister said his government has implemented 90% of the promises mentioned in the party’s election manifesto in the very first year. “The promises are there in the manifesto and the schemes are being implemented one after the other. I request you to check the manifesto with the schemes rolled out and rank the government,” he said. He also urged the farmers to make use of toll-free number 155251 to speak to officials and experts on crop pattern and market status. Recalling the launch of the Agriculture Mission in the state to help the farming sector, Jagan said he has been closely monitoring the activities of the Mission to ensure quality service to farmers. Referring to the financial position of the state, the CM said his government came to power with just Rs 100 crore cash in the exchequer and Rs 2.60 lakh crore in debt, besides Rs 39,000 crore arrears to be paid to various accounts. “Despite the poor financial situation, the government was able to fulfil its election promises,” he said. He also took a dig at the opposition for creating hurdles over the last one year. “We are seeing an opposition which is creating legal hurdles and fighting against the government for giving house sites to the poor,” the chief minister said. He also blamed the opposition for stalling his move to introduce English medium in government schools and appealed to people to understand the disruptive politics of opposition parties and rally behind the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-asks-people-to-rank-govt-on-performance/articleshow/76113276.cms||Gopi Dara
May 31, 2020||Vadodara||Teen brushes away cobwebs to recreate old art hobby||VADODARA: In the uncertainty of exams that set in with the lockdown, Madhavi Patel, a Class XII student who was preparing for her Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams, was enjoying the deferment for the initial few days but soon got bored and listless with inactivity. One week into the lockdown, Madhavi, a student of New Era Secondary School, was done with eating, sleeping and loitering around the house aimlessly — and was getting anxious to break the monotony. It was then that she discovered a few drawing sheets that she had once worked upon as a kid and then owing to lack of time and study pressure, the hobby got banished to the corner. She hunted for the remaining art paraphernalia and recovered old art sheets and colours too. Taking this to be a cue to renew acquaintance with her long lost passion, Madhavi utilized the two-month-long lockdown improve her skills and hone it to perfection. “Initially, I simply started to draw but as days passed and I got more involved my work also improved,” said the teenager, who didn’t want to consider the forced quarantine to be a long holiday. From object painting to pen and pencil sketches, her work in the two months revolved mostly around coronavirus and lockdown scenes. “Lockdown has come as an opportunity to revisit our old hobbies which due to various reasons we couldn’t pursue,” she said, adding that many of her friends are either hooked to OTT platforms or involved in online gaming competition which she is not fond of. Talking to TOI, the 18-year-old highlighted a serious issue, that of kids her age suffering mental breakdowns from the forced confinement and picking up fights with their parents. “I have tried talking to such friends and explain to them that instead of idling time, indulging in doing something creative will keep them refreshed,” she said. Madhavi, who plans to continue painting on regular basis said, “I have shared photos of my artwork on social media for feedback and will continue to paint along with my studies.”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/teen-brushes-away-cobwebs-to-recreate-old-art-hobby/articleshow/76112130.cms||Jay Pachchigar
May 31, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Refrigeration system at morgue of govt hospitals go defunct; raise a stink||HAVERI/ BALLARI: The dead at the Haveri District Hospital are being robbed of dignity: With the refrigeration system in the mortuary at the government institution having gone defunct, there is no place at the hospital to house the dead. The Covid-19 crisis has aggravated the problems involved in preserving the dead at the hospital. Worse still, the non-availability of freezers to store the bodies has raised, quite literally, a stink at the hospital. The freezer system is essential to store bodies for postmortem. More importantly, it is mandatory for the district administration to collect samples from bodies to conduct Covid-19 tests, in order to ascertain the cause of death beyond doubt. However, the government has not sanctioned funds for additional freezers despite repeated pleas by the hospital authorities. The law stipulates that an unclaimed body is to be preserved in a government mortuary for four days. This will be rendered impossible without a freezer. In case of delay in the arrival of Covid-19 results, the bodies need to be stored for five or six days. Owing to the circumstances, the staff at the Haveri hospital are preserving bodies with ice cubes. Haveri’s in-charge district health officer Dr Dayaand said that they had written to the government intimating the condition of the freezer. “We hope the government responds soon and funds for a new freezer facility that can store 12 bodies are sanctioned,” he added. District surgeon Dr PR Havanur said that the freezer had been defunct for the past five years. “Thankfully, no problems have risen owing to this problem thus far. The district administration has given the nod for a new freezer facility, and the problem will be solved soon,” he added. Haveri additional DC S Yogishwar said that they had directed the authorities concerned to purchase a new freezer. VIMS forced to borrow freezer from pvt hospital At the Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) in Ballari district, meanwhile, the situation is similar. Owing to the neglect of the authorities, the bodies are being stored without refrigerating equipment. The two cold-storage facilities at VIMS, each of which can accommodate four bodies, have been defunct for some time now. VIMS director Dr B Devanand said that they had been unable to fix the freezer owing to the lockdown. “We obtained a freezer from JSW Hospital, which can store one body. If required, we will shift the dead to JSW, where there is facility to store four bodies,” Dr Devanand said. He was quick to add that the institution had placed an order for three freezers, and once they were in place, VIMS would be able to preserve 12 bodies. The lack of air conditioning in the morgue has left the place filled with a foul stench. Those deployed to work in the morgue often advise kin of deceased to store their dead at private facilities. Shortage of safety kits and lack of equipment to conduct postmortem are among the other problems faced by those working at the VIMS mortuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/refrigeration-system-at-morgue-of-govt-hospitals-go-defunct-raise-a-stink/articleshow/76114250.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
May 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||200 contacts on new positives spread over 6 panchayats||Thiruvananthapuram: The dizzying trail of contacts left over by the three remand prisoners who were tested positive for Covid-19 and without a faint hint of source of infection has converted around 90 wards in six panchayats in the district into containment zones. Authorities waited for more than a day to initiate action in the villages despite confirming infection in two remand prisoners because chief minister hadn’t made the official declaration. The authorities had an uphill task in their hands as it was known that the infected persons have freely moved across six or seven panchayats getting into primary contact with 60-70 people and leaving secondary contacts to cross 100. As the task turned out to be harder than expected and epidemiological team finding no clue about probable sources of infection, district disaster management authority had to issue proceedings declaring six panchayats as containment zones. In the proceedings issued by deputy collector (disaster management) Anu S Nair, it was cited that although serious efforts were made to trace the source of infection of three under-trial prisoners who were tested positive within Venjaramoodu police station limits, no epidemiological link like confirmed travel history or known contact with an infected person could be established. More than 200 contacts were identified by May 29 and they were spread over six panchayats. An emergency meeting of local body representatives, police and health officials was convened on Friday following which it was decided to declare these panchayats as containment zones. The initial declaration had confined containment zones to limited number of wards in panchayats such as Mudakkal, Pullampara, Vamanapuram, Pulimath, Nellanadu and Manikkal. As number of contacts soared further and with source of infection remaining a mystery in all three cases, all the wards numbering around 90 were converted into containment zones on Saturday. Strict perimeter control has been initiated in all these panchayats and activities like intensive contact tracing, house-to-house surveillance and other clinical interventions have been initiated. The panchayat authorities and health staff in the containment zones said they may have to depend on police assistance to extract a clear picture about the travel history of the three remand prisoners. Two of the remand prisoners — one from Nellanad and another from Vamanapuram — have posed the biggest challenge. The officials said although their primary contacts are numbered below 100, the secondary contacts have gone beyond 200 and is expected to increase further given the extent of travel done by both these persons in the day before they got arrested. Their links with sale of illicit liquor have also led to increase in contacts and many of them have been reluctant to admit about getting in contact with the infected persons. “We can now focus on initiating basic measures, but the crucial point as to how they got infected has to be revealed. Whether they are connected or have travelled to Tamil Nadu are areas that need to be probed further,’’ an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/200-contacts-on-new-positives-spread-over-6-panchayats/articleshow/76113305.cms||Aswin J Kumar
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Liquor scam in Haryana, SIT sends notice to Punjab distillery owner||CHANDIGARH: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Rohtak range investigating the Sonipat liquor scam has served a notice to the owner of a Punjab-based distillery, which had been allegedly supplying smuggled and illicit liquor to a gang headed by alleged kingpin of scam Bhupinder Singh, asking him to join the probe. SIT head and Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma said the distillery owner has been asked to join the investigation for questioning as well as verification of certain facts emerging from the interrogation of Bhupinder Singh and his associate Satish Kumar. Investigations have revealed that the distillery based in Rajpura, Punjab was alleged involved in the supply of liquor, which Bhupinder and his team would transport in the vehicles meant for supply of vegetables. The bottles thus transported would be emptied at Sonipat and refilled in the bottles bearing fake labels of popular brands. The raiding parties have recovered labels as well as empty bottles from the godowns owned by Bhupinder Singh. Meanwhile, sacked inspector Jasbir Singh and couple of more accused continue to be on the run and police parties are camping in Delhi and nearby states where Jasbir could be hiding. The SIT head said the police have intensified search for Jasbir Singh as also for Bhupinder’s brother, another suspect in the case. “They can’t run for long. Jasbir’s anticipatory bail has already been rejected by the court and so is the case of other accused. We are hopeful of their early arrest,’’ he said. The incident came to light in the first week of May when the police registered a case at Kharkhoda police station, after over 9,000 cases of liquor were found missing from the godown of excise department. Major arrests made in the case include that of Bhupinder Singh, ASI Jaipal Singh and Satish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/liquor-scam-sit-notice-to-punjab-distillery-owner/articleshow/76114321.cms||Manvir Saini
May 31, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra panel chief seeks extension for 2,500 retiring cops in view of nCoV crisis||PUNE: With close to 2,500 police personnel in the state due to retire on May 31, chairman of the state minimum wages advisory committee, Raghunath Kuchik, has written to state home minister Anil Deshmukh and police higher-ups, seeking extension of their service tenure in view of the Covid-19 situation. “We are facing an unprecedented crisis and need experienced hands. The retiring police personnel may be given an extension of at least six to eight months considering that their replacements in the form of new recruits will take three to four months of training,” he said. A senior officer in the office of the state director general of police (DGP) in Mumbai told TOI, “We have received the letter, but it is for the state government to decide on such matters. We will implement the decision taken by the state government.” Kuchik said, “Working manpower must be retained in a situation like the one caused by Covid-19. Experienced hands need to be given an extension. There will be many retirements on May 31 and on June 30.” He said that the state home department cannot undertake recruitment drive in such a situation and the next recruitment can be conducted next year. “This will create a vacuum in the functioning of the state police. Thus, extension of the service tenure of the retiring personnel is required,” Kuchik said. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said, “We will study the issue. The home department will take appropriate steps in this direction only after discussing the issue with senior police officers.” “It is Kuchik’s demand and nothing has been decided on it at present,” Deshmukh said. A senior officer of Pune city police said that about 90 police personnel of the rank of police constables, senior inspectors and assistant commissioners of police would retire in May. Similarly, about 70 police personnel of the same rank will retire in June. “It will create a vacuum in the functioning of the police, especially at the police station level. The existing staff will have to execute their duties also,” he said. At present, police stations are manning the containment zones and other parts of the city. They are also executing naka bandi operations and looking after the welfare of the society at large, he said. The officer said due to the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state, recruitment of police constables will also take time. “In such a situation, four to six months’ extension should be given to these personnel,” the officer said. There are 47 different police units in the state and some police personnel from all these units will retire in May and June end, a senior police officer from DGP office said. The Maharashtra police has 1.90 lakh police personnel, including senior police officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-panel-chief-seeks-extension-for-2500-retiring-cops-in-view-of-ncov-crisis/articleshow/76114315.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Rajkot||Haryana gangster arrested for threatening Gandhidham trader||RAJKOT: The Kutch police have arrested a history-sheeter from Haryana, who was serving a life term in the 2016 murder case of a Gandhidham-based garments businessman. Afroz Ansari, a dreaded extortionist, was caught by the team of Kutch local crime branch from Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border on May 28 in another case of extortion lodged by Mohammed Rafiq Bara, who also trades in used garments in the port town. Bara had lodged a complaint against Ansari on May 21 saying that the former had asked him to hand over his entire business to him and threatened to eliminate him if he did not agree. In 2016, Ansari had given the contract to bump off businessman Sachin Dhawan (29) who was shot dead from close range outside his office in Gandhidham on August 1. "Ansari and his brother Ali were serving life term in this case for the past nearly18 months. Three months ago, Ansari had got interim bail from the high court," said DV Rana, police inspector, LCB. Following Bara's complaint, we started mobile surveillance of Ansari's phone and traced him to the bank of Yamuna River on Haryana-UP border. Police sources said that Ansari's accomplice from Anjar, Anwar Raja, has also been detained. Raja has a case of murder in Anjar and two other offences including timber theft lodged against him. He is also involved in threatening Bara. In August last year, Haryana police's crime investigation agency (CIA) had also arrested Ali Mohammad, who was carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh declared by the Gandhidham Traders Association to anyone giving information about him. Ali Mohammad, a native of Bihar, was a key accused in Dhawan's murder. Ansari, police said, has at least five cases of extortion lodged against him in Kutch. These were registered between 2011 and 2016. Sources in Kutch police said that Ansari was trying to form a gang in Kutch with an aim to take over the lucrative used-garments business being carried out from the Kandla special economic zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/haryana-gangster-arrested-for-threatening-gandhidham-trader/articleshow/76113301.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Vijayawada||YSRC functionaries hail CM Jagan’s vision||Vijayawada: The rank and file of the ruling YSRC celebrated the government completing one year on Saturday. Several ministers also joined the celebrations across the state. Though physical distancing was observed at some places, the celebrations also went beyond the lockdown norms in many places. Government advisor and senior leader Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy unfurled the YSRC flag at the party’s headquarters at Tadepalli. Sajjala said chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has changed politics in the state by making leaders transparent and answerable to the people. Ministers Botsa Satyanarayana and Velampalli Srinivas, MLAs Malladi Vishnu and Jogi Ramesh joined the celebrations near the YSR statue in Vijayawada and congratulated the chief minister on completion of one year in office. Former minister and party general secretary Dadi Veerabhadra Rao hailed the village volunteer system introduced by the government. He said in Visakhapatnam the government has come down to the doorsteps of people, including home delivery of pension and other essential services. Civil supplies minister Kodali Srivenkateswara Rao led the celebrations in Gudivada where he listed out the achievements of the government in the past one year. He also blamed the opposition TDP for creating problems and spreading false information. Women and child welfare minister Taneti Vanita joined the celebrations at Kovvur in West Godavari district. She hailed the initiatives of the government like Agriculture Mission, Rythu Bharosa and Rythu Bharosa Kendras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-functionaries-hail-cm-jagans-vision/articleshow/76113287.cms||Gopi Dara
May 31, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh was the first state to start weekly-off system for police||VIJAYAWADA: The first year of the YSRC government saw some major reforms and initiatives to tackle the crime scene in the state. Soon after taking charge as chief minister, YS Jaganmohan Reddy replaced the then DGP RP Thakur with D Gautam Sawang, who initiated several reforms to rejuvenate the force. One of Sawang’s first decisions was to implement weekly-offs for cops. Despite staff crunch, Andhra Pradesh became the only state in the country where cops could avail a day’s off in a week on rotational basis. An application was also designed to ensure the smooth functioning of the system. Police personnel from the rank of constable to circle inspector were given a day’s off every week to give them rest and enable them to function more efficiently. Those above the rank of circle inspector were, however, not included in the new scheme. The grievance redressal system across the state also saw a major rejig under the Spandana programme. With deadlines put in place every Wednesday to redress public grievances, thousands of personal and financial grievances were addressed with a much better response time. The weekly-off system and the Spandana grievance redressal concepts won AP police nine SKOCH awards for outstanding work and efficient use of technology in November 2019. In terms of legal reforms, the government came up with AP Disha Act to ensure speedy justice in crimes committed against women. The Act was named in the honour of a 26-year-old veterinary doctor who was raped and murdered in Hyderabad. The objective of the Act is to award death penalty for offences like rape and gang rape and completing the investigation, including arrest, filing of charge-sheet and prosecution, within 21 days. Though there were debates whether it was humanly possible to conduct a fair trial in such cases at a short span of time, the rape instances reported after the Bill was passed in the legislative assembly saw charge-sheets filed within a span of 10 days. However, the government is yet to get the judicial capacity to implement the Act in letter and spirit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-was-the-first-state-to-start-weekly-off-system-for-police/articleshow/76115229.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh was the first state to start weekly-off system for police||VIJAYAWADA: The first year of the YSRC government saw some major reforms and initiatives to tackle the crime scene in the state. Soon after taking charge as chief minister, YS Jaganmohan Reddy replaced the then DGP RP Thakur with D Gautam Sawang, who initiated several reforms to rejuvenate the force. One of Sawang’s first decisions was to implement weekly-offs for cops. Despite staff crunch, Andhra Pradesh became the only state in the country where cops could avail a day’s off in a week on rotational basis. An application was also designed to ensure the smooth functioning of the system. Police personnel from the rank of constable to circle inspector were given a day’s off every week to give them rest and enable them to function more efficiently. Those above the rank of circle inspector were, however, not included in the new scheme. The grievance redressal system across the state also saw a major rejig under the Spandana programme. With deadlines put in place every Wednesday to redress public grievances, thousands of personal and financial grievances were addressed with a much better response time. The weekly-off system and the Spandana grievance redressal concepts won AP police nine SKOCH awards for outstanding work and efficient use of technology in November 2019. In terms of legal reforms, the government came up with AP Disha Act to ensure speedy justice in crimes committed against women. The Act was named in the honour of a 26-year-old veterinary doctor who was raped and murdered in Hyderabad. The objective of the Act is to award death penalty for offences like rape and gang rape and completing the investigation, including arrest, filing of charge-sheet and prosecution, within 21 days. Though there were debates whether it was humanly possible to conduct a fair trial in such cases at a short span of time, the rape instances reported after the Bill was passed in the legislative assembly saw charge-sheets filed within a span of 10 days. However, the government is yet to get the judicial capacity to implement the Act in letter and spirit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-was-the-first-state-to-start-weekly-off-system-for-police/articleshow/76113322.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 death toll crosses 400 mark in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The death toll due to Covid-19 in Delhi crossed the 400-mark on Saturday. It reached 416 with 18 more people being confirmed dead due to the disease. Delhi now has the highest number of fatalities due to Covid-19 in the country after Maharashtra (2,197) and Gujarat (1,007). Delhi’s Covid-19 tally has reached 18,549. Only Maharashtra (65,168) and Tamil Nadu (21,184) have more cases than the national capital. State health officials said the death toll had risen exponentially over the past month, from 61 deaths on May 1 to 416 on May 30. “This is because many deaths that happened in April have also been added to the list of fatalities. The hospitals hadn’t been sending the death summaries which led to the delay,” said an official. He, however, added that high number of fatalities and new cases were a cause of worry given that lockdown restrictions were set to be eased further beginning June 1. Delhi witnessed more than 1,000 new cases for the first time on May 28 and over the last two days, the daily count has increased further to set up newer records. On May 29, the city recorded 1,106 new cases and on May 30, the daily count rose further to 1,163—the highest so far for a single day. “Though lockdown restrictions are set to be eased because that is needed too, people shouldn’t become complacent at all. The disease spread is likely to get worse and, therefore, it is going to be even more important to follow social distancing norms and avoid going out,” said a health official. Because most Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic, the state government is focusing a lot on home isolation. However, more hospitals like Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) are being designated fully for Covid-19 to tackle any potential crisis where a larger number of patients requires admission for management of severe illness caused by the viral infection. At present, the number of active cases of Covid-19 in the state is 10,058. Of this, 2,395 are admitted in various hospitals. Total 246 patients are requiring ICU or ventilator support. Around 5,139 (51%) are under home isolation while the rest who have mild illness have been kept in various Covid care centres and Covid health centres. Meanwhile, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital has put up extra containers where dead bodies can be kept in case there are more bodies than their mortuary capacity. Recently, there was a lot of problems in dead body management at hospitals even as cremations were delayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-death-toll-crosses-400-mark-in-delhi/articleshow/76114322.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||131 fresh cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally increases to 3,461||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 131 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative tally to 3,461. No fresh deaths were reported across the state. This is the second highest single day spike in number of cases in AP and the third time this week that 100-plus cases have been recorded. The state has been witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases after influx of migrant labourers from other states and foreign evacuees. As many as 61 of the 131 cases reported on Saturday are related to migrant workers. Three cases are linked to Chennai’s Koyambedu market. The cumulative cases of people from other states now stands at 406. As many as 111 foreign returnees have thus far tested positive for the pandemic. The number of active cases stands at 1,120. As many as 2,281 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals. The state has thus far registered 60 Covid-19 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/131-fresh-cases-in-ap-tally-set-to-cross-3-5k/articleshow/76113898.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Eviction of shops begins to finish storm-water drain work||Thiruvananthapuram: The restoration of storm-water drain along Paruthippara-Muttada road is set to be completed soon. The drain is constructed along the 800-metre stretch which was tarred by PWD a few months ago after Kerala Water Authority completed a major pipeline-laying work. The construction of the drain along the 15-metre-wide road was scheduled to be completed by middle of May, but got delayed due to Covid-19-induced lockdown. As part of restarting the work, public works department (PWD) on Friday issued eviction notice to owners of make-shift stalls and shops on the 400-metre stretch marked for construction of the drain from Paruthippara Junction to Muttada. As many as seven shop owners were served notice in the first phase. While officials evicted a few of the stalls on Friday morning, a milk booth and a vegetable shop near Paruthippara Junction were given 10 days’ time to vacate the area. The move triggered strong protest among shop owners and residents. Many of the shops had been functioning for over 10 years. “My father and I have been working here for around 20 years and the shop is our only source of income. We had reopened our shop only a few days ago after lockdown. We vacated the shop on the direction of police officers, but we shall remain in place. Now the eviction notice has made us helpless. They should have made some alternative arrangements for us,” said Sharavanakumar, who runs a shoe-repair shop on the road. The shop owners have decided to approach human rights commission seeking extension to eviction notice. “The construction of a drain in the area is the demand from the public. The soil and debris are removed from the area where the drain will be constructed. It is the only pending work to be completed as part of the road-restoration work. Rehabilitation of shopkeepers is the responsibility of PWD,” said Stephy J George, Kesavadasapuram ward councillor. According to a PWD official, the shops encroach the footpath and the owners were given eviction notice before lockdown also. “It is a restoration work of the storm-water drain in the area. As we have to complete the work, the shopkeepers were asked to vacate immediately. There were complaints from residents about the shops on footpath. Some shop owners claimed to have permission from city corporation to run the shop, but the road is under PWD and no NOC was issued to them from the department. The restoration work is nearing completion,” said an assistant engineer with PWD who did not wish to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/eviction-of-shops-begins-to-finish-storm-water-drain-work/articleshow/76113353.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Pune||Congress starts employment centre for workers||Pune: The city unit of the Congress party on Saturday set up a ‘Rojgar Setu Kendra’ (employment centre) to help workers get jobs on construction sites. Party functionaries said they took up this initiative in view of the lockdown and the consequent exodus of migrant workers, which has severely hobbled the construction industry. The party said the employment centre will act as a bridge between the workers and the industry. City Congress chief Ramesh Bagwe, state general secretary Abhay Chhajed and Credai Pune-Metro president J P Shroff were present at the inauguration. Chhajed said the centre would play a crucial role in guiding workers about job opportunities and the demand of the construction sector. He said the party, along with industry representatives, will soon chalk out a plan to ensure the maximum workers get jobs and upgrade their skills. Bagwe said that the party was also planning to expand the scope of the job centre to other sectors. “Large numbers of workers have lost jobs. We urge workers from the city to register themselves,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/congress-starts-employment-centre-for-workers/articleshow/76114324.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Virtual classes tug hard at parents’ purse strings||HYDERABAD: With several private schools in the city set to commence online classes for academic year 2020-21, parents are in a fix as they have to invest in new devices for their children, in addition to paying the annual tuition fees. As schools transition from physical learning to virtual learning, lack of access to a tablet or a laptop is the newest divide among students. While some had to purchase new devices, families with two or more children are finding it difficult as they claim that buying one device for each child is not possible. “My wife and I, both have laptops given by our companies. We had to purchase a new laptop for Rs 73,000 exclusively for our daughter as her school will commence online classes from June 3,” said Sanjay Gupta, parent of a 10-year-old. Parents argue that despite schools holding online classes, managements are forcing them to pay transport and food fees, causing a huge strain on their pockets. “School managements have informed parents that if they don’t pay the fees, they will not share the link for online classes. Many parents have already incurred an additional cost of buying new devices and asking them to pay tuition fee upfront is just unfair,” said Seema Agarwal, vice-president of Hyderabad School Parents Association. Apart from this, power cuts and technical snags are also concerns among parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/virtual-classes-tug-hard-at-parents-purse-strings/articleshow/76113896.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Pune||Congress starts employment centre for workers in Pune||PUNE: The city unit of the Congress party on Saturday set up a ‘Rojgar Setu Kendra’ (employment centre) to help workers get jobs on construction sites. Party functionaries said they took up this initiative in view of the lockdown and the consequent exodus of migrant workers, which has severely hobbled the construction industry. The party said the employment centre will act as a bridge between the workers and the industry. City Congress chief Ramesh Bagwe, state general secretary Abhay Chhajed and Credai Pune-Metro president J P Shroff were present at the inauguration. Chhajed said the centre would play a crucial role in guiding workers about job opportunities and the demand of the construction sector. He said the party, along with industry representatives, will soon chalk out a plan to ensure the maximum workers get jobs and upgrade their skills. Bagwe said that the party was also planning to expand the scope of the job centre to other sectors. “Large numbers of workers have lost jobs. We urge workers from the city to register themselves,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/congress-starts-employment-centre-for-workers/articleshow/76114325.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Rajkot||Moneyless diamond polisher killed near Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: A 51-year-old diamond polisher, who was jobless due to lockdown, was stabbed to death by two sons of his friend whom he had lent Rs 50,000. The victim Ramesh Baraiya, a resident of Malanka village adjoining Bhavnagar city, had lent the money to Giga Baraiya from the same village as the latter was in dire needHowever, Baraiya and his son Hitesh, who is also a diamond polisher, were out of work as the unit was closed due to lockdown. In need of money, Baraiya started asking Giga to return the lent sum. However, Giga started evading and dithering on payment. Baraiya then started asking for money from Giga's sons Nilesh and Nitesh. On Friday night, Baraiya was sitting in the village chowk after dinner where he saw Giga's sons and reminded them of repayment. "This led to an altercation and Nilesh and Nitesh stabbed him repeatedly in chest, back, head and hands. He was taken to Sir T Hospital in Bhavnagar in 108 ambulance, but died on the way," said police sub-inspector PR Solanki of Vartej police station. Solanki said both the accused, who are in their early twenties, have fled the village after the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/moneyless-diamond-polisher-killed-near-bhavnagar/articleshow/76113338.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Indore||Students may opt for pvt schooling to weather the Coronavirus storm||Indore: Corona is changing the dynamics of the education system. More students opting for private mode for undergraduate courses may become the new normal. Home schooling may soon trend in this part of the world too as parents are apprehensive of sending their children to educational institutions for which government college authorities expect increase in number of students opting for non-collegiate (private) mode. Financial constraints and need of social distancing are the two main factors that have majorly fostered the idea among students and even parents to go for non-collegiate mode. Most government college principals have agreed that it is only the mindset towards private mode that makes students opt for regular mode. Otherwise the curriculum and course for private and regular students remains the same. The only difference in the examination comes in the marking scheme of the students. Students of non-collegiate mode give two examinations of 50 marks each. The regular mode students have the marking scheme divided into 40, 40 and 20 marks of internal assessment. “There is no seat limit for private mode. The benefit of non-collegiate mode at the moment is the fact that it can be changed to regular mode,” exam controller of Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya Dr Ashesh Tiwari told TOI. Students opting for any non-collegiate option will not be allowed to opt for a regular course, he added. Conventional undergraduate courses such as BA, BCom and even BSc can only be opted in non-collegiate mode. Professional courses can be done only through distance mode and regular mode. There might be rise in number of students for private mode this year, principal of Old GDC Dr Sumitra Waskel told TOI. “The situation is such that parents also would not want to send their kids to colleges. However, it would be after admission process that we will get to know the final output of students opting for private mode,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/students-may-opt-for-pvt-schooling-to-weather-the-coronavirus-storm/articleshow/76113910.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Sudhakar speaks to CBI for 6 hours||VISAKHAPATNAM: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday took Dr Sudhakar’s statement on the circumstances of his detainment. CBI officials met the doctor at the Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) and spoke to him for around six hours. Sources informed that in his statement to the CBI, Dr Sudhakar elaborately explained the sequence of events. On the directions of the high court, the CBI has registered cases against the city police under sections 120B, 324, 343, 379, and 506 of the IPC. City police commissioner RK Meena said, “We will extend our full support to CBI officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sudhakar-speaks-to-cbi-for-6-hours/articleshow/76113343.cms||Siva G
May 31, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: IIT-Mandi develops two low-cost ventilators||MANALI: With ventilators high in demand, some researchers at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mandi have developed prototypes of two low-cost portable ventilators, which can be used even in remote locations and do not require compressed air. IIT-Mandi’s School of Engineering associate professor Dr Arpan Gupta, along with research scholars Lokendra Singh and Sourabh Dogra, has developed a smart ventilator, which has a mechanised Artificial Manual Breathing Unit (AMBU) bag with options to control breath rate and volume of air going into the patient’s lungs. This easy-to-use prototype is wifi operated and will cost around Rs 4,000 only. The engineers said the unique feature of the product is that it can be controlled by a mobile application over wifi apart through manual operation. A smart phone application “IIT Mandi Ventilator” has also been developed for the purpose. The mobile app can start-stop the ventilator and can change breaths per minute (BPM) rate. Another team of engineers led by associate professor Dr Rajeev Kumar from IIT-Mandi’s School of Engineering has developed a mechanical ventilator that uses a self-inflating bag operated by an electric motor and will cost nearly Rs 25,000. The research team has used the motor generally used in an electric ventilator, along with AMBU bag or self-inflation bag. A single rack and pinion mechanism has been used in this ventilator, in which self-inflatable bag is compressed from one side that would blow oxygen into the patient’s lungs either through invasive or non-invasive mode. The machine has an interface between ventilator to patient and ventilator to operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/iit-mandi-develops-2-low-cost-ventilators/articleshow/76114334.cms||Suresh Sharma
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 death: T man’s funeral held in Tvm||Thiruvananthapuram: The funeral of a 68-year-old man, a resident of Telangana who died of Covid-19 here on Wednesday was held at Juma masjid, Vallakadavu on Saturday. The man, along with his wife and son, had reached the district on May 22 without any valid travel documents. The authorities said they were headed for Hyderabad and wrongly disembarked in Thiruvananthapuram. He hailed from Nalgonda. The three of them were shifted to Covid care centre at Poojapura. The man was later moved to General hospital after he developed symptoms and died on May 27. His results came positive on May 28. The swabs of his son and wife were collected and results have been negative. Earlier, district collector held talks with the family with the help of Narasimhugari T L Reddy, civil supplies director, and got their consent for burial at Vallakadavu Juma masjid. The family preferred funeral as per their religious custom. The funeral rites were done in strict compliance with the Covid-19 protocol. The officials said that the family members will be sent back to Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-death-t-mans-funeral-held-in-tvm/articleshow/76113913.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Pune||Ailing, unconscious man dies after cops don PPE kits & shift him to hospital||PUNE: A man advised Covid-19 test fell unconscious at his home in Pashan on Friday night because neither an ambulance nor any civic employees allegedly showed up to shift him to a hospital despite repeated requests from his wife. A team from the Chatushrungi police station, comprising sub-inspector Rakesh Sarade, and constables Mahesh Bamgude and Aniket Bhosale, rushed to his home after his wife sought help dialling the police control room number. Later in the night, the policemen donned PPE kits and shifted him to the Sassoon General Hospital in a private ambulance. The man was declared dead in the early hours of Saturday. Senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police said, “The doctors told us that the man had all the Covid-19 symptoms. But we are yet to receive the post-mortem report.” The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s zonal commissioner, Nitin Udas, refuted the charge that nobody from the civic body turned up to help the man. “We responded to the emergency calls of the police without any delays. Our sanitary inspector reached the site and helped the police. We also provided an ambulance for the patient.” Senior inspector Shewale said the civic body’s ambulance reached the spot after the policemen had shifted the man into the private ambulance. The 34-year-old deceased man, having his roots in Chennai, worked with a private infrastructure company in the city. He stayed in the city with his wife and two-year-old daughter, police said. After he started coughing and developed fever, he sought online consultation of a private doctor on Wednesday. The doctor advised him to undergo Covid-19 test as he had all the symptoms of the contagion. The police said the man’s condition deteriorated on Friday evening. His wife made all-out attempts to shift him to a hospital, but her efforts did not yield any results. “Late on Friday night, the man stopped responding. His wife then called up the police control room,” said senior inspector Shewale. The police team rushed to the spot and one among them called up the PMC control room, but no one allegedly responded. The team also requested the local PMC officials to send an ambulance. After waiting for about half-an-hour, the policemen called a private ambulance driver, who reached the spot around midnight. The police team members then sported PPE kits and rush the man to Sassoon General Hospital, Shewale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ailing-unconscious-man-dies-after-cops-don-ppe-kits-shift-him-to-hospital/articleshow/76114332.cms||Gitesh Shelke
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three more test Covid-19 positive at NDMC headquarters||NEW DELHI: Three more Covid-19 positive cases have been found in the New Delhi Municipal Council’s headquarters. The number of active cases from Palika Kendra is now 11. The headquarters of the civic body which administers Lutyens’ Delhi was sealed two days back after which intensive disinfection drive was initiated. “The three people who were found novel coronavirus positive on Saturday included a junior engineer and a beldar. As per the contact tracing list, 17 officials have been found on high risk and they have been advised testing and home quarantine. These 17 officials include a director, two deputy directors, 12 clerical staff, a driver and a peon,” an NDMC official said. The total number of corona positive cases at the NDMC offices till Saturday evening had reached 20 people out of which four officials had recovered, the official added. The NDMC headquarters is likely to resume working from Monday. However, some officials are not happy about it. On condition of anonymity, a senior official said that with so many new cases and multiple individuals showing flu-like symptoms, the situation of the building was like a red zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-more-test-positive-at-ndmc-headquarters/articleshow/76114329.cms||Paras Singh
May 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||My son has no political link, says doc’s mother||Visakhapatnam: Kaveri Bhai, mother of Dr K Sudhakar said on Saturday that her family seeks justice for her son and not politics. She said that the now-suspended Dr Sudhakar doesn’t have any links with political parties. She urged people against politicising the issue and expressed confidence in the CBI inquiry. Dr Sudhakar’s mother Kaveri Bhai was speaking to the media accompanied by leaders of Dalit Ikya Vedia. She said: “TDP has shown sympathy and extended help. I request everyone, please don’t politicise this. See my son as a Dalit and provide him justice. We will fight legally with the support of the Dalit association.” Kaveri Bhai further said that her son’s body is undergoing rapid changes and that he should be shifted to a private hospital for better treatment. On May 16, a video surfaced of Dr K Sudhakar, an anaesthetist, being beaten up by cops and being taken into custody. The Andhra Pradesh high court has ordered a CBI inquiry into the incident. Leaders of the Dalit Ikya Vedika Busi Venkata Rao, Kottapalli Venkata Ramana, P Vijayakumar and E Sujatha accompanied Dr Sudhakar’s mother. “The authorities are trying to push him into a mentally unbalanced state by giving medicines. His only sin was to demand for masks,” one of the leaders of Dalit Ikya Vedika said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/my-son-has-no-political-link-says-docs-mother/articleshow/76113356.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Tollywood wants the show to go on, but with precautions||Hyderabad: The government must come up with a stimulus package for the film industry to help it deal with the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown. It must also allow shootings and permit movie theatres to open, with the necessary precautions, because ‘the show must go on’, some of the Telugu film industry’s well-known production houses said on Saturday. “Theatres have opened in many countries across the world. Governments there have offered stimulus and benefits because the film industry employs a large number of people. These jobs have to be protected in India too. Such stimulus must be given and the industry allowed to function,” Suresh Babu Daggubati, MD, Suresh Productions, said at a session on `Small Screen Dreams Get Bigger’ conducted on the last day of TOI’s six-day virtual conclave ‘Reboot Telangana- Making Telangana Future Positive’, supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Meluha Technologies Pvt Ltd, Saket Pranamam, Janapriya, and Agromech. “One way the central government can help is by reducing GST on regional films. The state government should treat us on par with other industries and charge lower power tariffs. Cinema ticket rates should also be made flexible. The upper limit can be fixed by the government but the producer should be allowed to fix ticket prices. If the ticket price is high during weekends, perhaps it could be low for morning shows,” he said. “In the Covid-19 situation, social distancing can be followed on the sets. But if you are talking about a romantic scene or a fight sequence, it may not be practical. However, due care and diligence can be taken,” said Vishnu Manchu, actor & founder, 24 Frames Factory. He said the number of people on sets can be limited and a nursing station be set up to ensure all necessary precautions are taken. Swapna Dutt, Co-Producer, Vyjayanthi Movies, said: “Cinema provides entertainment but lives are important. We should understand the emerging situation and act accordingly while allowing shootings and opening theatres.” The panelists also said while films were being released on OTT platforms and people were watching web series, movie goers love watching movies on the big screen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tollywood-wants-the-show-to-go-on-but-with-precautions/articleshow/76113915.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||File review plea on STs GO, says Cong||Hyderabad: Former MLC Ramulu Naik of Congress has demanded that the state file a review petition in SC seeking restoration of GO No. 3 which provides reservations in education and employment sectors to the STs in agency areas of Telangana and AP. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/file-review-plea-on-sts-go-says-cong/articleshow/76113919.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Rajkot||Unseasonal rains in Amreli provide respite from heat||RAJKOT: Some parts of Amreli district received unseasonal showers bringing much-needed respite from heat to people on Saturday. Though the entire district remained overcast, rain occurred only in Khadsali, Meriyana, Dhadala, Bhammar and Ambaradi villages of Savarkundala taluka. “This rain happened just when sowing season is scheduled to start from June 2, which is known as ‘Bhim Agyaras Muhrat’ among farmers,” said an officer of Amreli district administration. “There was no gusty wind and the rainwater percolated down through the ground, which is very good for agriculture,” said Sanjay Donga, a farmer from Nesadi village of Savarkundala taluka. It is estimated that Savarkundala taluka received 25mm of rainfall. There was not much change in the water level of the rivers, ponds and streams in the taluka. However, there is an overarching fear that the rain may have damaged standing crops of sesame seed, pearl millet, groundnut, green gram and mango.  Meanwhile, The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday said that a low pressure area will form in the Arabian Sea in the next 48 hours and will move towards the Gujarat and north Maharashtra coasts till June 3. Two storms are forming over the Arabian Sea, one lies off the African coast and is likely to move over Oman and Yemen, while the other is placed close to Indian coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/unseasonal-rains-in-amreli-provide-respite-from-heat/articleshow/76113371.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Court issues show-cause notice to jail supt for soliciting release of murder trial||Aurangabad: The sessions court has issued a show-cause notice to Harsul central jail superintendent for soliciting release of an under-trial woman accused of murder. The court has given him 15 days time to reply as to why he directly moved to the court without sending the same through the district legal aid services authority (DSLA) and why necessary action should not be initiated against him. The under-trial woman Anita and her husband Sajay Bhalkar, who was arrested for the murder of an elderly man over property dispute in March 2015, had applied for interim bail due to ongoing Covid-19 outbreak. The court had earlier rejected their application on May 19, made through the DSLA and the jail superintendent Hiralal Jadhav. However, again on May 20, the woman moved her application through the jail superintendent directly to the sessions court. While rejecting the bail application on May 21, the additional sessions judge M.S. Deshpande stated that, “He (Jadhav) solicited the release of Anita Sanjay Bhalkar on interim bail by canvassing a rosy picture that her conduct is so good and she is local resident, ready to furnish the surety also, etc, as if he is working as an advocate for her.” The court also said that, “Being a public servant, it is highly objectionable and on his part to solicit release of an under-trial prisoner who is facing a trial for murdering a person of advanced age.” Judge Deshpande also said that her earlier application through Jadhav and DSLA has already been dismissed on merits. “Under such circumstances, it’s a question before this court as to why Hiralal Jadhav is interested in the release of Anita Sanjay Bhalkar. It smells otherwise,” he was stated saying. Earlier, seven people were arrested for the murder of the elderly man over property dispute in Harsul on March 14, 2015. Out of them, one woman died during the trial while four others got the bail. While Anita and Sanjay Bhalkar were still in jail since their arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/court-issues-show-cause-notice-to-jail-supt-for-soliciting-release-of-murder-trial/articleshow/76114338.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
May 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 cases rise by 28 to reach 1,487 in Aurangabad district||AURANGABAD: The district administration said Covid-19 cases increased by 28 on Saturday. Currently, Aurangabad has 481 active Covid-19 cases, while 937 patients have already been discharged from hospitals. There have been 69 Covid-related deaths in the district till Friday, the district administration said. On Saturday, the new cases were detected in Juna Bazaar (2); Muzaafar Nagar, Hudco (1); Vyanktesh Nagar (1); Surana Nagar (2); Naralibaug (2); Shivshankar Colony (2); Hamalwadi (1); New Vasti Juna Bazaar (1); Bhawani Nagar, Old Mondha (5); Manjit Nagar, Akashwani premises (1); Shivaji Nagar (1); Osmanpura (4); Rahemaniya Colony (1); Roshan Gate (2); Naregaon (1); and Nyay Nagar (1). Eighteen men and 10 women were among newly diagnosed patients. Arvind Gaikwad, the nodal officer for media interaction at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), said of the 81 Covid-19 patients admitted at the dedicated Covid hospital at GMCH, 26 are in critical condition. Two other patients have been discharged, Gaikwad said. Until Friday, the district had tested 11,251 swab samples, and on Friday alone, 212 swabs were collected for testing. During his visit to the city on Saturday, Aurangabad district guardian minister Subhash Desai said the administration has been able to contain the spread of the virus in rural areas. He asked the administration to work towards bringing the district in the green zone by controlling the spread in the city. Subsequently, he gave directives to strengthen the Covid-19 task force and conducting ward-level fever check-ups to address the fear among residents. He asked the administration to take the help of private doctors in doing so. He added that those without ration cards will also be provided 5kg rice by the government during the lockdown. Aurangabad Municipal Corporation administrator Astik Kumar Pandey told the district guardian minister about the measures the civic body is taking to break the chain of virus transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-cases-rise-by-28-to-reach-1487-in-aurangabad-dist/articleshow/76113350.cms||Arpita Sharad
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Tollywood wants the show to go on, but with precautions||Hyderabad: The government must come up with a stimulus package for the film industry to help it deal with the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown. It must also allow shootings and permit movie theatres to open, with the necessary precautions, because ‘the show must go on’, some of the Telugu film industry’s well-known production houses said on Saturday. “Theatres have opened in many countries across the world. Governments there have offered stimulus and benefits because the film industry employs a large number of people. These jobs have to be protected in India too. Such stimulus must be given and the industry allowed to function,” Suresh Babu Daggubati, MD, Suresh Productions, said at a session on `Small Screen Dreams Get Bigger’ conducted on the last day of TOI’s six-day virtual conclave ‘Reboot Telangana- Making Telangana Future Positive’, supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Meluha Technologies Pvt Ltd, Saket Pranamam, Janapriya, and Agromech. “One way the central government can help is by reducing GST on regional films. The state government should treat us on par with other industries and charge lower power tariffs. Cinema ticket rates should also be made flexible. The upper limit can be fixed by the government but the producer should be allowed to fix ticket prices. If the ticket price is high during weekends, perhaps it could be low for morning shows,” he said. “In the Covid-19 situation, social distancing can be followed on the sets. But if you are talking about a romantic scene or a fight sequence, it may not be practical. However, due care and diligence can be taken,” said Vishnu Manchu, actor & founder, 24 Frames Factory. He said the number of people on sets can be limited and a nursing station be set up to ensure all necessary precautions are taken. Swapna Dutt, Co-Producer, Vyjayanthi Movies, said: “Cinema provides entertainment but lives are important. We should understand the emerging situation and act accordingly while allowing shootings and opening theatres.” The panelists also said while films were being released on OTT platforms and people were watching web series, movie goers love watching movies on the big screen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tollywood-wants-the-show-to-go-on-but-with-precautions/articleshow/76113917.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Pune||Let a whiff of fresh cookies & cakes help you beat the pandemic blues||PUNE: Baking seems to be one of the most effective way to keep anxiety at bay during the lockdown. More and more women across the city are getting creative with the dough. Bavdhan resident Reshma Dalvi, 60, attended baking classes 40 years ago but she didn’t pursue the passion at the time. “I would bake for my kids when they were young. Then they grew up and it was all about eating healthy, less fat and sugar. Now that my husband and I are spending the lockdown at home, I wanted to revisit my passion for baking. I even found an old diary of recipes I used to keep back in the 80s. It helps me keep my mind off the constant Covid news,” she said. Her delicious hits include banana muffins with nuts, pista biscuits and the classic mawa cake. “I put pictures of the goodies I had baked on social media and people started asking for recipes. It has lifted my spirits. I want to try baking bread and pav now,” she added. Pallavi Patil always wanted to try her hand at baking but never found the time to indulge until now. “I’m a yoga instructor and I usually wouldn’t have the time but I always wanted to bake. Now, when my son sees any treats while watching TV, he asks me if I can make it. Since I have the time, I thought why not give it a try. I started with cookies then went on to bake cakes, puddings and so on,” said the 37-year-old.  For 28-year-old Malancha Bag, who lives in Vimannagar, baking was therapeutic. “It makes the baker and those enjoying the delicacies happy. Since there was no way of getting a fancy cake for my dad’s birthday, I decided to bake his favourite sponge cake, which he loves to enjoy at teatime. Not only was my dad overcome with joy when he saw the cake, I also thoroughly enjoyed making it. The supper fluffy, eggless, butter sponge cake requires minimum ingredients and can be stored for a long time, unlike cream cakes,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/let-a-whiff-of-fresh-cookies-cakes-help-you-beat-the-pandemic-blues/articleshow/76114339.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cop among eight held under charges of rioting, illegal assembly||PUNE: The Vishrantwadi police arrested eight men, including a police constable attached to the Pimpri Chinchwad police crime branch, under charges of rioting and illegal assembly on Friday. The incident occurred at Phulenagar on the Pune-Alandi road. Police said the arrested men and 15 others took out an illegal procession celebrating the parole of two murder accused. The Vishrantwadi police the vehicles and seized four high-end SUVs, a country-made revolver and a couple of live cartridges from one of the vehicles. Senior police inspector Arun Awhad identified those arrested as police constable Sharif Baban Mulani (36) of Indrayaninagar in Bhosari; Azad Shekhlal Mulani (30) and Mubarak Baban Mulani (38) of Chikhali; Aadesh Dilip Omkade (21) of Nigdi; Sandeep Kisan Garud (40) of Talegaon Dabhade; and Hussain Jafar Mulani (43), Siraj Raju Mulani (22) and Vinod Narayan Mane (26) of Kolvan in Mulshi. The two murder accused — Sameer Mulani and Jameer Mulani — were released on parole from Yerawada jail in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. As they were being released, their friends and family members from Yerawada, Mulshi, Pimpri Chinchwad, Bhosari, and other areas gathered in front of the prison in a large number. Awhad said the “welcoming party” included about 25 two-wheelers and five SUVs. “They picked up the two inmates and, at a high speed, the mental hospital chowk. The bikers were raising slogans, while SUV drivers were honking continuously. The procession crossed the Vishrantwadi police station, and our team gave them chase and brought them back,” he said. Awhad said, “The curfew was in place and gathering of five or more people is banned, but these people didn’t care,” Awhad said, adding that the eight men were arrested under charges of rioting, illegal assembly and provisions of the Arms Act. “We have initiated an inquiry into the matter and will take action against the constable after it concludes,” a senior officer from Pimpri Chinchwad police said. Two weeks ago, a similar incident had occurred in front of the prison, when a notorious criminal was released — his friends and family members had gathered in front of the prison and created ruckus. The Yerawada police had filed riot cases against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cop-among-eight-held-under-charges-of-rioting-illegal-assembly/articleshow/76114336.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Better labour management essential to industry revival||HYDERABAD: The manufacturing sector that has been hit badly due to the lockdown sees shortage of labour as a major impediment in restarting operations in coming days. “Many states are labour deficient, while others like UP, Bihar and Odisha have surplus labour...One major issue impacting labour is the MNREGA scheme and unemployment subsidies…these are dis-incentivising people from working as the labour wants to remain unemployed,” Pradeep Chowdhry, MD, Gemini Edibles & Fats Pvt Ltd, said at a session on ‘Manufacturing: Managing The Big Churn: Re-Firing All Cylinders Of Growth’ as part of TOI’s six-day virtual conclave: ‘Reboot Telangana- Making Telangana Future Positive’, supported by CREDAI Hyderabad in association with Meluha Technologies, Saket Pranamam, Janapriya and Agromech. “Government has to fast-track ease of doing business (EoDB) measures as industry was already suffering due to slowdown but now due to Covid-19, matters have turned worse,” Pradeep added. Siddharth Malani, MD, Shree Malani Foams pointed out that the generic notion of labour being surplus in the country has been shattered by the ongoing migrant crisis and going ahead, the industry will have to ensure that labour is not exploited in any form and is accorded due respect. “All manufacturing units lost their most precious asset, ‘time’, which is money, during the lockdown period. One of the biggest challenge in the coming days will be to see how we are able to effectively utilise time,” he added. Lauding the announcement made by Telangana government, on reskilling workers who have come back from other states/countries, Naresh Kumar Rawal, MD, Olectra Greentech Ltd said that the government should consider providing relief to the manufacturing sector by providing concession on power tariffs. Dr Chandan Chowdhury, executive director, Munjal Institute of Global Manufacturing, ISB, also said that the state government can offer incentives to manufacturing units that invest in R&D and digital innovation and also develop an apt ecosystem for manufacturing to thrive. He also pointed out that going ahead, the manufacturing sector will consider higher levels of automation as well as investing in remote collaboration tools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/better-labour-management-essential-to-industry-revival/articleshow/76113903.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Vijayawada||HC did not tell Nimmagadda to reinstate himself as SEC: Advocate general Sriram||Vijayawada: Advocate general S Sriram said on Saturday that Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar cannot restore himself as state election commissioner (SEC) as the high court, in its judgement on Friday, did not say that he stands restored as SEC, but had instead directed the state government to reinstate him. According to Sriram, when the high court directed the state government to restore Ramesh Kumar as SEC, he cannot restore himself as SEC and pass orders to officers. Pointing to the communication sent by Ramesh Kumar to district collectors and other officers, the advocate general said he has no such power as of now till he is restored as SEC as prescribed by the HC. He also raised questions on the legality of implementing the HC order. Quoting the judgement, Sriram said the power of appointing the SEC lies with the governor, and the council of ministers or the chief minister has no authority to recommend anyone to the government to be appointed as SEC. “In such a case, the appointment of Ramesh Kumar is also illegal as he was appointed by the governor on the advice and recommendation of the then chief minister,” said Sriram. “As it’s clear from the high court order that the state has no power to advice the governor to appoint a particular person to be appointed as SEC, the matter has to be further adjudicated as the appointment of Ramesh Kumar itself is not valid and restoring him as SEC would be another mistake by the state,” he added. Taking the legal and Constitutional issues arising out of the HC judgement, Sriram said he has advised the state government to approach the Supreme Court in the matter for further clarity. “We have filed an application before the high court to stay the order till the government approaches the apex court and the same is pending,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-did-not-tell-nimmagadda-to-reinstate-himself-as-sec-advocate-general-sriram/articleshow/76113375.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Markaz cases dip to less than 20% of total in AP||Vijayawada: Once accounting for nearly 90% of the Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, the Markaz-related tally has now come down to less than 20%. While 273 attendees of the Delhi meeting had contracted the virus, about 350 primary and secondary contacts of them were later diagnosed with Covid-19. Amid the then sudden explosion of cases in March-April, the state officials tested nearly 1,000 Delhi returnees and all their primary and secondary contacts. Later, the spurt in the cases related to the Chennai’s Koyambedu market and the increasing influx of migrants and foreign returnees changed the narrative of Covid-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh. The bustling wholesale vegetable market of Chennai contributed to nearly 220 cases in Andhra Pradesh. As many 448 people from other states have tested positive for Covid-19 so far, along with and 132 foreign returnees on Saturday. According to sources, 85 healthcare providers have contracted the disease as on May 29. The medical personnel include doctors, nurses, pharmacists, technicians and others. As many as 107 frontline government employees, including 45 police personnel, of other departments were also diagnosed with the disease. In a press release on May 29, DGP D Gautam Sawang said that 44 police personnel recovered from coronavirus by May 28, while one police personnel succumbed to the disease. So far, ,162 primary contacts and their 281 secondary contacts have tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/markaz-cases-dip-to-less-than-20-of-total-in-ap/articleshow/76113932.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 31, 2020||Nashik||RTO warns against fake challan alerts||Nashik: The Nashik RTO has cautioned citizens against fake messages regarding RTO-issued e-challans received on their cellphones. The warnned that this might be a way for conmen to cheat people of their money. RTO officials, who have circulated an awareness message on the social media, said cyber criminals send messages like: “Your challan no. 348915784190295 for PB10FW2XX7, has total challan amount as Rs 500. For online payment visit https://echallanparivahan.in/.” The message further reads: “You can contact RTO office for disposal of challan, Regards RTO.” Officials said the website is fake and created to cheat people of their money and bank details. Officials said that the actual website is https://echallan.parivahan.gov.in/ RTO officials said they have put the awareness message on the social media sites and have appealed to people on various WhatsApp groups to spread the information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rto-warns-against-fake-challan-alerts/articleshow/76114345.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Municipal corporations to test ashes to assure staff at crematoria about wood burning||NEW DELHI: To allay fears of staff at cremation grounds, the three municipal corporations of Delhi have decided to get ashes tested for any traces of the novel coronavirus. Workers and priests have been reluctant to work on traditional open wood pyre-based cremations of coronavirus confirmed and suspected patients. Due to such bodies piling up at crematoriums, the civic bodies on Tuesday had issued orders to cremate the bodies on wood pyres as well. The step resulted in doubling the daily Covid protocol cremation capacity from 45 to over 100 bodies. TOI had earlier highlighted how limited number of CNG units was leading to delays in cremations. A funeral manager at Nigambodh Ghat told TOI that the public health official had to rope in priests from outside to start the wood pyre-based funerals after the local priests refused to do the job out of Covid scare. Jai Prakash, standing committee chairperson of the north corporation which runs the ghat facility, said that chairpersons from all the three corporations met and arrived on a decision that ash test needs to be done. “This will lay to rest the controversy around whether wood-based cremations have any chance to cause infection. In Nigambodh Ghat, we have reserved 50 platforms for corona cases as a separate block,” he added. “In wood-based cremations, the ash keeps on flying around which leads to panic. The heat levels are so high that viruses cannot survive, but we are still approaching the laboratory so that there is no doubt left,” he added. His counterpart in the south corporation, Bhupender Gupta, said the lab testing will also help the corporation in determining how to safely dispose of the ashes of corona victims. “We will rope in our facilities like Hindu Rao Hospital for testing,” he added. Gupta further said that clearing of ash also becomes a challenge due to reluctance of workers. “Covid dead body management guidelines permit the use of open wood-based cremations and there is no chance of the virus surviving such high temperatures. The reluctance among staff is due to unfounded anxiety and superstition,” said a senior civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-to-test-ashes-to-assure-staff-at-crematoria-about-wood-burning/articleshow/76114346.cms||Paras Singh
May 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Solapur officer suspended||Solapur: Rural development officer Anil Baraskar of Vairag village in Barishi tehsil of Solapur district has been suspended for hosting a party in the grampanchayat office. Baraskar, along with three others, was found drinking alcohol in the office on Friday evening. Some villagers noticed this and shot a video, which became viral on social media. The Vairag police team also reached grampanchayat office when they came to know about the incident. All people at the party were apprehanded. Late on Friday night, zilla parishad chief executive officer Prakash Waychal suspended Baraskar from service. Three others, who were accompanying Baraskar are also zilla parishad employees. Legal action against three is in process, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/solapur-officer-suspended/articleshow/76113366.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Follow protocol while rescuing wild animals’||Hyderabad: After a botched up rescue operation of a five-year-old leopard in Nalgonda, which later succumbed to injuries, the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) Telangana R Shobha, has asked the forest staff to strictly observe protocol while rescuing wild animals. In a video conference on Saturday, the PCCF said that wildlife sightings have increased in the neighborhoods due to the impact of severe summer and the prolonged lockdown. “Wildlife protocols should be strictly followed while protecting wildlife. Such operations should be carried out without any harm to animals, and to the safety of staff and public,” said Shobha. She also asked the officials to conduct mock drills so that they are well prepared in real time by following the protocol in all wildlife divisions. The PCCF also conducted video conference with the forest officials of all the districts on greenery arrangements, nurseries and wildlife conservation should be followed under sixth phase of Haritha Haram. She ordered forest officers and staff to visit the village panchayat and municipal nurseries within their jurisdiction at least once in a fortnight. “Forest staff will be participating in the “Palle Pragathi program” in the first week of June and will be creating awareness on the World Environment Day on June 5,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/follow-protocol-while-rescuing-wild-animals/articleshow/76114355.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: We have new guidelines and are ready to open, claim broke gyms||NEW DELHI: After being largely homebound for two months, Delhiites can now take a walk, jog or stretch their limbs in neighbourhood parks or if they are members, use the facilities in Delhi Development Authority’s sports complexes. Gyms or fitness centres, however, are unlikely to open soon, with users wary about limbering up in such places. The capital’s fitness industry is among the hardest hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. There are more than 5,500 gyms and fitness centres in the city, from small neighbourhood set-ups to big chains. With no clients due to the lockdown, now just past two months, gym owners are finding it difficult to pay trainers and other staff, apart from overheads alike rent and electricity bills. “I paid in advance for three months fee at my gym just before the lockdown but don’t plan to go there immediately after it opens though I’m addicted to workouts,” asserted Praveen Mehra, 46, of IP Extension. “At a gym, there is a lot sweat and saliva. How many times can you sanitise the common surfaces? That said, you can’t really avoid the crowding and a balance has to be found.” While getting new business in the post-Covid-19 world might be difficult, fitness centre owners are trying to retain their current clients by being in touch with them through WhatsApp, Skype and Zoom. Some bigger players have also started online live group classes and personal training sessions. “I’m a gym regular, and though my trainer guides me through phone calls and WhatsApp video calls, it is not the same as working out in a gym,” said Lajpat Nagar resident Avinash Sharma, 26. “Working from home and cooking, washing and cleaning the house have disrupted my schedule. Going to the gym at a fixed time brings a sense of discipline.” He added, “However, I will not go back to my gym immediately after it opens.” J K Francis, founder, Rejuvenation Fitness Group, which sends over 200 trainers to homes for residential sessions, said, “Our trainers are providing online guidance to members through video conferencing. Our members are happy that they are getting 100% focus of the trainers.” Aditya Sharma, 29, cricketer-turned-owner of Box N Burn in Lajpat Nagar, too has a similar strategy. His fitness studio, which focuses on workouts without machines, like yoga, kickboxing and mixed martial arts, reaches out to members through videos and YouTube. “We are providing basic online training at no cost, only charging for professional services to professional players, includes advice on diets and other guidance.” When former professional bodybuilder Nitish Yadav, 27, set up The Bodyline Gym in Vasant Kunj with his brother in 2013, his clientele included youngsters looking to buff up or lose weight. “The industry has witnessed a sea change since then as people have become increasingly health conscious. It’s no longer about gaining or losing weight, but being fit,” Yadav said. Yadav estimated that there are at least three gyms in every residential area in Delhi, each employing around eight people, including trainers and housekeeping staff. Just when his business was booming, Covid-19 put a speed breaker in the path. “I don’t think gyms will open resume in the next three months, and even afterwards, extreme precautions will have to be taken,” cautioned Francis, mindful of gym goers’ phobia of close spaces till a vaccine for the coronavirus is found. Dinesh Kumar Khatri, 34, who runs D Fitness First gym and spa in Chittaranjan Park, said that while he emphasises hygiene in his establishment, new protocols will have to be adopted on resumption of business. “We will allow 10-15 clients at a time, and entry will be given after a body temperature check. We plan a sanitisation tunnel at the entrance and make hand sanitisation and gloves a must,” Khatri said. Chirag Sethi, vice-president, Delhi Gym Association, thinks fitness centres should be allowed to open now — with social distancing and safety measures in place. “Sustenance of five lakh people directly linked with the fitness industry is at stake,” he claimed. “The situation is pretty bad. Trainers haven’t got their salaries, rents are pending and power bills have piled up. If gyms don’t open in June, the owners will be under the intense pressure.” Delhi Gym Association president, Dronacharya awardee Bhupender Dhawan, said, “The small gyms are surviving hand-to-mouth. With mounting rents, how will gym owners pay salaries to trainers and staff?” Dhawan and Sethi said gyms are prepared to follow every guideline that the government fixes for their reopening. “Our association has already prepared an SOP, under which there wouldn’t be more than 15 people in a gym at a time, there will be fixed slots and thermal screening and masks and gloves will be mandatory,” Sethi said. “We are willing to keep gyms open 24x7 to allow staggered slots.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/we-have-new-guidelines-and-are-ready-to-open-claim-broke-gyms/articleshow/76114349.cms||Sidharatha Roy
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Rising Covid waste raises hackles of GHMC officials||HYDERABAD: As if the ongoing battle against Covid-19 wasn’t enough, municipal authorities have a bigger problem on their heads now. Households are not only generating around 40 tonnes of Covid-19 waste per day, but also mixing it with the regular household waste, which is worrying the GHMC officials. The waste includes masks, gloves, safety gear and bio-medical waste. A closer verification by GHMC has revealed that the Covid-19 waste is not being disposed of scientifically by residents. Officials said they treat Covid waste in incinerators. “We are treating the Covid-19 waste in incinerators. The onus is on people to segregate and hand over the waste to our staffers. It is not possible to segregate the waste after it is mixed with daily garbage,” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. Experts said the waste from quarantined households should be disposed of only by incineration. In case incineration facilities are not available, the waste may be buried in a deep pit so that it cannot contaminate any other surface. For the households where residents are under quarantine, the urban local bodies (ULBs) have been told to provide them with specially-marked yellow garbage bags for disposing of the waste. Waste from such quarantined households should be treated as a bio-medical waste, an advisory issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) said. “We did not receive any yellow bags. The Covid waste is being disposed with regular household waste,” said a resident of Meenakshi Sky Lounge, Hitex Road. MoHUA has also told ULBs that safety gear like masks or gloves, etc, from non-quarantined households should be treated as a domestic hazardous waste. “The Covid waste is being disposed of in the same garbage vehicle in our locality,” said V Ridhima, a resident of Road No. 5, Banjara Hills.  Officials said waste generated in the city dipped from 6,000 metric tonnes to 4,500 MTs during lockdown. This includes bio-hazardous waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rising-covid-waste-raises-hackles-of-ghmc-officials/articleshow/76113926.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||‘Need to save youth from aggressive marketing by tobacco industry’||Nagpur: World No Tobacco Day (WNTD) will be observed amid Covid-19 threat this year. TOI spoke to Dr Subrajit Dasgupta, who heads Central India’s most prominent charity cancer hospital, Rashtra Sant Tukdoji Cancer Hospital in Nagpur, as director. Sharing world view of tobacco addiction, he stated that number of cigarette smokers and other tobacco product users is set to increase among low and middle-income groups during and post lockdown period. He underlined the need to counter the aggressive marketing by tobacco industry. Q. Do you think more people will get addicted during or post lockdown? A. Lockdown has changed our way of life. There are chances more people will get into addiction during and post lockdown due to various reasons. The most important reason will be the aggressive marketing by the tobacco industry. In recent years, tobacco industry has been deliberately adopting various tactics to attract youth to tobacco products. They specifically use distress situations to bombard their products. So, the need of this hour is to empower young people to engage in the fight against ‘Big Tobacco.’ Q. What can be done to discourage youths from using tobacco? A. This year, the theme of WNTD 2020 is ‘Protecting youth from industry manipulation and preventing them from tobacco and nicotine use’. All crusaders including hospitals will work to debunk myths and expose manipulation tactics of tobacco industries, particularly marketing tactics targeted at youth. They may try introduction of new and novel products, flavours and other attractive features. But we must equip young people with knowledge about the tobacco industries and their intentions. Q. What are the strategies our youths need to understand and be wary of? A. As told earlier, industries use flavours in tobacco and nicotine products to attract youths. Secondly, promotional words like reduced harm or cleaner products are used. But there is nothing like reduced harm when it comes to nicotine. We must understand that every year, 9.5 million cancer deaths occur worldwide despite cancer being a preventable disease. We must make our youths aware. Q. Public campaign is not possible due to Covid distancing in present scenario. A. Rightly said. Even we have to skip our WNTD programmes, rallies this year. We will approach youths through social media, at their homes or in their virtual classrooms to catalyse change by engaging them in the fight against ‘Big Tobacco’. We cannot afford to let entire generation deceived by lies of tobacco industry, which pretends to promote freedom of personal choice to claim their profits. Q. What is the present local scenario of tobacco addiction? A. Tobacco use kills up to half of all lifetime users. On average, smokers lose 15 years of life. Mortality due to tobacco use in India is estimated at upwards of 3,500 persons every day. Covid-19 deaths in the last four months are less than 5,000. Smoking alone accounts for 21% of all cancers worldwide. It is the strongest risk factor for lung cancer and is implicated as a causative factor for blood cancer, oral cancers and cancer of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary tract. There were total 5,399 cases registered in RST Regional Cancer Hospital in the year 2019, out of which 3,509 were malignant cases under which tobacco related oral cavity cancer and lung cancer contribute 32.34% and 4.10% respectively. Q. Any promising changes due to worldwide campaign against tobacco? A. The mean age of initiation of tobacco has increased by about one year, from 17.9 years in Global Adult Tobacco Survey (GATS)-1 to 18.8 years in GATS-2. In GATS-1, 20.1% reported starting tobacco use before 18 years of age. It has slightly decreased to 18.1% in GATS-2. Post lockdown, it’s our responsibility to look after youths, especially those from low and middle-income groups, so that they don’t fall prey to the aggressive marketing of industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/need-to-save-youth-from-aggressive-marketing-by-tobacco-industry/articleshow/76114554.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Rising Covid waste raises hackles of GHMC officials||Hyderabad: As if the ongoing battle against Covid-19 wasn’t enough, municipal authorities have a bigger problem on their heads now. Households are not only generating around 40 tonnes of Covid-19 waste per day, but also mixing it with the regular household waste, which is worrying the GHMC officials. The waste includes masks, gloves, safety gear and bio-medical waste. A closer verification by GHMC has revealed that the Covid-19 waste is not being disposed of scientifically by residents. Officials said they treat Covid waste in incinerators. “We are treating the Covid-19 waste in incinerators. The onus is on people to segregate and hand over the waste to our staffers. It is not possible to segregate the waste after it is mixed with daily garbage,” said GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. Experts said the waste from quarantined households should be disposed of only by incineration. In case incineration facilities are not available, the waste may be buried in a deep pit so that it cannot contaminate any other surface. For the households where residents are under quarantine, the urban local bodies (ULBs) have been told to provide them with specially-marked yellow garbage bags for disposing of the waste. Waste from such quarantined households should be treated as a bio-medical waste, an advisory issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) said. “We did not receive any yellow bags. The Covid waste is being disposed with regular household waste,” said a resident of Meenakshi Sky Lounge, Hitex Road. MoHUA has also told ULBs that safety gear like masks or gloves, etc, from non-quarantined households should be treated as a domestic hazardous waste. “The Covid waste is being disposed of in the same garbage vehicle in our locality,” said V Ridhima, a resident of Road No. 5, Banjara Hills.  Officials said waste generated in the city dipped from 6,000 metric tonnes to 4,500 MTs during lockdown. This includes bio-hazardous waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rising-covid-waste-raises-hackles-of-ghmc-officials/articleshow/76113922.cms||Nabinder Bommala
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||1,059 Telangana families have more than one Covid-19 positive member||HYDERABAD: As many as 1,059 families in Telangana have more than one member who has tested positive for Covid-19, said state health authorities on Saturday. Of these, at least 50% were affected by the virus during phase three of the lockdown. Statistics reveal that the the third lockdown— from May 4 to May 30 — has seen the number of cases multiplying much faster as compared to the two previous lockdown between March 22 and May 3. With substantial relaxations extended during the third phase, Telangana recorded 1,005 new cases were (of the total 2,008 local cases) while 541 families were impacted (of the total 1,059 families). Among 2,008 cases, 984 have been traced to the Markaz meeting in Delhi, with the first Markaz cases being reported on March 16 and the last Markaz contact testing positive on May 24. Meanwhile, state health authorities, on Saturday, stressed the need to continue taking adequate precautions like personal hygiene, wearing masks and maintaining social distance during the post lockdown period. Speaking at a press conference, director public health, Telangana Dr G Srinivas Rao listed out examples of Suryapet, Borabanda and Shadnagar where the virus spread due to parties held despite the lockdown. “Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly in the state and are likely to continue to be on the rise. Due to relaxation and increased people’s movement, the virus spread quickly but carelessness is another reason for it. A 27-year-old from Borabanda went to his grandmother’s place at Pahadi Shareef and partied with 25 people during lockdown. Thus 14 people of one family and 11 different families contracted the virus,” he said. Not only the elderly staying at home, but even the youth who go out need to take precautions, Dr Rao said. “We have 210 cases of people over 60 years, but not all of them went out. Because their family members returning from outside were not careful, the elderly too contracted the virus. Since symptoms are not quickly and easily visible, youngsters tend to forgo precautions such as social distancing,” he said, adding that active surveillance is being conducted to check cases of influenza-like illnesses within containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1059-t-families-have-more-than-1-covid-19-ve-member/articleshow/76113931.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Over 10 lakh Jains to join online Navkar Jaap today||AHMEDABAD: Over 10 lakh Jains from across the globe will spend four hours – between 8:41am and 12:41pm IST – on Sunday, collectively chanting the ‘Navkar Mahamantra’ 99 crore, 99 lakh, 99 thousand and 999 times, in what will be perhaps the largest online gathering of devotees in cyberspace. The online gathering of devotees is being organized to make a collective prayer to the Almighty to free the country and the world of the Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic has so far claimed the lives of over 3.50 lakh persons worldwide and close to 5,000 persons in India . The entire event will be beamed live on social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, the website of Navkar Parivar and a couple of television channels that air religious discourses. Ahmedabad-based Dholakia Studio has been entrusted with the task of connecting people across social media platforms. “We will ensure that sadhus, sadhvis and devotees from over 1,000 locations are connected together and their visuals are beamed lives across various social media platforms,” said Alpesh Dholakia of Dholakia Studio. Acharya Gunratna Surishwarji Maharaj, a revered Jain sadhu, said that when such a large number of devotees invoke the name of God in unison, the prayers gain a lot of positive energy. “This collective prayer effort will not only liberate the world from the Covid-19 pandemic, it will also usher in world peace,” the sadhu said. Acharya Rashmirattan Surishwarji Maharaj said doctors from the country and abroad will join in the collective chanting of the Navkar Mantra. “Collective prayers have a huge impact on occurrences in the world. Over 10 lakh Jains are going to recite the mantra together. It will surely help in phasing out of the pandemic from across the globe,” he said. Dharmesh Shah of Navkar Parivar, which is organizing the event, said that Jains across the continents of Asia, Africa, North America and Australia will participate in the four-hour-long online prayer meeting. “People will be dressed in white attire. We expect between 10 and 12 lakh Jains from India, US, UK, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Kenya, Malaysia, Thailand, Dubai and Muscat to participate in the `Navkar Jaap’. Jains belonging to all the four sects will take part in the event,” Shah said. He added that over 10,000 `sadhus and `sadhvis’ will join in from different parts of the country, “Control rooms will be set up at Kandivali in Mumbai and also at Ahmedabad, from where we will ensure that the event is available live across the globe,” Shah said. He added that this will be a record, where the `Navkar Mahamantra’ will be recited 99,99,99,999 times by Jains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-10-lakh-jains-to-join-online-navkar-jaap-today/articleshow/76113974.cms||Bharat Yagnik
May 31, 2020||Rajkot||Woman dies after using insecticide on cancerous part in Gujarat||RAJKOT: In a bizarre case, a 65-year-old woman, suffering from cervical cancer, died on Friday reportedly after she applied insecticides on her private parts, assuming that it would relieve her of the pain. The victim Kunwar Bavarva of Virpar village in Morbi district’s Tankara taluka was detected of cancer three years ago. Her son told police that she had stopped taking medicines a few months ago and told everyone that she was recovering well. "In the last three months, she started suffering from unbearable pain due to infection in the affected parts, " said investigating officer BJ Parmar, Tankara police station. “On May 28, she applied insecticide containing monocrotophos, which is acutely poisonous for humans,” Parmar added. The same night, that is, on the night of Thursday she was rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital, where she died on Friday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-dies-after-using-insecticide-on-cancerous-part/articleshow/76113392.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Trichy||Calls to observe June 1 as ‘Trichy Day’ rise again||Trichy: With Trichy city completing 26 years as a municipal corporation on June 1, calls to observe the day as Trichy Day have been getting louder. Residents feel that such a step will instil “Trichy spirit” in them and also prompt those who migrated to other parts of the world to contribute to the city’s growth. Trichy municipality was upgraded into a corporation by amalgamating Ponmalai and Srirangam municipalities and K Abishekapuram, Ariyamangalam town panchayats. In the past two decades since the elevation, Trichy has achieved several accolades including Tamil Nadu’s cleanest city, most liveable city and one of the top 10 fastest growing cities in the world according to Oxford Economics research institute. To celebrate its achievements and encourage urban planners, administrators and locals to strive for more, residents have been vouching for ‘Trichy Day’. “As we have certain days to celebrate the foundation of cities such as Madras day, there can be one to celebrate Trichy city every year. Such observance will encourage the ownership attitude among the locals to develop the city,” Dr M A Aleem, member, Trichy District Welfare Fund Committee, said. “A lot of activities promoting the environment, tourism and sustainable growth can be conducted on a particular day to engage citizens,” D Manoj, founder, Shine Treechy eNGO said. “As Covid-19 preventive measures are under way, we have to ponder about the request,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/calls-to-observe-june-1-as-trichy-day-rise-again/articleshow/76114356.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 31, 2020||Rajkot||Woman dies after using insecticide on cancerous part||Rajkot: In a bizarre case, a 65-year-old woman, suffering from cervical cancer, died on Friday reportedly after she applied insecticides on her private parts, assuming that it would relieve her of the pain.The victim Kunwar Bavarva of Virpar village in Morbi district’s Tankara taluka was detected of cancer three years ago. Her son told police that she had stopped taking medicines a few months ago and told everyone that she was recovering well. "In the last three months, she started suffering from unbearable pain due to infection in the affected parts, " said investigating officer BJ Parmar, Tankara police station. “On May 28, she applied insecticide containing monocrotophos, which is acutely poisonous for humans,” Parmar added. The same night, that is, on the night of Thursday she was rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital, where she died on Friday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-dies-after-using-insecticide-on-cancerous-part/articleshow/76113390.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Trichy||Farmers move HC seeking opening of Kallikudi mkt||Trichy: A Trichy-based farmers’ association has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) before the Madurai bench of Madras high court seeking the opening of Kallikudi integrated vegetable market that remains closed for the past two years since its inauguration. The association, which bats for the closure of the century-old Gandhi market causing traffic congestion in the city, had sought the wholesale traders to be relocated to the newly-built Kallikudi market on Trichy-Madurai NH. Trichy district Manitha Valar Sangam that filed the PIL said that the district administration is inordinately delaying the functioning of Kallikudi market, thus keeping the Gandhi market vicinity under-developed. The farmers’ association blamed the authorities for not relocating the wholesale traders from Gandhi market to Kallikudi, which was built spending Rs 77 crore. The delay in relocation also impacts the resumption of public transportation in a section of the neighbourhood of Gandhi market. “For the time being, the authorities are running the wholesale vegetable sales at G Corner ground due to the Covid-19 outbreak. As we have a ready to use market facility at Kallikudi ready, the wholesale operation should be relocated. Taxpayers money should not go in vain,” Ku Pa Krishnan, former agriculture minister and president of the farmers’ association said. The association expressed dissatisfaction over the efforts of the district administration in the market relocation, a plan envisaged by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa in 2014. Trichy district Manitha Valar Sangam also claimed that Trichy Corporation is hesitant in shifting Gandhi Market to the outskirts, thus paving the way for seamless vehicular movement in the city. The petitioner said that the high court has sought a response from the district administration before June 15 to discuss the fate of Kallikudi market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-move-hc-seeking-opening-of-kallikudi-mkt/articleshow/76114357.cms||Deepak Karthik
May 31, 2020||Nashik||Railways starts putting girders on Mehakari bridge||Nashik: The railways has started laying the girders at on one of the biggest bridges across Mehakari river in the Central Railway on the new railway track being laid connecting Ahmednagar- ParliVaijanath. The laying of steel girders at the height of 30m was carried out on Friday by the construction team of Ahmednagar. According to the railway officials, the bridge across Mehakari river and known as Mehakari bridge is about 457m in length and the biggest in the Central Railway. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/railways-starts-putting-girders-on-mehakari-bridge/articleshow/76114350.cms||Abhilash Botekar
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Open book impossible? Delhi University will give you a chance later||NEW DELHI: Final year students of Delhi University are being advised to avail the services of common service centres (CSC) nearest their location for their forthcoming online examinations in case there are problems with internet access. DU has also asked its colleges to allow a “limited” number of students to use their information and communication technology facilities if required. If despite these measures, students are unable to write the online tests, they will be allowed to sit for a pen-paper exam later. Stating that open-book exams (OBE) are necessary as a one-time measure due to the coronavirus lockdown, the university said students sitting for these online exams will get a chance to improve their scores next year. On May 24, TOI had highlighted how lack of devices and internet access could force many students out of the exam scheme. On the Union human resource development ministry’s advice on Thursday that no student should be left out, DU issued these new OBE guidelines on Saturday. Final year students in all modes — regular, open learning and women’s non-collegiate — will be assessed through OBE. For those in states such as Jammu and Kashmir or areas with poor internet and hardware facilities, DU has finalised an engagement with the Union ministry of electronics and information technology allowing candidates to use the facilities in CSC for downloading and printing question papers, and scanning and uploading answer sheets to the DU portal. The university itself will engage with CSC for students in underserved areas. While students are worried about how the new exam system will work, DU said mock tests would be available on the university portal “one week prior to the commencement of examinations” so students could learn about “the new mode of examination… and assess the network infrastructure”. If a student, despite these measures, still cannot take the online exams, they will be given a chance to sit for physical examinations “as and when the present situation improves”. However, the conventional tests will be conducted after the OBE results are announced. OBE, however, continues to draw flak. Rajib Ray, president, DU Teachers’ Association, alleged, “DU has ignored the fact that 85% of the students have rejected OBE. They are under tremendous stress. Many of them are not in places that are conducive for studying or writing exams.” Ray also said, OBE wasn’t feasible when teaching has been uneven and students do not have access to study material. Teachers are worried about the sanctity of the exam process too, given that there is no mechanism to check malpractices. Ray also pointed out that CSC facilities were largely inadequate and cramped. According to sources, DU will issue exam guidelines next week for students in the first and second years of the study programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/open-book-impossible-du-will-give-you-a-chance-later/articleshow/76114362.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nithyananda’s sadhvis move HC for return||AHMEDABAD: Nithyananda’s two sadhvis, who are accused of illegally confining children in his ashram, have approached the courts complaining that they are left without shelter in Ahmedabad due to the lockdown and that they should be allowed to go back to Karnataka. After their arrest as administrators of the ashram at DPS(East) campus in Hathijan following the controversy, Sriharini Chelappan alias Pranpriya and Riddhi Ravikiran alias Priyatatva were granted bail by a sessions court at the Mirzapur rural court campus on February 7. The bail condition was that they should not leave Ahmedabad without court’s permission during the pendency of the trial. After the Centre imposed the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, the hotel in the city the duo was staying at was being converted into a Covid care centre. The hotel management put them on notice to vacate their rooms. This led them to move the sessions court urging it to relax the condition that confines them to the state of Gujarat. They have contended that they have been facing multiple problems in Ahmedabad due to the lockdown and pandemic. The courts too are closed and there is little chance of the trial taking place in the near future. Both disciples of Nithyananda have requested the court to lift the restriction and allow them to go and stay at Nithyananda’s ashram in Bidadi in Karnataka. They have assured the court that they would regularly attend the court proceedings. Since the court did not take up the applications for hearing, as courts hear only urgent bail applications nowadays, both Pranpriya and Priyatatva approached the high court on Friday for the redressal of their problem. After hearing their pleas, Justice R P Dholaria has ordered the sessions court to hear the applications and take decision on their request within eight days. In January, Vivekanad Nagar police filed a chargesheet against these two after booking them under Section 365, 344, 323, 504, 506(2) and 114 of the IPC as well as Section 14 of the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nithyanandas-sadhvis-move-hc-for-return/articleshow/76113972.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Medical college hostels turn containment zone||HYDERABAD: The Osmania Medical College (OMC) hostels have been turned into a containment zone after three junior and resident doctors tested positive for Covid-19 in the last two days. The result of another symptomatic PG doctor is still awaited. Among the three, the latest to test positive, on Saturday, is a orthopaedic PG who had been running high fever for the last few days. He attended to his duty till five days ago. The medico was shifted to the King Koti Hospital by OMC authorities. The other two resident doctors to test positive include a female gynaecology PG, who was on regular duty at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) while, and a PG from the department of general surgery. “The two hostels where the PGs were residing have now turned into a containment zone. While PGs who tested positive are at King Koti Hospital and Gandhi Hospital, others who came in contact with them are quarantined at the hostel,” said a PG doctor at OMC. Since the three all of them were to appear for PG examinations from June 28 had been interacting with other resident doctors in the hostels (one men’s hostel and women’s hostel), Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) demanded that examinations be postponed till the time the pandemic situation improves. “As they were using common areas like library, mess etc, there are chances the virus might have spread to others and holding an exam in this condition will cause more exposure to the PG doctors. Since PGs are now in quarantine, it will be even more difficult to hold exam on time. Moreover, no other state has declared examination except Telangana,” said TJUDA representative. About 500 PG doctors are scheduled to appear for exams. But with positive cases surfacing on campus they are now jittery and scared about contracting the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/medical-college-hostels-turn-containment-zone/articleshow/76113937.cms||Amrita Didyala
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||FDA team attacked during raid, 5 arrested||Chandrapur: A squad of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) was attacked during a raid on a shop in Anchleshwar ward here on Friday morning. Police have arrested five people in this connection. Sources informed that FDA got a tip-off about a shopkeeper selling scented tobacco at his shop and accordingly inspector Amar Sontakke along with an assistant and driver had gone to the shop, at Kannamwar Chowk in Anchleshwar ward here, owned by one Yenurkar. While the officials were searching the shop, members of Yenurkar’s family attacked the raiding party. Sources informed that officials were punched, kicked and thrown out of the shop. Sontakke suffered injuries in the attack. On getting information, assistant commissioner, FDA, Nitin Mohite, reached the place along with police posse. During search, cops recovered a kharra-making machine. City police have registered a case and arrested five accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fda-team-attacked-during-raid-5-arrested/articleshow/76121953.cms||Mazhar Ali
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Youth booked for celebrating birthday on road||HYDERABAD: Chilkalguda police registered a case against a few youngsters for organising a birthday party on the road on Friday night. When some locals took exception to the revelry, the youngsters picked up an argument with them. Police said that during the event, the youngsters hurled eggs at each other and were creating disturbance by shouting. When disturbed locals asked them to leave the place, the youngsters hit back using “filthy language”. Immediately, locals alerted the police about the nuisance. By the time police reached the spot, the youngsters fled. Police filed a case against them for violating lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-booked-for-celebrating-bday-on-road/articleshow/76114361.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Rajkot||Ahmedabad cop commits suicide in hometown Sihor||RAJKOT: A constable from Ahmedabad police hanged himself to death in home town Sihor of Bhavnagar district on Friday night. Police said the deceased, Ashok Chhelana (30), a constable with Khokhra police station in Ahmedabad, hanged himself from the branch of a tree near his house in Rajiv Nagar locality of Sihor. “Chhelana had been serving with the Khokhra police station for the past four years. He was on leave. His family members said that Chhelana had not visited them for the past two months, and that they did not know the reason behind his suicide,” said J B Trivedi, assistant sub-inspector with Sihor police station. “We will be taking the statements of Chhelana’s colleagues in Khokhra police station to get a clue behind his extreme step,” added Trivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ahmedabad-cop-commits-suicide-in-hometown-sihor/articleshow/76113412.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kolhapur||Health worker murdered in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: A health worker was strangulated to death by her husband in Sawarde village on Friday. The Shahuwadi police have arrested the accused and given police custody. The deceased is identified as Shailaja Patil (32) while the accused is identified as Arvind Patil (35). Shailaja was attached with a primary health center in Shahuwadi tehsil in Kolhapur district while Arvind was working as a vegetable vendor. Police said that the couple was staying in Swarde village at a zilla parishad quarter in the premises of primary run health center. The couple had two sons, who were sent to their grandparents' place, as schools were closed. According to police, they received a call from the village police patil informing about the incident. They rushed to the spot and arrested Arvind, who was sitting outside the house. They also recovered a nylon rope from the crime scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/health-worker-murdered/articleshow/76114363.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Trichy||Kabasura kudineer at doorsteps in vulnerable parts of Trichy||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation on Saturday launched a three-day long kabasura kudineer and multi-vitamin tablets distribution drive to residents in vulnerable locations to boost their immunity from Covid-19 infection. Sanitary officials said the locations were identified based on their proximity to the containment zones. Alwarthope in ward 19 of Ariyamangalam zone, one of the hotspots and Madurai Road, Subjail Road, Kuppankulam and parts of Thennur were covered under the drive.Eight teams comprising sanitary officials, bill collectors and health workers distributed the immunity boosters at the doorsteps. “Around 1,800 houses were covered on Saturday. Few more packets in Ariyamangalam zone will be covered in the next two days,” a civic body official said. To ensure people consume the liquid in prescribed proportions, measuring cups were used to distribute the concoction prepared in bulk by the UPHC staffs. Adults in the houses were given 60ml while children were given 30 ml. Residents were encouraged to consume the health drink periodically. Houses with people aged above 14 years were given multivitamin tablets. Children below 14 years of age were not given the tablets. “We insisted residents to stay home and not to step out. People venturing out for essential needs were told to wear face masks and wash their hands frequently,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kabasura-kudineer-at-doorsteps-in-vulnerable-parts-of-trichy/articleshow/76114364.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19 cases cross 500-mark in Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district registered 70 fresh Covid-19 cases since Thursday night, taking the total number of cases to 553. Currently, the district has as many as 431 active cases. The district administration has also stepped up the swab testing process. Over 350 people were screened for Covid-19 and swab samples of 140 people were sent for testing. District administration authorities have said that most of the cases are from Chandgad and Shahuwadi talukas. The maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the district belong to the age group of 21-50, authorities said. Authorities said that the district has 113 containment zones and around 1,300 health teams are carrying out door-to-door survey in these zones having population of over four lakh people. These health teams look for people with morbid conditions, senior citizens and children below the age of 10 years. District collector Daulat Desai has ordered the teams to provide 'immunity booster' kits to such people. These kits comprise of the traditional ayurveda and homoeopathy medical formulations. Desai said that such steps are being taken to avoid community transmission of the contagion. Diabetic man dies of Covid-19 in SangliA 57-year-old diabetic man with travel history to Mumbai passed away due to Covid-19 on Saturday morning. He was a native of Nerli village of Kadegaon tehsil. He arrived in Sangli on May 18 and was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the Miraj civil hospital since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-19-cases-cross-500-mark-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/76114360.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||As wait to go home smoulders, brick kiln workers seek Telangana’s help||HYDERABAD: As many as 50,000 migrant workers, who have been working in various brick kilns in Telangana, have been desperately waiting to go back to their native places. The workers, especially from Odisha, have urged the state government to send them to their home state. But, the state government is in no hurry to send them and has not even completed registration process. Though the government had claimed that about 1.50 lakh workers have been sent to their home states in 130 special trains, sources said another 40 special trains are alone required to send brick kiln workers to their home states. Nearly 80,000 workers from Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra are working in 1,800 brick kilns in districts like Rangareddy, Medchal, Sangareddy, Karimnagar, Peddapalli, Warangal, Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Medak. Of them, 15,000 workers work in RR and nearly 20,000 workers in Karimnagar and Peddapalli districts. “A majority of the workers hail from the western parts of Odisha. They should be sent to Kantabanji railway station in Balangir district via Mancherial and Balharsha stations or via Raipur in Chhattisgarh. Around 30,000 workers were sent by arranging 24 special trains from Ghatkesar,” a senior government official said. But, there were allegations that officials coordinating with the migrant workers have not begun the process to send them back to their respective states till Friday. Sources in the labour department said the registration process by police began a couple of days ago and special trains need to be arranged by the government. “The state government has not even sent a requisition for arranging special trains. While some brick kiln owners dropped the workers on highways, some of them have started going to their home state by arranging their own transportation,” Human Rights Forum Telangana president G Madhava Rao said. He said the labour department is least bothered about health, hygiene, toilets and welfare measures for the workers. “Now, government is ignoring arrangements to send them home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-wait-to-go-home-smoulders-brick-kiln-workers-seek-ts-help/articleshow/76113943.cms||Koride Mahesh
May 31, 2020||Kolhapur||New trend of coronavirus cases in Satara district||KOLHAPUR: Satara district administration authorities have noticed a new trend of Covid-19 cases in which one member of a family tests positive for the contagion followed by other members of the same family. This trend has been witnessed in a number of families across the district, especially in remote villages in tehsils such as Satara, Khataw, Patan and Phaltan. Authorities have said that at least one member of such families have travel history to Mumbai. Authorities have warned that the number of Covid-19 cases may rise in the future if the continuous influx of people from cities like Mumbai keeps happening. Four members of a family tested positive for coronavirus in Sastewadi village of Phaltan tehsil on Thursday. A male member of the family had a travel history to Mumbai. He tested positive for the contagion. Soon after, his wife and 21-year-old daughter, who were high-risk contacts, tested positive. Another woman of the same family too tested positive for coronavirus later. In a similar case, a 54-year-old man from Jambhli village of Wai tehsil tested positive for Covid-19. He, along with a few others, had returned from Mumbai on May 5. The man, who was facing some health issues at the time of travel, passed away after returning to his village. His swab samples were taken and sent for testing, the reports of which confirmed that he died of Covid-19. Later, local authorities traced people who were in touch with him. Seven members of his family tested positive for the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/new-trend-of-coronavirus-cases-in-satara-district/articleshow/76114368.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal migrant killed, 13 injured in 2 accidents||Kespur/Balasore: An 18-year-old migrant worker from Bengal was killed while 13 others from the state were injured in two separate accidents in West Midnapore district and Odisha’s Balasore. Abdul Karim Khan was returning home to Bankura’s Taldangra from Chennai when the car he was travelling in with others had a head-on collision with a tru-ck in West Midnapore’s Kespur on Saturday morning. Eight workers returning to Bengal from Kerala suffered injuries when their bus overturned on NH-16 near Nuagaon in Balasore around the same time. Abdul, who worked as a commercial painter in Chennai for 11 months, had got off a Shramik Special in Kharagpur in the morning. Alo-ng with six others, he hired the car. One of them was fr-om West Midnapore’s Chan-drokona and another from Bankura like Abdul. The ot-her four were from Hooghly. The accident took place not far from Kespur College after the group dropped the Chandrokona worker home and headed for Hooghly. The workers and the car driver were rushed to Kespur hospital, which referred them to Midnapore Medical College and Hospital (MMCH), where Abdul died. West Midnapore SP Dinesh Kumar said the vehicles were speeding. “It is very unfortunate that a migrant worker died. The others are under treatment,” he added. Abdul’s father Samiruddin Khan rushed to MMCH from Bankura. “I was eagerly waiting to see my son after 11 months. Now, I have to take his body home,” Khan said. In the Balasore accident, the driver of the bus ferrying 38 passengers to Nabadwip in Nadia district lost control on a bridge on NH-16. The vehicle skidded off the highway and flipped. Police and fire service personnel rushed to the spot and rescued the passengers with the help of residents. The eight injured were sent to Balasore district hospital and the rest housed at a temporary camp from where they were sent to their destination in another bus late in the afternoon, police said, adding that they all of them worked as masons in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-migrant-killed-13-injured-in-2-accidents/articleshow/76114550.cms||Sujay Khanra
May 31, 2020||Trichy||Farmers await crop loan as revised scale of finance is delayed||Trichy: Farmers in the central region, who are facing financial crunch due to Covid-19, have began preparations for kuruvai cultivation, hoping that the water due to be released from Mettur dam on June 12 would help them get rid of their ordeal. Meanwhile, the delay in releasing the revised scale of finance report for 2020-21 has hampered crop loan disbursal to farmers. Every year, the state government would revise the price for agricultural produces, called the scale of finance, and release it before February-end. The new price would be followed from the ensuing financial year. Revised prices of agriculture produces are usually recommended at a district-level technical committee (DLTC) meeting which would be discussed at state-level technical committee (SLTC) meeting.However, the proceedings are not yet ready this year, hampering the process across the entire state. They are unable to approach the primary agriculture cooperative credit societies (PACCS) for loans. Only on the basis of proceedings of the scale of finance, district central cooperative banks and PACCS get funds from the government to be given to farmers as crop loan. “Finance minister announced Rs 11,000 crore for crop loan during the budget. However, without releasing the revised scale of finance, farmers are unable to get the required money to raise kuruvai cultivation this season. Farmers have no money due to the unprecedented situation prevailing in the country due to Covid-19. Without crop loan they cannot proceed further,” secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai, S Vimalnathan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-await-crop-loan-as-revised-scale-of-finance-is-delayed/articleshow/76114374.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||6-yr-old dies after stray dogs’ attack||Hyderabad: A six-year-old girl from Chengicherla died after being attacked by stray dogs on Saturday. The victim, the daughter of a daily wage worker couple staying near the garbage segregation area in Chengicherla, was playing when four to five stray dogs attacked her. “The girl sustained severe bite injuries on legs and other parts of the body and was rushed to the hospital. She died at around 6 pm,” said M Shankar, commissioner, Boduppal Municipal Corporation. “The girl died at Niloufer Hospital while undergoing treatment. We demand action against Boduppal Municipal Corporation for their negligence and not eradicating the menace of street dogs in the locality. The colony people have complained about the menace several times, but no action was taken. A case should be booked for negligence,” said Achyuta Rao, president of NGO Balala Hakkula Sangham. The municipal officials plan to give compensation to the family. “We will soon take up the initiative to eradicate dog menace in the area,” added the commissioner. No case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-yr-old-dies-after-stray-dogs-attack/articleshow/76114377.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Lucknow||Migrant crisis transforms Lucknow’s ‘Sufi’ porter into corona warrior||LUCKNOW: For five decades, 80-year-old Mujibullah Rehman has been the quintessential coolie in Charbagh railway station with his trademark red kurta and a cloth tied around his head to cushion heavy luggage. Fondly called ‘Sufi Saint’ of Charbagh, he now carries an epithet of valour — covid warrior. Ever since the government began running Shramik Special trains, Rehman has been helping migrant workers de-board at the platform with their luggage, but refuses to accept money for his service. Since the pandemic-triggered lockdown was clamped, porters too vanished from the once-busy Charbagh railway station, but Rehman with a mask strung across his face is the only coolie who patiently waits for trains to arrive and quickly wheels away luggage of migrants on his trolley. To a query why he refuses money from passengers, Rehman quietly adjusts his traditional skull cap and says, “Hum unse paise kaise maang sakte hai jinko khud iski zarurat hai. Allah ne hume madad karna sikhaya hai. Hum wahi kar rahe hai, jab tak hum kar sakte hai. (How can I ask money from those who need them the most. Allah has told us to help one and all. I am performing this deed till the time I can).” Rehman, who lives in Gulzarnagar with his family, treks 6km to reach the station and takes pride in offering a helping hand to the hapless migrants. “I enquire about arrival of trains and reach the station on time. In this way, I’m able to meet people too,” he said, adding that he adheres to the pandemic’s safety protocols. “The station is his second home. Since he comes in contact with scores of migrant workers every day, we run a thermal scanner check on him to ensure he’s doing well,” said Sher Mohammad, a railway employee. Awanish Kumar, an old customer, said, “Even if I have just one bag, he happily carries it to the train without demanding money. He never haggles with customers. During the few-minute walk from the station gate to the platform, he recites couplets of Kabir or ayats from the Quran or sayings of Bhagwad Geeta.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/migrant-crisis-transforms-citys-sufi-porter-into-corona-warrior/articleshow/76114372.cms||Aditi Singh
May 31, 2020||Trichy||Three held for misusing e-pass in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: Police arrested three people on charges of misusing e-travel passes at Kumbakonam in Thanjavur on Friday. The accused have been identified as Jerald, 25, of S Puthur village in Thiruvidaimaruthur taluk, Nirmal, 22, and Shankar, 42, of Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. Jerald had got an e-pass to Chennai to drop his relatives in his car who were stranded in Nagapattinam district. However, while returning from Chennai, he had offered to drop a few people at Kumbakonam in his car without getting e-travel pass for their travel. While entering Thanjavur district, he was caught by the police at a check post in the district border at Kumbakonam on Friday. In another incident, Nirmal and Shankar of Kumbakonam had applied for an e-travel pass to take two people each to Chennai in their cars. However, without adhering to the rules, they had taken one more person in their cars. They were caught by the police at Neelathanallur check post in Kumbakonam before crossing the Thanjavur border. Based on a complaint lodged by the patrol police, both of them were booked. Meanwhile, district collector M Govinda Rao in a statement warned drivers who violate the lockdown rules and misusing e-travel passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/three-held-for-misusing-e-pass-in-thanjavur/articleshow/76114385.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Community kitchens powered by big hearts||AHMEDABAD: No business was spared from piling losses due to a complete shutdown of economic activity during the lockdown. However, shortfalls in business incomes didn’t deter many businessmen of Ahmedabad from helping the needy. While some set up community kitchens, others took to distributing relief kits – all to make sure hundreds of migrant workers, slum dwellers, daily wagers and their families and the homeless, didn’t go without a meal. Party plot becomes community kitchen: While the lockdown only meant compulsively staying indoors for most, it left many underprivileged persons, struggling for two square meals a day. The chairman of Karnavati Club’s advisory committee, Girish Dani, took the lead to start a community kitchen. “I along with a few friends set up a community kitchen at a party plot in Ahmedabad and began readying food packets. Over 60 days, we prepared and distributed food packets to some 6 lakh people. Many young volunteers came in every day to pack the food under utmost hygienic conditions,” said Dani. The food packets were later distributed through Ahmedabad city police to slum dwellers and the homeless in areas including Rakhial, Sabarmati Riverfront, Chharanagar, among others. Some 4,000 relief kits comprising grains, oil, sugar and pulses were also prepared for distribution to families. Service to the community and migrants: Sunil Bhanderi, a real estate businessman from Nikol, ensured that his workers were taken care of properly even during the lockdown when business and work came to a standstill. “We had identified areas where a lot of slum dwellers and daily wagers lived. We set up a small kitchen in the common plot of a residential society and got food prepared. Every day, at least 3,000 people were provided food from the kitchen,” said Bhanderi. Bhanderi ensured the food was delivered to slums in Nikol, Vatva, Bhat and Nana Chiloda areas of the city, among others. Unfortunately, his father was admitted at a city-based private hospital during the lockdown, due to prolonged illness. “While moving between home and the hospital, we came across several migrants who didn’t even have footwear. So, during the last 15 days of the lockdown, we also bought footwear and food and water for migrants and distributed them,” Bhanderi added. Food factory for cancer patients turned assembly point for relief kits: Six years ago, city-based industrialist, Gurmit Singh, decided that funds from his business will be diverted towards a humanitarian cause. Working over this dream, he decided to set up a factory in Naroda to prepare food for patient’s kin at cancer hospitals. “We were about to start the facility when the lockdown was imposed. But this didn’t stop us from serving the cause. So we brought in essential supplies including food grains, oil, spices, sugar, basic vegetables and other necessities to prepare relief kits,” said Singh, who personally ensured that 73,000 kits were distributed over 60 days of lockdown to various needy families in different parts of Gujarat. “When we went to distribute, there was resistance from the police personnel on certain occasions but when they saw what cause we worked for, we got through,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/community-kitchens-powered-by-big-hearts/articleshow/76113971.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Rajkot||Village sarpanch ends life||RAJKOT: The sarpanch of Mota Mandva village of Kotada Sangani taluka in Rajkot district ended his life by consuming pesticides on Friday night. Police said the deceased, identified as Ashok Mansara (44), had taken the drastic step on Friday evening. “Mansara was rushed to a private hospital in Gondal where he breathed his last on Friday night. We are yet to probe the reasons behind his suicide,” said Manoj Kateshia, assistant sub-inspector with Kotada Sangani police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/village-sarpanch-ends-life/articleshow/76113439.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Lucknow||Gone in 60 minutes...rainfall record of 70 years in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The unusual trend of weather being witnessed this year saw yet another record-breaking event on Saturday when city received heaviest rainfall in a single day in of May in nearly 70 years. While weatherman predicted that thundershowers will continue till Monday, what people saw on Saturday evening was no less than a cloud burst with the rain gauge at state Met observatory recording 57.4 mm rainfall in just 60 minutes of downpour that broke 61-year old record of 57mm recorded on May 28, 1959. Though the Indian Meteorological website mentions May 28, 1959 rains as the all time high, officers said the value is highest ever since 1940-50 when the record keeping of measurements started on scientific basis. In fact, total rainfall from Friday midnight till 5.30pm on Saturday was 58.4 mm, which was not only the highest in over 70 years since 1940-50s, but also more than double of the mean rainfall of entire month of May. The “mean” is average taken out on the basis more than 20 years data. Records also suggest that in past 20 years the heavy rains in May on isolated days was recorded on several years between 2005 and 2011. However, from 2012 onward, rainfall in a single day in May has been less than 10mm. The Met department had predicted about rains and thundershowers in advance. The change started on Thursday when a western disturbance (WD) that formed over Mediterranean Sea reached over Pakistan. Under its influence, cyclonic circulations were created over Rajasthan. These circulations caused thunderstorms across north India including UP, bringing relief from the week-long heat wave from May 20-27. The city has also been witnessing below normal day temperatures and pleasant conditions since Thursday following a couple of dust/thundershowers. "The cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan caused by WD is expected to cause more rains and thunderstorm is several parts of the state including Lucknow till Monday,” said state met department JP Gupta. These WDs have been the main reason for the unusual weather trend seen in the city in 2020. Normally, 3-4 WDs hit northern India from December till May, but this year so far more than 10 have arrived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gone-in-60-minutes-rainfall-record-of-70-years-in-city/articleshow/76114393.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Trichy||2,580 Tamils have returned via Trichy||Trichy: Trichy has handled over 2,500 Tamils and migrant labourers who have returned from other states on buses, trains and flights till Saturday. On Saturday, 26 passengers who came from Maharashtra were quarantined at the government engineering college at Sethurapatti in Trichy till their Covid-19 results come out. According to the data released by collector S Sivarasu, the district received 2,580 people including 470 Trichy residents and 2,110 native of other districts and neighbouring states since May 5. The data also showed that Maharashtra returnees accounted for one fourth of the total influx to Trichy, as 128 people were from Maharashtra among the 470. A majority of them were youngsters in the age group of 20-25 years, including women, who were recruited by manpower agencies to work for marketing companies in Mumbai and other cities in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2580-tamils-have-returned-via-trichy/articleshow/76114387.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot hails MGNREGA for providing livlihood to crores during pandemic||JAIPUR: Highlighting the importance of MGNREGA, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that in the era of Covid-19 pandemic, UPA government’s ambitious scheme has established its importance. During a video conference with his cabinet ministers along with sarpanchs, gram sewaks, patwaris, BLOs, ANM, Asha Sahyoginis and gram panchayats on Saturday, he said, “The manner in which this scheme has extended support to the crores of Indians in the rural areas shows the success of this scheme. At a time when people have lost their source of livelihood, this scheme has come to their rescue.” He demanded that the Central government should increase the working days under MGNREGA from 100 to 200 and also reduce the number of hours keeping in mind the intense heat. While interacting with the CM, gram sewaks demanded uninterrupted supply of electricity in the locust-affected areas. They contended that while carrying out anti-locust operations in the affected areas they require water to mix chemicals in tankers. Gehlot assured them of proper supply of power to pump water in these areas. Health minister Raghu Sharma informed that soon the state’s Covid testing capacity will jump from 17,500 to 25,000. “The state is adding two testing machines from US, each with a testing capacity of 4,500 per day. Soon, testing will start in 10 districts which are witnessing a spike in the number of cases due to migrants,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-hails-mgnrega-for-providing-livlihood-to-crores-during-pandemic/articleshow/76114378.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Trichy||Three held for misusing e-pass in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: Police arrested three people on charges of misusing e-travel passes at Kumbakonam in Thanjavur on Friday. The accused have been identified as Jerald, 25, of S Puthur village in Thiruvidaimaruthur taluk, Nirmal, 22, and Shankar, 42, of Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. Jerald had got an e-pass to Chennai to drop his relatives in his car who were stranded in Nagapattinam district. However, while returning from Chennai, he had offered to drop a few people at Kumbakonam in his car without getting e-travel pass for their travel. While entering Thanjavur district, he was caught by the police at a check post in the district border at Kumbakonam on Friday. In another incident, Nirmal and Shankar of Kumbakonam had applied for an e-travel pass to take two people each to Chennai in their cars. However, without adhering to the rules, they had taken one more person in their cars. They were caught by the police at Neelathanallur check post in Kumbakonam before crossing the Thanjavur border. Based on a complaint lodged by the patrol police, both of them were booked. Meanwhile, district collector M Govinda Rao in a statement warned drivers who violate the lockdown rules and misusing e-travel passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/three-held-for-misusing-e-pass-in-thanjavur/articleshow/76114383.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 350 schools used as quarantine facilities to turn exam centres||DEHRADUN: With the state government planning to conduct the remaining board examinations in the third week of June, the education department has directed all district magistrates to vacate the schools-turned-quarantine facilities that have been earmarked as examination centres before June 15. According to officials, the education department would then undertake a massive sanitisation drive at these centres to prepare them for the board examinations. The state government’s board examinations scheduled for March 23, 24 and 25 were rescheduled due to the Covid-19 lockdown. These would now be held in the third week of June before the onset of monsoon. Uttarakhand Board of School Education secretary Nita Tiwari said, “There are 1,324 centres earmarked for board exams across the state. Out of them, around 350 are now being used as quarantine centres.” Officials said that apart from sanitising the premises, the authorities would ensure safety measures like face masks and social distancing among other precautions at these centres. Sources said that while most of those lodged at these centres would complete their quarantine period by June 15, the others would be shifted to other facilities. Meanwhile, parents of board students have raised concern about holding examinations at these facilities. Harish Tiwari, a resident of Almora, said, “It’s better to hold examinations at a centre which has not been used as a quarantine facility. It is mainly because there is always a fear of the child getting infected.” The district administrations meanwhile said that these centres would be properly sanitised and necessary precautionary measures put in place. Uttarkashi DM Ashish Chauhan said, “In Uttarkashi alone, 31 out of 60 educational institutions running as quarantine facilities have been designated examination centres. I have asked the education department to exclude one of these centres from the list due to its strategic location. It is located on the border and buses carrying migrants halt there. We do not want to take any risk. There are over 9,000 students appearing for these examinations in the district.” Similarly, 15 quarantine centres in Dehradun, 120 in Pauri Garhwal and 65 in Rudraprayag have been marked as examination centres too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-350-schools-used-as-quarantine-facilities-to-be-made-examination-centres/articleshow/76112532.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Three kids among 38 new Covid-19 cases as Faridabad numbers go up||GURUGRAM: As many as 38 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Faridabad on Saturday, recording the highest single-day spike in the district. The total Covid-19 tally of the district now is 345. Among those who tested positive are three children — a six-year-old girl, a nine-year-old boy and a eight-year-old-girl. Three members of a family, including a 38-year-old man, a 65-year-old woman and a six-year-old girl, in Gulmohar Society in Sector 35 were tested positive on Saturday. Since they are asymptomatic, they have been isolated at home. Three others — a 45-year-old man, a 39-year-old woman and a 18-year-old girl — in Sector-3, Ballabgarh, were also tested positive. “Out of 38 new Covid-19 patients, nine people showing no symptom have been put under home isolation. We have asked 55 patients to go into home isolation so far since they were not showing any symptom,” said a health official. The health department has sent 11,911 samples to laboratories so far for testing, out of which 10,859 samples have turned out to be negative, while reports of 707 samples are still awaited. As many as 153 patients have been discharged from hospitals and 129 patients have been hospitalised. The district administration had increased its sealed zones to 59.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/3-kids-among-38-new-cases-as-fbd-numbers-go-up/articleshow/76114382.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Faridabad||Three kids among 38 new Covid-19 cases as Faridabad numbers go up||GURUGRAM: As many as 38 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Faridabad on Saturday, recording the highest single-day spike in the district. The total Covid-19 tally of the district now is 345. Among those who tested positive are three children — a six-year-old girl, a nine-year-old boy and a eight-year-old-girl. Three members of a family, including a 38-year-old man, a 65-year-old woman and a six-year-old girl, in Gulmohar Society in Sector 35 were tested positive on Saturday. Since they are asymptomatic, they have been isolated at home. Three others — a 45-year-old man, a 39-year-old woman and a 18-year-old girl — in Sector-3, Ballabgarh, were also tested positive. “Out of 38 new Covid-19 patients, nine people showing no symptom have been put under home isolation. We have asked 55 patients to go into home isolation so far since they were not showing any symptom,” said a health official. The health department has sent 11,911 samples to laboratories so far for testing, out of which 10,859 samples have turned out to be negative, while reports of 707 samples are still awaited. As many as 153 patients have been discharged from hospitals and 129 patients have been hospitalised. The district administration had increased its sealed zones to 59.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/3-kids-among-38-new-cases-as-fbd-numbers-go-up/articleshow/76115641.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government’s nod to SG Mehta as prosecutor in riots case||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has approved the appointment of Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta and other central government counsel to represent Delhi Police before Delhi high court in a riots case. The AAP government informed the high court on Friday as that as per a communication dated May 29 issued by the deputy secretary (Home), Delhi government to police, SG Mehta, ASG Maninder Acharya and ASG Aman Lekhi besides government counsel Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair were appointed as special public prosecutors to represent Delhi Police in one of the riot cases. “Mr Mehra states that the aforesaid law officers/ special counsels would be representing the respondents (Delhi Police) in the present case since the approval of the GNCTD has been specifically obtained in the present case,” the bench noted. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar was hearing a habeas corpus petition over the alleged illegal custody of an accused booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in connection with the northeast riots case. The high court earlier pointed out ambiguity over legal representation of Delhi Police—whether by Delhi government or Central government. Following the bench’s query, Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra had on Friday informed the bench that as per the law settled by the high court and the Supreme Court, it was only on the aid and advice of the council of ministers of Delhi government that the power under Section 24(8) CrPC to appoint the special public prosecutor or special counsel could be exercised by the lieutenant governor. The lieutenant governor has no independent power to make such appointments. Mehra added that Delhi Police had accepted this position since it had applied for appointment of special public prosecutor to the Ministry of Home, Delhi government and appropriate orders were issued by the Delhi home minister. The Central government submitted that approval of Delhi government home minister had been obtained by Delhi Police to avoid the controversy. The bench subsequently held that the controversy did not survive. “We hope and expect that such like issues would be similarly resolved in other cases as well, so that the focus of the Court remains on determination of the merits of the disputes before it, rather than on such like issues,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govts-nod-to-sg-mehta-as-prosecutor-in-ne-riots-case/articleshow/76114384.cms||Aamir Khan
May 31, 2020||Nashik||Thief held, cops recover 3 motorcycles in Nashik||NASHIK: The crime branch on Tuesday arrested a criminal for stealing three motorcycles from different parts of the city. All three bikes have been recovered worth Rs 1.9 lakh. The criminal is identified as Ramesh Namdev Raut and was arrested from Borwat Phata village of Peth taluka. Acting on a tip-off, the crime branch unit 1 left for Borwat Phata and detained Raut while he was on the bike. When asked for bike documents, Raut said that he had stolen the bike from Raher, Karpada in Gujarat. Other two more bikes were from Mhasrool and Dharampur area respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/thief-held-cops-recover-3-motorcycles/articleshow/76114376.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Ex-councillor Ishrat Jahan gets bail for ten days to get married||NEW DELHI: A city court on Saturday granted interim bail to former Congress municipal councillor Ishrat Jahan to get married. She has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February this year. The relief of bail will be applicable from June 10 to June 19. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana allowed the relief to Jahan on a bond of Rs 1 lakh with two sureties. After the prosecutor submitted that the fact of Jahan’s scheduled marriage had been verified, the court held, “Considering the factum of scheduled marriage of applicant Ishrat Jahan, she be released on interim bail for 10 days.” The bail plea, filed through advocate Lalit Valecha, also argued that she being a former municipal councillor was falsely implicated in the case and sent to judicial custody. It was also argued that despite obtaining bail in another case, she was arrested in the present case on March 21, 2020. Jahan and other accused persons are facing probe in cases stemming from the northeast Delhi violence that took place earlier this year. Among other offences such as rioting and damage to property, the investigation agency has invoked the stringent UAPA law against the accused persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-ex-councillor-ishrat-jahan-gets-bail-for-10-days-to-get-married/articleshow/76114403.cms||Aamir Khan
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man stabbed in fight over Ludo||AHMEDABAD: A 33-year-old resident of Khanwadi in Ramol, Shahidkhan Pathan, was stabbed in the hand just because he told one Nilesh Sharma of CTM, not to play ‘Ludo’ and fight with his friends near a hotel. Pathan was taken to the LG Hospital. Ramol police lodged a complaint against Sharma and are hunting for him. Inspector K S Dave of Ramol police station said they know where the accused is and will nab him soon. According to the FIR, Pathan owns a sewing machine shop near Sindhvai Mata Temple in Ramol. He got to know Sharma ten days ago as Sharma frequents Welcome Hotel in Ramol to play Ludo with his friends. Pathan stated in his FIR that on Friday night, as usual, he went to Welcome Hotel where he met his friend, Imtiaz. “When they were talking, Sharma and three to four others were playing Ludo there and fighting among themselves,” said Dave. “Sharma pulled out a knife and stabbed Pathan on his left hand. He was taken to LG Hospital by local people,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-stabbed-in-fight-over-ludo/articleshow/76113969.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Government schools win praise for creatively engaging inmates||JAIPUR: The health department has praised the efforts made by government schools that have been turned into quarantine centres. The schools kept the runaway rate low by engaging the inmates serving quarantine period in creative activities. Officials made special mention of a school in Dungarpur which was giving music therapy to inmates. Seven districts where the schools are situated include Karauli, Banswara, Dungarpur, Rajsamand, Jalore, Chittorgarh and Sirohi. In a video conference held by CM Ashok Gehlot with five departments on Saturday, he named and praised these schools. Banswara is teaching yoga to all its inmates serving quarantine in hostels. “These migrants have suffered a lot while covering the long distance, mostly from Maharashtra. The idea behind teaching yoga is to engender a sense of peace as most of them are scared with the very idea of quarantine for 14 days. We are using yoga to keep them calm,” said Parwat Singh, SDM, Banswara. Luckily, all the physical training teachers appointed at these hostels have a fair knowledge of yoga. Dungarpur, which borders Gujarat, has not only introduced music in quarantine centres, but also Garba dance which is very popular in Gujarat. “Almost all the migrants lodged in quarantine centres have left Gujarat and Maharashtra unceremoniously. Adding Garba in their daily routine has helped us de-stress them to a great extent. As most of them work in Gujarat, music and dance have become an integral part of their lives and we have tried to bring some hope by introducing the element of music and dance,” said M K Parmar, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Dungarpur. 5 districts record highest quarantine violations Five districts in the state are reporting the highest number of persons jumping quarantine either from their homes or government facilities. The health officials during a video conferencing with the CM Ashok Gehlot informed that Sikar, Dholpur, Ganganagar, Nagaur and Hanumangarh are the top five districts recording the highest number of quarantine violations. The meeting was attended by five departments -- health, PHED, agriculture (locust), social justice and rural development. During the presentation, it was informed that these districts have recorded violations above 500 each. Nagaur collector Deepak Yadav told TOI that he will crosscheck all the cases listed and spotted by the Covid-19 cell in Jaipur. “Our attempt will be to reduce any such violations,” said Yadav. Sikar district administration has denied the state government report. Yogya Mitra Singhdeo, collector of Sikar, said that some clerical error may have caused Sikar’s addition to the list. “I will soon share the corrected report,” said Singhdeo. The violations have been recorded by the Covid-19 War Cell in Jaipur. Every quarantined person has to register his/her number which is called geo-fencing at DoIT cell. The moment such a person goes beyond the stimulated perimeter according to the size of the campus, the cell is alerted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-schools-win-praise-for-creatively-engaging-inmates/articleshow/76114398.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC increases number of benches||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has increased the number of benches to take up more urgent cases from Monday. The HC was functioning with six benches, but the chief justice has constituted 10 benches that will conduct matters from next week. The new sitting does not have the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala, who while on a division bench hearing a suo motu PIL on the implementation of the lockdown and curbing the spread of Covid, slammed the state government for its poor response to the epidemic. He pointed out inadequacies at the Civil Hospital. The new arrangement has nine single-judge benches and a division bench. All the judges will continue to hear the cases through video-conferencing from their residences. Through video-conferencing, the HC conducts arbitration matters and hears habeas corpus petitions. Bail and parole cases are taken up based on the urgency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-increases-number-of-benches/articleshow/76113976.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||High court asks lower courts to deliver pending verdicts||AHMEDABAD: After stalled judicial functioning in the lower courts for two months due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, the Gujarat high court on Saturday asked subordinate courts across the state to deliver their pending judgments. HC’s registrar general has issued a communiqué to all principal district judges saying that all courts should deliver judgments which remained pending due to abrupt closure of the courts as the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25. He has said, “I am directed by the Honourable the Chief Justice to state that, all the Judicial Officers are permitted to pronounce their pending Judgments. All the Judicial Officers shall adhere to the safety measures while pronouncing the Judgments.” The decision by the HC to ask all judicial officers to deliver verdicts, which could not be pronounced due to closed courtrooms, has been welcomed by various advocates associations. “This has come as a great relief for those litigants and advocates in whose cases hearing was over and the verdict got delayed due to the nationwide lockdown,” said a member of the Bar Council of Gujarat. Moreover, the Bar associations have been demanded opening of courtrooms so that judicial functioning start taking place on a regular basis. The Gujarat High Court Advocates’ Association has also urged the chief justice to start functioning from courtroom and allow lawyers an access to their chambers on the HC campus at Sola, though for shorter hours in a day. The high court has issued strict instructions to all district courts not to start judicial activity on court campuses without its nod. The principal district judge of Chhota Udepur had decided to open courts with social distancing norms, but he was asked to withdraw the office order to that effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-asks-lower-courts-to-deliver-pending-verdicts/articleshow/76113968.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt gears up to start Char Dham Yatra for pilgrims from June 8||Dehradun: With the Union home ministry issuing fresh guidelines for easing of lockdown norms, the Uttarakhand government on Saturday said that it is planning to start Char Dham Yatra for pilgrims from June 8 after putting in place social distancing and other measures needed to check the spread of Covid-19. Even though this year’s Char Dham Yatra commenced on April 26, it was restricted only to religious rituals at the respective temples and no pilgrim was allowed due to the nationwide lockdown. Meanwhile, with the easing of curbs on Saturday, the state government has convened a high-level meeting on Sunday to chalk out a detailed strategy on the arrangements for the pilgrimage. State urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “We are planning to start the Yatra from June 8. However, we will decide on how to regulate it based on the SOPs soon to be issued by the Centre.” State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj when queried, said, “We have received the home ministry orders. Our preparations are almost complete. At the same time, we have to ensure sanitisation of the entire route, offer complete health check-up and maintain social distancing to prevent the spread of the infection.” He added that all stakeholders would be briefed on the necessary precautions and social distancing norms before the Yatra commences. The Char Dham Yatra is considered the financial backbone of thousands of people in the Garhwal region. Rough estimates suggests that the Yatra generates around Rs 2,000 crore revenue to various stakeholders. Last year, the pilgrimage saw a record turnout of around 32 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-gears-up-to-start-char-dham-yatra-for-pilgrims-from-june-8/articleshow/76112576.cms||Kautilya Singh
May 31, 2020||Rajkot||Rajasthan farmers lose Rs 8 lakh cash||PALANPUR: Some unidentified persons stole Rs 8.16lakh cash and three mobile phones of farmers returning after selling their farm produce near Chadotar some 8 km from Palanpur on national highway towards Deesa. According to complaint filed by farmer Farsram Purohit, the incident took place when some farmers from Jalore district of Rajasthan were returning after selling about 180 bags of isbgul and cummin seeds at Unjha APMC market. They had taken a break at Panchvati Dhaba near Chadotar. The farmers who were tired slept inside the truck with windows open. While, two of them were sleeping in the driver’s cabin others were asleep in on the backside. At about 3am Purohit got up and found that his mobile phone was missing. He awoke up others and found that three other phones were also missing along with bag containing Rs 8.16 lakh cash. Following the incident Purohit filed a complaint with Palanpur taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajasthan-farmers-lose-rs-8-lakh-cash/articleshow/76113479.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||Standing panel to decide fishing bid at Ambazari||Nagpur: After saying no to any standing panel meet citing lockdown, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe did a U-turn and allowed chairman Vijay Zalke to convene the panel’s meeting on June 1. After holding the first meeting on May 5, the civic chief did not allow Zalke to hold any standing committee meeting citing fear of the spread of coronavirus. Zalke has now convened a meeting of the panel on June 1 with only two proposals being submitted by the civic administration. The first proposal is related to the bid for awarding fishing rights for three years in Ambazari lake. Jayesh Baisware’s firm has submitted the highest bid worth Rs2.89 crore and the administration has decided to accept the same as a legal challenge is pending about the same in high court. The health department has attached a note along with the proposal submitted before the standing committee contending that with stipulation, that tender is accepted but in case of any adverse ruling from high court then NMC might decide on future course later. The second proposal relates to tabling the progress report about the counselling centre for women being managed by Late Anusayabai Kale Smurit Mahila Samupdeshan Kendra.  Two reports from July 1 to September 30, 2019 and from October 1 to December 31, 2019 will be discussed by the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/standing-panel-to-decide-fishing-bid-at-ambazari/articleshow/76112564.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Murder accused tests Covid-19 positive, 15 cops quarantined||JODHPUR: Panic ensued in Pali police when the main accused in the murder of an advocate tested positive on Saturday. Following the test report, 15 policemen who came in contact with the accused, were put under home quarantine. According to an official from the medical and health department, the family members of the accused too have been quarantined at home and the accused’s contact history is being traced. Police arrested three persons for the murder of advocate Narayan Singh Rathore of Bilara on Friday. Rathore was allegedly murdered for the gold he used to wear. His body was found dumped in a water body in Sojat City area, some 20 km from where his car was found in a burnt state. After the arrest, police had got all the three accused tested for Covid-19 on Friday evening, before producing them before the magistrate for custody on Saturday. “Their report was obtained on Saturday and one of the accused, Umesh Soni, tested positive. After this, 15 policemen including one DSP and two SHOs (Sojat City and Jaitaran) were immediately sent to home quarantine,” said the official. Meanwhile, Soni has been admitted to the isolation ward of Bangar Hospital in Pali for treatment under police protection. The administration has also begun the task of tracing the contact history of Soni, so that all those who had come into contact with him, could be placed under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/murder-accused-tests-positive-15-cops-quarantined/articleshow/76114406.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||The ‘Wild’ quarantine centres of Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: People quarantined in remote areas in the hills of Uttarakhand – from where more cases are being reported day by day – have to not just contend with novel coronavirus but also the threat of attacks by wild animals. While leopards are a constant ominous presence – many of those quarantined in primary schools in hill districts say they can hear distinct roaring of leopards every night – another threat is from venomous snakes and wild boars. A few days ago, a 10-year-old girl staying in a quarantine centre in Betalghat area of Nainital district died after she was bitten by a snake. Upset with scanty facilities for protection against wild animal attacks, a few Mumbai-returned migrants housed at a government school in Tilla village in Pauri recently uploaded video clips on social media platforms, expressing their concern. Vishram Singh, one of the returnees, told TOI, “The centre where we are housed, has no window panes in the rooms. How do we expect that we will be safe from the attacks of wild animals here?” Sharing his experience, another returnee from Delhi, Akash Painuli, said, “I was quarantined along with a dozen other people at a centre in Gainda village in Purola block of Uttarkashi. Almost every night, we have been hearing the roar of leopards as they hunt for their prey. It has been really terrifying and all of us have been scared thinking what will happen if a leopard ventures inside our centre.” Expressing anguish at the lack of facilities at quarantine centres to deal with wild animal attacks, Khim Singh Rawat, the uncle of the girl who died due to snakebite in the Betalghat quarantine centre, told TOI, “At least, quarantine centres should have basic facilities like availability of ambulance to save lives in wild animal attacks. Our child would have been alive if there were ambulance facilities available and she could have reached hospital on time.” Gram pradhans -- who are responsible for the quarantine arrangements in villages – say that they get complaints regarding presence of wild animals from the quarantined people all the time. “Their grouse is genuine but what can we do? We have told people to be extremely careful so that no mishap happens,” said Sushila Negi, pradhan of Hudoli village in Uttarkashi. A few gram pradhans from Bageshwar, Pauri Garhwal, Uttarkashi, Champawat and Udham Singh Nagar districts also wrote a letter to their respective block heads a few days ago to help solve the issue. “Due to presence of wild animals, fear has gripped the already frustrated migrants housed in quarantined centres. We have approached local administration to help address the fear,” said Jashoda Devi, former pradhan of Bamradi village in Pauri Garhwal. Meanwhile, officials are claiming that they are ensuring that quarantine centres, especially those in higher reaches, are well-equipped to keep wild animals at bay. “In the hills, humans and wildlife exist side by side. It is important to remain cautious. On our part, we are ensuring that all the quarantine centres have adequate electricity, water and toilet facility in the premises so that no one wanders out at night and falls prey to wild animals,” said Dhiraj Singh Garbyal, district magistrate, Pauri Garhwal. The state’s chief wildlife warden Rajiv Bhartari meanwhile said, “We are sending out instructions to all the district magistrates to ensure sufficient awareness about human-wildlife conflict is spread among migrants staying at quarantine centres and also instant medical assistance is provided to the injured. Our frontline forest teams have also been put on alert to avert any such incidents.” Notably, this year, in the period between January to May, 13 people have lost their lives to wildlife attacks in Uttarakhand and 74 people have been severely injured, as per data of forest department exclusively accessed by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wild-quarantine-centres-of-uttarakhand-how-those-quarantined-in-hills-are-living-under-the-threat-of-leopards-snakes-wild-boars/articleshow/76112585.cms||Shivani Azad
May 31, 2020||Mysuru||Eight cop from Hassan contracts virus||HASSAN: The police quarters in Alur of in Hassan district has been sealed down after a constable was found infected. He was one of the 17 people tested positive for Covid in the district on Saturday. The policeman from Alur was a primary contact of four Holenarasipur policemen who were tested positive some days ago. These four had contracted the virus while on duty at Nippani in Belagavi district. They were deployed in the border district to facilitate the natives of Hassan to enter Karnataka near Nippani. So far, eight police personnel from Hassan district have been infected. The first case pertains to a 27-year-old KSRP constable who entered Hassan city on May 17, but tested positive a week later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/8th-cop-from-hassan-contracts-virus/articleshow/76113473.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur administration back in action as Covid-19 cases shoot up in city||JODHPUR: With 40 Covid-19 positive cases reported from Pratap Nagar area on Friday, city police got back in action and spruced up lockdown measures in the locality by re-establishing barricades and blocking the roads and streets on Saturday. The city recorded a sharp spike in cases this week. In the past six days, there have been 287 positive cases, most of which were reported from just one locality, Pratap Nagar. The area has reported over 200 cases and counting, which is attributable to the leniency of the administration. DCP (West) Priti Chandra, who reached Pratap Nagar with her officers, warned the residents of the locality of serious action against those, who did not abide by the lockdown protocol. “We will not tolerate this now. We will take strict action, if needed. We do not want to be so harsh, but people must understand the seriousness of the issue,” she said. This leniency has also led to reporting of positive cases from Bakra Mandi, which reported 13 cases on Friday. People of this locality were hardly complying with the lockdown protocol and assembled in groups occasionally. With relaxation in lockdown, people started coming out of their houses in droves and queuing up at the commercial outlets and the negligence exercised by both sides has led to surfacing of positive cases. On Friday, two employees of a departmental store were reported positive besides two employees of Saras Dairy, who were engaged in milk distribution. On Saturday, staff of some famous eateries and dairy shops in Sardarpura area also reported positive. Even with the spike in cases, people have been constantly protesting against police for putting up barricades in sensitive areas. Recently some areas had also seen protests by people for keeping their areas under curfew zone for a long period forcing police to retreat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-admn-back-in-action-as-covid-19-cases-shoot-up-in-city/articleshow/76114409.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Man electrocuted, another injured in mosque||Mangaluru: A youth died, and another was injured after they were electrocuted while installing a bird net at Barimar Mosque near Farangipet, Bantwal, on Saturday. The deceased is Mubarak, 23, a resident of Ammemar and the injured is Farooque, 24, a resident of Barimar. Police said the incident took place at noon while the duo was installing the bird net on the third floor of the mosque. The duo was using an extension wire to power the net cutting machine and the wire from the extension box accidentally touched an iron sheet on the roof top. Mubarak was first electrocuted and Farooque rushed to save him. Mubarak died on the spot. Those present at the spot rescued Farooque, who is being treated at a private hospital. Bantwal rural police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-electrocuted-another-injured-in-mosque/articleshow/76111675.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No relief from monsoon waterlogging?||NEW DELHI: Expect traffic snarls due to waterlogging on Delhi’s main arterial roads this year too. Though the number of waterlogging points on these stretches has reduced to 82 from 271 that was listed in 2019, the traffic police still expect jams to occur during the monsoon season later this year. In a report to the civic bodies, police have sought for corrective measures to be taken on some of these stretches to ensure that vehicle movement does not come to a standstill when it rains. Between May and July last year, police had received more than 250 complaints about traffic snarls on these stretches either due to waterlogging or potholes caused due to accumulation of rainwater in the low-lying areas. Senior traffic officers say that the civic agencies were earlier asked to rectify these faults by March since there was enough time for road surface to dry up in the summer heat. A reminder has now been sent to them again. Delayed repair work, just ahead of the monsoons, often leads to fresh road surfaces getting damaged. Cops, however, expect the situation to be comparatively better this year since the civic bodies were informed well in advance. Waterlogging is likely to occur in areas where construction activities are underway. Around Pragati Maidan and Chandni Chowk, the movement of vehicles with heavy construction material has damaged the road surface at different places. Traffic officers say that for stretches like Rohtak Road near Nangloi, Mundka and Punjabi Bagh that get waterlogged even after light showers, the civic bodies have been asked to take special note of the drainage system that chokes due to various reasons ahead of the monsoon. Another such stretch is the Mehrauli-Badarpur road near Devli. Despite reconstruction work done on this stretch, water gets accumulated on both sides of the roads which leads to snarls after every rainfall. In both these places, broken roads and lack of proper drainage facility result in water getting accumulated. Last year, Delhi government had directed the authorities concerned to take all possible measures to ensure that commuting was not affected due to waterlogging. Some corrective measures were also enforced which reduced the spread of the waterlogging points. However, many problem areas still remain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-relief-from-monsoon-waterlogging/articleshow/76114412.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Thermal screening must for travel: South Central Railway||HYDERABAD: With passenger trains set to resume from June 1, the South Central Railway (SCR) has installed thermal screening facilities across its railway stations to screen passengers before they board the train. Officials said that it is now mandatory for rail passengers intending to travel by special trains to undergo thermal screening at the entry points. “We have installed computerised thermal screening machines as part of our intensified measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Only passengers who are found asymptomatic will be permitted to travel. In case a passenger is found to be symptomatic of Covid-19 during screening, they shall not be allowed to travel. In such case, a full refund of ticket fare will be provided to passengers,” said an official. As thousands are expected to arrive at the station once the special passenger train operations resume, railway officials said that these scanners will be able to detect temperatures quickly unlike the manual ones. Apart from this, to provide a hassle-free boarding experience, the SCR will have separate entry and exit gates as much as possible. The trains set to be operate from Secunderabad railway station include Secunderabad – Howrah special, Secunderabad – Danapur special, Secunderabad – Guntur special, Secunderabad – Hazrat Nizamuddin while the Hyderabad – New Delhi special will also have a halt here. Meanwhile, special trains to be operated from Hyderabad (Nampally) railway station include Hyderabad – Mumbai CSMT, Hyderabad – New Delhi and Hyderabad – Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thermal-screening-must-for-travel-scr/articleshow/76114009.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Nine babies abandoned in Hyderabad since lockdown began||HYDERABAD: The two-month-long lockdown has pushed thousands of poor families into extreme poverty. And standing testimony to this are records of the Telangana women’s child and welfare department that throw up a heart-wrenching trend: as many as 33 infants, all of them below the age of six, were abandoned in Telangana between January and May of which nine were given up by their families in Hyderabad — all of them during the lockdown. Of the 33, 25 are girls. This unfortunate trend, officials say, is rooted in the mounting financial woes of poor families that lost jobs and savings during the last two months. “The lockdown has affected several poor families who are struggling to feed their children. Some of the abandoned children were found malnourished and underweight,” said a source from the department. All nine children are at state-run Shishu Gruha in the city, the official added. “There are 11 state-run Shishu Gruhas across the state. Hyderabad’s Shishu Gruha has the highest number of such babies. Some centres have less than five, including infants,” said M Sharada, child development project officer from the department. “The families who have surrendered their children are mostly from the poorest of the poor, who have more than two children already and do not have enough income to feed them all,” the officer said. This year, in May alone, two instances were reported in which families tried to sell their babies. In the recent incident in Jeedimetla, a couple attempted to sell their two-month-old baby boy for Rs 22,000. According to officials, districts likes such as Nalgonda and Mahbubnagar have a high number of girls being abandoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nine-babies-abandoned-in-city-since-lockdown-began/articleshow/76114021.cms||Aditi Mallick
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Heat wave: Sachin Pilot urges centre to reduce NREGA working hours||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Saturday said over 8 lakh migrant workers who had returned from other states have found employment under MGNREGA. On Saturday, 42.80 lakh workers were employed under the scheme compared to 33.02 lakh workers engaged on the same day in 2019-20. In view of the rising temperature in Rajasthan, Pilot wrote a letter requesting the Centre to reduce the working hours and the number of tasks for workers laid down under the scheme. New job cards have also been issued to 1.77 lakh migrant workers who have returned from other states, he said. “Around 5,000 new job cards are being made daily for migrant workers,” said Pilot. “If a worker or a group of workers completes their task before scheduled time, they can leave the site after getting the measurement of the work registered in the muster roll,” said Pilot during a video conference on Saturday. He instructed officials not to unnecessarily make any worker wait at the workplace after they have completed their work. “The meteorological department has issued a red alert in 27 districts because of the rising temperature in the state. Keeping the health issue of the workers in mind, we have requested the Central government to reduce the working hours and the number of tasks laid down for the workers under the scheme. The workers should be allowed to complete their work by 11am and return home,” said Pilot. “Under the scheme, about 10 lakh extra jobs have been given to the workers this year. Due to the lockdown, almost all other employment opportunities have been shut. MGNREGA scheme has proved to be a lifeline for the poor people living in rural areas,” he added. Also, in view of the scorching heat, the officials have been directed to make arrangements for essential items like clean drinking water, shade, medical kits and ORS at the work sites. Instructions have also been given to make arrangements for taking care of children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heat-wave-pilot-urges-centre-to-reduce-nrega-working-hours/articleshow/76114418.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Friendship in online game proves costly for woman||VADODARA: Befriending a stranger while playing online ludo game proved costly for a 25-year-old married woman who had to face embarrassment after the man circulated her obscene videos among her friends after she turned down his proposal for marriage. According to Vadodara rural police who detained 23-year-old farmer from Porbandar, Paresh Varagiya on Saturday for defaming the married woman from Karjan. Police sources said that Varagiya had screen recorded the video calls with the woman, who he befreinded while playing the online game. Later, they chatted through Instagram and after exchanging their contact numbers, they talked on WhatsApp and even video called each other. The woman told police that after a couple of months of conversation, she had to succumb to Varagiya’s constant demands for obscene video calls. Varagiya used to threaten the woman that he would contact her husband and relatives to inform them that she has an extra-marital affair. Around six months back during their conversations, Varagiya had activated the woman’s WhatsApp account on his mobile phone too. A few months ago, Varagiya proposed marriage and the woman turned it down which infuriated him. As he had access to the woman’s WhatsApp groups, he shared obscene videos and photos which he had recorded during the video calls among her friends’ groups. The woman approached Karjan police station after the lockdown was eased and submitted a complaint. “After an initial probe of the complaint, we learnt that the accused is Varagiya, who identified himself as Kana to the woman and started chatting with her,” said a police official. On Friday, he was booked for cheating, sexual harassment, stalking, defamation and violation of Information Technology Act. “We have sent him for testing coronavirus test. Once the report turns out to be negative, we will arrest him,” said inspector A A Desai of Karjan police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/friendship-in-online-game-proves-costly-for-woman/articleshow/76112144.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Lorry driver dead as two vehicles veer off flyovers in Shamirpet and Tolichowki||HYDERABAD: A lorry driver died after the vehicle he was driving fell off the Outer Ring Road (ORR) and landed on the Rajiv Rahadari (State Highway-1) near Shamirpet in the wee hours of Saturday. He died on the spot. Luckily, no vehicles were plying on the stretch of Rajiv Rahadari when the accident happened. Shamirpet police said lorry driver V Bhaskar, 32, from Nalgonda, started his journey with a load of cement bags around 9.30pm on Friday from a cement factory in Miryalguda to reach Medchal. Around 5.30am on Saturday, when the lorry was travelling on the ORR between Keesara and Medchal, the vehicle crashed into the safety barrier and fell of the flyover on to the underneath Rajiv Rahadari. “Bhaskar lost control over the lorry and fell from top of the bridge before making a crashlanding on the highway. He died no the spot. Since the incident happened early in the early morning, luckily no vehicle plied on Rajiv Rahadari. Otherwise, the damage could have been more,’’ Shamirpet sub-inspector Ganesh told TOI. After the accident, police pressed into service two cranes to remove the mangled lorry and the cement bags, scattered on the highway. Meanwhile, in a similar incident, a driver of a car, which was travelling on Tolichowki flyover, lost control and the vehicle crashed from the flyover a few metres after getting on to it. Luckily, the passengers of the car, escaped with only minor injuries. However, the local police claimed they were unaware about the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lorry-driver-dead-as-two-vehicles-veer-off-flyovers-in-shamirpet-and-tolichowki/articleshow/76114018.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Good Samaritans felicitated by Rachakonda cops||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police on Saturday felicitated several individuals and organisations who have played an active role in taking care of the needy and providing PPEs to officers on the frontline during the lockdown. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said that several citizens had come forward and worked with the commissionerate during the last two and half months. As a gesture of gratitude, Rachakonda police felicitated the individuals and organisations with the Good Samaritan Award. Stating that three police officers from Rachakonda have so far been affected by Covid-19, Bhagwat specially thanked all those who distributed PPEs, masks sanitisers, GoQuii gadgets, groceries and cooked food to police officers, migrant workers, orphans and senior citizens during lockdown. Several organisations such as Telangana Development Forum (TDF), Rachakonda Security Council, Avra labs, Dr Sunitha Krishnan of Prajwala, CWC chairman and members of Tata Aerospace, NGOs such as Youngistan and Second Chance along with over 100 individuals were honoured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/good-samaritans-felicitated-by-cops/articleshow/76114041.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||TSWB sets up helpline to address burial issues||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) on Saturday set up a ‘Helpline Desk’ to address issues pertaining to burials. The desk will be available 24x7 to take immediate note of complaints and resolve issues within a time frame should caretakers of Muslim graveyards create any problems. The move comes after a 55-year-old Khaja Miyan had to buried in a Hindu cemetery as certain mutawallis (caretakers) denied him a burial site in the city’s graveyards. Addressing the media, TSWB chairman Mohammed Saleem said: “The general public are hereby appealed to call on us and approach the board if anyone demands hush money or makes any objections to bury someone in Muslim graveyards. The recent issue is very deplorable and due to this the board has come out with these initiatives to help people and show tainted caretakers the door.” Speaking on the issue regarding the refusal of Khaja Miyan’s burial, Saleem said that the board was investigating the matter and that the caretakers responsible for the episode will soon be issued notices after a resolution is taken in a meeting to be held next week. “A team has been assigned to find out the facts and take legal action against those found guilty,” the TSWB chairman said. The TSWB has also decided to inspect all graveyards to find out illegal activities such as construction and encroachments. They urged people to file a police complaint in case of any objection is raised by mutawallis. The board will also meet Telangana DGP M Mahendar Reddy over this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tswb-sets-up-helpline-to-address-burial-issues/articleshow/76114029.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: In a first, 17 absentee SRPF cops suspended, face criminal probe||MUMBAI: In a first such case, 17 Mumbai-based constables of the State Reserve Police Force have been suspended for remaining absent on duty for a prolonged period. That apart, criminal proceedings have been initiated against them under the Disaster Management Act, SRPF Act and Maharashtra Police Act. A senior IPS official told TOI on Saturday that despite a series of notices, they did not return on duty. A decision was taken thereafter to suspend them with immediate effect and to initiate criminal proceedings against them. “Maharashtra is reeling under a crisis due to the coronavirus outbreak. We need a massive police force to tackle the law-and-order situation, more so in containment zones. Under such circumstances, we found that a section of SRPF personnel was absent. We issued showcause notices to them. When there was no response, we suspended them and simultaneously initiated criminal proceedings against them,” he said. The IPS officer said offences under SRPF Act’s Section 14 for deserting the force, Maharashtra Police Act’s Section 145 for misconduct by a police officer and Disaster Management Act’s Section 56 for failure to remain present on duty, have been registered against them at Vanrai police station. SRPF assistant commandant Laxman Atkari had lodged a complaint at the police station. “We found that most of them were absent on duty from February. More shocking was the fact that showcause notices were served on them but they did not respond. Under such circumstances, we had no option but to suspend them and initiate criminal proceedings against them. For the first time, we have invoked provisions of the Disaster Management Act against police personnel,” he said. “We need more police personnel to maintain law and order in containment zones. We have already deployed 22 companies of the SRPF,” said the IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-a-first-17-absentee-srpf-cops-suspended-face-criminal-probe/articleshow/76114086.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Medipally fuel pilferage racket: Six policemen suspended||HYDERABAD: As many as six policemen, including a Special Operations Team (SOT) inspector, were suspended by Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat on Saturday for their role in a fuel pilferage racket. According to sources, the racket was busted on May 18 when police came to know that the accused were stealing diesel from a garage in Medipally where trucks carrying the fuel were parked. During questioning, the accused confessed that they had organised the racket by managing six policemen — an SOT inspector, a constable, a special branch constable and three other constables from the Medipally police station. After the confession reports reached the commissioner, all six officers were suspended. However, police officials remained tight-lipped when asked to comment on the details associated with the suspension. In an incident in 2018, one person died and several others were injured when fire broke as offenders were trying to steal fuel from trucks of various oil companies parked at a garage. Similar allegations of three policemen being in connivance with the accused in the pilferage racket had also surfaced back then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fuel-pilferage-racket-six-policemen-suspended/articleshow/76114005.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hubballi||Institutional quarantine must for all those coming from high-risk states||DHARWAD: As South Western Railways commences Mumbai CSMT-Gadag Passenger service on Monday, the Dharwad district administration and the health department have made elaborate arrangements for the screening of passengers arriving from Maharashtra. This will be the first train post-Lockdown 4.0 to carry passengers from the “high-risk state”. The number of positive cases in Dharwad district was under control till relaxations for travel were made during Lockdowns 3.0 and 4.0. Nearly 70% of the positive cases in the district have a travel history of coming from Maharashtra. To ensure that there is no steep rise in the number of positive cases after the launch of the passenger train between Chhatrapati Shivaji MaharajTerminus (Mumbai) and Gadag via Hubballi, Dharwad DC Deepa Cholan has put the health staff and the police on the job. Deepa told STOI that the state protocol for Covid-19 is clear. “Anyone arriving in Karnataka from high-risk states should compulsorily undergo institutional quarantine for seven days and home quarantine for seven days. Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are tagged as high-risk states following a spurt in positive cases there,” the DC said, adding that the passengers arriving at Hubballi station from Maharashtra will be screened at the entrance. “They will be directly sent to institutional quarantine, where they will be housed in facilities depending whether they are symptomatic or asymptomatic. No passenger can walk scot-free. So the people of Dharwad need not panic,” Deepa said. Those coming to Hubballi on 2-3day business trips have to carry a medical report from their district, declaring that they are fit and fine and are asymptomatic. Such persons will be allowed to undergo home quarantine till their trip is over. For others, institutional quarantine is a must, she added. 43 people discharged  While two more tested postive on Saturday, 43 people who were infected and have recovered were discharged from hospitals in Kalaburagi. A 42-year-old man, P-2832 resident of Kalamandargi village in Kamalapur taluk in the district, who recently returned from Mumbai tested positive on Saturday. He was immediately shifted to the Covid-19 ward at ESIC hospital. Another 32-year-old man P-2833, a resident of Venkatesh Nagar in Kalaburagi, also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/institutional-quarantine-must-for-all-those-coming-from-high-risk-states/articleshow/76113507.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Wife demands video call with Koregaon Bhima case accused P Varavara Rao||HYDERABAD: A day after jailed revolutionary writer P Varavara Rao, an accused in the Koregaon Bhima case, was admitted to a hospital in Mumbai, his wife Hemalatha has demanded the Centre, state governments of Telangana and Maharashtra to arrange a video call immediately with her husband to know about his health. As per the health bulletin released by Mumbai’s JJ Hospital, he was shifted by prison authorities after he felt giddiness. A battery of tests and a health check-up was performed on the elderly writer and all the reports were found to be normal. “We moved a petition before the NIA Special Court, Mumbai, expressing our concern about Varavara Rao’s health since there is no clarity. The court sought report from JJ Hospital authorities on June 2. The court will take a decision on various issues —bail plea, whether family can meet Varavara Rao at the hospital, take stock of report to be given by JJ Hospital,’’ Professor Satyanarayana, one of Varavara Rao’s sons-in-law, told TOI. Hemalatha and other family members once again demanded the poet be released on bail. She also sought the help of Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy in the issue. She said that although Telangana police have offered to help them reach Mumbai, there were other concerns. “If court (in Mumbai) grants permission, our family members will go to Mumbai to visit him in hospital. Telangana government granting permission is enough in the context of Covid-19. We will take care of our travel arrangements,’’ she added. For the last several days, members of Forum Against Repression led by Professor Haragopal have been staging protest meets at various places, demanding the release of Varavara Rao and other political prisoners. Varavara Rao’s bail plea may come up for hearing before a local court in Mumbai on June 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wife-demands-video-call-with-varavara/articleshow/76113999.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Out on parole, man robs many in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A criminal who was on a 45-day parole, which was given to some Tihar Jail inmates to ensure social distancing, went on a robbing spree in parts of west and outer Delhi. He was found to be involved in at least a dozen robberies in the past one month. Sandeep was caught from Jahangirpuri and the motorcycle used in the crimes was recovered from him. Insaf Ali who used to sell the robbed goods was also arrested. A police probe revealed that Sandeep would target morning walkers or people walking alone and snatch their mobile phones and other belongings. He had planned to commit back-to-back robberies while on parole and earn as much as he could before returning to the jail. The man, accused in a sensational robbery case in Model Town last year, was released from the jail on humanitarian grounds after he claimed that his daughter had died due to Covid-19. Police are now probing whether at all he had a daughter. If found that he had lied to the court while seeking the parole, he would be charged for perjury as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/out-on-parole-man-robs-many/articleshow/76114420.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||HC notice to Telangana, PCB on PIL over inaction||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has issued notices to the state and its pollution control board officials asking them to explain their stand on a PIL that charged them with inaction in respect of closing the pollutant illegal chemical industries in GHMC area and in Rangareddy and Medak. The bench of chief justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and justice B Vijaysen Reddy, which converted a letter by advocate Ch Ravinder into a PIL, sought replies from the authorities by June 8. Most of these chemical industries are illegal ones and they do not conform to any environmental norms endangering the lives of the people in the vicinity, the petitioner said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-t-pcb-on-pil-over-inaction/articleshow/76114421.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Lucknow||UP to set up ‘Invest Agency’ to handhold domestic investors||Lucknow: To handhold domestic investors and help them set up industries and businesses in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government will set up a ‘UP Invest Agency’ under ‘Udyog Bandhu’. The agency will assist investors from the time they approach the government till they are able to set up their units. The sole focus of this agency will be to assist investors in identifying sites, getting clearances and handling miscellaneous problems till the industry starts work. CM Yogi Adityanath has given an in-principal nod to the body. A cabinet clearance is now awaited to finalise its structure. “UP is gearing up to increase investment in the state by inviting investors, both foreign and domestic. Earlier this month, we had set up help desks for three countries to hand hold their investors. The Invest UP Agency will be dedicated especially to domestic investors,” said industries minister Satish Mahana. The agency will operate under Udyog Bandhu and each investor will be allocated a dedicated officer, who will ensure a smooth transition between the time the investor approaches the government and the point when the industry is set up. The agency will also fast track investments for which the government had signed MoUs during the 2018 Investors’ Summit. “We had signed MoUs worth more than Rs 4.28 lakh crore and carried out ground breaking for projects worth more than Rs 1.20 lakh crore. Several other projects have also been initiated over these two years. The agency will now approach investors with whom MoUs had been signed and see why the projects are pending. If they require any assistance, the agency will be their one point stop for all trouble shooting,” said a senior official in the industries department. In the beginning of May, the government set up a four-member help desk at Udyog Bandhu, headed by the managing director of PICUP, to interact with investors from South Korea, Japan and UP and provide solutions. The government is making concerted efforts to attract investments from these countries as several companies are preparing to wind up their operations in China in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. Email addresses for each of the three countries have also been made for direct interaction with investors. These will be monitored by the helpdesk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-set-up-invest-agency-to-handhold-domestic-investors/articleshow/76114427.cms||Neha Lalchandani
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus recovery rate in Rajasthan at all-time high of 62.6%||JAIPUR: As the state reaches closer to the culmination of lockdown 4.0, Rajasthan’s rate of recovery from Covid-19 has reached its all-time high. Over 62% of the total cases of Covid-19 have recovered in the state. Earlier, the recovery rate was at 59.4% on May 12, but since May 24, it has been increasing continuously and it touched 62.6% on Friday, which is an all-time high. At the start of the month, the rate of recovery was just 41.8%. Since then, the recovery rate kept steadily increasing till May 12. As more and more migrants started reaching the state, the recovery rate started going down after May 12 and it continued to dip till it reached 54.7% on May 24. However, the situation started improving after that and since then, the rate of recovery has been increasing constantly. The health department officials informed chief minister Ashok Gehlot about the recovery rate during review of Covid-19 situation in the state on Saturday. So far, out of 8,141 total Covid-19 patients, 5,290 have recovered or have been cured of Covid-19 in the state. With more persons having recovered, the number of active cases came down to 2,939 till Saturday afternoon. On May 12, the number of active cases was 1,555. Since then, this number continued to increase due to migrants testing positive for the virus and on May 24, the figure of active cases breached the 3,000-mark. Besides this, the mortality rate is 2.2%, which is much less than West Bengal (6.2%), Gujarat (6.1%), Madhya Pradesh (4.3%), Meghalaya (3.7%), Maharashtra (3.3%), Telangana (2.9%), Uttar Pradesh (2.7%) and Delhi (2.2%). On the other hand, Uttarakhand, Kerala and Bihar have the lowest mortality rate from Covid-19 which is 0.7%, 0.7% and 0.4% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/states-recovery-rate-reaches-all-time-high-at-62-6/articleshow/76114422.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
May 31, 2020||Hubballi||43 people discharged in Kalaburagi||KALABURAGI : While two more tested postive on Saturday, 43 people who were infected and have recovered were discharged from hospital. A 42 year old man P-2832 resident of Kalamandargi village in Kamalapur taluk in the district who recently returned from Mumbai tested positive. He was immediately shifted to the Covid-19 ward at ESIC hospital. Another 32-year-old man P-2833, a resident of Venkatesh Nagar in Kalaburagi, also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/43-people-discharged-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/76113535.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Doctors asked to share pics, videos of Covid-19 ward visit||LUCKNOW: Senior doctors of government and private medical institutions in UP will now have to click photographs and shoot videos of themselves while doing rounds in Covid-19 wards and send them to the state medical education department every day. The move is to ensure that senior doctors are following up with their Covid-19 ward duties. The order also mandates that the photographs and videos should be sent to the department via email by 6pm along with a date and time stamp. “Sometimes patients complain that senior doctors don’t visit them by the bedside. The order will serve as a precaution on that front,” said director general of medical education (DGME) Dr KK Gupta. When asked if the doctors have started mailing the photographs, Gupta replied in affirmative and said that the doctors were seen wearing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) in the images. “We of course cannot recognise who it is in the images because of the PPE, but we have to allow that much credibility to our doctors,” he added. The directive has been sent by the DGME to vice-chancellors of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) and UPUMS in Saifai and, directors of SGPGIMS, RML Institute of Medical Sciences, SSPHTI in Greater Noida, GIMS in Noida, Aligarh Muslim University and Banaras Hindu University. Apart from senior faculty members on duty in Covid-19 wards in these medical institutions, senior doctors in government medical colleges of Kanpur, Agra, Gorakhpur, Meerut, Jhansi and Prayagraj and private medical colleges across the state have to follow the order. The order states that directions had come from the state medical education minister and the principal secretary during a video conference on May 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/docs-asked-to-share-pics-videos-of-covid-ward-visit/articleshow/76114431.cms||Yusra Husain
May 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19: 27 test positive in DK, Udupi||MANGALURU/UDUPI: People with a history of inter-state travel continued to fuel the Covid-19 graph of erstwhile undivided Dakshina Kannada district northward. A majority of the 27 positive cases that Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts recorded on Saturday, including 14 in Dakshina Kannada, were people with a history of inter-state travel, and 25 of these cases were returnees from Maharashtra. One case in Dakshina Kannada was a contact of another person, and a patient in Udupi had come from Telangana. Incidentally, this was the scenario in the state as well, with 90 out of 141 positive cases reported during the day being people with a history of inter-state travel. The discharge of 50 patients – five from Dakshina Kannada and 45 from Udupi—brought big relief to the respective district administrations that are battling a huge backlog of swab samples - 5920 in Udupi alone, which could set off a new surge of fresh positive cases in the days ahead. With the day’s development, total positive cases in Dakshina Kannada rose to 113, active cases was 68 and total number of patients discharged stood at 44. The district has also recorded six deaths, and one death due to non-Covid reasons. Udupi on the other hand has a total of 127 active cases against 177 positive cases, 50 discharges and has recorded one death so far. The lone contact case in Dakshina Kannada was that of P-2871, a teenager, who came in contact with P-947 and P-2794 is a 2-year-old girl who returned from Telangana to Udupi. Incidentally, the two coastal districts had recorded a big spike on Thursday, reporting 53 cases collectively. While no case was reported in Dakshina Kannada on Friday, Udupi had recorded 15 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/27-test-ve-in-dk-udupi/articleshow/76113551.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Shramik Special to have its last run on Monday||JAIPUR: Rajasthan government would send its last set of ‘Shramik Special’ train on Monday. Authorities said that they now have few registered migrants mainly from West Bengal, thus they are winding up the operations of these trains. Till Saturday evening the state government had sent 118 trains to different states in which 1.62 lakh migrant workers went home. Also the state government so far has paid nearly Rs 7.87 crores as fare to the railway authorities. Senior officers of the transport department were chalking out the final list of the migrant workers and trains to be sent in next couple of days. “Now we have no passenger load and demand for the Shramik special as for sending a train to a particular state we need 1200 people. So far we have sent trains to various parts of the state. Now we are left with migrant workers of West Bengal and Jharkhand only,” said Ravi Jain, transport commissioner who is coordinating with the North Western railways (NWR) in getting the trains while talking to TOI on Saturday. Jain said that with the proper coordinating with the Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation(RSRTC) migrants from various districts were collected at a particular station from where these trains originated and sent to various parts of the country. Asked about the break up of various states where the trains were sent, he said , “As per the status till 4 pm on Saturday we had sent 59 trains to Bihar, 35 to Uttar Pradesh, nine to West Bengal, seven to Jharkhand, two to Madhya Pradesh and one train each to Andhra Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Kerala, Chattisgarh, Assam and Odisa,” he added. On the other hand NWR authorities said that apart from state government arranging for food packets and water they too have given food, snacks and water to the travelling migrant workers. “Now we have added sanitary napkins for the women migrant workers traveling in these trains,” said a senior officer of NWR. On Saturday the trains which were departed included Jaipur to West Bengal via Jharkhand and Jaipur to West Bengal. “In the first train we have accommodated the migrant workers of Jharkhand and West bengal and in another train we have sent workers to West Bengal,” he added. Four other trains that are planned for Sunday and Monday including Jaipur Via Alwar to West Bengal, Jaipur to New Jalpaigudi to Guwahati, Ajmer to New Jalpaigudi, Jaipur to Howrah. Movement of Shramik Special trains till 4pm on Saturday 118 trains have been sent to 11 states: Bihar (59), Uttar Pradesh (35), West Bengal (9), Jharkhand (7), Madhya Pradesh (2), Uttarakhand (1), Andhra Pradesh (1), Kerala (1), Chhattisgarh (1), Assam (1), Odisha (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/shramik-special-to-have-its-last-run-on-monday/articleshow/76116303.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Shramik Special to have its last run on Monday||JAIPUR: Rajasthan government would send its last set of ‘Shramik Special’ train on Monday. Authorities said that they now have few registered migrants mainly from West Bengal, thus they are winding up the operations of these trains. Till Saturday evening the state government had sent 118 trains to different states in which 1.62 lakh migrant workers went home. Also the state government so far has paid nearly Rs 7.87 crores as fare to the railway authorities. Senior officers of the transport department were chalking out the final list of the migrant workers and trains to be sent in next couple of days. “Now we have no passenger load and demand for the Shramik special as for sending a train to a particular state we need 1200 people. So far we have sent trains to various parts of the state. Now we are left with migrant workers of West Bengal and Jharkhand only,” said Ravi Jain, transport commissioner who is coordinating with the North Western railways (NWR) in getting the trains while talking to TOI on Saturday. Jain said that with the proper coordinating with the Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation(RSRTC) migrants from various districts were collected at a particular station from where these trains originated and sent to various parts of the country. Asked about the break up of various states where the trains were sent, he said , “As per the status till 4 pm on Saturday we had sent 59 trains to Bihar, 35 to Uttar Pradesh, nine to West Bengal, seven to Jharkhand, two to Madhya Pradesh and one train each to Andhra Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Kerala, Chattisgarh, Assam and Odisa,” he added. On the other hand NWR authorities said that apart from state government arranging for food packets and water they too have given food, snacks and water to the travelling migrant workers. “Now we have added sanitary napkins for the women migrant workers traveling in these trains,” said a senior officer of NWR. On Saturday the trains which were departed included Jaipur to West Bengal via Jharkhand and Jaipur to West Bengal. “In the first train we have accommodated the migrant workers of Jharkhand and West bengal and in another train we have sent workers to West Bengal,” he added. Four other trains that are planned for Sunday and Monday including Jaipur Via Alwar to West Bengal, Jaipur to New Jalpaigudi to Guwahati, Ajmer to New Jalpaigudi, Jaipur to Howrah. Movement of Shramik Special trains till 4pm on Saturday 118 trains have been sent to 11 states: Bihar (59), Uttar Pradesh (35), West Bengal (9), Jharkhand (7), Madhya Pradesh (2), Uttarakhand (1), Andhra Pradesh (1), Kerala (1), Chhattisgarh (1), Assam (1), Odisha (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shramik-special-to-have-its-last-run-on-monday/articleshow/76114430.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 31, 2020||Agra||Drunk man climbs atop mobile tower in Firozabad for 'fresh air', passes out||Agra: Frustrated over being locked down for two months, a man stepped out in Firozabad, got drunk and climbed atop a mobile tower to "get some fresh air". After nearly a two-hour struggle, he was brought down with the help of his uncle and intervention of local police. The man was identified as Lalit, resident of Gulab Nagar area of Tundla police limits. He climbed the mobile tower around 1pm and fell asleep. Eventually, a local fire brigade and police team rushed to the spot to rescue him. Station house officer (SHO) Tundla Gyanendra Kumar said, “Lalit was so drunk that after climbing atop the mobile tower he passed out for nearly half an hour. When he failed to respond to our appeals, we sent his uncle to pursue him and bring him back to safety.” Lalit’s uncle Peshiram said, “This was not the first time. Earlier, as well, he had climbed atop a tower in an inebriated state. I am scared of heights but I had to save him.” A very dispirited Lalit, after coming back to reality, said, “Due to the lockdown, I had nowhere to roam. Therefore, I climbed the tower for some fresh air and fell asleep. While I am thankful for my uncle who brought me down safely, I think no one would have really cared if I had even died or ended up with an injury.” Lalit was taken to the police station but was released with a warning. The station house officer (SHO) of Tundla said, “He was drunk and he harmed no one, so we let him go.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/drunk-man-climbs-atop-mobile-tower-in-firozabad-for-fresh-air-passes-out/articleshow/76108247.cms||Arvind Chauhan
May 31, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Shramik Special to have its last run on Monday||JAIPUR: Rajasthan government would send its last set of ‘Shramik Special’ train on Monday. Authorities said that they now have few registered migrants mainly from West Bengal, thus they are winding up the operations of these trains. Till Saturday evening the state government had sent 118 trains to different states in which 1.62 lakh migrant workers went home. Also the state government so far has paid nearly Rs 7.87 crores as fare to the railway authorities. Senior officers of the transport department were chalking out the final list of the migrant workers and trains to be sent in next couple of days. “Now we have no passenger load and demand for the Shramik special as for sending a train to a particular state we need 1200 people. So far we have sent trains to various parts of the state. Now we are left with migrant workers of West Bengal and Jharkhand only,” said Ravi Jain, transport commissioner who is coordinating with the North Western railways (NWR) in getting the trains while talking to TOI on Saturday. Jain said that with the proper coordinating with the Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation(RSRTC) migrants from various districts were collected at a particular station from where these trains originated and sent to various parts of the country. Asked about the break up of various states where the trains were sent, he said , “As per the status till 4 pm on Saturday we had sent 59 trains to Bihar, 35 to Uttar Pradesh, nine to West Bengal, seven to Jharkhand, two to Madhya Pradesh and one train each to Andhra Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Kerala, Chattisgarh, Assam and Odisa,” he added. On the other hand NWR authorities said that apart from state government arranging for food packets and water they too have given food, snacks and water to the travelling migrant workers. “Now we have added sanitary napkins for the women migrant workers traveling in these trains,” said a senior officer of NWR. On Saturday the trains which were departed included Jaipur to West Bengal via Jharkhand and Jaipur to West Bengal. “In the first train we have accommodated the migrant workers of Jharkhand and West bengal and in another train we have sent workers to West Bengal,” he added. Four other trains that are planned for Sunday and Monday including Jaipur Via Alwar to West Bengal, Jaipur to New Jalpaigudi to Guwahati, Ajmer to New Jalpaigudi, Jaipur to Howrah. Movement of Shramik Special trains till 4pm on Saturday 118 trains have been sent to 11 states: Bihar (59), Uttar Pradesh (35), West Bengal (9), Jharkhand (7), Madhya Pradesh (2), Uttarakhand (1), Andhra Pradesh (1), Kerala (1), Chhattisgarh (1), Assam (1), Odisha (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/shramik-special-to-have-its-last-run-on-monday/articleshow/76116301.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Shramik Special to have its last run on Monday||JAIPUR: Rajasthan government would send its last set of ‘Shramik Special’ train on Monday. Authorities said that they now have few registered migrants mainly from West Bengal, thus they are winding up the operations of these trains. Till Saturday evening the state government had sent 118 trains to different states in which 1.62 lakh migrant workers went home. Also the state government so far has paid nearly Rs 7.87 crores as fare to the railway authorities. Senior officers of the transport department were chalking out the final list of the migrant workers and trains to be sent in next couple of days. “Now we have no passenger load and demand for the Shramik special as for sending a train to a particular state we need 1200 people. So far we have sent trains to various parts of the state. Now we are left with migrant workers of West Bengal and Jharkhand only,” said Ravi Jain, transport commissioner who is coordinating with the North Western railways (NWR) in getting the trains while talking to TOI on Saturday. Jain said that with the proper coordinating with the Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation(RSRTC) migrants from various districts were collected at a particular station from where these trains originated and sent to various parts of the country. Asked about the break up of various states where the trains were sent, he said , “As per the status till 4 pm on Saturday we had sent 59 trains to Bihar, 35 to Uttar Pradesh, nine to West Bengal, seven to Jharkhand, two to Madhya Pradesh and one train each to Andhra Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Kerala, Chattisgarh, Assam and Odisa,” he added. On the other hand NWR authorities said that apart from state government arranging for food packets and water they too have given food, snacks and water to the travelling migrant workers. “Now we have added sanitary napkins for the women migrant workers traveling in these trains,” said a senior officer of NWR. On Saturday the trains which were departed included Jaipur to West Bengal via Jharkhand and Jaipur to West Bengal. “In the first train we have accommodated the migrant workers of Jharkhand and West bengal and in another train we have sent workers to West Bengal,” he added. Four other trains that are planned for Sunday and Monday including Jaipur Via Alwar to West Bengal, Jaipur to New Jalpaigudi to Guwahati, Ajmer to New Jalpaigudi, Jaipur to Howrah. Movement of Shramik Special trains till 4pm on Saturday 118 trains have been sent to 11 states: Bihar (59), Uttar Pradesh (35), West Bengal (9), Jharkhand (7), Madhya Pradesh (2), Uttarakhand (1), Andhra Pradesh (1), Kerala (1), Chhattisgarh (1), Assam (1), Odisha (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/shramik-special-to-have-its-last-run-on-monday/articleshow/76116302.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||324 cadets pass out of MRC||Udhagamandalam: As many as 324 soldiers passed out of the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington near Coonoor after 46 weeks of training on Saturday. Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh,SC, SM, Commandant, MRC, reviewed the passing out parade. “The continuous improvement in training methodology and mechanism implemented with innovative initiatives have revolutionized the way the centre trainsed recruits and achieved the highest standards desired,” he said. Officers of MRC attended the function. However, parents of the young soldiers could not witness the attestation parade due to the novel coronavirus restrictions. The 324 recruits will join various battalions shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/324-cadets-pass-out-of-mrc/articleshow/76113581.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru Zoo may reopen in June first week: Min||MYSURU: Cooperation and Mysuru district minister ST Somashekhar on Saturday said the decision to reopen the Mysuru zoo and other tourist places for tourists across the district will be taken by the state government once lockdown measures announced by the centre end on May 31. The decision to open the Zoo in the first week of June will be taken only after discussing with local political functionaries like MLA SA Ramdas and the district administration, he added. The minister handed over a cheque of Rs 25.14 lakh to the authorities of Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens for its maintenance. So far, the minister alone has donated Rs 2.85 crore to the zoo after collecting funds from donors including Rs 22 lakh from Infosys Foundation. The minister said he has been doing whatever best he can do for the promotion of zoo activities. The minister said the Association of Kannada Koota of America (AKKA) will be donating Rs 27 lakh to the zoo and that he will hold a videoconference with them on Saturday night. Council polls on June 5 Referring to the legislative council polls, the minister said elections to fill 16 vacant posts to the upper house will be held on June 5. BJP can nominate at least nine seats. The cabinet members and the chief minister can recommend anyone’s name to the council as CM has all discretionary powers, he said. He also clarified that he and other MLAs who had defected to BJP stand united behind H Vishwanath, Shankar and MTB Nagaraj to be nominated to the council. “The hurdles to contest the bypolls for the two other defected MLAs Pratap Gowda and Muniratna have also been cleared. All of us are together to fulfil their wishes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-zoo-may-reopen-in-june-first-week-min/articleshow/76113569.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Desilted Hyderabad nalas cough up plastic||HYDERABAD: Desilting of nalas ahead monsoon revealed rampant usage of plastic in the city. Around 30% of the silt removed consisted of plastic. As per Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) records, as a part of yearly schedule, 4.79 lakh cubic meters silt should be removed and civic body has already removed 2.6 lakh cubic metres silt. “Water was not flowing freely in several nalas as they were filled with garbage. Plastics covers, bottles, beds and broken furniture were thrown in city nalas,” said a GHMC official. “Plastic obstructs free flow of water, it chokes pipelines resulting in inundation. Plastic also chokes manholes and culverts resulting in water-logged streets,” said a GHMC official. GHMC imposed a ban on manufacturing products below 50 microns, including plastic carry bags. According to officials, GHMC held several meetings with owners of plastic manufacturing units and sealed the ones flouting norms. “We warned the units against manufacturing any product below 50 microns thickness. GHMC’s directorate of enforcement, vigilance and disaster management sealed units in Kattedan which were flouting norms by manufacturing plastic carry bags below 50 microns,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/desilted-city-nalas-cough-up-plastic/articleshow/76114433.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||Tobacco addiction one of biggest public health threats in Covid times||WORLD NO TOBACCO DAYNagpur: Vidarbha is infamous for Kharra, a tobacco mix, and Nagpur is termed as ‘Kharra Capital’ by anti-tobacco activists in the country. Harmful effects of tobacco on physical and mental health are well known. Yet, tobacco, in its various forms, enjoys wide popularity and cultural acceptance. In the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic, tobacco addiction is one of the biggest public health threats the world has ever faced, killing more than eight million people annually. More than seven million of those deaths are the result of direct tobacco use while around 1.2 million are the result of non-smokers being exposed to second-hand smoke. According to experts at AIIMS Nagpur, the number of users of tobacco in its varied forms surpass alcohol and other drugs by a great margin. Latest additions to this variety are e-cigarettes and shisha or hookahs. Even though knowledge of deadly effects of tobacco is commonplace and warnings are printed on packets, it is one of the hardest addictions to quit. “Latest figures indicate that more than 20% of Indians have moderate to high tobacco dependence. Easy availability is one of the prime reasons behind unsuccessful quitting resolutions year after year,” said Dr Suyog Jaiswal, associate professor, department of psychiatry, AIIMS Nagpur. Even the way tobacco is portrayed in popular media, including movies, makes it an appealing novelty for the youth and a “cool fad” to the impressionable minds, say experts. “The reason of this helpless cycle of tobacco use goes beyond peer pressure or social obligations. Prolonged tobacco use changes the neurochemistry of the human brain irreversibly, because of which it qualifies as a disorder rather than just a habit,” Dr Sreelakshmi V, assistant professor at AIIMS. With professional help comprising of therapy, behaviour modifications and or medications, one can achieve successful abstinence. “Simple interventions such as buying one cigarette at a time, decreasing the frequency and quantity of tobacco, setting a quit date etc can help one begin the journey towards abstinence. Medicines like nicotine chewing gums, patches etc can help with the craving and withdrawal that occurs on stopping tobacco,” said Dr Sonakshi Jyrwa, assistant professor, department of psychiatry, AIIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tobacco-addiction-one-of-biggest-public-health-threats-in-covid-times/articleshow/76114541.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 51L seized from check post on TN-K’taka border||Udhagamandalam: The Masinagudi police on Saturday seized Rs 51 lakh from a van at Kakkanallah check post on the Tamil Nadu –Karnataka border in the Nilgiris. Police have booked a case against K Sachin Madhukar Mahadin, 24, who was heading towards the Nilgiris in the van from Kollegal in Karnataka. “Sachin’s family is running a jewellery shop in Kollegal. He told us that he had come to Gudalur to purchase gold. He has promised to provide the necessary documents pertaining to the cash transfer within two days,” sub-inspector Nicholas Jeyan said. Police also informed the income tax department about the seizure. “Income tax officials have asked us to keep the confiscated cash under safe custody in the government treasury till the inquiry is over. We are undertaking the procedure for the same,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-51l-seized-from-check-post-on-tn-ktaka-border/articleshow/76113591.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Seven chartered repatriation flights from Gulf to land at M’luru||MANGALURU: Along with Vande Bharat Mission flights, chartered flights from Dubai and Saudi Arabia will land at Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) in the first and second week of June. These chartered flights have been arranged by expatriate Mangalurean businessmen to ferry their employees and their families. As of now, seven chartered flights, including five from Dammam in Saudi Arabia, are expected to land at MIA. If all goes well, a SpiceJet flight chartered by Praveen Shetty, chairman of the Fortune Group of Hotels, and president of the Karnataka Non-Resident Indian Forum (KNRI), is expected to land on June 1, carrying 177 passengers. Confirming this to STOI over phone, Praveen said that the flight will bring his hotel staff and their family members working in Dubai, home. They are from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kasaragod districts. “I have also booked three hotels, including two in Udupi, so that they can be quarantined. All expenses of the staff will be borne by the company,” he said, and thanked the Dakshina Kannada district administration and MIA authorities for their cooperation. Six chartered repatriation flights from Saudi Arabia will land at MIA. One of these chartered flights is sponsored by Althaf Ullal, managing director and Basheer Sagar, CEO, of Saad Al Qahtani Contracting (SAQCO), based in Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia. This flight will repatriate 167 passengers who cannot afford to come back to India. The rest of the five chartered flights from Saudi Arabia are sponsored by expatriate businessmen from Mangaluru, to repatriate their stranded employees. Asif Ahmed, founder of Team B- Human, who is coordinating the effort from Mangaluru, for the flights from Saudi Arabia, said that K S Sheikh Karnire, director of Expertise-Contracting Company Limited, Saudi Arabia, has already booked nine chartered flights to India, out which two will land at MIA. Each flight will have 180 passengers on board. Zakariya Jokatte, CEO of Al Muzain Company, Saudi Arabia, has chartered three flights to carry home his employees and their families. The first flight is expected to land on Tuesday. Asif also added that Zakariya has also planned for another chartered flight to carry Mangalureans who are stranded in Saudi Arabia, and is waiting for the Indian government’s permission for the same. Once these passengers reach Mangaluru, the companies have also made arrangements for their quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/7-chartered-repatriation-flights-from-gulf-to-land-at-mluru/articleshow/76113587.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
May 31, 2020||Meerut||Youth held for inappropriate comments against PM Modi||BIJNOR: A youth was on Saturday arrested for allegedly making inappropriate comments against Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Facebook on Friday. Following a complaint lodged by BJP city president Pukhraj Saini, Chandpur police booked the youth and arrested him. According to inspector Ajay Kumar, "The youth was booked under section 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the IT Act. He has been arrested and an investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-held-for-inappropriatecomments-against-pm-modi/articleshow/76112670.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Corbett records 1st tiger death this year; post-mortem reveals big cat died of internal injuries, starvation||Dehradun: Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) recorded the year’s first tiger death on Friday. An adult tigress succumbed to internal injuries caused by in-fighting, coupled with hunger here, according to veterinary experts. The tigress was spotted by patrolling staff on Thursday evening, who decided to take it to a rescue centre for treatment. However, it died before reaching there. Officials have ruled out poaching and the veterinary doctor who conducted the post mortem said that the tigress died of “maggot infestation.” “The tigress’s spinal cord was in a curvaceous form, indicating injury. Its body had deep wounds, which were infested with maggots for more than 48 hours. Its incisors were missing due to ageing, which is probably why it couldn’t hunt and died of its injuries and hunger,” said Dr Dushyant Sharma, senior veterinary doctor at CTR. This is the third tiger death in the state, as per forest department sources. The first death of a tiger was reported in Haridwar in March, followed by another in Pauri Garhwal. Meanwhile, the carcass of a year-old leopard cub was also found in Terai West of Western Circle of the forest department at Udaipuri Bandobasti on Friday. “The cub’s neck was broken and its thoracic part smashed. The animal was not in a good shape overall and had probably been hit by a vehicle. Veterinary doctors couldn’t ascertain the exact cause of death, apart from injuries as the prime cause,” said Himanshu Bagri, DFO, Terai West. Meanwhile, the entire forest department has gone into alert mode after the two big cat deaths. To recall, Wildlife Crime Control Bureau had already alerted states regarding possible rise in poaching activities in forests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corbett-records-1st-tiger-death-this-year-post-mortem-reveals-big-cat-died-of-internal-injuries-starvation/articleshow/76112667.cms||Shivani Azad
May 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Release salary of professionals appointed under NHM: Khader||MANGALURU: Former health minister and Mangaluru MLA U T Khader on Saturday demanded that the state government immediately release salaries of doctors, nurses and lab technicians hired under the National Health Mission. Dismissing tokenism in their name, after dubbing them corona warriors, Khader said these front-line warriors needed peace of mind to put in the extra hours their profession demanded of them, and not worry about their domestic front. Noting that these doctors have been tirelessly toiling for the last two months, literally without a break, due to the pandemic, Khader told reporters that more than 15,000 such professionals have not received their remuneration since the outbreak of the pandemic. “Even they too need to lead a life of dignity and self-reliance, and it is the duty of the government to ensure timely release of their salaries, as well as extra incentive for putting their lives on the line,” he noted. Noting that even ASHA workers have not fully received their remuneration, Khader said on the other hand chief minister B S Yediyurappa has assured to pay them incentive for manning the front line in hostile circumstances. These assurances will be meaningful only when it is translated into action, Khader said, adding if the government fails to act on it, the Congress will be forced to launch an agitation seeking justice for these people. Noting that the then Siddaramaiah government had taken a decision to regularise the services of all professionals recruited under the National Health Mission (NHM) if they put in three years of regular service, Khader said the onus of following it up lies with the minister concerned. “We took the list of such doctors before the cabinet and got it ratified,” Khader said, adding the government must show the resolve to take administrative decisions that benefit people in such testing times. Khader also demanded that the state government spell out an action plan on how it intends to handle the influx of Kannadigas eager to return to the state from others states and even abroad, after its moratorium period of June 15. The action plan should have a clear plan on quarantine and testing facilities for these people, based on registrations done in the Seva Sindhu portal, he said, adding that refusing to accommodate them will be against the tenets of the federal structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/release-salary-of-professionals-appointed-under-nhm-khader/articleshow/76113593.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||CM ignoring spurt in Covid cases: Telangana Congress||HYDERABAD: Expressing serious concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, Telangana Congress treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy said that the chief minister is busy with inaugurations, poojas and yagnams rather than focusing on containing the pandemic. “KCR violated the physical distancing norms and no one was wearing a mask during the inauguration of Konda Pochamma Sagar project on Friday. With the CM not wearing mask and not maintaining physical distance, a wrong message has gone to the people that Covid-19 scare was no more relevant,” he said. Stating that the actual numbers could be much higher if the state increases the testing percentage and permits private labs to conduct tests, Narayana Reddy demanded that the state government should immediately appoint a senior epidemiologist to advise the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-ignoring-spurt-in-covid-cases-t-cong/articleshow/76114447.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Man, 30, found dead near dam||Coimbatore: A 30-year-old man was found dead near Kovilmedu pump house at the backwater area of Bhavanisagar dam in Sirumugai on Friday evening with a rope around the neck. The deceased was identified as M Subramani of Sujil Kuttai near Bhavanisagar in Erode district. He was working as a driver, police sources said. “He was also employed by some people, who had won the auction of fishing rights of the dam, to stop poachers. Subramani used to roam in the dam area in his SUV to check poaching and had left his house on Thursday night after receiving a call from his friends. He was found dead near the pump house at Irumbarai in Sirumugai on Friday evening. A rope was tied to his neck,” a police officer said. Forensic experts who inspected the crime scene said that he was strangled to death. A sniffer dog ran towards the pump house before it lost the scent. A motorcycle was found abandoned 500 metre away from the crime scene. The body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. The Sirumugai police have registered a case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code and formed two special teams to nab the murderers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-30-found-dead-near-dam/articleshow/76113595.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Dhole Patil Road ward adds 743 cases in just two weeks||PUNE: The areas under the Dhole Patil Road, Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori and Bibvewadi ward offices have recorded maximum rise in Covid-19 cases in the last two weeks, leaving their residents most vulnerable to the contagion. While the Dhole Patil Road ward areas added 743 cases in the 15-day period between May 15 and 29, the localities under the Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori and Bibvewadi wards added 398 and 278 cases, respectively. “All these wards have densely populated localities, including slums. Extensive contract tracing and rigorous surveillance carried out in these pockets is the reason for such rise in cases,” a civic official said. Bhavani Peth, which had recorded the highest number of cases in the initial period of Covid-19 spread in the PMC limits, is now on the fourth spot with the increase of 231 new cases in the last two weeks A senior civic official said, “The Dhole Patil Road ward has witnessed an outbreak, with the emergence of some localities as new Covid-19 hotspots. For instance, coronavirus cases have shown a spike in slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) scheme known as Manjulbai chawl. The administration has already initiated thorough checking in all these areas. Similar steps are under way in the areas around containment zones of Yerawada and Bibvewadi wards. In case of detection of positive case, our teams are conducing medical check-ups of all the people in the buffer zone.” The PMC had identified 10 micro-containment zones in Bibvewadi area two weeks ago. Five such zones were identified in Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori. The other wards reporting significant rise in coronavirus cases include Kasba-Vishrambaug ward that added 179 cases, Wanowrie-Ramtekdi and Hadapsar wards, which added 167 and 127 cases, respectively. The Sinhagad Road area, which had 20 cases on May 15, added 107 cases in the two weeks. The Shivajinagar-Ghole Road, which has been among the top five wards in terms of maximum positive case load, has added 122 cases. The Aundh, Kothrud and Warje wards continued to remain at the bottom with least addition of cases. While Aundh-Baner ward added 14 cases, Kothrud-Bavdhan and Warje-Karvenagar reported 18 and 21 new cases, respectively. The PMC has initiated mapping of existing 65 containment zones based on detection of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dhole-patil-road-ward-adds-743-cases-in-just-two-weeks/articleshow/76114439.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||Sensitization on health, hygiene to be promoted through curriculum: Union HRD Min||Nagpur: Union human resources and development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal spoke to TOI about school reopening, online teaching and creating awareness about Covid-19 among school kids. With crores of school students not having access to smartphones, isn’t the push for online education catering to a select few?MHRD is committed to ensuring learning for all, with equity, so as to cover all students at all levels of education and in all geographical locations, even in the remotest parts of the country. Mechanisms developed to provide textbooks to all children at home. Alternative Academic Calendar has been developed by NCERT for all classes, it provides option for teachers to guide learners through mobile to other reference sources such as dictionary, atlas, news headlines, storybooks, etc. I am also thankful to Honorable Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitaraman for announcing the launch of comprehensive initiative called PM e-VIDYA which unifies all efforts related to digital/online/on-air education. This will enable multi-mode access to education, and includes: a. DIKSHA (one nation-one digital platform) which will now become the nation’s digital infrastructure for providing quality e-content in school education for all the states/UTs; b. TV (one class-one channel) where one dedicated channel per grade for each of the classes 1 to 12 will provide access to quality educational material:c. SWAYAM online courses in MOOCS format for school and higher education;d. IITPAL for IITJEE/NEET preparation;e. Air through Community radio and CBSE Shiksha Vani podcast; and f. Study material for the differently abled developed on Digitally Accessible Information System (DAISY) and in sign language on NIOS website/ YouTube. This will benefit nearly 25 crore school going children across the country.TV channels for education (through DD) again work on assumption of television sets at every house where smartphones are not available. Many Urban slum dwellers and inhabitants of villages (like Gadchiroli) don’t have a TV. How is the ministry going to address this section of the society?MHRD accepts and acknowledges the varied conditions of the students and is thereby working tirelessly to derive solutions for all such that no one is left untouched from the power of education. Mechanisms developed to provide textbooks to all children at home. The curriculum is being transacted using community radio too. States are doing remarkable efforts.Assam - Biswa Vidya Radio Learning Program aired through AIR Guwahati Dibrugarh, Tele classes through doordarshan for class X & XI, formed Whatsapp group, Phone call & conference call, Webex licenseBihar Education Project Council (BEPC) has announced to introduce learning for students of Class 8 to 12 via radio broadcast in order to facilitate home-schooling amid lockdown. This decision has been taken to begin the new academic session on time.Language is another barrier because entire state government setups mostly operate through vernacular Schools. How is content being generated for non-Hindi , non-English medium schoolsMHRD has taken several to promote, publisese and conserve vernacular languages. The same idea is up kept while devising the digital medium of learning. SWAYAM offers 100 courses in 8 regional languages i.e. Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi Tamil and Telugu. Language can be learnt through eGyanKosh and IGNOU online courses. The National Digital Library (NDL) has a repository of e-content on multiple disciplines from primary to PG levels. 4.3 crores content, harvested from 250 sources; in 400 languages. At school level, DIKSHA hosts more than 80,000 curriculum-linked and curated content pieces in 15 languages (mediums of instruction). The Alternative Curriculum developed by NCERT in three languages. In some states, like Maharashtra, there seems to a push for reopening of schools as soon as possible by government. Whereas Academicians and parents feel this should be the last thing that opens upMinistry of Home Affairs will be coming up with guidelines on the opening of the educational institutes. Thereafter, education being a concurrent subject, state governments will assess the situation in the specific zones / district and states before opening of schools. Will information about infectious diseases (Coronavirus etc) be somehow incorporated into curriculum to increase awareness level of kids.I have conducted webinars with students, teachers and parents to spread sensitization on COVID-19 and to address the issues and challenges being faced by them during COVID. The curriculum already encapsulates the study on the infectious disease. However, from now the sensitization on health and hygiene will be promoted more through the academic and hidden curriculum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sensitization-on-health-hygiene-to-be-promoted-through-curriculum-union-hrd-min/articleshow/76119790.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sexual harassment goes online, complaints pour in||MUMBAI: Calls at odd hours, unwarranted requests for video calls, gender-biased comments and inappropriate language used in a virtual team meeting. These are the complaints of sexual harassment that have been filed during the lockdown, opening a whole new can of worms for organisations. Home has become an extended workplace for organisations over the past two months. Despite working remotely, there have been a number of cases under PoSH (Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace), albeit through the virtual medium. Lawyers and firms dealing in PoSH cases said while one would have thought such cases would hit a low in a lockdown, complaints around such behaviour reveal that organisations haven’t worked hard enough on sensitising employees on such matters. Devika Singh, advocate & founder of Cohere Consultants, which specialises in various complaince services, said: “We have been quite busy simply because we are getting such complaints of an increasingly virtual and electronic nature. In the last month and a half, we have supported our clients with about 12-14 cases, concerning objectionable text messages, friend requests on social media, with repeated reminders to accept the same during wor-related phone calls; chats and video calls at unusual hours; late night texts being received or calls being made on pretext of work being taken into personal topics.” Sharing of images of an inappropriate nature, sexist jokes in team groups have also been reported in the last two months. Interweave Consulting handled two cases which were resolved through an online investigation and included cross-examinations as well, said Nirmala Menon, founder & CEO, Interweave Consulting. “When one is in an office, there are certain norms one instinctively follows. Employees pick up cues that tell them that they need to behave appropriately. On the other hand, at home there is likely to be a certain feeling of informality that lends itself to more personal conversations and disclosures. With no one monitoring, the informality of home working (from a couch or from your bedroom for lack of space) combined with the odd hours that many have accepted as the norm in home working, there is a higher tendency to engage in conversations that one may not otherwise indulge in, in an office environment,” said Menon. Another subset of complaints concern, managers taking gender based discriminatory decisions on work allocation. “In one case, the manager wanted to rotate out the female resources in his team because they had children. He was given a warning and counselled to not be discriminatory and manage his resources better. In another instance, on a video call, a manager lost his cool and while using intemperate language for a delayed task said ‘women should just leave their jobs and handle their kitchens. Anyways, there are so many men looking for work now’,” said Singh. However, questions are being raised as to whether PoSH can be applicable to home as a workplace. Singh said just as the “work day” has become obsolete with flexi-work and the remote workplace, the physical premise has also become obsolete. When a person is working from home, the person is using his or her home premises or his and/or connectivity or devices during the course of employment, it is highly likely that the person’s home could be considered their workplace for the purposes of application of the law. “The SHWP Act is ground-breaking in several ways. One of these is the wide definition it has for workplace under Section 2 (o). This definition builds within it the notion of an extended workplace – i.e., any place visited by the employee arising out of or during the course of employment including transportation provided by the employer for undertaking such journey,” said Singh. Vishal Kedia, PoSH trainer and founder of Complykaro, said: “Companies that are struggling with work-from-home, may not consider PoSH training as a priority. They are trying to postpone it for now. We have seen cases of inappropriate messaging and propositioning taking place over calls. Some companies are wondering whether they need to include these in the number of PoSH cases in their balancesheets. We have advised companies not to linger on such complaints. It can be investigated through a video call. A few companies we have spoken to said they want to conduct face-to-face inquiries instead of doing it online.” There is a lot at stake for organisations that do not take cognizance of such behaviours. “Besides, the fact that it is a compliance requirement, negligence of such matters can result in huge reputational implications that can be hard to recover from,” said Menon. Singh said it is imperative that companies come to terms with this new normal of the home being a workplace. “Employees need to be reminded to not let go of their code of conduct merely because they are feeling at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sexual-harassment-goes-online-plaints-pour-in/articleshow/76114455.cms||Namrata Singh
May 31, 2020||Meerut||Industries feel their wings clipped by Covid restrictions||MEERUT: With around 30% skilled labourers returned to villages, supply chain snapped, movable capital stuck in the market and avenues to move final products not in sight due to the on-going lockdown, as many as 1,000 industries, mostly Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), which get the permission to operate in non-containment zones find their wings clipped by the Covid-19 restrictions. “The procurement of raw material is an issue and then the movement of the finished product is also an issue. Almost 30% of labourers have gone and are not going to return any time soon, and above all, there are issues with the district administration regarding terms of permits to start industrial units. Problems like these are sliding us into a state of recession,” says Anurag Agarwal, president, the Meerut Chapter of the Indian Industries Association (IIA). Nearly 4,000 manufacturing units in Meerut had around 2.5 lakh skilled labourers working for them before the lockdown, but now a sizable 30% of labourers — mostly from Bihar and Jharkhand — have returned to their villages. Besides, industry and trade bodies had umpteen meetings with the district administration, bargaining hard for the reopening of production units on “reasonable” terms. “It’s been weeks since we are trying to explain to the administration to let us work otherwise the entire system will collapse. Though they have given some relaxations, those are not enough. An industrial unit doesn’t work in isolation and there have to be regular interactions with the outside world,” said Agarwal. Chief development officer Isha Duhan, however, said, “We (Meerut) are still a red zone, yet we have permitted all those units, except those in containment zones, to reopen after they applied for it. We also want normalcy to return sooner than later, but checking the spread of Covid infection remains our primary objective. We are holding meetings with the industry captains to resolve their issues regularly. These are unprecedented times.” “This virus is not going anywhere in the near future. We have to learn to live with it and the two months’ training (the lockdown phase) is enough. Government and administration must understand the seriousness of the situation. Lakhs of people are exhausting their meagre savings by sitting at home. Replenishment is the need of the hour,” said a trader who wished not to be quoted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/despite-getting-approval-to-resume-industriesfeel-their-wings-clipped-by-covid-restrictions/articleshow/76112681.cms||Sandeep Rai
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Private schools conduct online classes for kindergarten kids too||Coimbatore: The private school managements have decided to start online classes for students from June to cover the syllabus on time, even as they continue to wait for the state government to announce school reopening date and guidelines to be followed. Meanwhile, to the shock of many parents, several schools in the district have sent timetable for the kindergarten and primary school students.A parent, requesting anonymity, says she was taken aback when she received the message from the school saying online classes for her son, who is in second grade at kindergarten level, would resume from Monday.Pointing out that he would have two one-hour sessions with a 30-minute break from 9.30am to 12 noon she said, “It is going to be really challenging to make him sit in front of laptop for such a long time as I also have to do my office work simultaneously.”R Amritha, a parent of a Class III student, says her son’s half-day online classes will start from Wednesday. “I have to sit with him through the entire session to make him sit in front of laptop. At a time, when there is massive layoff at workplaces, how can I afford to spend the entire morning – the busiest time of the day – with my son? I can’t ignore him too and his studies are equally important for me. I will have to make some alternative arrangements to complete my work before his online sessions begin as we both share the same laptop.”Apart from conducting classes, the schools are also providing students worksheets for an entire week and setting daily targets, says J Kannan, another parent of a kindergarten student. He says his son had been receiving worksheets and attending online classes ever since schools were closed following lockdown.“It seems they are conducting online classes for kids for the only purpose of collecting fees. Days after the classes were made mandatory, the school management started asking us to pay a portion of school fees for the smooth conduct of classes. Left with no other option, we had to arrange money and pay the fees,” says Kannan. R Vishalakshi, president, Tamil Nadu Private Matriculation Schools’ Association, says the call on conducting online classes is taken by each school independently.Acknowledging it is difficult to conduct online classes for students in kindergarten and Classes I to III, she says the very idea is to keep them engaged and strengthen the bond between students and teachers. “For the students of higher classes, online classes are conducted to brush up the previous years’ syllabus and introduce the current year’s syllabus to them. Full-fledged classes could be conducted only after the schools reopen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/private-schools-conduct-online-classes-for-kindergarten-kids-too/articleshow/76113601.cms||Nivedha Selvam
May 31, 2020||Pune||151 people turn positive in Pune, least 24-hour tally since May 16||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 case count in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) dropped to 151 on Saturday, least since May 16. With this, the total case count in the region has risen to 7,465. Besides, eight more patients succumbed to the contagion in PMR on Saturday, pushing the casualty count to 329. Of the new cases, 115 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, 17 in Pimpri Chinchwad civic areas and 19 in rural and Cantonment areas. Among the eight deceased, barring one all other patients were aged over 60. Three deaths were recorded at the Sassoon hospital. These included a 74-year-old man from Tadiwala Road, a 63-year-old woman from Bibvewadi and an 80-year-old man from Parvati. Five patients died at private hospitals. These included a 69-year-old man from Yerawada, a 69-year-old man from Wanowrie, a 58-year-old man from Dhayari, a 47-year-old patient from Ganj Peth and an 89-year-old woman from Daund. Over 207 patients were in critical condition, of which 43 were on ventilator support till Saturday night. 1,311 swab samples were sent for testing on Saturday. 144 patients, including 38 from PCMC limits, were declared cured and discharged. (With inputs from Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/151-people-turn-positive-in-pune-least-24-hour-tally-since-may-16/articleshow/76114442.cms||Sarang Dastane
May 31, 2020||Meerut||Used PPE kits found outside postmortem house in Amroha||BIJNOR: Several used PPE kits were found outside postmortem house in Amroha. They were all left strewn across the premises causing much concern among the locals of a possible health hazard. This comes despite the authorities facing several reprimands in the past. The used PPE kits and facial masks should be disposed of as per norms, sources said. However, at the Amroha district hospital, they could be seen thrown outside - all in the open area. When contacted on Saturday, chief medical superintendent Dr Ramnivas claimed, "The disposal of used face mask and PPE kits are usually done properly. A van of a particular agency arrives here and carries the used PPE kits and masks from isolation ward. I will look into the matter. If any biomedical waste is found close to a postmortem house, we'll take strict action." Notably, 60 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Amroha so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/used-ppe-kits-found-outsidepostmortem-house-in-amroha/articleshow/76112700.cms||Harveer Dabas
May 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna district’s Dharavi gives officials nightmare||VIJAYAWADA: Containing the spread of Covid-19 in Krishna Lanka, which is home to over 40,000 people who live in six slums, besides other residential colonies, continues to be a challenge for district authorities. So far 136 patients from the area have tested positive and 80 of them have been discharged. The death rate is less than 5%. There are three important and interconnected factors, which are rendering VMC’s sanitation drives and residents’ social distancing insufficient. First, most of the slum dwellers live in small cramped spaces. Going out and spending time is not only a choice but a compulsion for some. Second, many among the dwellers are daily-wage labourers. They must work every day to run their household. Then at the end of the day these people return to their small and crowded spaces, turning them not only into carrier of the virus but also spreaders of it. Third, the slum is located on the bank Krishna river, the downstream of Prakasam Barrage and given that it has no water, people have been crossing the riverbed to enter Guntur. The traffic has been continuing unabated. The advent of the disease in the area exemplifies the fundamental problems. First a panipuri vendor tested positive for novel coronavirus in the last week of March. Later, a truck driver, who was corona positive and was unaware of it, played rummy and housie with neighbours and locals. He ended up passing the infection to more than 40 people. Officials have notified the area as red zone and restricted movement of vehicles. VMC authorities have taken up sanitation activity and door delivered groceries. But that has had little effect. “The geographical factors of Krishna Lanka is different from Karmika Puram. Movement of people in slums is difficult to stop and hence the disease is spreading. But the public are responding positively to our call for social distancing,” said Dr Ramesh, assistant medical officer at the VMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-districts-dharavi-gives-officials-nightmare/articleshow/76112688.cms||Venu Lanka
May 31, 2020||Meerut||Father arrested for killing daughter, youth and later staging it as suicide||MEERUT: In what could be a case of another honour killing, a man in his 40s was arrested almost two weeks after his daughter and the youth she was apparently "in a relationship" with, were found murdered in Saharanpur. On May 17, bodies of the couple with bullet wounds were recovered from a field in Tajpur village under Naagal police station in Saharanpur district. The deceased - both aged 17 - hailed from different villages in Naagal area of Saharanpur. Police had initially claimed that the couple most likely took the extreme step over their failed love affair, but a thorough probe exposed the foul play. According to the arrested accused, he had warned his daughter over her love affair with the youth, but she refused to pay heed to it. In his police confession, the accused claimed he saw the youth meeting his daughter on the night of May 16 at his house and the couple later went to a nearby field. "He followed the couple to the place and shot them dead in a fit of rage," the police said. According to the police, the accused also planted a country-made gun near the bodies to make it appear like a suicide and not murder, mainly to mislead the police's investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/father-arrested-for-killing-daughteryouth-and-later-staging-it-as-suicide/articleshow/76112693.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Government mulls over voluntary exams’ option for final-year students||PUNE: The state government on Saturday decided to explore two options for students in the final-year of their course — graduating the final year by considering an average of marks scored over all previous semesters or appearing for the final exam if they’re unhappy with the average score. Both options are under scrutiny and the state will look at the legality of the matter before a final call is taken, said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray during a meeting with vice-chancellors of state universities via video conference. He said uncertainty over the examination process must end to put the minds of students and parents at rest and that can only be done by finalizing the format to conduct the exam and declaring the schedule. He said looking at the spread of Covid-19 infection in the state, it is becoming clear that conducting exams in July, as declared by many universities, seems impossible. “We gave our opinion on the issue during the meeting. Alternatives were discussed with the CM. Based on the legality of the matter, a decision will be announced by the government in two days,” said Murlidhar Chandekar, vice chancellor of Amravati University. In a statement issued later, Thackeray said that whatever form of examination is chosen, care must be taken that not a single student is affected by Covid-19. “Everything has been pushed forward due to the pandemic, including the financial year. In the same way, there are multiple proposals on when to start the new academic calendar. However, before that, a final decision must be taken on exams,” he said. In a statement, higher & technical education minister Uday Samant said, “Alternatives are being considered while keeping in mind the aim to conduct the examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-mulls-over-voluntary-exams-option-for-final-year-students/articleshow/76114446.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 31, 2020||Bhopal||I’m with public, don’t care about what Congress says: Pragya Thakur||BHOPAL: Breaking her silence a day after her ‘missing’ posters surfaced in the state capital, BJP MP from Bhopal, Pragya Singh Thakur hit out at the Congress and said that she does not care about what Congress leaders say about her. Talking to reporters over video chat on Saturday, Pragya said she was unwell and hospitalised in Delhi, but was coordinating relief work with the help of party workers and supporters. "I do not care for those who are inactive and busy doing politics amid the Covid-19 crisis. I am very much in touch with the public in this distressing hour. I am elected by the public and am taking care of their needs through helpline, by providing them ration apart from helping the farmers at procurement centres. We are also supporting people in making passes, solving their family disputes and small feuds of tenants," said Thakur. The BJP leader was responding to anonymous posters that surfaced in Bhopal on Friday claiming her as ‘missing’ at a time when people are distressed. She shot back saying even Kamal Nath and his son was missing from Chhindwara and BJP workers were providing relief to people in Chhindwara. On Pragya's absence, BJP leaders had clarified that she was unwell and hospitalised. She is undergoing treatment for eye and cancer. On her ailment, Pragya said, "I am unwell and stuck in the lockdown here (in Delhi), but, I am attending people through my workers. Since last one month, I am unwell having problem in both eyes. I am unable to see through one eye while, lost 25% sight from the other. I have been strictly advised rest by the doctors. I am also advised not to talk though, sometime when I feel okay, I communicate with the workers." The Lok Sabha member who trounced Congress heavyweight Digvijaya Singh in 2019 elections, hit out at her opponents on distribution of relief material and financial help. "I am not like MPs who do only politics. We have provided all possible financial help to the needy. I have donated Rs one crore towards Prime Minister's fund, given 30% of my salary and whatever I have, I will give it to the public. I believe in giving because it is public money' and not personal," said Thakur. On poster politics, the BJP leader said, "Those putting up posters should treat others with compassion and keep away from self-publicity. I pray for their well-being, and also for common sense to prevail on them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/im-with-public-dont-care-about-what-cong-says-pragya/articleshow/76113621.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Petrol, diesel to cost Rs 2 more as Maharashtra hikes cess||Petrol and diesel prices will increase by Rs 2 from Monday, June 1, following the state government decision to hike the cess levied on the two fuels. Petrol price in the city will increase to Rs 78.31 per litre from Rs 76.31. The diesel retail rate will go up to Rs 68.21 per litre from Rs 66.21. Besides the 26% and 24% value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, respectively, the state government levies a cess on the fuels. The government on Saturday issued a notification increasing the cess for petrol to Rs 10.12 per litre from Rs 8.12. The cess on diesel is to rise to Rs 3 per litre from Re 1. A member of an association of petrol dealers said that after the rate changes the price of diesel in the state would be higher than in neighbouring states like Karnataka. "Trucks and other large diesel vehicles going from Maharashtra to other states like Karnataka are likely to refill their tanks there. Thus, though the government has increased the cess to generate more revenue, the move may negatively impact the diesel sales in Maharashtra," the association member, who requested anonymity, said An oil marketing company official said more clarity was awaited from the government on the changed rates but in all probability the rise in price of both the fuels would be Rs 2 per litre. "At times, oil marketing companies absorb a portion of the increased price. Hence, we are waiting for the final price calculation," the official said. The official said tax collection from petrol and diesel had dipped heavily in the Covid-19 lockdown over the past few months. "Even in May, the sale of petrol was just around 50% and that of diesel around 60% of average sales. Consequently, the tax collection from petrol and diesel dipped by 40%," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petrol-diesel-to-cost-rs-2-more-as-maharashtra-hikes-cess/articleshow/76114652.cms||Neha Madaan
May 31, 2020||Pune||Pune ZP sets up 50 Covid care centres in rural areas||PUNE: The Pune Zilla Parishad has established 50 Covid care centres across 13 tehsils in the district. The ZP has also set up 17 dedicated centres, which are linked to Covid care centres in each tehsil. Thousands of people have returned from red zones to their villages in the district in the last two weeks. Hence, cases are on the rise in rural areas. Over 600 positive cases, including 125 active, have been reported from all tehsils till date. Additional chief executive officer Bharat Shendge told TOI, "We have converted colleges and hostels into Covid care centres. A team of doctors from the health department inspected these facilities before declaring them as care centres. They are connected to dedicated centres to ensure that patients get treatment in time during emergency. At present, 32 centres are functioning at full capacity and the remaining 18 have been kept on standby." Naval Kishore Ram, district collector, said, "Our endeavour is to collect swab samples from people who have returned to the villages from Mumbai and Pune." Tehsils like Khed, Ambegaon and Daund did not have a single case two weeks ago, but have now reported active cases. "We have established more centres ther," Ram added. The ZP is in the process of establishing 24 additional dedicated centres in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-sets-up-50-covid-care-centres-in-rural-areas/articleshow/76114454.cms||Sandip Dighe
May 31, 2020||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University's tentative admission schedule out||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has invited online applications for various postgraduate, graduate, integrated and interdisciplinary courses it will offer in the next academic year. Students can file applications online between June 1-30 and the online entrance examination will be scheduled for August first week, with a rider that a change may be effected if required. Interested students must appear for a two-hour online entrance exam. “The merit list of candidates based on total score of Section A and B would be prepared for the admission,” said Uttam Chavan, deputy registrar for postgraduate admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tentative-admission-schedule-out/articleshow/76114448.cms||Ardhra Nair
May 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Strict curbs and fast action cut spread in Junnar, Ambegaon||PUNE: As containment measures go, the ‘Junnar-Ambegaon model” has emerged to become a rare success story in a state left reeling by the coronavirus. Some 4,500 health workers in both talukas have been going house-to-house daily for the past two months. A total of 27,000 at-risk people with comorbidities have been identified for monitoring and nearly 12,000 have been placed in home quarantine since the middle of May. The speed in which the two administrations mobilised surveillance and contact tracing has impressed many. “Ambegaon and Junnar were among the last to report Covid-19 cases in Pune district. Rural areas that followed lockdown rules have had lesser number of cases than Pune city areas,” said Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram. Both talukas clamped down effectively. Between them, there have been over 1,000 instances of legal action against violators. Nearly 223 FIRs were filed against people who broke home quarantine rules. Another 200 FIRs were filed against those travelling without a pass. “This made everyone more cautious. On March 30, there was just one Covid-19 case in Junnar. There were no cases in both talukas until middle of May,” added Ram Spikes emerged only after curbs were eased to permit inter-district travel. With hundreds returning from Mumbai, cases started showing across Junnar and Ambegaon: 21 and 25 respectively in the past 10 days. But officials have doubled down. Health workers are visiting every home to spread awareness on hygiene. Before every village, is a checkpost manned by staff who monitor all movement. “We spent April and May ramping up infrastructure,” said assistant collector Jitendra Dudy. “We need to now contain the new cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strict-curbs-fast-action-cut-spread-in-junnar-ambegaon/articleshow/76114465.cms||Nisha Nambiar
May 31, 2020||Kochi||Enthusiasts record rare dragonflies in Kerala||KOCHI: The lockdown proved an interesting time for dragonfly enthusiasts who organized a month-long Lockdown Odonata watch which recorded 95 species including rare and endemic ones. This is the first time that the society is getting such live data across Kerala simultaneously. Normally, they organize training camps and field outings in different places at different times of the year. What started off as an enthusiasts’ activity ended up as a beehive of information on dragonflies in the state. Organized by Society For Odonate Studies (SOS), the activity revealed many interesting findings. Some of the participants recorded more than 20 species to as many as 64 in their neighbourhood. “Members were requested to share pictures or checklist of odonata from their neighborhoods. A total of 95 species were recorded including many rare and endemic species. There were altogether 326 entrees from 60 observers from across the state including common folk, students, teachers, doctors, engineers, public servants, researchers etc,” said Sujith V Gopalan, conservation biologist and one of the lead members of SOS. The month-long exercise was conducted through the dragonflies of Kerala Facebook forum, social media arm of SOS. The rationale behind choosing May is because it is the beginning of a new season for the dragonflies as summer rains beckon them when the parched lands get wet. Normally in May, the ‘odonutters’ (as the serious dragonfly watchers prefer to be called) rush to the wetlands and forested streams to look for the newborn dragonflies. Reji Chandran from Thiruvananthapuram, an avid odonata enthusiast documented 64 species including many rare dragonflies like the Myristica swamp associated Myristica Sapphire (Calocypha laidlawi). Sujith V Gopalan, noted 51 species including Forest Spreadwing (Lestes dorothea) a recent addition to the Kerala checklist when he was home in Idukki. The naturalist community of Kerala watched in awe when Rison Thumboor, a seasoned odonata watcher, documented a juvenile Hemicordulia asiatica right from his backyard in Thumboor near Chalakkudy, Thrissur. This rare and elusive dragonfly was re-discovered after a gap of 80 years from Periyar Tiger Reserve a couple of years ago by the studies conducted by SOS and Rison’s observations have thrown further light into the life history of this beautiful insect. Other interesting findings were Giant Clubtail (Megalogomphus hannyngtoni) by Nithya S V from Punalur, Kollam, Goan Shadowdancer (Idionyx gomantakensis), a species recently described from Goa, observed by Thomson Saburaj from Vithura, Thiruvananthapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/enthusiasts-record-rare-dragonflies/articleshow/76112742.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana-origin doctors lobby as US bill aims at quick green cards for health workers||HYDERABAD: A bill under consideration in the US senate to fast-track green cards for healthcare professionals, has many Telugu-origin doctors busy lobbying with their local senators. The bill, which will be put to vote in the coming weeks, has a high chance of passing its first hurdle. The legislation, the ‘Healthcare Workforce Resilience Act’ (S.3599/ HR6788) aims to ‘recapture’ 40,000 immigrant visas -- 25,000 for nurses and 15,000 for physicians -- from a quota which has not been filled in past years. These will be used to grant green cards to healthcare workers waiting for years. The measure hopes to quickly address the shortage of doctors in the country which is facing the brunt of the coronavirus pandemic. Hoping to see the bill through are many doctors from India. “Doctors are reaching out to their local senators to see that this bill passes,” said Dr Pavan Panchavati, senior hospitalist in Huntsville, Alabama. The Hyderabadi himself applied for a green card in 2010 and is still waiting after a decade. “The pandemic is a wake-up call regarding the shortage of healthcare workers. The bipartisan bill has seen both Republicans and Democrats come together for the right cause,” he said. A report by the Green Card Backlog Task Force of American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (AAPI) suggests that there are over 10,000 physicians of Indian-origin waiting for a green card. Suresh Reddy, president, AAPI, said there were good chances of the bill going through, except for the issue of other professionals wanting to be included as well. “The bill’s passage, could clear the Indian backlog of doctors and maybe provide an outlet for more nurses to enter the country,” said Rahul Reddy, an immigration attorney with Reddy & Neumann, P.C. Panchavati says the added benefit of the bill is that once the Indian backlog for physicians is cleared, Indian IT professionals would have a better chance with reduced competition. Dr Paavani Atluri, a hospitalist at Coos Bay, Oregon, says, not just Indians, but their American counterparts too are working hard to get as many senators on board. Explaining why the bill is so important, the doctor, who applied for a green card five years ago, said: “If you are on a visa such as the H1B, you are attached to just one hospital where you are employed. Having a green card gives physicians the flexibility to work at any hospital, which is needed during a pandemic as doctors can also help out in underserved areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-origin-docs-lobby-as-us-bill-aims-at-quick-green-cards-for-health-workers/articleshow/76114476.cms||Uttara Varma
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Forum offers psychological first aid training to govt schoolteachers||Coimbatore: The Federation for Child Friendly Schools (FCFS), a forum comprising government schoolteachers that has been working to make government schools more student-friendly for the past five years, is conducting online sessions for teachers to provide aid to students who face stress due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown.Representatives of the forum roped in psychologists, who conducted online sessions for 500 government schoolteachers in four zones of the state Coimbatore, Madurai, Tirunelveli, and Chennai.Zone coordinator of FCFS N Palanikumar said reopening of schools will happen post the pandemic situation. “Children may have gone thorough loneliness and their parents could have gone through financial stress, and family issues. These could cause psychological issues in students. The aim of the sessions is to enable teachers to observe students and identify whether they are affected. They will be able to help such students and their families.”FCFS is gathering more teachers who are interested in further sessions. “If teachers form groups of 25-30 and come forward, we would arrange sessions for them,” Palanikumar said.Chennai-based clinical psychologist Dr V Sunil Kumar and counselling psychologist Dr Jayasudha Kamaraj have been offering the online sessions. Sunil Kumar said the aim was to train people in psychological first aid, which involves simple techniques such as unconditional listening. “We have been offering free sessions. Since March 26, we have trained 2,000 people. We subsequently took up training teachers because they are in close contact with students and public,” he said. “Pandemics are unlike other disasters as there is uncertainty during the period and people are mostly affected by loneliness, sleep-cycle distortions and strained familial relationships. As children and adolescents are more prone, we are focusing on training teachers.”The four-hour online training sessions are free. Those interested can contact the experts at 9444297058. Tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forum-offers-psychological-first-aid-training-to-govt-schoolteachers/articleshow/76113634.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Tensions rise at migrant shelters as numbers swell, cops lose control||PANAJI: After an agonising wait for 80 days, Akkramul Mulla heard there was a train heading to West Bengal. Quickly, he packed up his meagre belongings and, with his brothers, headed from Calangute to the Bambolim athletic stadium. Once there, he was told there was no place for him on the train. Then, Goa police personnel showed up, abused Mulla, and destroyed his phone. At the Bambolim stadium and elsewhere, state authorities are grappling with migrant workers and stranded persons who show up outside stading areas and railway stations. The workers, driven by panic and with barely anything to eat, are not only left without tickets for the train, but also have to deal with excesses by officials. State authorities select individuals tor travel based on the districts and villages that they are belong to, and then send an SMS to those selected for travel. However, those who get the SMS, in their excitement, also inform their friends, who also gather at the railway station or staging area where the passengers assemble. “A few days ago, the police came and took some people,” Mulla said. “We went to search for them, and found out they would be getting on a train to West Bengal. We hired a bus to drop us to Bambolim stadium at 12:30 midnight.” ‘Police arrived in car, beat us up, broke my phone’He was among 250-300 persons who showed up outside the Bambolim stadium even as buses departed with passengers for trains to Bihar and West Bengal. With a capacity of only 1,200-1,500, Mulla and his relatives could not be accommodated on the train. “They told us that the train is full and they can’t let us in,” Mulla said. “Suddenly the police came in a car, started abusing us, and beat us up. They broke my phone.” Mulla is just of many driven to depair. In Bicholim, Rohit Biswas, who works as a daily-wage worker, hired a taxi in the hope of catching a train, but admits he didn’t receive an SMS. “I will stay somewhere nearby till I get the message,” said Biswas, explaining that he had cleared out the rented premises he shared with five other labourers. A government official admitted that the state often struggles to handle the migrant workers who show up outside railway stations and stadiums just as a train is scheduled. “The extra people are taken to shelter homes or they are guided to come later,” the official said. “I have got calls from people asking to be put on the train because their friends are on the train.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tensions-rise-at-migrant-shelters-as-numbers-swell-cops-lose-control/articleshow/76114579.cms||Newton Sequeira
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar meets Maharashtra CM on easing lockdown, decision today after talks with senior babus||MUMBAI: An hour after the Centre issued fresh guidelines on Saturday for ‘unlocking’, Sharad Pawar met CM Uddhav Thackeray at Varsha, the CM’s official residence at Malabar Hill, to discuss the way ahead for Maharashtra, especially hotspots Mumbai and Pune. According to reports, Pawar told the CM the state government should be liberal in reopening shops and other establishments after Sunday, when Lockdown 4.0 ends, while Thackeray appeared to be in favour of a conservative approach. TOI had reported on Saturday that Thackeray had told a group of select editors that he was not in favour of lifting the lockdown considering the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and Pune, though the NCP has been putting pressure on him to relent. Pawar’s meeting with Thackeray on Saturday was the second in a week.“The CM is not in a hurry, and any decision on Mumbai and Pune will be taken very cautiously in view of the steady increase in the number of cases,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI. The bureaucrat said Thackeray will meet chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and senior bureaucrats directly involved in implementation of the lockdown on Sunday and work out revised norms for Maharashtra in view of the Union home ministry’s orders. There are many issues the Thackeray-led government has to decide: whether places of worship, malls, shops and establishments would be allowed to reopen in keeping with the Centre’s notification, and whether urban transport could restart. “A decision on these issues would be taken on Sunday keeping in mind the idea of social distancing,” the bureaucrat said. “The CM may consider a few relaxations in Mumbai and Pune, but they will be in non-containment zones. He is not likely to bow to political pressure from any party,” the bureaucrat said. But the NCP feels restarting of economic activity is needed. “We feel it will be wrong to continue with the existing lockdown rules for a long period. We will have to strike a balance between lockdown and economy,” NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said. Pawar had, some days ago, tweeted that state governments were relaxing lockdown conditions but factories were not in a position to resume as workers had migrated to the villages. “We need to strategize to bring them back,” he had said, noting that “the lockdown has disrupted transport services. We need to take the right steps to gradually restore road transport within the states and plan for the resumption of air and rail services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pawar-meets-cm-on-easing-lockdown-decision-today-after-talks-with-sr-babus/articleshow/76114479.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
May 31, 2020||Goa||Churches likely to open on June 8||Panaji: Eleven weeks after the lockdown was announced in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, churches across the state are likely to open with masses for congregations. “Masses will most likely begin on June 8. We are waiting for related SOPs from state authorities,” a senior priest said.  Priests have been celebrating masses to empty benches, with some parishes live streaming the services for their faithful. Lakhs of Christians across the state stayed away from Sunday mass services in churches on March 22 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a nationwide janata curfew between 7am to 9pm. Ever since, all places of worship have been closed for large congregations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churches-likely-to-open-on-june-8/articleshow/76114580.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Agra||Hotel owner booked in Agra for violating lockdown norms||AGRA: A hotel owner was booked by Sikandra police in Agra for re-opening booking facility, which has been currently barred by the government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The incident took place on Saturday. Arvind Kumar, SHO of Sikandra police station, said, “A tip-off was shared about a couple being allowed to book a hotel. Since the lockdown is still valid, no hotel can be open for bookings. The hotel owner has been charged under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and the Epidemic Act, whereas the couple were let off after their identity verification.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hotel-owner-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/76112790.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Pune||Kitty parties thrive online, women catch a break virtually & participate in games||Several women from across the city are on video conferencing once or twice a month as kitty parties go online. Deccan resident Nita Agarwal said online kitty parties are a relief. “The hosts of our kitty party thought we should meet online. We played housie on WhatsApp followed by a video call to chat,” she said. Balewadi resident Sudha Agarwal said she was the host for the online kitty party this month. “The two hosts pay Rs 2,000 each for food at the restaurant while money is collected at the table for games. Since we could not go out, my co-host and I decided to give away the amount as prizes instead of collecting table money. We played Bollywood tambola, wherein the rules and prizes were disclosed beforehand. Since we could not see each other on WhatsApp, we got on a video call later,” she added. Several women got friends and family to learn the technology and digital interfaces. Wanowrie-resident Seema Parekh said, “I did not know how to use video calling applications, but my son downloaded it on my phone and taught me how to use it. It felt good seeing all my friends after nearly two months.” Entrepreneur Hemakshi Shah said she was a member of 3-4 groups and they have been doing an assortment of activities during their kitty parties. “I hosted an Emoji quiz, a card deck quiz, alphabetical games, antakshari and other games,” she said. They also branched out to virtual coffee or potluck parties. “We decide on a recipe that everyone cooks. With plates and coffee mugs in hand, all of us meet online at 5pm on the scheduled day and enjoy the snacks together,” Shah added. Businesswoman Priti Mehta said much of her socializing will remain online. “I have known my kitty friends for 25 years and our meetings were a monthly ritual. Going online helps keep in touch and provides a break from chores,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kitty-parties-thrive-online-women-catch-a-break-virtually-participate-in-games/articleshow/76114474.cms||Rujuta Parekh
May 31, 2020||Pune||Deputy CM Ajit Pawar concerned about surge in Covid cases before relaxations||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city was a concern before the lockdown relaxations to be implemented after June 1. He told the administrative officials in a review meeting on Friday that considering the rising cases in Pune, there would be area-specific relaxations. The lockdown rules would be strictly implemented in the containment areas, stated officials. The state government is expected to issue fresh directives after the Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday announced extension of the lockdown till June 30. The district administration would issue orders based on them. Specific guidelines would have to be issued for Pune, said a senior official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deputy-cm-concerned-about-surge-before-relaxations/articleshow/76114472.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Agra||Thunderstorm in west UP kills 4, around 50 injured||Agra/Bareilly/Pilibhit: Thunderstorm and hailstorm – accompanied by lightning – on Friday and Saturday caused widespread destruction in parts of west UP, resulting in deaths of four people in Agra and Lakhimpur Kheri districts. More than 50 were injured. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced compensation of Rs 4 lakh for the family members of the deceased, along with adequate treatment for the injured. In Agra district, three people – including a six-year-old – died and around 40 people were left injured on Friday evening. Strong winds blowing at 124 kilometres per hour damaged at least 20 houses. Over 200 trees, signboards, hoardings and electricity poles were uprooted. Dozens of birds were found dead in parks and on roads on Saturday morning. Six-year-old Nandini, resident of village Nagla Karam Singh under Sadar sub-division of Agra, died after the roof of her house collapsed. Four other family members were injured. Ramshankar, 55-year-old resident of Agra’s Fatehabad block, and Kailashi, 50, who lived in Madhi village of the district died after uprooted trees fell on their huts. Additional district magistrate (finance and revenue) Yogendra Kumar said, "Our teams have started assessing the losses caused by the adverse weather conditions. As per government orders, suitable compensation will be provided in a time-bound manner. Treatment is being provided to the injured.” In another incident, 50-year-old Chandmati died after being struck by lightning while her husband Bholanath, 56, sustained injuries in Mitauli area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Saturday morning. The couple – residents of Laxman Nagar village – was working in a crop field when it started raining. They took shelter under a mango tree when lightning struck them. Mitauli sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Digvijay Singh told TOI, “We visited the hospital and checked the condition of the survivor. A compensation of Rs 4 lakh has been approved for the family members of the deceased. The survivor is also getting treatment on government expenses.” Meanwhile, in another instance of lighting strike, two villagers were injured and seven others injured in Kurraiya Kalan village under Puranpur tehsil of Pilibhit on Saturday. “The lightning struck a giant tree under which the victims had taken shelter and left it in flames. As a result, two of the villagers – Nanhe Lal and Puttu Lal – sustained burn injuries in their legs while others began to experience a severe burning sensation,” the doctor treating them said. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Puranpur circle, Rajendra Prasad, said that the victims will be granted monetary compensation in accordance with the injuries disclosed by their respective medical reports. According to the meteorological department, spells of rainfall and thunderstorm are likely to last till Monday. There is a possibility of strong surface winds on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/thunderstorm-in-west-up-kills-4-around-50-injured/articleshow/76112807.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, Capt warns China of ‘befitting response’||Chandigarh: Even as he underscored the need for diplomatic solution to the escalating border tension, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday warned China against any attempt to intrude into Indian territory, saying India will not back off in the face of Beijing’s intimidation. “While we do not want war, we will not tolerate any bullying by Beijing,” said Amarinder, warning the neighbouring country against taking India lightly. “This is not 1962,” he said, making it clear that if China did not stop indulging in intimidating behaviour, it would have to pay the price. “The Indian Army is ready to give a befitting reply and China should not take any chances,” he warned, in response to a Kolkata resident’s question, during his Facebook Live session. “We don't want war with any nation and want the situation to improve, but if they keep behaving like this we won’t have any other option left,” he said, urging China to mend its ways and talk to India to resolve the issue. Amarinder said China cannot stop India from building any infrastructure on its side of the border. “They (the Chinese) don't listen to us when we object to them making roads inside our area in Aksai Chin, but when we make one road inside our area they react with aggression,” he added. He also warned Pakistan, which had been trying to foment trouble in Punjab and other parts of India by pushing terrorists, weapons and drugs from across the border through use of drones and other means. On the attempts by Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of the secessionist Sikhs for Justice outfit to instigate people and foment trouble in Punjab, Captain said he will not let Punjab’s hard-earned peace be disturbed at any cost by any foreign elements. He warned Pannu of dire consequences if he did not stop trying to destabilise the state. Asserting that he knows how to handle people like Pannu, Amarinder dared him to try to enter Punjab. The state was fully prepared to tackle any threat from Pannu and his banned outfit, said Amarinder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-capt-warns-china-of-befitting-response/articleshow/76114052.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||UK govt exempts foreign healthcare workers from paying NHS surcharge||Hyderabad: As countries move to ease the burden on healthcare workers, making it easier for them to enter and stay in their countries, the UK too gave a breather recently. The Boris Johnson-led government has exempted non-UK healthcare workers from paying an NHS surcharge. The £400 NHS surcharge was to rise to £624 in October. Chandra Kanneganti, chair, British International Doctors Association said, “The surcharge for a year for a family of four comes to £1,600 which is a huge burden. This charge was besides tax and national insurance.” Stating that the surcharge was unfair, he hailed the exemption given to heathcare workers who have been at the forefront of the pandemic. Kanneganti said over 5,000 Indians would benefit from this move every year. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uk-govt-exempts-foreign-healthcare-workers-from-paying-nhs-surcharge/articleshow/76114480.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Seven held for protesting land filling at Taleigao for panchayat ghar||PANAJI: Panaji police on Saturday detained seven activists and later arrested them on charges of obstructing work on the new panchayat ghar in Taleigao. The activists were protesting at the site and stated that fertile agricultural land was being filled for the construction of the new building. The activists were also joined by farmers, who said that there are eight tenants in the project land. The farmers said that tenants have been cultivating the land and earning their livelihood from it, a claim denied by the Taleigao panchayat officials. The land where the new panchayat ghar is planned is located adjacent to the Taleigao community centre. Cecille Rodrigues, Albertina Almeida, Pundalik Raikar, Xavier Almeida, Prakash Salat, Shreya Israni and Michelle Faria were those arrested for holding the protest. They were released only late in the evening on bail by the sub-divisional magistrate. The protestors on Saturday morning stopped the trucks being brought in for land filling, which led to the additional collector rushing to the site. The protestors then asked for documents to be produced for the work, failing which they said they would not allow the work to be carried out. They continued to obstruct the trucks and were therefore detained and later arrested. The arrests were widely criticized on social media platforms as netizens called it a violation on citizens’ rights on Goa statehood day. They also criticized the use of male officers for the arrest of some of the female protestors, claiming that Cecille Rodrigues had been dragged from the site of protest. Meanwhile, Taleigao panchayat officials said that the project was planned as early as 2004-05. “The process for the construction was started only after carrying out all the required documentation,” said sarpanch Agnelo Da Cunha. “Some of our panch members themselves are farmers. They will tell you what the people of Taleigao think. If people were really opposed to it, then there would be thousands of people on the road protesting.” He said that the land was finalised for the panchayat ghar as the plan is to have all amenities in a centralised area in the village. “This is today the main centre of village. We are looking for amenities for people under one roof. It is Taleigao comunidade land. If it is fertile land, then why is it not being cultivated? I request the comunidade to cultivate it. This is for a government project. The land will always remain for the people. We need a full-fledged panchayat office.” The protesters, however, said that in 2007, a gram sabha resolution had been passed to withdraw the proposal for construction of the panchayat ghar on this land, and the resolution had also been submitted to the BDO. “The panchayat itself had withdrawn the project. We have a document to support this,” said activist Xavier Almeida. Da Cunha however called the protests political agenda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seven-held-for-protesting-land-filling-at-taleigao-for-panchayat-ghar/articleshow/76114582.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||Divest Piyush Goyal of rail portfolio, let him raise funds for BJP: Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: In a sharp attack on railway minister Piyush Goyal, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to divest the Union minister of his portfolio and engage him in fundraising for the BJP instead. The CM took to Twitter and wrote that he had never seen the Indian Railways in “such mess” as under minister Goyal. Gehlot held the railway minister accountable for the alleged delays in the Sharmik Special trains. Gehlot held the railway minister accountable for the alleged delays in the Sharmik Special trains, which have been transporting migrant workers, reaching their destinations. Gehlot tweeted: “As many as 40 Shramik Special trains have been delayed, 1 took 9 days to reach & 80 deaths reported so far. I suggest HPM to let Mr Goyal be Minister without portfolio as we hv nvr heard of such mess in Indian Railways ever before. Let him concentrate on fundraising for BJP only. (sic)” The ministry of railways had already denied the charge that the Shramik Special trains were getting delayed or that it was responsible for the deaths of train passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/divest-goyal-of-rail-portfolio-let-him-raise-funds-for-bjp-gehlot/articleshow/76114481.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bhopal||Modi is not just a name, but a mantra that generates energy: Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan congratulated Prime Minister Modi and the entire nation on completion of his first year in office in his second term. Chouhan said in his message that the popular Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not just a name, but, he is in the heart of crores of people across the country. He rules their hearts and is a jewel in the crown of India. People have a unique affection towards him. The great leader, Prime Minister Modi, has not taken a single holiday in the last six years and always works diligently and tirelessly for Bharat Mata and his people. He tries to take the nation to great heights. He said that the message is hidden in Modi’s name. The letter ‘M’ stands for Motivational and Mehanati (hardworking), ‘O’ to Ojaswi, and a leader who tries to identify and refines hidden opportunities in India. He turned Corona challenge into an opportunity. Chouhan said that Modi’s ‘D’ means a leader with Doordarshita (foresight), dynamic leadership, and development. The letter ‘I’ means Inspiration, a leader who inspires, distinguishes India from strong will power. They work to charge everyone with energy and confidence. Modi is not just a name; it is a mantra, which generates energy. Chouhan said that we are fortunate to have Modi as a Prime Minister, a leader who has abolished Section-370 from Kashmir, legalized citizenship law, solved Ayodhya temple construction issue, abolished triple talaq law as well as announced the special package of twenty lakh crore for the welfare of everyone to build Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). Chouhan hoped that likewise, Prime Minister Modi will continue to inspire Indians, keep their spirits up, and rule the hearts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/modi-is-not-just-a-name-but-a-mantra-that-generates-energy-chouhan/articleshow/76113673.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Applicant can file accident claims wherever he lives: Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that there is no bar in filling a claim petition where the claimants in motor accidents cases reside at the time of filing of the petition. “Hyper-technical approach in such matters can hardly be appreciated. There is absolutely no bar in filing a claim petition where the claimants reside at the time of filing of the petition. In such cases, there is absolutely no prejudice which is being caused to any party,” HC has observed. Justice Alka Sarin passed these orders while allowing an appeal filed by parents of a Chandigarh-based young boy who had lost his life in a road accident in another state. Claimants had challenged the October 29, 2018, orders passed by the Motor Accident Claim Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh had dismissed their plea for accident claim on the ground of jurisdiction. The son of the claimants, Pranav Vishal Garg, had died in a motor vehicular accident which took place on September 14, 2004, in Uttar Pradesh. He was hit by a truck. After the incident, the family had started residing in Chandigarh. When the parents filed a petition at Chandigarh tribunal seeking claim for the accident, it was strongly contested by the insurance company and other respondents on the ground that the tribunal did not have territorial jurisdiction to entertain and try the petition. It was contested that neither the accident took place in Chandigarh nor the claimants were residing in Chandigarh. On the basis of the pleadings of the parties and the evidence on the record, the tribunal dismissed their plea on the ground of jurisdiction. The parents had approached the HC. After hearing both the parties, the HC observed that in view of the fact that the appellants had produced ration card which was issued in Chandigarh and the tribunal has not recorded any finding regarding any prejudice being caused to the respondent, the tribunal fell in error in returning the petition. HC has remanded back the matter to Chandigarh tribunal to decide the issue a fresh within six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/applicant-can-file-accident-claims-wherever-he-lives-hc/articleshow/76114051.cms||Ajay Sura
May 31, 2020||Vijayawada||448 from other states add to spurt in positive cases in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Once accounting for nearly 90% of the Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, the Markaz-related tally has now come down to less than 20%. While 273 attendees of the Delhi meeting contracted the virus, about 350 primary and secondary contacts of them were also diagnosed with the disease. Amid the then sudden explosion of the novel coronavirus cases in March-April, the state officials tested nearly 1,000 Delhi returnees and all their primary and secondary contacts. Later, the spurt in the cases related to the Chennai’s Koyambedu market and the increasing influx of migrants and foreign returnees changed the narrative of Covid tally in Andhra Pradesh. As many 448 people from other states tested positive for Covid so far and 132 foreign returnees tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. The bustling wholesale vegetable market of Chennai contributed to nearly 220 cases in Andhra Pradesh. According to the sources, 85 healthcare providers fell victims of the disease as of May 29. The medical personnel, include doctors, nurses, pharmacists, technicians and others. As many as 107 frontline government employees, including 45 police personnel, of other departments were also diagnosed with the disease. In a press release on May 29, DGP D Gautam Sawang said that 44 police personnel recovered from coronavirus by May 28, while one police personnel succumbed to the disease. So far, altogether 1,162 primary contacts and their 281 secondary contacts have tested positive for coronavirus. As many as 438 cases emerged from the containment clusters, while 34 cases surfaced in the random tests conducted in other areas. The state officials are yet to categorise 196 covid cases. The fever survey conducted by the state government detected nine covid cases. Among those who came forward for voluntary testing, 99 people were found positive for the disease. According to the state officials, 8,800 migrants stranded in other states were brought back to Andhra Pradesh through Shramik trains and special buses. On the other hand, nearly 1,500 people from foreign countries arrived in Andhra Pradesh in the last few days in 10 flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/448-from-other-states-add-to-spurt-in-ve-cases-in-ap/articleshow/76112804.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
May 31, 2020||Agra||Agra: Taj Mahal's marble and red stone railings damaged in thunderstorm||AGRA: A small portion of marble and red sandstone railings behind the Taj Mahal’s main mausoleum on the side of Yamuna river were damaged after an iron scaffolding fell on them due to a heavy thunderstorm that hit Agra on Friday night. It is estimated that the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) will require around Rs 20 lakh to repair the damaged parts. According to ASI officials, the scaffolding was put up for cleaning the dome but the work was not initiated due to the lockdown. “The damage to the nine-foot-long marble and six-foot-long two panels of red sandstone railings was caused by iron pipes, which fell from the top due to heavy winds,” said an official. Agra: Thunderstorm in the city yesterday,damaged Taj Mahal's wooden gate, marble railing & 2 red sandstone meshes.… https://t.co/PcsrFPBHhA— The Times Of India (@timesofindia) 1590896686000ASI director general V Vidyavathi, who recently took charge, visited the monument on Saturday to assess the damage. Nearly a dozen trees on the premises were also uprooted. “The wooden main gate of west side entry had also tilted a bit because of the thrust of high-speed wind, which was assessed at 124 kilometres per hour. The strong winds also uprooted the false ceiling and damaged a turnstile gate,” said an ASI official, adding that the door frame metal detectors at the entry point of the monument’s west gate was also uprooted due to strong winds. ASI’s superintending archeologist (Agra circle) Vasant Kumar Swarnkar said that according to preliminary estimates, Rs 20 lakh will be spent on the repairing of the railings, false ceiling, wooden gate among others. He added that marble and red sandstones will be brought from Rajasthan after the lockdown is lifted and the work will be finished within a month. It is not the first time when the Taj has been damaged due to thunderstorms. On April 11 and May 2, 2018, minarets on the royal and south gates of the 17th century monument and the finial of the Shahi mosque were damaged in a storm. Watch Agra: Thunderstorm damages Taj Mahal's marble and red stone railings||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tajs-marble-and-red-stone-railings-damaged-in-thunderstorm/articleshow/76112797.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
May 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Man shot dead by wife’s relatives in Haryana's Hisar||HISAR: A man from Chirod village, who married a woman from the same village he had a relationship with, was shot dead at a motorcycle workshop on Hansi Road in Barwala on Saturday afternoon. One of the attackers has been identified as his wife’s brother. Police say this is a case of honour killing. The deceased has been identified as 23-year-old Narendra, a resident of Chirod village who lived in a rented house on in Barwala. Pooja, the wife of the deceased, told the police she got married to Narendra against the wishes of her family two years ago, after which they started living in Barwala. Narendra had a motorcycle repair shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/man-shot-dead-by-wifes-relatives-in-hisar/articleshow/76114055.cms||Kumar Mukesh
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||No more Covid cases, Laxminagar relieved||SECUNDERABAD: Residents of Laxminagar in Picket heaved a sigh of relief as no more Covid-19 cases were identified in this area. Laxminagar, which falls under the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), got its first case on May 22, after a constable who lives in this area tested positive. The cop, who works at the Bowenpally police station, was tested as part of a random health check-up. The area was immediately cordoned off and a door-to-door survey was conducted by the district medical and health department. Thankfully, none of the residents tested positive for Covid-19. Laxminagar, in fact, became the first containment in the SCB after officials declared this area as a hotspot. “Four special teams comprising auxiliary nurse midwifes’(ANMs) were pressed into service to conduct the survey. Following instructions from the district medical & health office (DM&HO), we had selected 329 houses located within a radius of one kilometre from Laxminagar. In all we covered 1,475 families,” in-charge medical officer (working under DM&HO), Picket, Dr Mary Meena Kumari told STOI. Subsequently, the survey was also conducted at Krishna Reddy Nagar Colony. “We did quarantine stamping to three primary contacts and 28 secondary contacts at Laxminagar. Our special teams advised the residents and contacts to follow certain preventive measures. We are on a constant vigil to identify those having symptoms like fever, dry cough and breathlessness,” she said. Meanwhile, the SCB health and sanitation wing is sanitising the area, lifting garbage and keeping the roads clean. Essential commodities are being supplied to those families under quarantine in Laxminagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-more-covid-cases-laxminagar-relieved/articleshow/76114487.cms||Sunil Mungara
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali gets its 1st CNG station, Punjab four more||Mohali: On Saturday, Union minster for petroleum & natural gas and steel, Dharmendra Pradhan, declared open four compressed natural gas (CNG) filling stations — two in Patiala, one each in Mohali and Sangrur — via video conference. Appreciating the progress made in setting up the CNG stations, minister Pradhan said, “Today, 72% of the population and 52% of the geographical area of the country is covered by CGD network. The availability of clean and cheap CNG across the country is a critical step towards energy sufficiency. In future, all fuels, including CNG, will be provided at the doorsteps of the customers.” Jinal Mehta, director of Torrent Gas said, “Torrent Gas is committed to making CNG for vehicles and PNG for industries and residences widely available across all its authorised areas and thereby contribute towards the socio-economic development of these regions.” According to him, Torrent Gas is targeting to set up 200 CNG stations by June 2021-22, of these 20 CNG stations will be set up in Patiala, Sangrur and Mohali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-gets-its-1st-cng-station-punjab-four-more/articleshow/76114059.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Man burnt alive as shop catches fire||Karnal: A 26-year-old man was burnt to death when a fire broke out in a transformer repair shop at Jundla village of Karnal district early on Saturday morning. The deceased has been identified as Deepak Sandhu alias Rohit, a resident of Gagsina village in Karnal. A police team and forensic experts reached the spot and collected evidence. The reason behind the fire could not be ascertained but family members accused unidentified miscreants. They said Deepak used to sleep in the shop with one-third of the shutter down but on Saturday, the shutter was completely closed and tied up from outside. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-burnt-alive-as-shop-catches-fire/articleshow/76114057.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Amritsar||Will conduct exams only for ‘exit’ classes: GNDU||AMRITSAR: Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has decided to conduct terminal examinations of only ‘exit’ classes of the degree and diploma courses at present. The tentative schedule of examination is from July 1-20. K S Kahlon, registrar of the university, said examinations of intermediate classes will not be held during this time and the decision regarding this will be conveyed after instructions of Punjab government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/gndu-will-conduct-exams-only-for-exit-classes/articleshow/76114063.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Goa||Seven more international flights expected with stranded Goans||PANAJI: Seven more international repatriation flights may touch down at Goa International Airport in a few days time with permission to land at Dabolim being sought from the director general of civil aviation. These flights are aside from the four repatriation flights from Sri Lanka which will bring back seafarers. “One repatriation flight operated by Sri Lankan Airlines will arrive at Goa International Airport on Sunday with 162 passengers. The flight, UL 1147, will land around 10.20pm,” sources said. “We have seven more repatriation flights getting in line. The work is on and nothing is finalised as of now,” an official said. On Saturday, four domestic flights landed at the Dabolim airport with 152 passengers and 234 passengers took flights out to Delhi, Mysore and Bengaluru. Two flights were operated between Goa and the national capital. IndiGo operated two flights while Vistara and Alliance Air operated one flight to Delhi and Mysore respectively. Officials of the Airports Authority of India have noticed a slight increase in the number of passengers arriving by flights from the national capital and Bengaluru. On Friday, 87 passengers landed in Goa from Bengaluru and Delhi while 245 passengers took the three flights out of the state’s lone airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seven-more-intl-flights-expected-with-stranded-goans/articleshow/76114585.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Vadodara||26 from Godhra stranded in Karachi yearn to return||VADODARA: While many Indians abroad may have be flown back to the country, but a group from Godhra in neighbouring Pakistan remain stranded. It is is making desperate pleas for return to India. The group had gone to Karachi for a wedding there. A boy from Godhra was to get married to a girl from Karachi. Several persons from Godhra had migrated to Karachi during partition and have settled there. But over the years, their ties with Godhra have remained intact due to cross border marriages and, till a few years back, visits to relatives on the either side of the border. “From the group of 28 persons that had come here for a wedding, 26 plan to go back. The groom and a relative will stay back,” said Saleem Murshid, whose parents had migrated to Karachi, helping those stranded there. Murshid said that things could be put in place for their travel from Karachi to the border, but the group would need permission to cross the border. Ishaq Bokda, a member of the group stranded in Pakistan, said in a recorded message that he and others had to observe ‘rozas’ and celebrate Eid away from family due to the lockdown. “We have bought tickets for travel from Amritsar to Godhra. We have also given an undertaking as sought by the officials. We just need the permission to cross the border,” he said. Asma Yusuf Hathila, a resident of Godhra whose mother, sister and sister’s husband are a part of the group said that the group was about to return when the lockdown started and travel restrictions came into force. “My sister’s three children are with me. They want to see her desperately and would leave even right now if they were given permission,” Asma said. “I will help them for the travel from Lahore to Karachi and then the Attari border. Necessary paperwork can also be done. But in order to ensure that they catch the train from Amritsar on June 4 for which they have tickets, things will have to move fast,” said Murshid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/26-from-godhra-stranded-in-karachi-yearn-to-return/articleshow/76112184.cms||Sachin Sharma
May 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Former TDP minister’s driver commits suicide||VISAKHAPATNAM: Former TDP minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy’s driver Masavarapu Sanyasi Naidu (42) committed suicide by consuming pesticide on Saturday. But before that he allegedly sent an audio message to his relatives accusing a village volunteer of harassment. Naidu was from Nunaparthi village and is unmarried and survived by two sisters and two brothers. Naidu was constructing a house on a piece of family land. Village volunteer Jagarapu Narasinga Rao had demanded Rs. 50,000 as bribe otherwise, he threatened, he would not let Naidu continue with the construction, according to family members. “Village volunteer Narsinga Rao is threatening me since I started construction of my house in the Gramakantham which has been in my family’s possession for four decades. But the village secretary threatened me and demanded bribe when I refused to pay, he created false documents,” Naidu is heard saying in the audio message. He requested the district collector, rural SP, and Atchyutapm mandal MPDO to conduct an inquiry and take action against him. Speaking to TOI, Murthy said that Naidu had been working as his driver for the past 18 years. “He had become a part of my family. He was constructing a small house in his village and said that after the completion of the house he would get married. If at all there were litigations related to the land, why didn’t the village secretary or other revenue officials enquire about it? Why did the village volunteer involve himself with it,’ he asked. Cops have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/former-tdp-ministers-driver-commits-suicide/articleshow/76112838.cms||Siva G
May 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Fire breaks out at APSEB transformer repair facility||Vijayawada: Fire broke out in an electric transformer repairing facility owned by Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board at Girimpet in Chittoor district in the early hours of Saturday. Damages worth about Rs 20 lakh have been estimated. People living near the facility have been evacuated. T he incident took place at around 1am. As many as ten fire tenders rushed to the spot. It took two hours to contain the fire completely. No casualties were reported as the incident took place at night and no worker was present at the time of the incident. However, electricity supply has been affected in the area because of the fire. Chittoor district fire officer Mabu Subhan said that a short circuit might have led to the fire. The facility is used to repair defunct electric transformers. The fire was aggravated owing to the presence of flammable materails, including oil, he observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fire-breaks-out-at-apseb-transformer-repair-facility/articleshow/76112851.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Mysuru||CBI must probe Rs 62.7cr DCC bank scam, says Eshwarappa||SHIVAMOGGA: Rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa said on Saturday that he has requested the state government to handover DCC bank scam case to the CBI. Eshwarappa, who chaired the quarterly progress review meeting at the zilla panchayat here, discussed about DCC Bank’s mortgage scam at Gandhi Bazaar branch. The bank’s manager and others have been accused of duping the bank to the tune of Rs 62.77 crore by pledging counterfeit gold. After the incident came to light in 2017, the bank’s managing director filed a case at Jayanagar police station in Shivamogga. JD(S) functionary from Thirthahalli and then DCC Bank chairman RM Manjunath Gowda was also named in the FIR. The ruling JD(S) and Congress transferred the case to the CID, which later gave a clean chit to Gowda. Thirthahalli BJP legislator Araga Jnanendara brought this matter before the ZP meeting on Saturday. Later, Eshwarappa said the Congress-JD(S) government used the CID to protect the bank president. “Cooperative minister ST Somashekhar will come to Shivamogga on June 1. I will discuss this matter with him and request the government to handover the case to CBI,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cbi-must-probe-rs-62-7cr-dcc-bank-scam-says-eshwarappa/articleshow/76114094.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Parents continue to protest against fee demand by schools||Chandigarh: Parents continued to protest against the fee demand by city-based schools, on Saturday. They were seen outside schools with placards, opposing the move takenby the schools. Parents of students studing in St Joseph Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, and St Kabir Public School, Sector 26, staged a protest outside the school premises. They raised slogans like “no school no fee” and stated that schools cannot ask for fee when no classes were conducted by them during the lockdown period. They also opposed the Chandigarh administration for not intervening in the matter and not providing them relief from this situation. They complained that there were no proper online classes in April and May and despite this, the schools were asking them to pay fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/parents-continue-to-protest-against-fee-demand-by-schools/articleshow/76114069.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Four-laning of Landran junction picks up pace||MOHALI: With an initiative to provide better infrastructure to people, the health and family welfare and labour minister-cum-Mohali MLA, Balbir Singh Sidhu, took a stock of the ongoing project pertaining to road construction at the Landran junction, recently. The stretch from Mohali to Landran will be completed soon, whereas the work to beautify the 28-km stretch of the road from Mohali to Sirhind is also going on a war footing. The 800-metre section of the two-and-a-half km junction in Landran will be converted into four lanes. The project will cost Rs 25.33 crore. Directing the officials of the PWD to speed up the work, the minister said the pace of the work had slowed down due to lockdown, but the work has started again. He said work will be speed up to ensure that those taking this route to Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh or J&K, don’t encounter any problem. The work on this junction assumes more importance considering the fact that large numbers of devotees pass through the route to pay obeisance at Sri Fatehgarh Sahib. The minister said the upcoming junction would rid people of the traffic jam menace. He also directed the officials concerned to ensure transparency and quality of the work and the construction material used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-laning-of-landran-junction-picks-up-pace/articleshow/76114068.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Kurali man sent abroad, 2 booked for Rs 19L extortion||Mohali: Mohali police have booked two miscreants, along with their accomplices, for extorting Rs 19 lakh from a Kurali resident. The victim has been identified as Madhur Sharma, a 31-year-old resident of Ward Number 12, Kurali. The accused has been identified as Neer Singh and Himanshu. The police are yet to identify their accomplices. According to the police officials, Madhur met Neer on a social media site in January. “Neer assured Madhur of sending him to Canada via Malaysia. Madhur agreed and he reached Malaysia on January 28. He was, however, kidnapped at the airport. The accused thrashed him and made him call his family to assure them that he has reached Canada and he needed Rs 10 lakh. On January 30, his family members gave Rs 10 lakh to a person in New Delhi,” said a cop. The police further said the miscreants called his family on January 31 and told them that Madhur would be deported if they didn’t pay Rs 9 lakh. Later, the miscreants trashed him and threw him near the Malaysia airport. “He called up his family with the help of someone and reached India,” said the police. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kurali-man-sent-abroad-2-booked-for-rs-19l-extortion/articleshow/76114070.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Patiala cops seize 112kg poppy husk||PATIALA: Drug smugglers have become active after relaxations in the curfew norms. Patiala police recovered 100 kg poppy husk from a truck bearing registration of another state. Sub-inspector Kulwant Singh along with his team impounded a truck and recovered 100 kg poppy husk from it. The accused have been identified as Satnam Singh and Bittu, residents of villages in Patran block. The police said a barrier was set up following a tip-off. In another case, Rajpura police recovered 12.5 kg poppy husk and 600 gm opium from two accused, namely Mangal Singh and Raman Kumar, residents of a village in Rajpura division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/patiala-cops-seize-112kg-poppy-husk/articleshow/76114072.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Goa||Have to live with Covid-19 and sustain ourselves: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||Goa has been successful in containing Covid-19 cases and has maintained itself in the Green Zone. In an exclusive interview, chief minister Pramod Sawant speaks to TOI of his plans to take the state ahead through difficult times. Excerpts: What are the challenges before the government in the post-Covid scenario?We need to have a gradual exit plan. We cannot open everything, but we will have to move step by step. Goa is one state that has supported economic activities all through the lockdown. Even in the first phase, we had allowed pharma and food industries. We are proud to say that one consignment of HCQ medicines for the US went from Goa. We have taken one step at a time and have slowly started most of the economic activities in the state. How do you see the state managing the pandemic and the economy?Going by what the experts say, I think coronavirus is going to be there for at least another two years. We have to live with corona and also economically sustain ourselves. And for that we need to develop immunity within ourselves. There has been lot of confusion about the SOP. What we have seen is that every second day there is a new SOP. Will we see another SOP now?This is a new virus and we are all experiencing it for the first time. No one has an experience of dealing with it. There are no standard protocols to follow in the fight against Covid. We look at the prevailing situation and decide. We discuss with various experts and take a considered decision. The other day, we got information that 4,000 people will enter Goa and we felt it will be difficult to test all of them as our testing capacity is limited to 1,000. So, we made a last-minute change to the SOP. Now, we have kept it simple: Either come with a negative certificate from an ICMR-approved lab or undergo a test. We are thinking of continuing with the current SOP. If more than 1,000 people enter the state on a single day, then the test results will get delayed. When do you plan to start the new academic year?We will assess the situation in the state, discuss it with educationists and then take a decision. We will also wait for the HRD ministry’s decision before we decide when to start the academic year. As you know, we set an example by conducting the SSC exams and we are proud of it. SSC exams are going on smoothly without any problems. Considering that restaurants and malls are going to open in another week, are you also looking at starting casino activities anytime soon?No, not at all. We want to allow restaurants to open so that people who go to work and depend on them for tea and snacks are not deprived of it. Besides, it will also help these restaurants and small eateries to get some business. The state had asked the Centre for a Rs 2,000 crore financial package. What is its status?We have asked for the package but are yet to hear from them. Considering the states have been given the option to additionally borrow 5% of its GSDP, is the state planning to go for additional borrowing?We will borrow additionally only if required. Currently, our borrowing capacity is around Rs 2,600-odd crore and it will now go up to Rs 3,200 crore. I am hopeful that the financial condition of the state will improve after another six months. These are very difficult times for us. There is hardly 20% revenue collection and it has been showing slight improvement. We are seeing a 5% increase in revenue collection every month and in the next six months, the revenue collection is expected to go up to 75%. That is the reason we will manage the show within the limit. It is a tough time for us to carry out development and sustain the state. Do you plan to cut down on any of the social welfare schemes or put infrastructural projects on hold?No. Not at all (on plans to scrap social welfare schemes). And we are not coming out with any big projects. We may have to cut down on some other works to manage the finances. So, how do you propose to reduce the government expenditure?We have to look at our subsidy bill and see what is actually needed and how much is needed. We will have to cut down on unnecessary subsidies. We are still to take a look at the subsidy bill. But we will soon review all the subsidies and then take a decision. There has been a freeze in hiring by the government. Will it continue, or do you see any recruitment possibilities soon?We are not looking at recruiting people for now. We have given permissions to recruit people on contract basis where there is a need. But three months from now, we will have to start recruiting people. There are several vacancies in many of the government departments and they need to be filled. I am hoping we will be able to do it. But we will take a decision to recruit depending on the financial condition of the state. Considering the unemployment rate of Goa is high, how do you plan to generate jobs in the state? Only the private sector can help the state in generating jobs. The MSMEs, IT and pharma industries can help the state in creating new jobs in the state. We are already in discussion with them and we are hopeful of a positive outcome. You had said Goa would welcome those companies that want to move out of China. Has any company shown interest in shifting base to Goa?We are in touch with the central government and they have provided us with the data on the number of companies that are interested in investing in India. We have put forth our case and I am hopeful that the Centre will help us in identifying the companies that are interested in setting up in Goa. We are thinking of giving some concessions in various forms to those companies that prefer Goa. We have not yet finalised what concessions we would want to give them, but we will definitely come out with a plan shortly to attract these industries. You must be aware that industrialists find it difficult to set up shop in the state. Even with an investment promotion board, there is no single window clearance which industrialists want. How do you intend to change for ease of doing business?We are coming with an amendment to the investment promotion act and more powers will be given to the board. This will ensure a one-stop solution for the industrialists. There is a perception that the state executive committee, a body consisting of senior bureaucrats, is taking the decision and you go by it.That is not true at all. First, the decision is taken at my level, then it is discussed at SEC. Before going to SEC, the chief secretary, the health secretary and the revenue secretary discuss the issues with me. I discuss those issues with the ministers, including health minister Vishwajit Rane, over phone and only then it is presented at the SEC. After the SEC discusses it, it again come back to me for the final approval and only then is it announced. I have changed the SEC decisions two to three times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/have-to-live-with-covid-and-sustain-ourselves/articleshow/76114587.cms||Vijay Desouza
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||2, including beggar, die of Covid-19 in district||Nagpur: For the first time since the district registered maiden Covid-19 case 81 days ago, two positive patients including a beggar died son Saturday. The district also recorded 13 more Covid-19 cases on Saturday, increasing total number of cases to 515.s The death toll from Covid-19 increased to 11 in the district. Of them nine deaths happened in May and remaining two in April. The second death recorded on Saturday was of a 73-year-old man who passed away at Covid-19 isolation ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). He was a resident of Bhusawal and had come to his son’s residence at Lekchand Nagar, Hingna around 11 days ago. Suffering from meningitis, he was admitted at a private hospital in Dhantoli on Monday. He was on ventilator since Wednesday following fever and breathlessness. He tested positive on Friday and shifted to GMCH on ventilator. He also had diabetes and other health problems. The beggar, 50, died at Covid-19 isolation ward of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). He was suffering with distension of abdomen and liver cirrhosis. He was found at Gandhi Putla, Itwari on May 22. He tested positive on May 23 and was on ventilator for last two days. Now, total five patients have died while undergoing treatment at Covid-19 isolation wards. Samples of remaining six tested positive post death. All the 11 deceased were comorbidity patients. A 36-year-old woman from Tandapeth, another congested slum of East Nagpur, tested positive. She was admitted at IGGMCH on Friday due to fever and cough. Tandapeth, situated between Mominpura and Naik Talao containment zones, will be a new containment zone. With two more testing positive, the number of infected State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel has increased to 10. A 45-year-old man from Satranjipura tested positive, taking tally of this locality to 129. Three from Nagpur rural tested positive. A 44-year-old man from Ghumgaon admitted at AIIMS due to fever, dry cough and breathlessness tested positive. The other two patients are from Mannatkhedi, a remote village in Sawargaon Primary Health Centre Area in Narkhed tehsil. Their swab samples were collected in a special camp after their return from Mumbai and Pune. Now, 15 cases have been registered from Nagpur rural. Six persons from Mominpura containment zone tested positive, increasing cases from the area to 247. Five patients were discharged — 3 from Gaddigodam, one from Mominpura and one of Butibori, increasing total to 374. Vasant Nagar and Rameshwari road in South-West Nagpur were notified as new containment zone as two from this areas had tested positive on Friday. Number of containment zones in existence increased to 25. Mundhe also reduced area of containment zone of Parvati Nagar and Kashi Nagar. Reports of two NMC officials — deputy commissioner and veterinary officer — came negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-including-beggar-die-of-covid-19-in-district/articleshow/76114076.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held for posting inflammatory messages on FB||Coimbatore: The Rathinapuri police arrested a man on Friday for posting inflammatory messages against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and a religion on social media.  The arrested person was identified as I Sikkandar Basha, 41, of Bilal Estate at South Ukkadam and a member of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). He had posted defamatory messages on Facebook page ‘Agni Paravai’ against the PM and the CM for supporting the citizen amendment Act, police sources said. He also posted hate messages against RSS and BJP. District organiser of Bharat Sena S R Kumaresan had lodged a complaint against Basha with the Rathinapuri police on April 9. As the messages were intended to trigger communal tension in Coimbatore city, police had registered a case against against Basha on April 10. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-posting-inflammatory-messages-on-fb/articleshow/76114077.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat lost 1,007 precious lives to Covid in 68 days, still counting||AHMEDABAD: On Saturday, Gujarat became the fourth Indian state to cross 16,000 Covid-19 positive cases and the second to record more than 1,000 deaths. In 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday, Gujarat added 412 positive cases and 27 deaths, taking the tally to 16,356 and the toll to 1,007. The state added 1,000 new cases in three days and 100 deaths in four days. The state lost, on average, nearly 15 lives to Covid daily since it first recorded a coronavirus death on March 23. In the past 24 hours, Ahmedabad district recorded one death every hour — 24 deaths in 24 hours — whereas Gandhinagar, Banaskantha, and Mehsana reported one death each. Ahmedabad district’s toll now stands at 822. The district has recorded 81.6% of the total deaths in Gujarat. The new cases include 284 from Ahmedabad, 55 from Surat, 28 from Vadodara and 12 from Gandhinagar. Vadodara district, with 1,009 cases, became the third district of Gujarat after Ahmedabad and Surat to register more than 1,000 positive cases. Sabarkantha became the 11th district of Gujarat to record more than 100 positive cases. The state health department bulletin mentioned that a record 621 Covid patients were discharged from state hospitals in 24 hours, taking the total to 9,230. The discharged patients include a record 518 from Ahmedabad, 30 from Surat, 29 from Vadodara, and 10 from Sabarkantha. In Gujarat, 56.5% (9,230) of the total patients have been discharged, 37.4% (6,119) are active patients, and 6.1% (1,007) have died. Of the total active patients, 62 are on ventilators, said state health department officials. The analysis of the cases and discharges over the past five days reveals that for each 100 positive patients, Gujarat discharged 137 patients from hospitals. Gujarat carried out 4,299 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 2.01 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-lost-1007-precious-lives-to-covid-in-68-days-still-counting/articleshow/76114092.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||Round 2 of locust attack leaves farmers worried||Nagpur: The second round of locust attack in Katol and other orange growing parts of the region has left the farmers worried. This time around, the pests were seen eating fresh shoots of leaves of the orange plant. Earlier, when the locust was spotted for the first time here, it left without any major damage to the orchards. Manoj Rai, director of the Centre for Sericulture and Biological Pest Control of Nagpur University, said that if the pest was eating the fresh leaves that are tender, it is an indication that the locust are young and will be ready for breeding soon. “At this stage, the mandibles are not strong enough so the locust prefers to nibble away the tender leaves. Such leaves also enable substantial growth hormones,” said Rai. During this stage, the locust increases consumption for its growth. Soon they will be ready for breeding. “As it grows, the locust also eats the mature foliage,” said Rai. He had also pointed out that spotting of locust in the pre-breeding stage means that egg-laying may have happened somewhere close by. Locus swarms were again seen in Katol on Saturday. Last week, when the swarms were spotted for the first time in Katol, there was no major loss to the orange cultivation. The pest was seen resting on trees but did not eat the leaves. Manoj Jawanjal, director of Mahaorange, an association of orange growers, said at least 25% of the crop is expected to be hit due to the locust attack. The fruits are at a very early stage. Currently, the size of berries, the fruit will mature by October. The tree needs to have enough leaves, to support the growth, or else the fruits may just drop off, said Jawanjal. Sunil Bhutada, also an orange grower in Khotamba village in Katol, said he could save some of his trees by spraying neem paste on the leaves. “The locust sat on trees which were sprayed but did not eat the leaves because of the bitter taste. As I could not cover the entire area, the locust damaged a number of other trees. The pest preferred to eat orange leaves,” said Bhutada, adding, “The vegetables have been entirely damaged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/round-2-of-locust-attack-leaves-farmers-worried/articleshow/76114104.cms||Shishir Arya
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||TikTok video featuring dead hare costs 3 Kinathukadavu boys dear||Coimbatore: A TikTok video of their pet dogs trying to eat a dead hare has cost three youngstersRs 7,000 each as district forest officials fined them for the act, which constitutes an offense under the Wildlife Protection Act.According to a forest official, the black-naped hare was killed after it was accidently run over by the vehicle, in which the trio from Mettuvavi near Kinathukadavu in the district were travelling, last week. The boys, he said, collected the carcass and made a TikTok video for fun.In the video, which has been doing rounds on social media since last week, a youngster is seen holding the dead hare up in the air and letting three of his hounds take turns to jump and bite it.The official said, “We came to know about the video through NGOs in Chennai. We subsequently formed a team to inquire into the incident earlier this week.” They arrested the youngster who was seen in the video and he spilled the beans on the remaining two. The Madukkarai forest range officials also registered a case against them under the Wildlife Protection Act.“The youngsters did it for fun and getting ‘likes’ on social media. But as it constituted a violation, we fined them Rs 7,000 each and released them with a warning,” the official said.Of late, there has been a rise in incidents of people poaching small animals such as hares and monitor lizards and posting videos fearing them on social media. The official said they have been keeping a close watch on such incidents.“We are keeping a tab on content involving cruelty towards wildlife that are circulated on social media. We have sources to inform us of such content. In such cases, we act immediately as we have solid evidence,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tiktok-video-featuring-dead-hare-costs-3-kinathukadavu-boys-dear/articleshow/76114088.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Bid to murder RSS worker: One more arrested||Coimbatore: A 36-year-old member of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) has been arrested in connection with the murder attempt on a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionary in March. He is the second accused to be held in the case. A police officer identified the accused as M Jaffar Sadiq, of Rose Venue at South Ukkadam. He was arrested on Friday. On Saturday, a team led by Podanur police inspector Maheswaran conducted a search at Jaffar’s house, but they did not find anything. The officer said RSS functionary N Suryaprakash, 26, of Sundarapuram, was assaulted by two unidentified people at his edible oil shop on Sundarapuram-Madukkarai Road around 6.40pm on March 11. He was critically injured in the incident. Subsequently, A Mohammed Hanifa, 41, of GM Nagar at Ukkadam was arrested in the case. During inquiry, he told police that he had hatched a conspiracy with others to attack the RSS functionary. The officer hinted at a few more arrests in the case. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bid-to-murder-rss-worker-one-more-arrested/articleshow/76114080.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Man booked for raping daughter in Telangana's Vikarabad||HYDERABAD: A 35-year-old man was booked for allegedly sexually assaulting his 13-year-old daughter multiple times during the lockdown in Vikarabad district. The victim, daughter of a daily-wage worker from the Karankote police station limits, was studying in a religious school in another district, but returned home before the lockdown on March 15. “The accused had married four times. He divorced two of his wives, while the third wife died. The victim is his third wife’s daughter. The accused was staying with his wives, son and mother. Before lockdown, his daughter returned home,” Karankote sub-inspector Santosh said. According to police, the accused had been sexually assaulting the victim without anyone’s knowledge since she had returned. “He had raped the victim on multiple occasions. The last assault was before a festival recently. She recently revealed about the assaults to her stepmother,” the officer said. After a complaint was lodged, he was booked for rape and other relevant sections of the POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-raping-daughter/articleshow/76114491.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Delhi||9,500 hospital beds soon, mobile app for Covid-19 help, claims Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will have 9,500 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients by June 5. With over a thousand new cases reported every day for the past few days, and the total crossing 18,500 on Saturday, there is a need to expand the setup required to deal with the coronavirus. But Delhi is four steps ahead of the deadly virus, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed at a press conference on Saturday, and the government will launch a mobile app on Monday that will provide Delhiites information on beds and ventilators in the city’s Covid hospitals. “The surge in corona cases in Delhi in the last few days is a matter of worry, but there is no need to panic. I want to assure you that we are making arrangements way more than required to deal with Covid-19. We have to learn to live with the coronavirus,” Kejriwal said. He said that out of the 17,386 active cases (till Friday), only 2,100 patients were in the hospitals for treatment, the rest in home isolation. “We currently have 6,600 beds for Covid-19 cases, having successfully arranged 2,100 beds in one week,” he added. “Only 2,100 beds are occupied, while 4,500 remain vacant. We have now issued orders to have 9,500 beds by June 5.” The CM said many people want to be treated in private hospitals, but Delhi government hospitals, like the government schools, provided quality facilities. The state government has also taken over some hotels for Covid care. “On May 14, there were 1,600 patients in the hospitals in Delhi. Now, there are 2,100,” Kejriwal said. “Despite the increase in the overall active cases, the number of hospitalised patients has only increased by 500.” He added that most infected people were either asymptomatic or had mild symptoms like cough cold, and fever. “They can be treated at home. There is no need to panic because most of Delhi’s people are recovering at homes,” the CM noted. Delhi government will launch a mobile application on Covid care on Monday. Explaining why, Kerjiwal said, “Though we have adequate health infrastructure, families of Covid-19 positive persons are still confused about where to take them for treatment. They are not sure about availability of beds and ventilators in the hospitals. To eliminate such confusion, we will launch an app on Monday that will have information on the status of beds and ventilators available in each hospital in Delhi. People who do not use smartphones can access this information on a website, besides the information being available on the 1031 helpline.” The CM also refuted the video of bodies being circulated since Saturday morning as being from a Delhi government hospital. “Another video of low-quality food being served in a hospital was also circulated saying it was a Delhi government hospital. These are not true,” Kejriwal emphasised, while appealing to people not to share such fake content on social media because it took a toll on the morale and confidence of doctors and corona warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/9500-hospital-beds-soon-mobile-app-for-covid-help/articleshow/76114592.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sabzi mandi to return to Sector 26 this week||CHANDIGARH: The vegetable and fruit market will be shifted back from the bus stand in Sector 17 to its original site in Sector 26 in the coming week, ending the month-long stopgap arrangement that was made following a spurt in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26. The transport department of the UT administration had requested to vacate the ISBT to resume Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) bus service for the Tricity. Around a week back, the department had written to the Chandigarh Market Committee and the municipal corporation to shift the temporary market as soon as possible as they needed to start the operation of local bus service from Sector 17. Earlier, the UT was considering to shift the market to Sector 39-based grain market instead of returning to Sector 26. But lack of basic facilities and related infrastructure forced the administration to change its plans. “The Sector 39 market is short on infrastructure. It is not possible at this point to shift the vegetable and fruit market there. Moreover, wholesale suppliers have also raised their concerns owing to lack of facilities,” a senior UT official said. Sources in the administration said the final decision will be taken in a couple of days, although the UT has agreed to the request of the transport department. Repair work in Sector 26 mandi which was started a few days back is going to be completed soon. “As CCTV cameras have already been installed at the Sector 26 mandi, entry will be allowed from one side and that too only for vendors and wholesale suppliers,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sabzi-mandi-to-return-to-sector-26-this-week/articleshow/76114082.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Spread correlates to population density’||AHMEDABAD: As on May 27, 67.2% of the total cases of Covid-19 and 77.2% deaths of Covid-19 patients in India were recorded from 20 districts in nine states. These districts have only 10.5% of the total population of India. So what factors led these districts to become ‘hotspots’? In a blog on the BMJ journal website, Prof Dileep Mavalankar, the director of IIPH-Gandhinagar, and Ashish Awasthi, assistant professor at Centre for Chronic Conditions and Injuries, PHFI, compared the health markers of 20 districts to argue that factors such as proportion of urban population and high population density played a major role. The researchers said that Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Chennai and Thane accounted for half the cases (50.8%) and more than half the deaths (53.2%) of India whereas they account for only 4.4% of the Indian population. The researchers retrieved data from a crowdsourced platform and compared it with existing data such as extrapolation of population based on 2001 and 2011 Census and National and Family Health Survey of India (2015-16). “All cities having the highest burden of Covid-19 either have an international airport or are major financial/tourist hubs, with a population density of 1,036-28,220 persons per square kilometre in urban areas,” mentioned the blog. Apart from Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara are also among the 20 districts. The study said that India has far fewer deaths per million (DPM) of 3.4 compared to countries such as Belgium (805 DPM), Italy and UK (545 DPM) and France (437 DPM). However, the districts with higher concentration have much higher DPM like Ahmedabad (87 DPM) and Mumbai (85 DPM). Factors such as pre-existing morbidity such as anaemia, hypertension and obesity should also be looked at, argued the researchers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spread-correlates-to-population-density/articleshow/76114096.cms||Parth Shastri
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University announces June 25 as exam date||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat University has finally announced that examinations will begin from June 25 and about 1 lakh students are expected to appear for the examinations. The university had decided that apart from the examination of the final year, it will also conduct examination for the second, fourth and sixth semesters of LLB course and for semester 2 and 4 for the Bachelor of Education (BEd) course. Officials said that apart from LLB and BEd, for the remaining faculties the GU will conduct final year examinations. University officials said that those students who have Covid-19 and cannot appear for the examination will be given exemption from the June examination and a remedial examination will be held in August, where these students will be allowed to appear. University officials said that senior officials from the state government came down and held meetings with the deans and the syndicate members and after the meetings the GU declared the examination date. The GU had decided to conduct examination for all semesters of LLB and BEd after state government officials arrived and met university authorities. The state government had recently announced that the examination for the final year will be conducted, but the GU authorities had wanted to conduct examination for all semester where the strength of students was less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-announces-june-25-as-exam-date/articleshow/76114153.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bhopal||No need for e-pass to travel within MP, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh government has scrapped the need for e-pass for intrastate movement within the state. Making the announcement while reviewing the Coronavirus situation in the state with senior officials through video conferencing on Saturday, Chouhan said that e-passes would now be required for people traveling to the state from other states or going out of state. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains said that the e-pass facility would now be auto generated. Chief minister also took note of spread of infections at a prominent private hospital in Indore and directed the officials to issue a notice to the hospital management. Chouhan said that directed that Bhopal’s largest referral hospital, Hamidia hospital must be made a model centre for treatment of Covid-19 patients. He also directed the additional chief secretary, health Mohammad Suleman to provide him daily report on Hamidia hospital and to ensure that mortality rate is minimised at the hospital. He called upon senior doctors to visit Covid wards regularly and review treatment protocol of the patients and ensure there are no lapses. The chief minister also advised for curbing the practice of unnecessarily referring patients to other centres. During the review of Sagar district, he inquired when the Sagar medical college is equipped with all facilities, why were patients being referred other centres? He directed the ACS health to improve the functioning at Sagar medical college. During the meeting, it was informed that the recovery rate of patients in Burhanpur was 67%. Of the 267 Covid positive patients, 200 have recovered and discharged. The active cases presently is only 82 while the fever clinics have screened about 5,000 patients, till now. Expressing satisfaction, Chouhan asked the officials to continue with the good work. He also directed the officials to take special care and monitoring of the situation in Neemuch district. ACS health Suleman informed that 59 hospitals in the state have been empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat scheme and beneficiary patients can avails of treatment facility there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-need-for-e-pass-to-travel-within-mp-says-chouhan/articleshow/76113696.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Goa||'Goans stricken under BJP government'||PANAJI: The state government’s policies are putting Goans, especially stranded Goan expats and seafarers, at a disadvantage, said Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Saturday. The party plans to start an online campaign to highlight the government’s failure to protect the interests of Goans, GFP president Vijai Sardesai told reporters. He said CM Pramod Sawant was not capable of leading Goa and that administration of the state had been left up to bureaucrats. Sardesai also said that during the last two months of the nationwide lockdown, Goans have begun to feel that they are lost and endangered in their own land, with those who have second homes in the state getting preference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goans-stricken-under-bjp-govt/articleshow/76114596.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Textile mill owners apprehensive about future ops, business revival||Coimbatore: Most of the textile mill owners are apprehensive about business revival post lockdown due to issues such as manpower shortage and financial crisis. As several guest workers have returned to their native places, the industry is facing a huge labour shortage, said Jagadesh Chandran, vice-president of the South India Spinners Association (SISPA). “60 to 80% mill workers are guest workers. Over 70% of them have either left for their states or are getting ready to go back. Even though several industries have resumed operations, the workers do not want to stay back because of the uncertainty over the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown,” he said. The mills are functioning with 20-25% of the workforce, Chandran said. “We are not sure whether the workers will return or when. We don’t know how to tackle the manpower shortage and resume normal production.” Operations will become normal only if the workers return, said N Murugesan, president of SISPA. “The electricity board had asked us to pay 90% of charges and slapped a hefty penalty even though not a single unit was used in April. The bills will be an additional burden on mill owners and is unacceptable,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/textile-mill-owners-apprehensive-about-future-ops-business-revival/articleshow/76114097.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government issues norms for cremation of all bodies||NEW DELHI: For better management of the bodies of those who die due to the coronavirus, the state government’s health department on Saturday asked hospitals to send these bodies to the mortuary within two hours. The hospitals have also been asked to schedule cremation in consultation with the family members and municipal authorities within 24 hours if the family contacts the hospital authorities within 12 hours of a person dying. The detailed order was issued to ensure that all bodies are timely cremated. “If the family haven’t contacted the mortuary within 12 hours of death, intimation to them should be sent by the area SHO with the date and time, and the place of cremation specified,” the order stated. The hospital must fix the date and time in such a way that an effective notice of at least 24 hours is available to the family. “In case of unidentified bodies of Covid-19 positive or suspect person, Delhi Police should complete all legal formalities within 72 hours of death and dispose the body within the next 24 hours,” the government order further stated. If the address of the deceased person is outside Delhi, the medical director should send notice to the resident commissioner of the state or union territory for communicating back within 48 hours. “If no reply is received, the body should be cremated by the hospital in the next 24 hours,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-issuesnorms-forcremationof-all-bodies/articleshow/76114594.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Focus on rational use of PPE at non-Covid hospitals||AHMEDABAD: In a circular on Friday, the state health department asked the non-Covid-19 treatment hospitals and non-Covid-19 treatment areas of hospitals for rational use of PPE kits. The department cited a national guideline by DGHS of ministry of health & family welfare. According to the circular, in OPD areas such as help desk/registration counter, doctor’s chamber, pharmacy, etc having mild or moderate risk need not use PPEs and recommended protection gears include triple layer mask, N95 masks, latex examination gloves and goggles. Likewise, the sanitary staff need to be provided triple-layer mask and latex gloves. In the activities such as critical care management, dead body packing, clinical management and in labour room in non-Covid hospitals, the PPE is not required, and protective gears should be worn based on recommendations of DGHS. PPEs however should be used in emergency departments of non-Covid hospitals where the staff is attending to severely ill patients while performing aerosol generating procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/focus-on-rational-use-of-ppe-at-non-covid-hospitals/articleshow/76114152.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 34% of 642 deaths in May had no co-morbidities||AHMEDABAD: The city lost 789 lives to the Covid pandemic from March till May 29. While those with co-morbid conditions have been globally pegged to be at greater risk, 34% of 642 who died in May so far did not have any co-morbid condition such as diabetes, hypertension, or kidney disease. However, when it came to co-morbidities, 33% who died had diabetes, 29% had a combination of diabetes and hypertension, 22% had hypertension, and 8% had heart disease. Further, 4% had kidney disease, and another 4% had brain disorders such as schizophrenia, and less than 1% had thyroid problems or were in the last trimester of pregnancy. Officials say that with growing awareness and greater availability of medical treatment in hospitals across the city, people dying on the first day of hospitalization has gone down. For instance, prior to May — till April 30 — 147 Covid deaths were reported. Among these, 17% died on the day of hospitalization. However, in May, the figure slid to 7.6%. “A majority of vulnerable patients with co-morbidities were seeking care late in March and April. This figure came down significantly in May,” says a senior AMC official. There were a few exceptions though. A 42-year-old from Jamalpur was in hospital for 28 days. And a 60-year-old from Jivrajpark and a 75-year-old from Gomtipur spent spent 24 days each in hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/34-of-642-deaths-in-may-had-no-co-morbidities/articleshow/76114119.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Industrialists seek place on revival committee||Coimbatore: Representatives of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (FOCIA) on Saturday met minister for municipal administration S P Velumani at his residence and reiterated their demands. They sought representation in the state’s economic revival committee so that the issues of micro and small units can be expressed properly. “More than 20,000 micro and small industrial units have been hit by the global slowdown over the last one year and the lockdown in the last two months. The government should waive our power tariff from March to June as the units did not function during the period. Unorganised entrepreneurs who do welding, lathe job work and motor winding should be given a subsidy of Rs 1lakh to get back on their feet,” a FOCIA representative said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industrialists-seek-place-on-revival-committee/articleshow/76114101.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Paid parking resumes, MC exempts Rs 2 crore licence fee||CHANDIGARH: The paid parking has now been started in the city after the Chandigarh municipal corporation issued a letter to the contractors to resume work at the given parking sites. The authorities concerned has also exempted approximately Rs 2-crore licence fee of both the paid parking contractors from March 23 till May 31. The two parking contractors are managing over 89 paid parking sites in the city as per their respective zones. They had requested the authorities to exempt their licence fee of over past two months due to the Covid-19 pandemic as they could not do any business. The authorities accepted their demand, terming the same as a genuine reason. “There are 32 paid parking lots in Zone-1 and Zone-II has 57 lots spread in different areas of the city. As two contractors are managing these lots, they have been asked to give protective gears to their employees while working at the parking sites. Moreover, they have also been directed to give full salaries to their employees and ensure jobs to all,” said an official of the MC. The issue related to salaries and jobs to employees of the paid parking lots was discussed in detail during the monthly house meeting of the MC on Friday. The municipal councillors urged the MC officials to make sure that all the paid parking employees get proper salaries on time. Municipal commissioner K K Yadav said since the MHA has already issued directions in this regard, if the contractors are found violating the same, action will be taken against them as per the norms. The parking lots of southern and eastern sectors of the city, comprising Sectors 34, 26, 20 etc has been kept under parking Zone-1, while Zone-II has areas of northern sectors’ parking lots, comprising Sectors 17, 22, 7, 8, 9 etc. Zone-II of the parking lot is the heaviest zone. Many new paid parking lots have been added in this zone during the tender and those are situated in the key commercial areas, besides some in tourist areas like Rose Garden and Shanti Kunj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/paid-parking-resumes-mc-exempts-rs-2-crore-licence-fee/articleshow/76114099.cms||Deepak Yadav
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Not the right time for fee hike, says Panjab University syndicate||CHANDIGARH: This is not the right time to consider a fee hike for the academic session of 2020-21. With this note, Panjab University syndicate members indefinitely deferred the proposal of 5% to 7.5% fee hike in its meeting on Saturday. Sources said the authorities are not going to consider the proposal owing to the demand of the students. Before the meeting started, all student parties submitted a representation to the members, opposing the proposal and demanded it not be approved. They also held a protest outside Golden Jubilee Hall, where the syndicate meeting was held. For reviewing the tentative academic calendar for 2020-21 session, a committee was constituted and the vice-chancellor was authorised to take a final call on the recommendations. The syndicate formed a committee to review the proposal of new courses to be introduced from next year. The syndicate decided to hold a meeting on June 27 to discuss the name for dean student welfare (DSW). Though the agenda was tabled in the meeting on Saturday, a majority opposed the proposed name of Prof Devinder Singh. Members asked the vice-chancellor as DSW Emanuel Nahar was going to retire on May 31, he could give additional charge to someone for a month and table the issue in the June 27th meeting. If the meeting cannot be held due to the outbreak of coronavirus, charge will be given to dean university of instructions from June 28 till the syndicate takes a final call. The syndicate approved the name of Sukhbir Kaur for DSW women, while Prof Ranjan Kumar of department of physics would continue as associate dean student welfare. The syndicate extended the date for the registration of voters for the senate election till June 15. The syndicate discussed the transfer of Dr S S Sangha, principal, Dashmesh Girls College of Education, Badal, Muktsar Sahib. The syndicate decided that he be sent back to avoid litigation in the absence of regulations and statutory provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/not-the-right-time-for-fee-hike-says-pu-syndicate/articleshow/76114102.cms||Aarti Kapur
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai hospitals offer new combination of drugs, mainly to those with heart rhythm issues||MUMBAI: An anti-parasitic drug and an antibiotic used in the city to beat leptospirosis are being offered as a new combination against Covid-19. The anti-parasitic drug called Ivermectin and antibiotic doxycycline made their entry into Mumbai hospitals last week after the state task force advised its use. “It is mainly for patients who have heart rhythm problems and cannot be given the usual combination of antimalarial drug HCQS and antibiotic Azithromycin,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, dean of the Indian College of Physicians. Last week, an article in international medical journal, The Lancet, said American doctors had found the combination of HCQS and Azithromycin increased deaths. Indian authorities have since reiterated their faith in HCQS, stating doctors in the West were administering double the dose recommended in India. Around the same time, doctors from Bangladesh published a report about 60 critical patients getting cured within four days with the Ivermetic-doxycyline combination. “The Maharashtra task force members spoke to the doctors from Bangladesh, and it was felt the combination can be used in India as well,” said a senior doctor from a public hospital. Ivermectin is cleared by authorities as an anti-parasitic drug to treat head lice, scabies, ascariasis, and lymphatic filarias. In March, a study by Monash University in Australia said Ivermectin could control viral load in Covid-19 patients. It hasn’t been officially cleared by any country to fight Covid-19. Doxycycline is an old antibiotic commonly used to treat respiratory tract infections and leptospirosis. Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital said 20-30 patients in the hospital have been given the combination. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Srivastava said the combination has to be studied before it can be widely advised. A senior doctor from a south Mumbai hospital said doctors are prescribing drugs as per their judgement instead of following guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hospitals-offer-new-combination-of-drugs-mainly-to-those-with-heart-rhythm-issues/articleshow/76114654.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Spike in Covid-19 testing as flight services resume||Coimbatore: Six days after flight operations resumed in the district, the number of people being tested for the novel coronavirus has gone up to anywhere between 400 and 600 a day from 200 to 250 earlier. More than half of them are flyers to the district.Neighbouring Tirupur, meanwhile, tests around 150 to 300 people a day and Salem, around 300 to 400 people.While the number of samples being tested in these districts is just a fraction that of Chennai and northern districts, epidemiologists say this could be because some private hospitals and clinicians are not testing all the patients with flu-like symptoms.Health department officials in the district used to test more than 500 people a day in April. They dropped the numbers to 200 to 250 people a day by April-end. The district hasn’t reported any new Covid-19 case since May 3. Tirupur too, which was testing 350 to 400 people a day, brought down the number of people being tested for the virus to 150 to 300 a day in May. It has also not reported any fresh case since May 2. This has led many people to wonder if the two districts have really been testing people at all.Dr P Kulandaisamy, former director of public health, says the ideal number of tests to be conducted a day differs from district to district. “It should be calculated based on the population. Coimbatore, with a population of around 41 lakh people, should be seeing around 75 to 100 deliveries a day (based on birth rate), around 40 cases of respiratory issues and around 100 cases of cough, cold and fever. If these people are tested without fail, it would come up to 220 to 240 samples a day.”If we have to add incoming air passengers and those entering the district via road, and the elective surgery patients at hospitals, he said, the minimum number of samples to be tested in the district would come around 400 a day. “If that’s being matched, it’s the right number. However, Salem, which is a much larger district and sees more movement with interstate borders, should test a minimum of 500 samples a day. Its total of 350 to 400 samples a day is low.”According to the former public health director, Tirupur should be testing at least 250 samples a day, compared to its lower limit of 150. “They should ensure all government and private clinics and health centres are not leaving out pregnant women, flu and SARI cases.”Dr Sudha Ramalingam, community medicine professor at PSG Hospitals, says while the number of people being tested in the region could be higher, the current figures were not worryingly low.T Mariappan, former scientist with the Indian Council of Medical Research, says the lower numbers could probably mean that some patients are opting for private sector treatment. ‘They may request the facility not to subject them to Covid-19 test or even if they do, not to reveal the results. Also, if most people in the district are asymptomatic, because of better immunity, what is the point in testing them?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/spike-in-covid-19-testing-as-flight-services-resume/articleshow/76114111.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four more cases; Bopal tally 30||AHMEDABAD: The suburb of Bopal continued to register fresh Covid-19 cases, with four new cases on Saturday with two in a single society. The Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika has so far got 30 cases, the majority of which are from the older North Bopal area. The suburb accounts for 15% of the 212 cases outside the city limits in Ahmedabad district. On Saturday, the district, outside city limits, reported 11 fresh cases, to go with 17 on Friday. In the last three days, Bopal has reported six fresh cases. The four cases reported on Saturday included a 34-year-old man from New York Darshan, a 52-year-old male from Kadamb Flats and a 35-year old female and a 14-year-old boy from Sanskruti Apartments. These have been the first cases in New York Darshan and Sanskruti Apartments while the two cases from Kadamb Flats took its tally to five. These flats had been categorized as a red zone after the earlier cases were reported. The restrictions had recently been removed. There were other three cases in Daskroi taluka of the district, one from Bareja, one from Gatrad and one from Memadpur. One case each was reported from Dhandhuka, Bavla, Viramgam and Dholka talukas. Of the 212 cases in the district, 11 persons have died, 135 have been discharged, 55 are in hospital and 11 are at Covid care centres. Taluka-wise, of these 212 cases, 83 are from Daskroi taluka, 77 from Dholka, 25 from Sanand, 11 from Bavla, seven from Dhandhuka, six from Viramgam, two from Mandal and one from Dholera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-more-cases-bopal-tally-30/articleshow/76114115.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Lioness in Pipli zoo gives birth to three||KURUKSHETRA: An eight-year-old lioness, Sakshi, gave birth to three cubs at Pipli Zoo in Kurukshetra district on May 17, said a wildlife department official on Saturday. One of the cubs, however, died within 48 hours of birth. Kurukshetra wildlife inspector Tejbir Singh said they did not make the information public earlier as they were observing the health of the lioness. “The deceased cub was separated by the mother herself. She is feeding the cubs, and they are being observed through CCTV cameras,” he added. The inspector said the lioness had mated with a 10-year-old lion, Geet, and both of them had been brought from Junagadh, Gujarat, in 2015. Since then, the lioness has given birth to 13 cubs in four litters. While all five cubs in the first two litters died, three of the five in third litter survived and are now housed at Rohtak zoo, he said. Sakshi is staying with the cubs through the day and nobody is allowed to go near their enclosure. “The lion has also been separated from them for the safety of the cubs and lioness,” added Tejbir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/lioness-in-pipli-zoo-gives-birth-to-three/articleshow/76114113.cms||Jaskaran Singh
May 31, 2020||Bareilly||25-year-old man booked for molesting 14-year-old girl||PILIBHIT: A 25-year-old man was booked for allegedly molesting a 14-year-old girl. The victim and the accused, who has been identified as Rohit, belong to the same village, which is located under Barkhera police station limits. The incident took place when the girl, a class IX student, was out in the fields with her buffalo. According to the written complaint, the accused fled the spot after a few neighbours heard the girl’s cry for help. The incident had taken place on May 15, but they delayed filing the complaint as they were allegedly being pressurized by the accused side to not to take legal action, the victim said. SHO Umesh Kumar Solanki said Rohit has been booked under section 354 (assault or criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC and is on the run. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/25-year-old-man-booked-for-molesting-14-year-old-girl/articleshow/76113033.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||Autos devise ways to swerve past Covid loss||Kolkata: In the new pandemic normal, autos are allowed to ferry just two instead of four passengers. To compensate for the loss, many routes have come up with innovative ways instead of increasing the fare substantially. There were, however, some routes that fleeced passengers at will. On Sinthee-Dum Dum Metro route, for instance, auto operators have truncated the route — Sinthee-30A bus stand for Rs7 and 30A bus stand-Dum Dum Metro for Rs 6 — instead of revising the fare. The fare for Sinthee to Dum Dum in Rs 9. “If the first half of total number of autos run the first half of the route length (Sinnthee- 30A) on Monday, rest of the autos will run the second route length (from 30A to Dum Dum) on Monday. Next day, each set will change of route,” said Shankar Pradhan, a route committee member. On Hazra-Bondel Gate route, the route length has been trifurcated — Hazra-Sishu Mangal, Sishu Mangal-Ballygunge Phanri and Ballygunge Phanri-Bondel Gate. One of the key reasons for not charging an abruptly high fare is low demand. Another big reason is the substantial reduction of auto LPG price from Rs 44/kg in April to 32.4/kg from May 1. The reduction of Rs 11.6/kg is also being used as buffer, said Aniruddha Kar, a transport economist. However, there are some routes — Dunlop-Barrackpore, Ultadanga-Karunamoyee and Ultadanga-Phoolbagan, among others — that continued to fleece commuters. Police received multiple complaints against such routes. In some, autos are accused to have charged almost triple the regular fare. In others, the auto operators are plying with more than two passengers citing “peak-hour pressure.” “There are reports that the Ultadanga-Baguiati route is breaking rules,”said an officer. Similar complaints have come from the Beliaghata ID-Phoolbagan-RG Kar and the Thakurpukur-Taratala routes. DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar said they were in touch with the transport department in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/autos-devise-ways-to-swerve-past-covid-loss/articleshow/76113720.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
May 31, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 : One more tests positive, another recovers; active cases at 28 in Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of active Covid-19 cases remained at 28 as a person with travel history was tested positive, while a patient was discharged after recovery on Saturday. Of the 70 cases reported in the state since March, 42 patients have recovered. The bulletin issued by the health department said the man who was detected of having contracted coronavirus had travelled from Maharashtra. He was admitted to ESI hospital in Margao, which is dedicated for treatment of Covid-19 patients in the state. “His condition is stable,” health director Dr Jose D’Sa said. Meanwhile, the patient declared cured has been placed in facility quarantine and will remain there for seven days and another seven days in home quarantine in accordance with the protocol followed by the state for patients who have recovered. On Saturday, 45 international passengers and 50 inter-state travellers were placed in home quarantine. Another 11 travellers were assigned to facility quarantine, while five suspects were isolated in the hospital. A total of 284 travellers are in facility quarantine, comprising mostly seafarers who have returned to the state from various destination in the past few days. As per the modified protocol, an international traveller is subject to seven days in institutional quarantine and seven days in home quarantine. On Saturday, 2,201 samples were tested for Covid-19 and results of 1,761 samples were negative, while 433 reports were awaited. Nine patients who completed their seven days in facility quarantine were allowed to go home but they will have to be in quarantine at home for another seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-more-tests-ve-another-recovers-active-cases-at-28/articleshow/76114599.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bhopal||With 246 new cases, state tally closes in on 8000-mark||Bhopal: With the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown drawing to a close in another day, the total Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh drew closer to 8,000. With 246 new positive patients reported on Saturday, tally of corona-affected persons in state reached 7891 in the state. Apart from the new positive cases, nine deaths were also reported in the state, as per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. The districts where these deaths were reported include Indore (3), Bhopal (2) and Ujjain, Burhanpur, Sagar and Khargone districts which reported a death each. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 343 on Saturday. The new positive cases were reported from 22 of the 51 affected districts of the state — these include Indore (87), Neemuch (42), Bhopal (27), Sagar (25), Khargone (12), Jabalpur (7), Panna (7), Burhanpur (4), Khandwa (4), Morena (4), Dhar (3), Bhind (3), Damoh (3), Dindori (3), Shahdol (3), Ujjain (2), Mandsaur (2), Sidhi (2), Shivpuri (2), Sheopur (2), and a case each in Barwani and Narsinghpur districts. On the brighter side, a total of 175 patients who were admitted in different hospitals of the state recovered from the disease and were discharged. With this, the number of people recovering from Covid-19 in the state reached 4,444 — far higher than the total number of active patients in the state which stands at 3,104. As per the state health bulletin, reports of 1.61 lakh samples have been received so far and of those 7,891 have been tested positive. Administration has declared 904 localities across these 51 districts as containment zones and movement in these zones is completely prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-246-new-cases-state-tally-closes-in-on-8000-mark/articleshow/76113726.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||Photographer comes up with face-revealing masks||Nagpur: As people are finding it identify each other due to Covid times, city’s young photographer Anand Nirbhavne is making face-revealing masks, somewhat similar to what someone from the same profession is doing in Kerala. To get a Nirbhavne-made face-revealing mask, a photo with a good view needs to be sent via whatsapp or e-mail. He processes the lower portion of the photo on a computer and then prints it on a mask with the help of a sublimation machine. “As masks have been made compulsory, recognizing people has become difficult. I thought of taking the help of technology to develop these photo masks so that people can be identified. We are manufacturing these masks which are two-layered, sanitized and washable. They can be used multiple times,” said Nirbhavne. Renowned chef Vishnu Manohar said that due to masks, people have kind of lost their identity, but Nirbhavne’s solution is the way out. “I would advise people to abide by the rules framed by the government. Wash hands regularly and wear a mask before stepping out,” said Manohar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/photographer-comes-up-with-face-revealing-masks/articleshow/76114107.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: LNJP Hospital medical director tests coronavirus positive, one worker dies||NEW DELHI: One more healthcare worker lost his life to Covid-19 in the capital, while several others, including the medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital — where the maximum number of Covid-19 patients is being treated — tested positive for the viral infection on Saturday. The deceased was a senior technical supervisor at LNJP and, sources claimed, was going to retire next month. Earlier this week, a mess worker and a sanitation supervisor at AIIMS succumbed to Covid-19. The director of LNJP has been quarantined after being confirmed positive for Covid-19. Hospital authorities said he is stable and doing fine. “As soon as the director tested positive, his contacts were traced and tested. Two staff members have also tested positive,” officials said. The dean of University College of Medical Sciences, a medical college attached to Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital in east Delhi was also been diagnosed with Covid-19, sources said. Earlier this week, the dean of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Medical Sciences, which is associated with Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, tested positive for Covid-19. Initially, he was under isolation at home but when his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to ICU of a private hospital for treatment. “With the blessing of one and all, I am shifted back to general ward from ICU after undergoing plasma therapy and anti-viral therapy,” the dean of ABIMS posted on social media. The 62-year-old was looking after the management of Covid-19 workers at RML, a Centre-run hospital designated for Covid care. “It is worrisome that senior doctors who are taking all precautions are also getting affected now. This tells us that there is scope for complacency with this viral infection and healthcare workers dealing with patients suffering from the disease have to keep their guards up,” Dr Vinay Aggarwal, past national president of Indian Medical Association, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lnjp-director-tests-ve-one-worker-dies/articleshow/76114597.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
May 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Hiccups over, firm promises glitch-free BevQ by Tuesday||THIRUVAVNANTHAPURAM: After the near ‘dry run’ of the first two days, liquor started flowing in state with BevQ application coming to its own. The crowd management app issued approximately three lakh tokens on Saturday. Faircode Technologies, the startup which developed the app, said multiple service providers were engaged for sending SMS to consumers, and this has done away with the delay in users receiving one-time passwords (OTPs). However, excise department sources said complaints that the app is allotting users slots in faraway outlets and that it is not allowing them to choose another outlet if a particular drink or brand is not available in the outlet allotted to them continue to pour in. “The application takes into account the pin code entered by a user to allot an outlet. If slots are full under one pin code, it automatically chooses the next pin code. But adjacent pin codes do not mean adjacent locations,” they said. Faircode is learnt to have assured the government of a fool-proof system by Tuesday. Sunday and Monday have been declared as dry days. The government is also set to amend section 4A of the foreign liquor rules to allow clubs to reopen and sell liquor to their members from Tuesday. Sale of IMFL through military and paramilitary canteens also resumed on Saturday. The government’s go-ahead came following excise commissioner S Aananthakrishnan’s recommendation, in the wake of the Centre relaxing lockdown restrictions. There are five central police canteens (CPCs) in the state — two which cater to the BSF and three for the CRPF. While the capital has one canteen each, there are two CRPF canteens in Kannur and Kozhikode, while the BSF has one in Thrissur. The combined defence forces have 36 canteen stores department (CSD) outlets in the state. These include 10 in Thiruvananthapuram, four each in Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Kannur, three in Kollam, two each in Kottayam, Alappuzha, Thrissur and Palakkad and one each in Pathanamthitta, Malappuram and Kasaragod. IMFL is sold with a 50% rebate on sales tax and excise duty in CSDs. In CPCs it is sold with a subsidy on excise levy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hiccups-over-firm-promises-glitch-free-bevq-by-tuesday/articleshow/76112926.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Flights departing with just 26% capacity||MOHALI: Poor occupancy is hurting flight operators in regaining momentum since the domestic operations were allowed from May 25 after a gap of almost two months. Flights departed with just 26% occupancy and arrived with 42% at the Chandigarh international airport in five days, according to Airports Authority of India (AAI) data. A total of 2,376 passengers had arrived and 1,433 departed. As many as 31 flights operated from Chandigarh from May 25 to May 29, bringing and taking 3,809 passengers only. Each aircraft has a capacity of 180 passengers on an average. In an ideal scenario, 5,580 passengers should have arrived and an equal number departed. The arrival of 2,376 passengers in 31 flights pegs the occupancy rate at 42%. Similarly, the occupancy rate for departures was 26%, with 1,433 people leaving the city. A leading flight operator at the airport said, “On an average, we get 75% occupancy in a flight from Delhi and Mumbai, but here we are yet to break even. A single flight to Mumbai fetched a sale of Rs 14 lakh for to-and-fro trip. On May 29 Mumbai flight arrived with full capacity but departed with just 35 passengers, which is just 19% occupancy. In a single day, we sustained losses of Rs 6 lakh per flight.” In five days, the total footfall at the airport was 4,000 passengers. Before lockdown, the average footfall was around 5,000 to 5,500 passengers daily. Recently, an international flight from the US arrived with 100 passengers via Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/flights-departing-with-just-26-capacity/articleshow/76114109.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Medicos distribute expired medicines in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Complaints of district medical staff members, who have been engaged for distribution of medicines and attending to fever cases within Covid-19 containment zones of Ahmedabad city, distributing medicines with expiry date to sick people has emerged. The issue happened in a containment zone of Gomtipur — Jethiben Chawl, Mansuri ni Khadawali Chawl and Nadiyawali Chawl — where medical official is alleged to have distributed antibiotic Cifadroxil tablets carrying an expiry date of March 2020, and Dextrose IP that had expired in May 2018, to patients reporting of fever and weakness. The Dextrose IP packet had hardened and read it was meant for Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) health department procurement. According to eyewitness accounts the medical officer usually comes in a car carrying a Devbhoomi Dwarka registration number, calls out to people in the chawl and distributes medicines while sitting in the car. A jobless diamond worker, Bhanuprasad Parmar, a resident of Jethiben Chawl, said that a doctor and two nurses came in the car on Saturday morning, with a Devbhoomi Dwarka registration number also and asked if someone needs medicines for fever, cough, cold or weakness. A senior AMC health official told TOI that an enquiry has been initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medicos-distribute-expired-medicines/articleshow/76114114.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||21 monitors to keep watch on 7 New Market blocks||Kolkata: The traders’ association at New Market has nominated three shopkeepers in each of the seven blocks in the market to oversee and ensure that everyone — shopkeepers, staff and customers — adhere to norms laid down by KMC to prevent the virus spread. “The block representatives will make sure that everyone is wearing a mask, there is no crowding anywhere and that there is no encroachment on the corridors,” said SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association secretary Uday Kumar Sahoo. New Market, which had shut after business hours on March 20, will reopen on June 1. The business hours have been fixed from 10am to 6pm. The rest of the market, comprising the vegetable section and spices, meat, fish and chicken range, will continue to function from 7am to 6pm. The entry gate will shut at 5.30pm. The association is also acquiring thermal guns that will be used at the entrances. It will provide PPE to attendants at the gates who will conduct the checks. “Of the three gates that will remained open, only two will be functional on Monday — the main gate and gate 15 on Hogg Street. A side gate next to it will be open for exit. Thereafter, there are plans to open gate 18 on Bertram Street for use as exit,” association president Ashok Gupta said. The association expects around 75%-80% shops to open for business on Monday. While the old complex of New Market has 490 shops, the basement and ground floor of the new complex have another 510. In addition, there are 150 shops on the first and second floors of the new complex. While a section of shopkeepers are excited about the reopening, there is also anxiety over the business prospects till adequate transport is available for shoppers. Also, with Bangladeshis comprising nearly 50% of the customer base prior to lockdown, many feel the buzz will return only when the restrictions on interanational travel are removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/21-monitors-to-keep-watch-on-7-new-market-blocks/articleshow/76113731.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lab assistant admitted after video message||NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old woman working as a lab technician with Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital tested positive for the novel coronavirus on May 28. However, only after several days of ordeal, was she finally admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital on Saturday night. Earlier, the staffer alleged negligence on the part of authorities at the hospital where she worked. She had to herself ask a doctor to prescribe the test. It was only after she released a video message that the hospital offered her help. “I got tested after ten days of ordeal. It’s been two days since I have tested positive and so far, no one has given me any medicine or a space to isolate. My fever has not come down and my throat has been hurting. I am in pain and my family members have also not been tested so far,” said Laxmi in the video. She also appealed to the Delhi CM for help. BL Choudhary, medical superintendent of the hospital, said: “We saw the video; the staffer was tested in the hospital itself. We are extending her all the support. These pandemic times have to be fought collectively. We are in touch with her.” “I was sick for the last few weeks. I had even taken leave. When I resumed work, my condition worsened and I asked for leave again. My seniors were okay with it, but I was made to run up and down for getting my application accepted,” Laxmi said. “I have been assured by the hospital that my family will be tested for the coronavirus on Sunday,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lab-assistant-admitted-after-video-message/articleshow/76114605.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||45 Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation staffers get Rs 6.4 lakh compensation||AHMEDABAD: Forty-five members of the health team of the civic body have been compensated Rs 6.4 lakh after they contracted Covid-19 during duty. These staff members include medical and paramedical staff and those associated with health and sanitation work at the ward level. The latest list features four Class 1 officers, two Class 2 officers, 19 Class 3 officers, and 20 Class 4 officers. These staff members have been extended compensation of Rs 25,000, Rs 15,000, and Rs 10,000 respectively. Earlier, 28 medical staff members employed on contract were given compensation of Rs 4.9 lakh. In all, 73 medical staff members and employees have been given compensation of Rs 11.3 lakh till date. On Saturday, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation said in a press release that the 104 fever van service has been strengthened by adding 40 vehicles to help people who are not able to access Dhanvantari vans or urban health centres. Additional chief secretary Rajiv Gupta said that the 104 service with adequate number of doctors and paramedics will reach people in need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/45-amc-staffers-get-rs-6-4l-compensation/articleshow/76114149.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Dead’ man lands in CBI net 35 years after bank fraud||PATIALA: A man accused of bank fraud in 1985, who had managed to produce a fake certificate to prove himself dead, finally landed in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) net on Saturday. He and his wife were arrested from their residence in Punjabi Bagh area, almost 35 years after he committed the crime. While the CBI refused to share details of the case, sources in the police who accompanied the CBI team to arrest the accused, Nirmal Singh, and his wife Parminder Kaur Bath, said he had committed a bank fraud of Rs 2.5 lakh in 1985 and a case was registered against him at the Sector 30 police station in Chandigarh. The case was handed over to the CBI in 1990 and in 1993, he was declared a proclaimed offender by a CBI court. Later, his wife Parminder Kaur produced a death certificate of her husband, claiming he died in an accident, after which the investigations in the case were shelved, the sources said. The accused not only managed to prove himself dead in the records, but also changed his identity and fled to the USA, where he even got permanent residency. The police sources said Nirmal Singh, in connivance with his wife Parminder Kaur, who runs a private web news channel in Patiala, had allegedly produced a dead body of an individual from Uttar Pradesh and claimed it to be that of Nirmal Singh to get the fake death certificate issued. Nirmal reportedly returned to India about two months back, after which wife Parminder Kaur had got into a dispute with one of her associates at the web news channel. The associate, Jitinder Stephen, had filed a police complaint against her at the local civil lines police station. While looking into the complaint, the police discovered that her husband Nirmal Singh was actually wanted by the CBI in a 35-year-old case, after which the matter reached the investigating agency. The CBI team led by Vikas Kumar arrived at their residence on Saturday morning and detained the couple, who were taken to Chandigarh. As Nirmal complained of health issues, the CBI team called an ambulance in which he was taken away. A woman constable from the civil lines police station was also called to escort Parminder Kaur to CBI’s Chandigarh office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dead-man-in-cbi-net-35-years-after-committing-bank-fraud/articleshow/76114130.cms||Manish Sirhindi
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown to be eased as per govt directives: Mundhe||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will abide by the guidelines issued by both central and state governments on easing the lockdown. The lockdown 4, which will end on May 31, will not be withdrawn completely at one go but rather in a staggered manner, according to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. In a near hourlong live social media interaction session on Saturday, the civic body chief said all establishments, including parlours, gyms and public transport system, will be given permission to start their functioning. “These establishments were shut to contain spread of the disease. In due course of time, all will be given permission to start their business activity but of course with some guidelines to follow,” he said. The state government acceded to Mundhe’s request to extend the city’s lockdown which was to end on May 22. Mundhe said the virus is to stay even if the lockdown is not extended further but Nagpurians can help it to contain from spreading. “If people make certain preventive measures a habit while venturing out like using mask, maintaining Covid distancing and regular washing of hands etc, the virus can be contained,” he said. He explained what all precautions did the NMC take and make Nagpur an ideal city in containing spread of the virus. According to him, the new containment areas were the result of people returning from other severely coronavirus-affected cities like Mumbai, Pune etc Mundhe also answered questions posed by citizens on the occasion. One Jyoti Kamble raised the issues of controversy in declaring containment zones, problems like lack of sanitation, poor quality food being served to people in quarantine centres, among others. Mundhe refuted all the allegations and said that the NMC always ensured good facilities at both containment zones and quarantine centres, respectively. He explained the importance of quarantining people from containment zones and clarified that rooms in MLA hostel has attached toilets, while other quarantine centres have facilities on every floor and the NMC ensured disinfection of all the centres every day. Shashank Wandile, another resident of the city, raised a widely perceived belief that most patients in the city got infected due to mass quarantine, to which, Mundhe claimed that none of 474 patients in Nagpur who had been tested positive contracted the infection either in quarantine centres or at isolation centres and hospitals. He also justified his statement and cited examples of Ravi Nagar where one of the persons tested negative on first day of quarantine and tested positive on 14th day. This is neither the first case nor the last one when a person can come positive on 14th day or even on 28th day too, Mundhe said. He also rubbished questions on terming him as arrogant, dictator and media savvy, saying that he had never worked to gain publicity and always worked for society and people at large. The civic body chief further informed that it almost readied five of its hospitals to fight coronavirus cases. All these five NMC-run hospitals will have 450 beds, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-to-be-eased-as-per-govt-directives-mundhe/articleshow/76114122.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
May 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19 death: Telangana man’s funeral held in Tvm||T’puram/Alappuzha: The funeral of Anchayya, 68, a resident of Telangana who died of Covid-19 here on Wednesday was held at Juma masjid, Vallakadavu on Saturday. Anchayya, along with his wife Lekshmi and son Ravi, had reached the district on May 22 without valid travel documents. Authorities said that they were headed for Hyderabad and wrongly disembarked in Thiruvananthapuram. Anchayya is from Nalgonda in Telangana. The three of them were shifted to Covid care centre at Poojappura. Anchayya was later moved to General hospital after he developed symptoms and died on May 27. His results came positive for Covid-19 on May 28. The swabs of his son and wife were collected and the results have been negative. Earlier, the collector held talks with the family members of Anchayya with the help of Narasimhugari T L Reddy, civil supplies director, and got their consent for burial at Vallakadavu Juma masjid. The family preferred funeral as per their religious custom. The funeral rites were done in strict compliance with the Covid-19 protocol. The officials said that the family members will be sent back to Hyderabad. Joy’s body cremated The body of Jose Joy (38) of Pandanad in Chengannur, who died of Covid-19 at Alappuzha Medical Cosllege Hospital on Friday, was cremated at the gas crematorium of Alappuzha municipality on Saturday. The district administration officials said that though they first planned a burial in his church cemetery at Pandanad, they had to give up the plan due to the presence of water when dug around five feet there. “As per the Covid protocol, the grave should be dug to a depth of 12 feet. It was not possible to conduct his funeral in the cemetery due to the presence of water. So, with the consent of family members and head of the church, the body was cremated in the gas crematorium of the municipality,” said the officials. Joy, who returned from the UAE on May 27, was under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-19-death-telangana-mans-funeral-held-in-tvm/articleshow/76112954.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Reduced fishing ban period gets mixed reactions||PANAJI: The central government’s decision to curtail the period of annual ban on fishing by mechanised vessels from 61 to 47 days has evoked mixed reactions among the fishing community in Goa. After the chief minister announced that the order will be implemented in Goa, the decision has been welcomed by some trawler owners, while others have expressed displeasure at the limited number of days for fish breeding. “Crew members, most of whom are migrant labour are still in Goa. We can carry out fishing activities till June 15,” president of the Cutbona Boat Owners’ Association, Savio D’Silva said, adding that about 4,000 workers from Odisha, Jharkhand and Chattisgarh are still at the Cutbona jetty. “We have already lost four months of the season due to cyclones and rough weather. The government is compensating with giving us a few days that were lost during the lockdown. We welcome this decision,” said president of the Goa Fishing Boat Owners’ Association, Jose Philip D’Souza. However, there have been some who differ about the curtailed fishing ban period. “Just increasing the number of fishing days by 15 days in June won’t solve the issue,” said general secretary of the All Goa purse-seiners’ association, Sebastiao Cardozo. “The order is advantageous for us since most fishermen actively start fishing only by August. Last year, however, the entire month of August was bad due to weather conditions. We started fishing full-fledged only from mid-September. The government must keep the number of days of the ban to 61 days by extending it till mid-August,” he said. The Goenchea Raponkarancho Ekvott (GRE), however, said that the reduced fishing ban will not benefit traditional fishermen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reduced-fishing-ban-period-gets-mixed-reactions/articleshow/76114615.cms||Nida Sayed
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Places of worship stress on safety ahead of reopening||KOLKATA: Representatives of most places of worship on Saturday said they would not be possible for them to reopen till they implement safety measures for devotees and their employees. A state government order on Friday stated that places of worship could reopen on June 1. An MHA notification on Saturday revised the date to June 8 but senior representatives of the places of worship said they would prioritise the safety aspect over deadlines. Dakshineswar temple trustee and committee secretary Kushal Chowdhury said they were not setting any deadline. “We need to take precautions for our devotees and our employees before we reopen the temple. When we reopen, we need to regulate crowding. We will keep the temple open in phases on any given day.” Authorities at Kalighat temple, too, held a meeting on Saturday to discuss the pros and cons of reopening. “A decision will be taken after we have ensured mandatory social distancing and other safety measures.” At Nakhoda Mosque and Tipu Sultan Mosque, the authorities were trying to figure out how they will ensure only 10 people at a time. “We will speak to police and local representatives before we take a decision,” said Nasser Ebrahim, a trustee of Nakhoda Mosque. Roman Catholic Church has prepared re-opening guidelines for its 65 churches. The Church of North India (CNI) has also asked all 35 churches to re-open but has decided against corporate worship or on-site Mass for the time being. All the churches will remain open from 10am to 6pm. “The parish priest will be in charge of orderly entry and exit from the churches, assisted by the ushers. There will be one more person who would sanitise worshippers’ hands,” Archbishop Thomas D Souza of the Roman Catholic Church said. CNI head Bishop Paritosh said: “Church bearers at the gate will allow only 10 worshippers at a time. But there will be no corporate worship or Mass for the time being. We will continue with our online Sunday Mass.“ The authorities of Gurdwara Behala started sanitizing the place on Saturday to reopen on Monday. “Devotees will have to wear masks and maintain social distance. The temperature of every visitor will be recorded. Not more than 10 people will be allowed inside at a time,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, general secretary of Gurdwara Behala. Watch Lockdown 5.0: Religious places in West Bengal stress on safety ahead of reopening||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/places-of-worship-stress-on-safety-ahead-of-reopening/articleshow/76113739.cms||Zeeshan Javed
May 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Churches likely to open on June 8||PANAJI: Eleven weeks after the lockdown was announced in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, churches across the state are likely to open with masses for congregations. “Masses will most likely begin on June 8. We are waiting for related SOPs from state authorities,” a senior priest said. For more than two months, priests have been celebrating masses, including the obligatory Sunday mass, to empty benches, with some parishes live streaming the services for their faithful. Lakhs of Christians across the state stayed away from Sunday mass services in churches on March 22 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a nationwide janata curfew between 7am to 9pm. Ever since, all places of worship have been closed for large congregations. It was a novel spiritual experience for many to use technology - both the priests to reach their faithful and for parishioners to participate in it over the internet or television with only spiritual communion. Extensive guidelines prohibited even funeral masses from being celebrated during the lockdown, with bodies presently taken directly to the cemetery with close family. Several feasts otherwise celebrated with great pomp, were also cancelled. According to the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines, religious places and places of worship for public, besides hotels, restaurants, and other hospitality services, including shopping malls, will be permitted to open from June 8. However, among the list of prohibited activities throughout the country are assembly halls, religious functions and other large congregations, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churches-likely-to-open-on-june-8/articleshow/76114607.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||700 doctors join BMC's corona war, 3,000 more eager to participate||MUMBAI: Responding to the BMC's call to help manage its Covid centres, more than 700 medical practitioners, including Ayurvedic doctors, have come forward to join the civic body on a contractual basis since April. The BMC has a list of over 3,000 doctors who have shown willingness to join Covid duty, said a high-ranking civic official on Saturday. Many more doctors will come in from other states over the next few days to help at the newly created dedicated and other Covid healthcare centres. Dr T P Lahane of the state department of medical education said 25 doctors from Kerala would join duty on Monday and 50 more would come within a fortnight. Human resources has emerged as one of the biggest hurdles in providing prompt healthcare to Covid patients. In the BMC's key hospitals, around 4,000 doctors, including interns, residents and medical college faculty, are working round the clock, but there is little or no manpower to handle the newly built Covid facilities. The BMC has adequate doctors and nurses for its existing hospitals but the newer ones set up for Covid are posing to be a problem. Civic officials said they are managing the hospitals and quarantine facilities with the existing health staff, but need more doctors for new ones. "We are in the process of adding 6,000 to 10,000 more quarantine beds in the next few days," said an official. A case in point is that of the 1,000-bedded quarantine centre at Bandra-Kurla Complex. "Although it is functional, we have very few doctors to look after the facility," said an official. "In terms of beds, the BKC facility is like a 15-floor hospital, but it cannot work to capacity as there are no doctors or healthcare support staff," the official added. Officials said they are approaching doctors attached to various sources, including NGOs. "We have a list of around 3,100 doctors who may come forward to help us in the next few days," said a senior official. Meanwhile, officials said all the 24 ward offices have "taken over" one or two hospitals in their jurisdiction under the BMC's control, which has resulted in each ward getting additional 100 Covid beds and 20 ICU beds. "Through this arrangement, we have managed to add 2,400 more Covid and 480 ICU beds," said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/700-doctors-join-bmcs-corona-war-3000-more-eager-to-participate/articleshow/76114658.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 25,000 cases for flouting lockdown rules||NEW DELHI: Since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the city, people in Outer Delhi police district infringed the lockdown norms the most. Over 3,200 cases have been registered there for flouting the home-stay regulations. Lutyens’ Delhi was the most obedient, with only 147 cases. A total of 24,916 cases have been registered by police across Delhi against people ignoring the orders to stay indoors. Apart from this, 3,69,992 people were detained under Section 65 of the Delhi Police Act for not complying with the direction of a police officer. At the same time, 38,943 vehicles were impounded for travelling without permit and valid documents during the lockdown. While outer Delhi had 3,252 cases, west Delhi logged 3,041 infringements. Police disclosed that initially most of the cases involved gathering in groups and not ensuring social distancing and for being on the streets without valid reasons. In west Delhi, 55,572 persons were detained under Section 65 of DPA. “We enforced the lockdown strictly, and the number of cases registered is evidence of it,” claimed Deepak Purohit, DCP (West). “Many people were found roaming around without wearing masks, others were out for no necessary reason. The Keshavpuram mandi also falls in our area, and many people were booked there for not ensuring social distancing.” South Delhi also saw a large number of violations. People were booked for roaming in parks and violating other requirements of the lockdown. A total of 2,152 cases were registered in the district, which had around 13 containment zones. “There were many people who stepped out without wearing masks. At the vegetable markets, cases were registered against people not maintaining social distancing,” said Atul Thakur, DCP (South). Southwest recorded 2,655 cases, northwest 2,393, northeast 2,034 and Dwarka 2,209. The Lutyens’ zone had the least number of violators, with only 147 cases registered. The zone mainly includes government buildings, offices, VIP residences and is not densely populated. As per Eish Singhal, DCP (New Delhi), “Some people were booked for riding pillion, which wasn’t allowed, for roaming around past the permitted hours, and some for not wearing masks.” Other districts with the least number of cases were Rohini, which reported only 619 cases, Shahdara with 884 and outer-north with 925 violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-25000-cases-for-flouting-lockdown-rules/articleshow/76114611.cms||Sakshi Chand
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||38% of 236 new cases on Friday were from western parts of Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The western parts of the city may have only one containment zone, Gulbai Tekra, but on Friday reported 38% of the city’s 236 fresh cases. The West, North West and South West Zones reported 90 fresh cases. Of these 90 cases, 28 were from the North West (12) and South West Zones (16). The South West Zone’s cases were from Vejalpur (10), Sarkhej (2) and Bodakdev (4). The Bodakdev cases were from Sanskar Apartments, Vidyanagar Flats, Kalp Vruksh Apartments and Sepal Residency, where a 73-year-old woman tested positive. Areas in the North West Zone reporting 12 cases were Thaltej, Ghatlodia, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota. There were cases at Nildeep Apartments, Sunay Aparments, Nayandeep Apartments and Sarjan Towers. There were 62 cases reported in the West Zone, in areas such as Naranpura, Navrangpura, Ranip, Nava Vadaj, Vasna and Paldi. Naranpura had 13 cases, Ranip seven and Sabarmati 22. The majority of cases in Sabarmati were from a chawl. This has become a major problem as it is congested and had people living in close proximity with each other. The western part of the city now has 986 active cases, with 595 in the Stadium, Naranpura, Naranpura, Paldi and Vasna areas. The North West and South West Zones have 121 and 275 active cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/38-of-236-new-cases-on-friday-were-from-western-parts-of-city/articleshow/76114147.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu may allow buses to be operated within districts from June 5||CHENNAI: Setting the stage for extension of the lockdown into June, the state government has decided to continue with the existing restrictions in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts due to the high case load. Curbs will be relaxed in other parts of the state with intra-district bus services likely to resume from June 5. A formal announcement is expected on Sunday. The home ministry’s phased reopening guidelines issued on Saturday suggest reopening of religious places, hotels, restaurants, and other hospitality services and shopping malls from June 8. Tamil Nadu, however, may not be ready. “We cannot go that far with the relaxations in any part of the state at least till June 15. In Chennai, given the spike in cases, it may not be possible before June 30,” said an official. The resumption of bus services comes with a rider. “There will not be any bus service in the four northern districts including Chennai. In other parts of TN, public transport may resume with 50% fleet operating at 50% capacity. Adequate precautions will be taken to maintain social distancing. No decision is taken on resuming inter-district bus services,” said the official. The state government is working out a standard operating procedure (SOP) for transport corporations, passengers and crew. At present, only a few buses are being operated to transport government employees involved in essential services. The state transport department had asked all transport corporations earlier this month to remain prepared to resume operations once the lockdown is lifted.“We are prepared. Buses will be disinfected after every trip. Passengers will have to wear masks and follow social distancing norms while boarding and alighting. The crew will have to undergo a health check-up before resuming duty,” said another official. Similarly, bus stations and depots would be frequently sanitized. On Thursday, the transport department asked 50% of staff at its workshops to report for duty on a rotational basis to take care of the maintenance of buses. After a meeting with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami at the secretariat, health expert team members told reporters that Covid-19 was under control in other districts, but Chennai and its nearby districts continue to be a cause for concern. National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur said relaxations can be introduced in other districts, depending on thesituation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-may-allow-buses-to-be-operated-within-districts-from-june-5/articleshow/76114135.cms||Julie Mariappan
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||202 more positive, Haryana gets 542 cases in 3 days||CHANDIGARH: The number of Covid-19 cases hit 1,923 in Haryana on Saturday as 202 more people tested positive for the virus, with Gurugram getting 157 new patients. Within just three days, the number of cases in Haryana has risen by 542 — 123 on Thursday, 217 on Friday and 202 now. A woman in Sonipat died due to the virus too, taking the state’s casualty count for the coronavirus to 20. The recovery rate has now fallen to 50.42% and the doubling rate from 19 days on Monday to 11 days. The woman who passed away is from Faridabad, where the death toll has risen to eight. The number of cases in Gurugram has risen to 677, which is more than 33% of total cases in the state. Now, 450 cases are active in the district. Faridabad got 32 new cases, and its tally has now increased to 339. Three fresh cases were also reported from Ambala and Fatehabad, two each from Nuh and Karnal, and one each from Panipat, Rohtak and Kaithal. The state’s testing rate per million has risen to 4,524. So far, 1,14,683 people have been tested in the state. Of them, results of 1,08,385 were negative. Meanwhile, four patients recovered from the virus in Jind. Now, the the district has just two active cases and its recovery rate has improved to 90%. Of the 29 cases reported here, 26 patients have been discharged, one person who also had cancer, died, and the other two are being treated. The Kaithal patient is said to have brought passengers from Mumbai. All his co-passengers have been quarantined. Also, five Covid-19 patients have been discharged. Karnal chief medical officer Ashwini Ahuja said the district’s new patients included a 26-year-old woman from Mangal Colony in Karnal and a 40-year-old man from Dayalpura Gate. Both had travel history to Delhi. He said both patients are asymptomatic and admitted to the Mullana Medical College in Ambala district. Their 12 family members have been isolated and their samples will be sent for examination. Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said a 54-year-old man from Krishnapura in Panipat city tested positive. The patient, who has has been admitted to the isolation ward of the BPS Medical College at Khanpur Kalan in Sonipat, recently returned from Delhi. (With inputs from Jind, Karnal and Panipat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/202-more-ve-haryana-gets-542-cases-in-3-days/articleshow/76114140.cms||Manvir Saini
May 31, 2020||Kochi||Case against UDF leaders for violating lockdown||Kochi: Central police have registered a case against UDF leaders after they staged a protest in front of the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) shopping complex, Menaka on Saturday.  The protest demanding free institutional quarantine facilities for returning expatriates was inaugurated by Chalakudy MP Benny Behanan.  Everyone who participated in the protests was booked, including the MP and other Congress leaders for violating lockdown rules. Police said Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance and other relevant sections of the IPC would be slapped on the protestors.  District police on Saturday registered 81 cases for lockdown violations and as many as 67 persons were arrested. In the city 41 cases were registered and 40 people were arrested for breaking social distancing rules.  Police said that strict enforcement of the existing restrictions would continue and surprise checks are being held at night to ensure that no one without a valid reason are out on the road. They warned of strict action against those who violate the lockdown to be imposed on Sunday. Policemen would be patrolling the roads to ensure strict adherence to the restrictions.  Rural police would also observe Sunday as a cleanliness day and would conduct cleaning activities across police stations as a precautionary measure against monsoon related diseases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/case-against-udf-leaders-for-violating-lockdown/articleshow/76112985.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bhopal||Niwari is the last Covid-negative bastion in MP||BHOPAL: As lockdown 4.0 comes to an end, almost each and every part of Madhya Pradesh stands bruised and battered by coronavirus. The only exception to this is the state’s youngest district - Niwari - where not a single corona-positive case has been found so far. Till May 28, two districts of MP- Niwari and Katni - were without a single case of corona. But on Thursday, a nine-year-old girl was found corona-positive in Katni and now only Niwari is left free from Covid-19 infection. At least 30 districts in MP have 10 corona positive cases or more. Niwari used to be a part of Tikamgarh district, and on October 1, 2018 it was separated and formed into a new district. It became 52nd district of the state. Total population of district is around 4 lakh. It covers 281 villages. Under the district, 56 panchayats of Prithvipur tehsil, 54 panchayats of Niwari, 17 panchayats of Orchha are included. Officials said the efforts are to ensure Niwari remains corona-free and other districts also come out of the grip of pandemic. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Friday in order to ensure that no community spread prevails anywhere in the state, all the collectors should ensure intensive survey, contact tracing, testing as well as strict lockdown in infected areas with all other precautions. Total number of corona-positives cases in MP on Friday was 7685. So far, 334 people have lost their lives due to pandemic in the state. Indore has the maximum of 3431 total corona number cases followed by Bhopal 1512 and Ujjain has 660 positives cases so far. Till now, 129 people lost lives in Indore, 56 in Bhopal and 55 people died in Ujjain. As a sign of relief, MP’s recovery rate has risen to 55 per cent and mortality rate has dropped to 4.3 per cent. It’s still higher than the national mortality average of 2.9 per cent. MP’s recovery rate is, however, better than the national average of around 49 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/niwari-is-the-last-covid-negative-bastion-in-mp/articleshow/76113761.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Meerut||Kyrgyzstan ambassador meets 21 Jamaatis lodged in Saharanpur jail for 60 days||MEERUT: A delegation led by Kyrgyzstan ambassador Asein Isaev, first secretary Toktobolot Zhumaliev visited a temporary jail in Saharanpur district on Friday to meet 21 Kyrgyz nationals lodged there for close to two months now. Director general (DG) prison administration and reform services Anand Kumar confirmed the meeting of the envoy with Kyrgyz nationals who were arrested for violating visa norms. Saharanpur district police chief Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said the inmates had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. “I am here to meet our citizens, who are in custody right now. The condition here is very good and our citizens are satisfied. Of course, they are very keen to go home and we are working in this direction,” said ambassador Isaev. More than 55 foreign Jamaatis in the district have been booked for violation of visa norms. They were initially put under quarantine and later shifted to the temporary jail. Such makeshift jails have come up in several districts to accommodate Jamaatis and suspects arrested for flouting the lockdown. “The delegation had visited us to meet 21 Kyrgyz nationals lodged here. The ambassador was satisfied with the arrangements here. The inmates lodged here requested to be sent to back to their country and the ambassador has assured them that steps will be taken to bring them back soon,” Saharanpur senior jail superintendent Viresh Raj Sharma. The Kyrgyz delegation had also brought fruits and refreshments for their nationals, which were distributed among them. “It is permissible as per jail regulations,” jail officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/kyrgyzstan-ambassador-meets-21-jamaatis-lodged-in-saharanpur-jail-for-60-days/articleshow/76112983.cms||Piyush Rai
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC leader of opposition tests positive||AHMEDABAD: The leader of the opposition in AMC, Dinesh Sharma, tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to SVP Hospital. Sharma’s son was also tested while his daughter and wife had been home quarantined. Sharma was showing symptoms after which he was advised to have himself tested. Officials said that the AMC will begin tracing Sharma’s contacts as he would have held meetings with Congress workers or may have met Congress councillors. Officials said Sharma may have also met senior Congress leaders or AMC officials. He is the third Congress leader to have tested positive in the city. Senior congress leader Badruddin Shaikh died during treatment at SVP Hospital, while the Congress MLA from Jamalpur-Khadia Imran Khedawala had also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-leader-of-opposition-tests-positive/articleshow/76114145.cms||---
May 31, 2020||India||BJP set to technology-driven political activities ahead of Bihar polls||NEW DELHI: On Narendra Modi completing the first year of his second term as PM, BJP has resumed political activities that had been at a standstill because of the lockdown forced by the coronavirus pandemic. Speaking at a media interaction, party chief J P Nadda on Saturday made it clear that the ruling BJP plans to use new technology in a big way, in the time of social distancing, to campaign and reach out to people essentially on how the Modi government tackled the situation on the ground, arising out of the spread of the deadly virus, to provide health and economic security to save the lives people in the country. Indicating that the party is fully prepared for state elections starting with Bihar — slated for later this year — Nadda said, “BJP workers will take the letter of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to 10 crore families in the coming days by using different means of technology and the party will also hold several press conferences, 250 public meetings and 500 rallies for financially and socially weaker sections, women and farmers.” Modi has written an open letter to citizens on the work done and responsibilities of his government. The BJP chief held a video conference to address the media. He said the coronavirus pandemic will have a major impact on political activities, which is likely to be felt during the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar. The spread of the virus and return of a good number of migrant labourers to their home state, suffering without money and without much hope for employment opportunities in the near future are certainly going to be the most important issue to be addressed by BJP, which is part of the coalition government in Bihar with JD(U). The slugfest between the Centre and states with non-BJP government over management of the pandemic is likely to intensify as elections get closer. Banking on the measures taken to ease the people’s woes during the pandemic, Nadda said, “We have seen that this government is responsive, receptive and has the capacity to take bold decisions. This has been a year of accomplishments and we have also faced unimaginable challenges. The PM led from the front to give a vision to the country and managed the coronavirus crisis well.” He also said the government has tried to provide a holistic package of ?20 lakh crore to strengthen the economy ravaged by Covid-19 disruptions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-set-to-technology-driven-political-activities-ahead-of-bihar-polls/articleshow/76114647.cms||Mohua Chatterjee
May 31, 2020||Coimbatore||6 more flyers to city test positive for coronavirus||Coimbatore: Six more flyers, three of them transgenders, to the city were tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Four of them are residents of the district and the remaining are from Dindigul and Salem.According to health department officials, all the patients are asymptomatic and had cleared thermal screening. They have alerted the co-passengers to remain in home quarantine strictly.While the four from the district have been admitted to the ESI Hospital, the remaining two have been sent to their respective districts.Pointing out that six transgenders had arrived at the city airport from New Delhi on Friday morning, the officials said three of them were infected with the novel coronavirus. As one of them, a 51-year-old, had left for a relative’s house in Dindigul, health officials have alerted their counterparts in Theni about the case. The remaining two - a 29-year-old from the city and a 39-year-old from Pollachi – were shifted to the ESI Hospital from institutional quarantine centres on Saturday.The remaining three are flyers from Mumbai who reached the city via Bengaluru. They comprise a 40-year-old man, a 60-year-old man and a 50-year-old woman. The 40-year-old man had left for Salem, where health authorities would hospitalize him. The rest two are from the district and they are admitted to the ESI Hospital, which already has three patients - a 24-year-old man from Chennai, a 34-year-old driver from Chennai and a pregnant woman from Nilgiris. The PSG Hospitals also has a Covid-19 patient, a 34-year-old female, who returned from Chennai on May.The district’s Covid-19 count, however, stands at 146. The new cases have been added to the Covid-19 tally of places that they have come from.The health department is also screening people coming to the city via road and rail. An official said 2,914 people have come to district via road and air so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-more-flyers-to-city-test-positive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/76114142.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha govt releases Rs 62 crore for payment of quarantine incentive to returnees||BHUBANESWAR: The state government has released Rs 62 crore from the chief minister’s relief fund (CMRF) to pay its promised incentive to migrants who have successfully completed quarantine at the state-run quarantine facilities. In the first phase, incentive has been released for 3 lakh returnees in rural areas and 10,000 returnees in urban areas, said official sources. While Rs 60 crore has been released to the panchayati raj department for payment of the incentive to returnees in the rural areas, another Rs 2 crore has been released to the housing and urban development department for payment to those in urban areas, official sources said. Since the state government has allowed home quarantine for people in urban areas, the amount given to the housing and urban development department is less. “The money has already released to the district authorities and distribution of incentive has begun in many areas,” said an official. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik had earlier announced Rs 2,000 as incentive for returnees after completion of the mandatory institutional quarantine period of 14 days, which has now been reduced to seven days’ followed by another seven days of home quarantine in rural areas. Special relief commissioner P K Jena had recently asked the general administration department to release the amount from the CMRF to be paid as incentive. In the rural areas, the state government has developed 16,644 temporary medical camps with 7.83 lakh beds. Recently, the state government paid Rs 5.5 crore to the railway authorities towards transport expenditure of the migrants who have returned by various Shramik Special trains. The amount will be adjusted against quarantine incentive of the returnees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-releases-rs-62-crore-for-payment-of-quarantine-incentive-to-returnees/articleshow/76113009.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Goa||Met dept warning for fishermen||Panaji: In view of the likely development of a low pressure system over the Arabian sea, the India meteorological department (IMD) has advised fishermen not to venture into the waters, until further advisories. IMD said that squally weather with windspeed reaching 45-55 kmph is likely to prevail along this region till June 3. A high wave warning has also come from Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) wherein high waves in the range of 2.8-4m is forecast during 5.30pm on May 31 to 11.30pm on June 2 along the Maharashtra–Goa coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/met-dept-warning-for-fishermen/articleshow/76114619.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 27 new cases; numbers decline in Jehangirabad & Aishbagh||BHOPAL: On Saturday, 27 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in Bhopal. So far 1,422 people have been diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state capital. First cases of the day were reported in densely populated Qazi Camp are of Bhopal. Two cases were reported there on Saturday. A large number of gas-affected population also resides in the area. Nearby Karond has also reported a spurt in cases. Densely populated Bhanganga area reported eight cases on a single day on Saturday. The area adjoins Ahata Rustam Khan, which has reported about a dozen cases. Meanwhile, cases continue to decline in Aishbagh and Jehangirbad with both reporting two cases each on Saturday. Overall, there are 442 active Covid-19 cases in Bhopal. Two more deaths were reported in Bhopal in the last 24 hours. *** 59 hospitals of State empanelled under Ayushman Bharat YojanaACS Health Suleman informed that 59 hospitals of the state have already been empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana and now patients will get facility of medical treatment in these hospitals under the scheme *** ‘Senior docs can’t evade duty’ Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that the senior doctors must visit the Covid-19 Hospitals daily and ensure better treatment to the patients. Stringent action will be taken even against slightest negligence and lapse in treatment. Hamidia Hospital should set an example for quality care but it is unfortunate that the mortality rate is high there, stated the CM, according to a press release. Chouhan instructed ACS Health to give him daily report of treatment in Hamidia hospital. Moreover, Chouhan mentioned that now E-pass is not required for movement within the state. E-pass can be obtained for travelling outside the state. The Chief Secretary Iqbal Singh Bains informed that these e-passes will be auto-generated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/27-new-cases-numbers-decline-in-jehangirabad-aishbagh/articleshow/76113777.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Nashik||Pune: Steps taken to keep cops safe, but very few above 50 years get leave||PUNE: The rapid spread of coronavirus in Maharashtra and subsequent lockdowns have taken a toll on the policemen, some of whom have succumbed to the infection. Police units across the state have identified personnel aged above 50 years and have taken them off the field duty to reduce the risk. However, very few have been granted leave. Among the cities and districts of central, western and northern Maharashtra, Pune city police have the largest number (1,500) of personnel aged over 50 years, while almost 28% of the personnel with Aurangabad city police are over 50. Pune police said 250 policemen had been sent on leave, while 750 others had been given administrative duties as per the notification issued by the state director general of police. The total strength of Pune police is 8,344. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “The welfare unit has transformed itself into wellness and welfare unit with dedicated time given by the assistant/deputy commissioners of police (headquarters). They are doing awareness drives so that Covid-19 transmission is kept at bay. We have also provided them masks, sanitisers and face shields.” Aurangabad city police have 3,538 personnel in service, 28.71% of whom are aged over 50 years. Just 25 of them have been granted leave. Aurangabad police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad told TOI, “We are considering their leaves in exceptional cases. However, every policeman across the hierarchy is expected to remain fit till the last day of service.” The officer said that it is not possible to grant leave to all those ageing above 50, and every application seeking leave is being given a considerate thought before taking a call. In most other units, all those aged above 50 have been given side postings/table duties. Jalna SP S Chaitanya said, “Considering the manpower constraint, it will be difficult to sanction leave to all policemen above 50 or 55 years of age, however, every policeman in our district has been asked to avail weekly offs. In Jalna, 142 policemen, 330 in Osmanabad, 248 in Parbhani and 52 in Hingoli have been given side postings or table duties. In Malegaon and Jalgaon, all the staff above 50 has been put on off-field duty. No policeman has been granted leave in Latur, Hingoli and Nashik city. Till now, 2,325 police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra and 26 have succumbed. In past 24 hours, 114 police personnel have tested positive in the state while one policeman has died due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/steps-taken-to-keep-cops-safe-but-very-few-above-50-years-get-leave/articleshow/76113019.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Jaspal Rana seeks more transparency in selection process of Dronacharya Award||DEHRADUN: Jaspal Rana, who has been nominated for the Dronacharya Award for the second time in two years, has said that the selection process of the award needs to be more transparent. In an exclusive conversation with TOI, the 43-year-old shooting legend said, “Last year, the information which was given to the selection committee by the screening committee was incorrect. I don’t have any problem with the ones who are being chosen for the prestigious Dronacharya Award and I truly believe that they deserve to win it but the selection process should be same for everyone and it should be more transparent. If a parliament session can be televised then why not the selection process of the Dronacharya Award?” “At least, all sports coaches nominated for the award will be satisfied with the final choice of jury,” he added. On the current crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic, Rana said, “I believe that Covid-19 will change the sport for good. For instance, we might see a glass sheet placed between the shooters in order to make sure that the virus doesn’t spread. This is a good idea.” He added that profits and losses can be analysed from the next year and this year, the focus should be on saving lives. “It is quite risky to resume tournaments at present but shooting games are still safer as it is not a team sport,” opined Rana. Rana who has won medals at several prestigious tournaments including Asian Games and Commonwealth Games said that Indian shooters need to look after their fitness during the lockdown period. “Though there are no tournaments taking place but I am sure that Chinese players must be doing some training secretly. It might be possible that the entire Chinese shooting contingent might be in a training camp preparing for the Tokyo Olympics. So, our Indian players must also keep up their fitness.” Notably, Rana has won several accolades as a player for the country and is currently grooming country’s young shooting talents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shooting-legend-jaspal-rana-seeks-more-transparency-in-selection-process-of-dronacharya-award/articleshow/76113022.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 31, 2020||Dehradun||Shooting legend Jaspal Rana seeks more transparency in selection process of Dronacharya Award||Dehradun: Jaspal Rana, who has been nominated for the Dronacharya Award for the second time in two years, has said that the selection process of the award needs to be more transparent. In an exclusive conversation with TOI, the 43-year-old shooting legend said, “Last year, the information which was given to the selection committee by the screening committee was incorrect. I don’t have any problem with the ones who are being chosen for the prestigious Dronacharya Award and I truly believe that they deserve to win it but the selection process should be same for everyone and it should be more transparent. If a parliament session can be televised then why not the selection process of the Dronacharya Award?” “At least, all sports coaches nominated for the award will be satisfied with the final choice of jury,” he added. On the current crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic, Rana said, “I believe that Covid-19 will change the sport for good. For instance, we might see a glass sheet placed between the shooters in order to make sure that the virus doesn’t spread. This is a good idea.” He added that profits and losses can be analysed from the next year and this year, the focus should be on saving lives. “It is quite risky to resume tournaments at present but shooting games are still safer as it is not a team sport,” opined Rana. Rana who has won medals at several prestigious tournaments including Asian Games and Commonwealth Games said that Indian shooters need to look after their fitness during the lockdown period. “Though there are no tournaments taking place but I am sure that Chinese players must be doing some training secretly. It might be possible that the entire Chinese shooting contingent might be in a training camp preparing for the Tokyo Olympics. So, our Indian players must also keep up their fitness.” Notably, Rana has won several accolades as a player for the country and is currently grooming country’s young shooting talents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shooting-legend-jaspal-rana-seeks-more-transparency-in-selection-process-of-dronacharya-award/articleshow/76113012.cms||Mohammad Anab
May 31, 2020||Salem||Three people arrested under Pocso||Dharmapuri: Three people, including two women, were arrested on Saturday under Pocso Act for getting a 14-year-old girl married to a 40-year-old man in the district a month ago. The issue was brought to the attention of inspector of all women police station in Pennagaram C Latha by Childline officials on Friday evening after they got a call on 1077. “The minor girl told them that her parents had married her off a month ago without her consent,” Latha said. The girl, daughter of T Ravi, 28, of Sellamudi village near Pennagaram, was got married to K Mayili, of the same village. Police have arrested Ravi, his mother Alagammal and the minor’s mother. The three have been lodged in jailtnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/three-people-arrested-under-pocso/articleshow/76114151.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bhopal||33% Covid cases in MP are asymptomatic||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh with an approximate positivity rate of 6.1% of those tested for Covid-19, could have nearly one-third cases which are asymptomatic, according to Indian Journal of Medical Research. There are red, orange and green zones in MP for Covid-19-19. These patients were asymptomatic but tested positive . MP now has a total of 7891 positive cases spread across 51 districts. The death toll is 343 of which about 235 deaths have happened in Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal. The average daily rate of positive cases has increased from 35 in Lockdown 1.0 to 222 in Lockdown 4.0. “This is due to more testing which is good. But this shows that at the end of the lockdown of 66 days, the trend is going up at a much higher pace,” said Jan Swasth Abhiyan, representative, Amulya Nidhi. When contacted, MP health department official said, “Asymptomatic data of Covid-19 is not prepared separately.” Going by health bulletins, more samples are being received, but the number of daily tests are lesser than the daily samples received. Madhya Pradesh still has only 20 testing labs whereas Maharashtra has 78 testing labs, Tamil Nadu has 71 and Gujarat has 39 test labs, he said. “It is crucial to increase testing capacity of MP, otherwise the situation will go out of hand in the coming days,” he added. Going into lockdown 5.0, there are 25 Category 1 Covid hospitals in the state. As the average rate of positive cases has now gone up from 35 in Lockdown 1.0 to 222 in Lockdown 4.0, it is essential to assess the future need for Covid hospitals, ventilators and oxygen cylinders which are crucial for critical patients. “It is important to maintain transparency and in public interest, number of ventilators, oxygen cylinders and ICU beds must be increased,” he said. *** GFX Number of positive cases found during lockdown period Average Daily Rate of Positive cases Observation Lockdown 1.0 25 March 2020 – 14 April 2020 (21 days) 732 35 Lockdown 2.0 15 April 2020 – 3 May 2020 (19 days) 2096 110 Lockdown 3.0 4 May 2020 – 17 May 2020 (14 days) 2140 153 Lockdown 4.0 18 May 2020 – ongoing (11 days) scheduled to end on 31 May 2020 2668 222||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/33-covid-cases-in-mp-are-asymptomatic/articleshow/76113787.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Salem||Salem district records eight new cases||Salem: A total of eight new Covid-19 cases were registered in the district on Saturday. While another 14 returnees from states such as Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Karnataka have also tested positive, they have been added to the Covid-19 tally of those states. District collector S A Raman said many people have been coming from Chennai without obtaining proper passes. “Many of them are crossing borders on bikes by fooling police saying they are going for a short distance.” He said many people have reached their houses without informing officials .  Meanwhile, 10 Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Salem government hospital on Saturday . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-district-records-eight-new-cases/articleshow/76114158.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Patna||208 new cases, four more deaths in Bihar, Covid tally at 3,565||Patna: Altogether 208 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Saturday, including three from Patna, taking the total to 3,565 in Bihar. With the health department confirming four deaths, the toll has now risen to 21. So far, 1,311 people have recovered and the number of active cases stands at 2,234. According to the state health society (SHS), one death each was reported from Bhojpur, Khagaria, Madhepura and Siwan. This was the first Covid death in Madhepura. Sources said the deceased is a 19-year-old who had met with an accident and was in various hospitals for over a month and died at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences on Friday after which his samples were tested for Covid-19 and found to be positive. The Bhojpur resident had died on May 26 and his sample report came on Friday. However, the official confirmation of the death came from the health department on Saturday. Sources said this man had returned from Mumbai. The Siwan native had died on May 25 while undergoing treatment at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. Sources said the deceased, who had returned from Mumbai, was in his early 60’s and was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. The health department did not release any details on the deceased. According to the health department, Covid-19 cases on Saturday were reported from 29 districts. Top five districts with the maximum number of cases included Begusarai with 19 people testing positive for the virus, followed by Darbhanga with 17 cases, Bhojpur with 13 cases, Muzaffarpur with eight cases and Siwan with seven cases. Three cases were also reported from Patna. Of the total 3,565 positive cases, 2,310 are migrants who have returned after May 3 in Bihar. A majority of the Covid positive migrants are from Maharashtra with 569 of them testing positive for the virus, followed by those who have returned from Delhi with 503 of them testing positive. Gujarat stands third in the list with 325 migrants testing positive, followed by Haryana with 205 testing positive and Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh with 115 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/208-new-cases-four-more-deaths-in-bihar-covid-tally-at-3565/articleshow/76113783.cms||Sheezan Nezami
May 31, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State to bring all eligible migrants under food security scheme||Bhubaneswar: The Naveen Patnaik government has decided to include all eligible migrants under the state food security scheme (SFSS). The inclusion of eligible migrants under the SFSS was discussed and approved at a meeting of the council of ministers held on Friday. Official data shows more than 4.5 lakh migrants have already returned to the state over the past four weeks and another 4 lakh are expected to return soon. The SFSS was launched by the government in October 2018 to cover those eligible beneficiaries who were left out of the National Food Security Act (NFSA). In March this year, the government had approved a proposal to add 5 lakh new beneficiaries under the SFSS. Of them, 3.18 lakh have been added already. A senior government official said more than 95 lakh families in the state were covered under the national and the state food security schemes at present. The number will go up with the addition of the eligible migrants. The eligible beneficiaries can apply to the respective block office for inclusion under the state food security scheme. The inclusion of new beneficiaries is reviewed by the food supplies and consumer welfare department every Friday. Since March 22, the state government has distributed 10.16 lakh MT of food grains to beneficiaries of national and state food security schemes, compared to the normal monthly distribution 1.94 lakh MT. As announced by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, financial assistance of Rs 1,000 has been given to every household during this period. Free ration is also being distributed among migrants passing through the state as per the direction of the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-to-bring-all-eligible-migrants-under-food-security-scheme/articleshow/76113028.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
May 31, 2020||Salem||People without face masks can be arrested: Salem district collector||Salem: District collector S A Raman on Saturday strictly warned people to wear face masks while venturing out of their houses or face arrest. He said many people were not wearing face masks while heading for work. Citing the state government’s order making face masks compulsory, he said a fine of Rs100 would be imposed on the first-time violators. “If someone is booked for the second time, the fine amount will be Rs500. The next time, police will register a case under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, which could also lead to arrest.” The collector also appealed the public to cooperate with the district administration to control Covid-19 casualties in the district. He directed the frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, police officials, cleanliness workers and media persons, to wear face mask while going outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/people-without-face-masks-can-be-arrested-salem-district-collector/articleshow/76114161.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu plans to cap treatment cost as death toll reaches 160||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu moved to control pricing for Covid treatment and offer incentives for remaining in government quarantine on Saturday, which saw the state report the highest single-day rise of 938 positive cases, taking its tally to 21,184. Six people succumbed to the virus pushing the death toll to 160. The medical expert committee recommended continuation of restrictions on public transport, places of worship and malls in Chennai, which logged 616 fresh cases. Neighbouring Chengalpet recorded 94 case, Kancheepuram 22 and Tiruvallur 28. Doctors warned that any relaxation in lockdown in Chennai may lead to increase in cases, complications and deaths. The new cases on Saturday include 82 people who travelled into the state by air, road and rail. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said private laboratories had been told to reduce the price of Covid tests from Rs 4,500 to Rs 3,000. A formal announcement is expected on Sunday. “We told them that they would be required to do more tests in the coming months and, hence, they should not charge more than Rs 3,000. If labs are doing home tests, they can charge an additional Rs 500,” he said after a meeting with the labs. The state will hold similar talks with private hospitals over the weekend. 12,000 TN patients cured, 9,021 still under treatment“There will be slabs based on the type of rooms and facilities at the hospital. The aim is to help people, particularly those who don’t have any medical insurance, make informed decision on place of treatment,” Vijayabaskar said. Action, including closure of establishments, will be initiated against hospitals and labs under the TN Clinical Establishments Act for violation. “There should be no profiteering during a pandemic,” he said. Earlier, at the meeting with the expert medical committee, the state said it will create a dashboard with details on the hospitals, number of beds and cost at every hospital – government and private – treating Covid -19 patients. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami told the committee that the government was planning to make quarantine attractive with incentives to improve compliance. Many daily wage workers skipped testing despite being symptomatic or close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients because they did not want to skip their daily wages or face a pay cut. Hospitals discharged 687 patients taking the total number of people cured to 12,000 and leaving 9,021 patients still under treatment. With cases increasing, the number of patients requiring oxygenation and ventilator support also rose in both government and private hospitals, experts said. While Vijayabaskar said he saw an increase in the list of people requiring oxygen support at GHs, Apollo Hospitals announced that 9 of their 37 patients were on ventilators. The state health department has made Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) a quaternary care facility, where only critically ill Covid patients would be treated. Patients with moderate symptoms will be taken to other medical care hospitals and asymptomatic elderly will be taken to peripheral hospitals. Of the six casualties reported on Saturday, a 37-year-old woman died on May 28, a day after she was admitted to the RGGGH. A 54-year- old man admitted to Omandurar Medical Collegeal on May 28 died the next day minutes after his samples returned positive. A 58- year-old-man with diabetes and hypertension admitted on May 27 in RGGGH Hospital, died on May 29. A 69 year-old man with diabetes, hypertension and kidney disease admitted on May 27 to RGGGH, a day after a private lab confirmed his samples were positive, died on Saturday. A 70-year -old man with hypertension, diabetes and heart disease died soon after admission to RGGGH on Saturday. A 72-year-old woman with lung cancer, admitted on May 19 in RGGGH after a sample taken at a private lab confirmed she was positive, died on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-plans-to-cap-treatment-cost-as-death-toll-reaches-160/articleshow/76114160.cms||Pushpa Narayan
May 31, 2020||Kochi||Palakkad sees 9 positive cases||Palakkad: Nine new Covid-19 positive cases, including that of a health worker at Walayar checkpost, an ambulance driver and a four-year-old girl were reported in the district, taking the total number of patients to 128 on Saturday. A 39-year-old ambulance driver from Kotai and another 31-year-old health worker of Alathur on duty at Walayar interstate checkpost tested positive. Of the nine new cases, two persons came from Chennai, two each from Kuwait and Oman and one from Telangana. A Palappuram native who came from Kuwait and two Karakurissi natives who came from Oman got the virus through social contact. The 39-year-old Palappuram, Ottapalam native, who came from Kuwait on May 13 tested Covid-19 positive. He was on the primary contact list of another Covid-19 positive person, said DMO. The 26-year-old mother and her four-year-old daughter who came from Oman on May 21 and tested positive were also on the primary contact list of the 10-month-old child who had tested positive earlier. Other positive cases are 43-year-old Thrithala native who came from Kuwait on May 21; 26-year old Kotai native who came from Telangana on May 18; 28-year-old Kavumgalparambu native of Pudussery and 28-year-old Karippode, Pudunagaram native who had returned from Chennai. Four more test positive in KollamFour more persons tested Covid positive in the district. A 45-year-old man, native of Kottiyam who came from Mumbai offshore on May 19, tested positive. He was part of a 23-member group that arrived by a private bus. The second person was a Punalur native, 37, and husband of a woman who arrived by Riyadh-Kozhikode flight on May 24. The third person was a 44-year-old man, native of Thazhava Manappuram, who arrived by Abu Dhabi-Thiruvananthapuram flight on May 16. He was under institutional quarantine at Kottarakkara. The fourth person, aged 48 is a native of Saravana nagar, Kollam, who arrived here by Kuwait-Thiruvananthapuram flight. He has been admitted to the Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital. So far 29 positive cases are undergoing treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/palakkad-sees-9-positive-cases/articleshow/76113031.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Salem||Two from Kerala die in a road accident||Namakkal: Two men from Kerala were killed after the car they were travelling in hit a signboard near Mudalaipatty here on Saturday. Police identified the deceased as Jeno Varghese, 27, and driver Jijo Thomas, 28, of Kollam district. The incident took place when Jeno Varghese was returning to Kerala after attending an interview at a private company in Bengaluru The Nallipalayam police said the driver lost control over the vehicle and hit a sign board on Salem-Madurai national highway near Mudalaipatty. While the driver succumbed to his injuries on the spot, Jeno Varghese died at the Namakkal government hospital without responding to treatment, a police officer said. Police have registered a case and initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/two-from-kerala-die-in-a-road-accident/articleshow/76114165.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Jaipur||King of fruits floods Muhana mandi||JAIPUR: It’s good news for mango lovers in the city as many varieties of the fruit have arrived at Muhana Mandi and that too at prices lower than 2019. Earlier, the market had only Safeda, Hafooz and Kesar varieties of mango but now the traders have started getting Dusseri and Langra. A bumper crop of mangoes in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh has ensured that prices stay low. TOI on Friday spoke to the wholesale traders of Muhana Mandi who said that by the first week of June, the good variety of Dusseri from the farms of Uttar Pradesh will also start arriving. “Safeda is in its last lap as it would be over by the first week of June. We now have ample supply of Ratnagiri’s Hafooz which we are selling at Rs 100-150 per kg in wholesale. It’s sold at Rs 200-250 per kg in retail,” said Mahesh Harchandani, a wholesale trader at Muhana Mandi. He added that presently the Dusseri variety is coming from Gujarat and in the next couple of days Dusseri from Malihabad, Rampur and other parts of Uttar Pradesh will start arriving. “In Jaipur mostly people love Hafooz, Langra and Dusseri. We are also witnessing retail customers buying 10-12kg of mangoes for their families,” he added. Asked about the prices of mangoes, he said, “This year, the mangoes are cheaper compared to 2019 as there has been a good production of mangoes in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Hopefully, by June first week every variety would be available.” “Last year, the Ratnagiri Hafooz was sold at Rs 300 to Rs 450 per kg which is now available at Rs 200 to Rs 250 per kg,” said Abdul Sagir, a wholesale trader of fruits at Hasanpura. On the response of the customers during lockdown, Hanif Qureshi, a wholesale trader at Sodala, said, “Now there are less restrictions and the customers are coming in good numbers. Also, rather than buying 1kg or 2kg, people are opting for 5kg to 10kg of mangoes this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/king-of-fruits-floods-muhana-mandi/articleshow/76114162.cms||Ashish Mehta
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Now, you can upload meter reading on power board site||PANCHKULA: The Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has initiated ‘trust reading’ facility on their website for domestic, non-domestic and light industrial consumers, if they feel that their reading is not accurate. Residents were given average electricity bill for April. However, all the resident welfare associations (RWAs) raised the issue, asking the UHBVN to take accurate meter reading. According to the members of the various resident welfare associations, the officials of the UHBVN failed to send their men for meter reading due to the lockdown and sent inappropriate electricity bills on average basis to residents across the district. The act was opposed by all the residents and letters were sent to the UHBVN for revision of bills based on meter reading. Taking the issue into consideration, officials of the UHBVN held a state-level meeting in which officials of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) also joined. Officials of the UHBVN and DHBVN decided to start ‘trust reading’ facility in 42 cities of the state. Under this facility, consumers will be able to upload their electricity meter reading on the Nigam’s website. In case residents find that the meter readings are wrongly mentioned in the electricity bill, consumers can get the bills fixed by providing correct meter reading online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-you-can-upload-meter-reading-on-power-board-site/articleshow/76113789.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
May 31, 2020||Salem||Two from Kerala die in a road accident||Namakkal: Two men from Kerala were killed after the car they were travelling in hit a signboard near Mudalaipatty here on Saturday. Police identified the deceased as Jeno Varghese, 27, and driver Jijo Thomas, 28, of Kollam district. The incident took place when Jeno Varghese was returning to Kerala after attending an interview at a private company in Bengaluru The Nallipalayam police said the driver lost control over the vehicle and hit a sign board on Salem-Madurai national highway near Mudalaipatty. While the driver succumbed to his injuries on the spot, Jeno Varghese died at the Namakkal government hospital without responding to treatment, a police officer said. Police have registered a case and initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/two-from-kerala-die-in-a-road-accident/articleshow/76114166.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Death rate is down from 6% to 3.2%, we’re on right path: BMC||MUMBAI: Maharashtra saw 2,940 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which equals the second highest daily tally on May 22. The highest singleday tally for the state was 3,041 on May 24. State health minister Rajesh Tope said there are 34,881 active cases in the state. On Saturday, 1,084 patients were discharged, taking the total number of patients discharged to 28,000 so far. According to the state government’s release on Saturday, of the 4.47 lakh tested samples, 65,168 samples reported positive, and the doubling rate had gone up from 11.3 days in the last week to 17.5 days on Saturday. The recovery rate has increased to 43.07% whereas the mortality rate is at 3.37%. Mumbai officials too offered a bright picture on Saturday, stating that the city’s doubling rate had increased to 16 days—up from 10 days in the first week of May. In the city’s six worst affected wards, five of which have 2,000-plus cases, the doubling rate has increased to 20 days, they said. The cure rate stands at 43%, the BMC press release said. “There is no way of stating that we are at the peak or is the worst yet to come. However, considering the death rate of 3.2%, which came down from 6% earlier on, we can say that we are on the proper path,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Mumbai’s tally stands at 38,220 with Saturday’s addition of 1,510 new cases. The BMC update said that of the 54 deaths added to the toll on Saturday,14 had occurred between May 25 and 28, while the rest had occurred in the past 24 hours. Of the 54 victims, 31 were men and 23 women. There was no victim under 40 years of age, while 26 were between 40 and 60 years of age and another 28 were above 60 years of age. Meanwhile, the state also categorised active cases of each district, according to which in Mumbai, 20,845 active cases were reported, while 16,364 have been discharged from hospitals. Currently, 5.51 lakh people are in home quarantine. Minister Tope said that about 8,000 beds would be made available in Mumbai in a week’s time ahead of the monsoon. He said that the Covid Care Centre in Goregaon with 2,600 beds and the Mahalakshmi race course facility with a capacity of 300 beds would be ready in a day or two, while the facilities in Mulund, Dahisar and Byculla with a bed capacity of 2,000 each would be ready soon. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that seven mobile Xray vans would begin roaming in various wards to detect early signs of pneumonia among people. In neighbouring Navi Mumbai, 114 new cases—the highest single-day addition so far—were detected, taking the tally in the NMMC area to 2,000 cases. In Thane, 151 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total tally to 2,901, including 84 deaths. Five deaths in Thane were recorded in the past 24 hours. CM Uddhav Thackeray had claimed on Friday that the state had controlled the spread of the disease in the past two months. He had said that that had been possible only because of the government’s “ceaseless efforts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/death-rate-is-down-from-6-to-3-2-were-on-right-path-bmc/articleshow/76114661.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 31, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid +ve doctors still working at Matheran hospital||NAVI MUMBAI: The shortage of doctors and nurses in the state is so acute that Matheran municipal council's BJ Hospital has told its Covid-positive staff to continue working instead of quarantining them. The hospital has told a 32-year-old ayurvedic doctor to treat patients after wearing protective gear. One of the two doctors tested positive on Friday and 10 staff, who had to be quarantined, are on duty. It is learnt that a person who travelled to his Matheran residence from Mumbai tested positive. The ayurvedic doctor attended to him and continued working with colleagues. The doctor said, "When my patient tested positive, I isolated myself from other staff.'' As he is asymptomatic, he has been kept at a quarantine facility near the hospital. "I was told to treat patients over the phone or by wearing protective gear. Our hospital staff are working though they were exposed to the virus because of me,'' the doctor told TOI. He said government guidelines don't specify that hospital staff like doctors and nurses have to stop working on testing positive. Raigad district civil surgeon Dr Pramod Gavai clarified that "asymptomatic doctors or medical fraternity are, despite being quarantined, told to attend to patients either over phone or through personal presence.'' He said the hospital was facing an acute medical staff shortage. "Doctors and staff have to wear personal protective equipment and follow Covid-19 rules while on duty. If any thing goes wrong, doctors will be blamed," Dr Gavai said. Two doctors in a government hospital in Karjat, one in Matheran, besides nurses and ward boys of the civil hospital in Alibaug, also tested positive. Department of medical education chief Dr T P Lahane said doctors who test positive cannot attend duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-covid-ve-doctors-still-working-at-matheran-hospital/articleshow/76114664.cms||Umesh K Parida
May 31, 2020||Ranchi||Delay in results makes it difficult to contain Covid in Bokaro||Bokaro: With Bokaro district dependent on Dhanbad’s Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for its Covid-19 test, a delay in receiving the results is making it difficult for the administration to take timely action to contain the virus from spreading. The situation worsened after around 25,613 migrants returned to the district recently. Until Saturday, the district saw 22 cases of Covid-19 with the first one being diagnosed as early as April 5. Of the total cases, the district recorded one death. Meanwhile, 14 persons have recovered, leaving seven active cases. With an influx of migrants from all parts of the country, of the 25,613 who arrived here, 13,521 have been kept under home quarantine while 4,825, who came from red zones, have been housed at government quarantine centres. “The district has 375 government quarantine centres, of which, 227 are active and until now, 1,685 samples have been sent for tests to PMCH, of which, 449 reports are still pending. Most of the pending reports are of samples drawn or sent to PMCH as early as May 18,” said Bokaro civil surgeon A K Pathak. Though the district administration has strengthened all other fronts to contain the virus, a delay of close to 12 days is posing a challenge in containing the virus. BJP’s Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan demanded the government to either ensure timely delivery of test reports or initiate facilities for Covid tests in the district. “I have requested state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni to set up RT-PCR labs here as the number of Covid cases are rising,” Narayan said. Though Truenat tests have begun at the saadar hospital, authorities have to depend on RT-PCR results for final confirmation of positive reports, which further delays the process. Meanwhile, technical errors arising out of overburden of samples at PMCH have also put authorities of the health department in a fix. Recently, two persons from Bokaro were declared negative by PMCH, but after three days, the hospital tagged them Covid-19 positive. Interestingly, the second report was drafted after tests were run on the same samples that declared them negative, collected and sent nine days ago. On May 14, a 43-year-old autorickshaw driver, who drove down with his daughter and two others from Mumbai and covered closely 1,800 km to reach Bokaro, was kept under 14-day home quarantine in Taranagar area of Chas. Before reaching Bokaro, he dropped the two persons at Hazaribag and continued towards his home. Samples were drawn from him on May 16 and the reports arrived after 12 days which declared him Covid positive. After he tested positive, the man was picked up from his home and sent to the Covid ward of Bokaro General Hospital. His family members, comprising his wife and five daughters, have been sent to the district quarantine centre and their samples have been sent to PMCH for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/delay-in-results-makes-it-difficult-to-contain-covid-in-bokaro/articleshow/76113656.cms||Divy Khare
May 31, 2020||Ranchi||2 migrants, another man found dead in Hazaribag||Hazaribag: Three persons, including two migrant workers who returned to the district recently, were found dead at different places here on Friday night. Police said the trio died due to different causes. Their bodies were taken to Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital for autopsy on Saturday. In the first incident, the body of 50-year-old migrant identified as Baleshwar Yadav of Hethli Bodra village, was found with multiple injuries under a bridge in Bishungarh police station area. Yadav, a driver by profession, returned from Mumbai earlier this month days ago and had spent 14 days at a quarantine centre. SP Karthik S said police have started an investigation in the case and evidence suggested that Yadav died from a drunken brawl. Another body of a migrant from Barkatha, who also returned from Mumbai two days ago, was fished out from a river. He drowned while bathing, police said. The third body, yet to be identified, was found near the Kubri river along NH-33 under Ichak police station, the police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-migrants-another-man-found-dead-in-hazaribag/articleshow/76113692.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ranchi||180 migrants airlifted from Andamans||Ranchi: In its second evacuation of migrants by air on Saturday, Jharkhand government brought back 180 workers stranded in Andaman & Nicobar Islands in a chartered flight. More than 100 people from the state were still stuck on the island but the government assured to arrange more flights to bring them back. On Friday, Jharkhand became the first state to airlift 60 migrants, all natives of Dumka district, from Leh. An Indigo flight hired for Rs 21 lakh departed from Port Blair at 3:30pm and landed at the Birsa Munda International Airport here at 6pm. Majority of those who returned hailed from Santhal Pargana division while a few belonged to Simdega and other districts. The returnees were served dinner before sending them off to their respective district through special buses named “Samman Raths” arranged by the government. State water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur, who received the migrants at the airport, said, “Jharkhand will continue to bring back people from hard to reach areas through flights in the coming days. We are committed to rescuing all those who want to return. So far, about five lakh people were brought back through trains and buses.” He said the state government was the first to write to the Centre to run special trains and to airlift people stuck in Leh, Andamans and northeastern states. He added that the government is also mapping the migrants based on their skills, so that the government can absorb them into different jobs to help them get livelihood here. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who couldn’t turn up at the airport due to other engagements, said in a communiqué that the process for Saturday’s evacuation was operationalized in the last 48 hours through co-ordination by various state departments with authorities in New Delhi and Andamans. He said, “I welcome all those who have returned and we will bring every stranded native of this state. I appeal to everyone to have patience.” An elated Jitendra Malto, from Littipara in Pakur who returned in the flight said, “I worked as a cleaner and helper in a transport agency, but lost the job due to the lockdown. We sustained with great difficulty since the lockdown began. I am happy to return.” Many others, however, rued that they were left behind. Talking to TOI from Andamans, a migrant from Simdega, Ashwin Dungdung, said, “We got a call in the morning to reach the airport. When we reached there at 10.30am, we were denied entry, saying we don’t have tickets. I don’t know why we are left behind.” Another migrant, Sushil Tete, said, “I don’t know the name of the caller, but he said he was calling from Ranchi and asked us to come to the airport. Once we reached there, many of us were asked for tickets which we didn’t have. There are at least over 100 such people from Khunti, Gumla and other districts who were left behind. I don’t know if we will be able to return anytime soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/180-migrants-airlifted-from-andamans/articleshow/76113668.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 31, 2020||Ranchi||2 migrants, another man found dead in Hazaribag||Hazaribag: Three persons, including two migrant workers who returned to the district recently, were found dead at different places here on Friday night. Police said the trio died due to different causes. Their bodies were taken to Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital for autopsy on Saturday. In the first incident, the body of 50-year-old migrant identified as Baleshwar Yadav of Hethli Bodra village, was found with multiple injuries under a bridge in Bishungarh police station area. Yadav, a driver by profession, returned from Mumbai earlier this month days ago and had spent 14 days at a quarantine centre. SP Karthik S said police have started an investigation in the case and evidence suggested that Yadav died from a drunken brawl. Another body of a migrant from Barkatha, who also returned from Mumbai two days ago, was fished out from a river. He drowned while bathing, police said. The third body, yet to be identified, was found near the Kubri river along NH-33 under Ichak police station, the police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-migrants-another-man-found-dead-in-hazaribag/articleshow/76113694.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bhayander station to get first stainless steel FOB in India||MUMBAI: Bhayander will get India's first stainless steel foot overbridge (FOB). The proposed bridge, which will connect all the platforms in the railway station, will be sturdy, resistant to corrosion and need less maintenance compared to those made from conventional steel. The Railway Board has directed other railway zones too to construct a stainless steel bridge each. Western Railway chief public relations officer Ravinder Bhakar said work will commence shortly on the FOB that will be 10m wide and 67m long and ensure smooth movement of passengers. Stainless steel will push FOB cost up by 25%The present FOB at Bhayander, which is 2.7m wide, will be closed till the new one is commissioned. Bhatkar said, “Public inconvenience will be less as Bhayander station has three other FOBs connecting all platforms. Work is expected to be completed by the year-end.” He said stainless steel will make the project costlier by around 25%, but it would be worth it. Corrosion in structures is a challenge faced in coastal regions like Mumbai, and has contributed to many mishaps and unsafe structures in the past few years. Incidentally, a part of Himalaya bridge, which connected the north end of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) to Badaruddin Tayabji lane, had crashed on March 14, 2019, killing seven persons and injuring 30 others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-bhayander-station-to-get-first-stainless-steel-fob-in-india/articleshow/76114665.cms||Manthan K Mehta
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Patients reaching hospitals with high sugar most at risk of death, says study||MUMBAI: Patients with diabetes, the sugar imbalance disease, who are over 70 years old are perhaps the most vulnerable group as far as Covid-19 is concerned, according to a new French study. The study, perhaps the first to analyze the effect of Covid-19 in hospitalized patients with diabetes, found one in 10 patients died within seven days of admission, and one in five needed ventilation. Dr Shashank Joshi, endocrinologist and dean of Indian College of Physicians, said, "We are seeing a similar thing in Mumbai. Diabetes is a major comorbidity along with hypertension and age," he said. It is estimated that 8% to 10% of Indians have diabetes. "Poor immunity and high glucose levels are a perfect culture medium for the novel coronavirus," said Dr Joshi. A BMC public health department doctor said many of the patients who come late and succumb within 24 hours had high sugar levels. "Many of them came to hospital with sugar levels way beyond 300 mg/dL. It is difficult to save them," the doctor said. Over 70% of the patients who succumbed to Covid-19 had diabetes, hypertension or obesity. "Almost 25% of the dead had both diabetes and hypertension,'' said a doctor from a public hospital. Meanwhile, the French study published in 'Diabetologia,' the journal of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes, showed that two-thirds (65%) of Covid patients with diabetes admitted to hospital were men, and their average age was 70 years. It found patients with diabetic complications of heart, kidney, nerves and eyes, increased body mass index and advanced age were at a higher risk of death. The study analysed 1,317 patients admitted to 53 French hospitals between March 10 and 31. Most had Type 2 diabetes (89%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-patients-reaching-hospitals-with-high-sugar-most-at-risk-of-death-says-study/articleshow/76114669.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 31, 2020||Thane||Thane: Tax inspector on duty at quarantine centre dies on his retirement day||THANE: A 58-year-old civic employee, detected asymptomatic, died at a private Covid hospital on his retirement day. He was admitted to hospital few days back for Covid treatment and discharged within three days without a second test. He had to be wheeled back a day later after he complained of chest pain and breathlessness. The family and municipal employees' union alleged negligence by the civic body and hospital, which did not conduct his second test before discharge. His family said he was a tax inspector with Majiwada-Manpada ward and deployed as a food inspector at Bhayandarpada quarantine centre for nearly two months, much against his family's wishes, citing age and ill health. His daughter-in-law, a medical officer with health department, said he was found asymptomatic on May 12 and immediately admitted to hospital. His wife, sons and grandchild were also asymptomatic and admitted elsewhere. "He had not recovered but was discharged before his second test. I had requested the doctors not to discharge him but they ignored my pleas. The next day he complained of breathlessness and chest pain, and was admitted to the same facility. We were never told about his health initially," said his daughter-in-law. Family sources said they paid a hefty admission fee.The family claimed they never got access to his case papers and were only informed about his death on Saturday afternoon. Ravi Rao of Thane municipal employees' union demanded stern action against those responsible. "We have been cautioning the administration not to allow staff above 55 to work but they deployed him at a risky quarantine centre." TMC said he had recovered but said it would look into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-tax-inspector-on-duty-at-quarantine-centre-dies-on-his-retirement-day/articleshow/76114677.cms||Manoj Badgeri
May 31, 2020||Business||Sharp GDP data revision triggers row||NEW DELHI: Sharp revisions in the GDP data for past quarters have once again raised doubts about the data quality with some economists demanding that the National Statistical Office (NSO) explain the methodology. But officials at the statistics ministry rejected the criticism saying they are in line with established practice. The NSO on Friday had released the data for January-March quarter of 2019-20 and the full year which showed fourth quarter growth slowing to a 40-quarter low of 3.1% and 2019-20 GDP growth slowing to a 11-year low of 4.2%. The data also showed volatile revision to the previous quarters data, the second such revision after February. The NSO had also said that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown measures implemented since March, data flow from the economic entities were impacted. According to NSO some of these units are yet to resume operations and due to the extension of statutory time-lines for filing financial returns, these estimates are based on the available data and are likely to undergo revision. “NSO has significantly revised the previous quarters’ growth rates (compared to Q3 release) which is quite puzzling and raises questions about data quality and remarkable volatility in the new series and we believe that a methodological note from NSO explaining the frequent revisions will be very useful,” Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at State Bank of India said India said in a note. “In fact, in February, the quarterly numbers underwent significant upward revisions and such numbers have now been steeply revised downwards by an almost equal amount, within a span of 3 months. While it is customary to change the quarterly numbers in May when the 3rd estimate of FY20 is released, the extent of such revision reveals possibly the loss in Q4 because of lockdown may have been evenly distributed across quarters/Rs 1.18 lakh crore loss estimated and distributed across quarters in FY20 (Q4 accounted for only 50% of such), said Ghosh. He said that on an unchanged Q1, Q2 and Q3 numbers, the Q4 ( Jan-March quarter) GDP growth comes at 1.2%. “As per our calculation only 18% of GVA (gross value added ) is exempted from the lockdown and NSO may release data for that segment only for a large part of Q1FY21, and hence we cannot rule out data issues even for Q1,” said Ghosh. But officials at the statistics office dismissed the criticism saying a “mountain out of a molehill”, was sought to be created. “ Revisions take place based on the availability of data and revisions by the source agencies,” a senior MOSPI official said when asked about the sharp revisions. In a report Madhavi Arora, economist at Edelweiss also said that had the last three quarters been unchanged in absolute levels, the fourth quarter FY20 growth would have been 1.5% or lower. Pronab Sen, former chief statistician of India, said the standard operating procedure for quarterly data is that quarterly data for the first and third quarters are not changed until the fourth quarter data, and the provisional estimate for the full year is released. He said that at that point estimates for the first and third quarter are revised to maintain consistency with the annual data. “ What is not correct is the revision in February. The MOSPI should strictly adhere to the data revision calendar to maintain data credibility,” said Sen. The data revision guidelines on the MOSPI website released on November 16, 2016 clearly states that the Q3 estimates of current year would be revised at the end of a financial year at the time of release of provisional estimates of current year on 31st May and also along with subsequent revisions in the annual estimates. Another former chief statistician of India, who did not wish to be quoted said, large data revisions are in line with what is followed globally and it is an accepted practice with quarterly GDP data and any criticism is a “meaningless statement.” Asked whether deviation from the revision calendar is accepted, he said he did not have the full information to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sharp-gdp-data-revision-triggers-row/articleshow/76114675.cms||Surojit Gupta
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-19 survivors invited to give pep talk to allay patients' fears||MUMBAI: It makes a difference when someone who's been through it, talks about it. And that is why civic officials want patients cured of the novel coronavirus infection to "talk" about their experience and help reduce the fear and anxiety spread across society over Covid-19. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and private hospitals are roping in mental health officials and trying counselling to calm patients and others. Some hospitals found that patients did not want to leave due to fears their condition would worsen or they would infect their family members, while many housing colonies recorded an increase in arguments between members over 'Covid rules'. "Around 1% of our patients don't want to leave. Some don't even want to leave hospitals for step-down facility such as Covid care centres," said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner of BMC. In order to change this mindset, the BMC wants treated patients to act as 'brand ambassadors' and dispel the notion that Covid is a sure killer. The case fatality rate in Mumbai has been hovering around 3% since mid-April. The BMC will, Monday onwards, ask housing societies and chawls to felicitate discharged patients and let them share their experience with the disease. "We have been telling people that over 80% of Covid patients will be asymptomatic, but there continues to be the fear that it will be fatal and one will definitely spread it to their family members despite taking precautions,'' said Kakani. The 'brand ambassadors' will hopefully change this mindset. World Health Organization and Indian Council for Medical Research have maintained that physical distancing, using masks and frequent hand-washing will help check spread of the virus. Some hospitals such as Hinduja in Mahim have roped in their psychiatrists and counsellors to reduce anxiety levels among patients. "Our doctors counsel patients about every step and, if needed, our psychiatrists also talk to the patients on video chats," said Hinduja Hospital's Joy Chakraborty. Dr Parul Tank from the BMC-run Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar, had a few weeks back tried a two-week-long intervention to help Covid patients. "We provided supportive counselling and taught basic relaxation exercises through the glass door for 200 patients," she said. A senior doctor said there is no structure to provide mental health services to patients in hospitals. "Mental health is still at the bottom of the heap as far as Covid is concerned. However, it is much needed," said the doctor. Dr Tank said that half of her usual patients have been experiencing heightened anxiety due to Covid. "Of the six patients I counselled on Friday, three had Covid-related anxiety," she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-covid-19-survivors-invited-to-give-pep-talk-to-allay-patients-fears/articleshow/76114684.cms||Malathy Iyer
May 31, 2020||India||Ailing passengers among 81 dead on Shramik Specials||NEW DELHI: A total of 80 people died on board Shramik Special trains between May 9 and May 27, among them cancer patients, those suffering from heart ailments, a few with paralysis and many who were too ill to travel. Data accessed by TOI showed that among those who lost their lives were a 63-year-old cancer patient, Indu Devi, who died on way from Mumbai to Bihar on May 12; three more passengers had cancer. Admitting that people have died on train journeys, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav had said on Friday that “railways was in the process of gathering more details”. He also maintained that some reports that alleged passengers were dying of exhaustion, heat and hunger were yet to be investigated. Railways minister Piyush Goyal had also appealed to people suffering from ailments to avoid travel by special trains. According to data shared by Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Saturday, at least six passengers who died between May 9 and May 28 were suffering from heart ailments. Like 85-year-old Dutiya, a resident of Gorakhpur who died near Banda in UP while returning from Gujarat on May 13. A resident of Balia, Shivji, also died due to heart complications while on a train home from Alwar. Bashisht Mahto, a 70-year-old, was returning to West Champaran in Bihar from Mumbai — where he had been getting treated for his heart condition — when he breathed his last in a coach. Yet another patient who lost his life to heart disease was 65-year-old Mohammad Mustafa who was returning to UP’s Balrampur. There was one reported Covid-19 death in this period— that of a passenger travelling from Ludhiana to UP who died near Ambala. One passenger — Motilal Pandit (78), who was suffering from paralysis and travelling from Rajasthan’s Bhiwandi to Bihar’s Madhubani — had to be rushed to hospital when he developed complications. He died at the hospital. Three cases of accidental fall were recorded, including 69-year-old Prabhulal Ahirwar from Madhya Pradesh who fell while deboarding a train on May 20, and a 55-year-old man who fell in Jabalpur, also while deboarding. Jabalpur station recorded another death when a young girl named Akruti lost her life as she was “not keeping well”. Among the dead were two Nepalese citizens. “Autopsy is being conducted to ascertain cause of death in both cases,” said a railways official. Of the 81 dead, over two dozen belonged to UP. Between May 9 and May 28, over 51 lakh passengers travelled on the special trains. According to railway officials, 1.6 lakh migrants have travelled on board Shramik Specials every day since May 9. A total of 3,898 trains have ferried passengers between May 1 and May 27||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ailing-passengers-among-81-dead-on-shramik-specials/articleshow/76114685.cms||Rohan Dua
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Six deaths in Telangana in one day, second time in a week||HYDERABAD: For the second time in a week, Telangana reported a sharp rise in Covid-19 deaths with six people succumbing to the deadly virus on Saturday. On May 27 too, the state had reported six deaths within a span of 24 hours - the highest single-day jump so far. The total death toll in Telangana now stands at 77. Among those who died on Saturday are a three-month-old baby (had cardiac issue) and a 24-days-old preterm baby boy. The others are all male patients between 47 and 62 years of age, officials said. All the four had co-morbidities like hypertension and diabetes, while one had undergone a cardiac surgery. Apart from the deaths, Telangana reported 74 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday - 60 locals and 14 migrants and evacuees - taking the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the state to 2,499. Of the total positive cases, 1,413 patients have recovered and discharged so far. Meanwhile, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area continued to see the highest concentration of positive cases, with 41 of the 60 local cases being detected from within GHMC limits. 1,010 patients undergoing treatmentRanga Reddy, Mahabubnagar, Jagtiyal, Suryapet, Wanaparthy, Warangal Urban, Vikarabad, Medchal, Nagarkurnool, Nizamabad and Sangareddy districts too recorded new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. At present, 1,010 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment at various designated hospitals in the state. Of the total positive cases, 431 are of migrants and foreign returnees. “The government of India has airlifted 458 evacuees. They have been quarantined at the government centres. Till date 212 evacuees have tested positive for Covid-19 and are being treated. There are also 189 migrants who have tested positive for the virus and are undergoing treatment,” an official statement from the state health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-deaths-in-telangana-in-one-day-second-time-in-a-week/articleshow/76114690.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: E-auction of iron ore sees poor response, only seven per cent sold||PANAJI: While stakeholders continue to push for the resumption of mining in the state, the recent iron ore e-auction does not seem to have fetched positive results. Merely 7% of the total ore which was put out for e-auction was bought by the mining companies, directorate of mines and geology said. TOI was the first to report that mining companies may not purchase much of the iron ore as it would be difficult to export ore during the monsoon. Out of the around 2.5 million tonne iron ore put out for e-auction, only 1.7 lakh tonne was sold at the e-auction on May 27, a senior government officer said. Thirteen mining companies participated in the directorate of mines and geology’s e-auction of the ore lying at jetties and plots. A senior mines department officer said that there was poor response for e-auction because no mining company wanted to invest in purchasing ore during the monsoon season. “By the time all the processes are completed to start transportation of ore, monsoon will hit the state and thereafter it will be difficult to do shipment,” a mining company officer said. The ore is lying at different plots across the state, including Pale, Rivona, Collem, Advalpal, etc, and varies from low grade to high grade. In 2012, a Supreme Court judgment had declared mining after 2007 illegal. Ore lying at jetties and plots was subsequently declared state property. The government then identified 15 million tonne ore lying at jetties and plots, of which around 12 million tonne has been e-auctioned. In March 15, 2018, mining in Goa came to a halt following a SC order quashing the second renewal of 88 mining leases. In January 2020, the apex court permitted export of ore extracted before March 15, 2018. In March, after a two-year hiatus, mining companies resumed transportation of royalty-paid iron ore in the state. Around six mining companies have got permission from both the directorate of mines and geology and the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) to transport ore. There is around 1.5 million tonne of royalty-paid ore which the companies have started transporting and there is also another 7.7 million tonne on which royalty has not been paid, an official said. On August 2019, only 32% or 1.7 million tonne of the 5.3 million tonne of iron ore put up for e-auction was sold, figures released by the mines department indicated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/e-auction-of-iron-ore-sees-poor-response-only-7-sold/articleshow/76114367.cms||Murari Shetye
May 31, 2020||Goa||Alina slams Mauvin for ‘interfering’ in Cortalim||Vasco: Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha on Saturday accused panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho of “interfering” in her constituency. Godinho, who represents the nearby Dabolim constituency, was accused of “childish politics” by Saldanha, who said she would bring up the matter before chief minister Pramod Sawant. Both, Saldanha and Godinho are BJP MLAs. Although Saldanha didn’t take Godinho’s name, she referred to the “Dabolim MLA and minister”, making the target of her ire very clear. Godinho’s announcement of a new panchayat ghar for Sancoale seems to have upset Saldanha, a former minister. Godinho had on Wednesday announced that Sancoale would get its own modern panchayat ghar after businessman Anand Bose donated 1,577 sqm of land under CSR. Saldanha said that Godinho hadn’t followed any protocol and hadn’t invited her and other panchayat members even as the Sancoale sarpanch and other ruling panel panchas were present at the announcement.  She added that Godinho was elected five times from Cortalim. “He could easily have built the panchayat ghar during that time,” she said. “Forget this project, he failed even to develop the constituency. From roads to all major projects, including the health centre, the work has been done by me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/alina-slams-mauvin-for-interfering-in-cortalim/articleshow/76114381.cms||Ruvina Khan
May 31, 2020||Gurgaon||‘Divergent views’ in Haryana on sealing, UP to decide by today||GURUGRAM: The Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments will have to review the sealing of their borders with Delhi after the Centre’s decision to remove restrictions on inter-state movement and the system of passes introduced by cities like Noida, Gurugram, and lately Ghaziabad, in its latest relaxations of the lockdown. While government sources in Lucknow said UP will come out with a decision by Sunday, a Haryana government source said there were “divergent views” on whether to relax or retain the stringent border checks because of Covid-19 cases suddenly rising in Gurugram. Talking to TOI, a senior officer in the Manohar Lal Khattar government said that while there was no doubt that Gurugram had emerged as a concern, keeping the border restrictions was not practical because the fresh relaxations will only further increase traffic between Delhi and Gurugram. “We have done all we could in preventing the spread of Covid-19. But this is the time for the community to emerge. How long can you stop movement of people? The community has to come together and take steps to prevent the spread, like having staggered timings, encourage their staff to work from home, etc. The border restriction should be removed but the final decision will be taken by the district magistrate (deputy commissioner),” the senior government officer said. Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said that he had yet to make a decision. “Let us see what happens,” Khatri said. Though the Centre released a comprehensive plan for a reopening of India, just like in all phases of the lockdown, it left it to the states to decide what to implement and what not to, based on their assessment of the Covid-19 threat. Haryana government sources said a section of the bureaucracy was strongly in favour of removing border restrictions, with the economy in mind, but a section of politicians were not. “With shopping malls, hotels and restaurants likely to open from June 8, it would make sense to open the Delhi-Gurugram border,” said a source. Orders to seal the Haryana borders with Delhi were issued twice this month by the state’s home and health minister Anil Vij. Despite repeated attempts, Vij could not be contacted for a comment. Officers in Lucknow said the UP government will be issuing its own detailed guidelines on the relaxations that will kick in from June 1 on Sunday. A senior officer said UP’s rules would be in accordance with the central guidelines, though district administrations are likely to still have the prerogative to enforce a stricter version of the lockdown in their areas, depending on the severity of the Covid-19 spread. Just like at the Gurugram border, sealing of the Noida border has led to traffic jams every day and complaints from offices that are unable to call their staff from Delhi. But the Noida administration has held out, even preparing a report that it submitted to the Supreme Court on why the border restrictions must continue. However, with the economy opening up further in a week’s time and public transport still off bounds, traffic volume across the border is expected to surge and keeping the same checks at the border could become impractical. (Additional reporting by our bureau in Lucknow)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/divergent-views-in-haryana-on-sealing-up-to-decide-by-today/articleshow/76114504.cms||Joel Joseph
May 31, 2020||Vijayawada||New SEB on prowl: Over 7,000 cases booked against smugglers in 15 days in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The newly-formed special enforcement bureau (SEB) is making its presence felt. In the last 15 days since the bureau was formed, 7,200 people have been booked. The SEB was constituted to curb the illegal manufacturing, bottling, sale and transportation of liquor as well as illegal sand mining and smuggling. While the work done by the SEB does show the seriousness with which the bureau is functioning, it also points to the scale and seriousness of the problem. The flowing in of non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) from neighbouring states such as Telangana and Karnataka, where the price of liquor is relatively low, is a major challenge for SEB. Smugglers in large numbers are indulging in the transportation of NDPL into the state to make a quick buck. The state government’s restriction on the quantity of liquor that can be purchased from outlets is also among the reasons for the rising NDPL menace, according to officials. With bars closed due to the lockdown and liquor stores under government control where no one is allowed to purchase more than three bottles at a time, there is desperation to bring in liquor from other states, said Vinit Brijlal, SEB commissioner who is leading the operations. Speaking to TOI, Brijlal said that the SEB is a relatively new force, only 15 days old and that the lockdown has been a learning experience for the bureau. “We have identified the various ways in which illegal liquor transporters go about their business and that experience is helping us now in strict enforcement and in protecting porous borders from leaking in NDPL.” The SEB commissioner observed further that the SEB is the first integrated force comprising different law enforcement agencies which bring together their own respective intelligence and skill sets. “We are now strengthening our intelligence gathering network— both human and technical— to make our borders fool proof,” Brijlal added. With no liquor being available during the initial phases of the lockdown, there was a spurt in arrack trade. The SEB is laying special focus on curbing the brewing and sale of arrack. District SPs, young IPS officers have been appointed in the SEB who are leaving no stone unturned in curbing the arrack menace, SEB commissioner Brijlal informed. “Apart from strict enforcement, we are also conducting awareness drives on the ill effects of consuming arrack. Efforts are being made to reform arrack brewers as well as consumers by providing rehabilitation facilities,” Brijlal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-seb-on-prowl-over-7000-cases-booked-against-smugglers-in-15-days/articleshow/76113446.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Goa||UK drownings: Families want to bring bodies home||PANAJI: The grief stricken families of Velly Souza, 24, from Vasco and Samuel Fernandes, 20, from Candolim, who drowned in River Avon in UK on Thursday while on a swim, are struggling to cope with the news. The families want to repatriate the bodies. “The repatriation process is going on. The post mortem will be conducted on Monday or Tuesday after which we want them to return home,” Souza’s brother-in-law Karol Fernandes told TOI from UK. The youngest of three siblings from Vasco, Souza who went to the UK around four years ago, was staying with his sister and brother-in-law. He was supposed return for his elder brother’s wedding that was scheduled for April. “The travel restrictions came in and we couldn’t fly to Goa. The wedding had to be postponed because of the lockdown. We were making arrangements to postpone it when this tragedy happened,” Fernandes said. “Velly’s parents haven’t seen him for more than a year. Everyone is in shock. He liked to keep people around him happy. He was generous and kindhearted,” he said. Samuel lived in UK with his brotherThe two boys were friends and colleagues at Tesco. Fernandes said five friends had decided to go for a swim as the weather was good. They were swimming when the tragedy took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/uk-drownings-families-want-to-bring-bodies-home/articleshow/76114401.cms||Lisa Monteiro
May 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Travellers from 6 districts in Andhra Pradesh on watch||VISAKHAPATNAM: An anti-Covid team has been deputed at the Visakhapatnam-Srikakulam border check-post at Pydi Bheemavaram in Srikakulam district to keep a watch on people coming in from six districts of the state apart from the high-risk states. The six districts upon which a special watch is being kept are Krishna, Guntur, Nellore, Kurnool, Chittoor and Anantapur. The team is collecting swabs from travellers on the spot. Speaking to TOI, a senior official at the check-post said that the team has been asked to keep a vigil on people coming in from six districts according to the guideline number 62 laid down by the state government. “We are stopping two-wheelers and four-wheelers at the check-post, taking down details of travellers from red zone areas, especially from the six districts and are asking them to cooperate with the government by abiding by the Covid protocol,” said the senior official. Another official said that the district collector of Srikakulam, J Nivas, has instructed the team at the check-post to strictly adhere to protocol. “If anyone is found travelling for emergency reasons, we are advising them to take up the matter with higher-ups,” a senior police official said. The check-post at Pydi Bheemavaram on national highway 16 is a crucial point between AP and Odisha as thousands travel through the area daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/travellers-from-6-districts-on-watch/articleshow/76113454.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
May 31, 2020||Goa||Three-member panel to run Goa Dairy||PONDA: In a sudden move, the state government appointed a three-member administrative committee to run the Goa State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union, popularly known as Goa Dairy. The affairs of the dairy were being looked after by a lone administrator. The committee is headed by Durgesh Shirodkar, who is the chairman of Sateri Dudh Vyavasayik Saunstha, Raia. Panaji-based chartered accountant Yashwant Kamat and an assistant registrar of cooperative societies are the other members. An order issued on Friday by the registrar of cooperative societies, Vikas Gaunekar, stated that the committee will replace the incumbent administrator Arvind Khuntkar. During the current term of the dairy, which commenced on January 29, 2017, the board of directors has been dissolved twice. Civil services officer Damodar Morajkar was the first administrator and took over on September 6, 2018, followed by Santosh Kundaim on January 28, 2019. Senior veterinarian Vilas Naik was appointed as the administrator. Khuntkar replace him on October 1, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-member-panel-to-run-goa-dairy/articleshow/76114404.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: After Cooper, KEM, Nair call in medical students for Covid-19 duty||MUMBAI: A day after Cooper Hospital issued a circular asking third- and fourth-year medical students to return to campus for Covid-19 duty, colleges attached to KEM and Nair Hospitals too released similar instructions to their students. However, both the colleges have made the decision voluntary. Students volunteering for Covid-19 duty have been promised an incentive of Rs 30,000 per month and also have been told the duty period will be deducted from their bond service. A circular issued by Nair Hospital (TN Medical College) requested students from second, third minor and major students (meaning ones from third and fourth year) to “join as Covid warriors.” “These medical students will be trained to do various jobs either in the community, in war room or in jumbo care facilities for Covid patients in Mumbai,” read the circular. It further added that their efforts will be appreciated with a certificate that will enhance their bio-data. Food and accommodation will be taken care of by the college, added the circular. At KEM, (GS Medical College), third-year minor students, the ones living in Mumbai or currently in hostel, will be given more of counselling and other ground-level work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-after-cooper-kem-nair-call-in-medical-students-for-covid-19-duty/articleshow/76114680.cms||Yogita Rao
May 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Korgao youth killed by five at Arambol over enmity||PANAJI: Dilip Payaji, 24, from Korgao, Pernem, was murdered by five persons of the same village over some previous enmity. North Goa superintendent of police (SP) Utkrisht Prasoon told TOI that the murder took place on Friday between 8pm and 10pm, at Arambol beach. “Two of the accused have been arrested, while others are absconding,” he said. Pernem PI Sandesh Chodankar said that the arrested have been identified as Satish Narse and Swapnil Bali. Police informed that the deceased and accused were once friends. The incident took place at the beach where Payaji had gone along with friends and family members. Chodankar said that while they were walking towards the beach, the deceased remained behind . When others noticed his absence, they looked for him and found that he was being assaultedwith wooden sticks. They immediately rushed to help him. They rushed him to the primary health centre at Parsem, where he was declared brought dead. Prasoon informed that they used to fight over minor issues and even had an altercation during the Korgao zatra. An offence under section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered and further investigation is in progress. The family of the deceased has refused to accept the body until all arrests are made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/korgao-youth-killed-by-five-at-arambol-over-enmity/articleshow/76114408.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Goa||Sada locals stop entry of Chicalim waste trucks||Vasco: The residents of Sada, backed by the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) councillors from the area, on Saturday stopped trucks carrying garbage from the Chicalim legacy dump to a site at Sada. They have warned of an agitation if an attempt is made again to move the waste to Sada. Ex vice-chairperson and MMC councillor Shashikant Parab said, “We have spoken with our Mormugao MLA Milind Naik, who is also the urban development minister, and he has assured us that he will not allow the Chicalim panchayat’s garbage to be brought to Sada.” Around 1 lakh tonne of MMC’s legacy garbage was treated and the wet waste was converted into manure. Sources said the waste management corporation has now given permission to the Chicalim panchayat to similarly treat their garbage on the same land. The land at Sada belongs to the art and culture department, but is in the possession of the directorate of municipal administration. While the municipality has got no role to play, sources said that it is under tremendous pressure from both, the Mormugao MLA as well as Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho, as the land falls under their jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sada-locals-stop-entry-of-chicalim-waste-trucks/articleshow/76114417.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram to reserve 1,000 private hospital beds as Covid-19 cases rise steeply||GURUGRAM: A sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram- up by 340 in just three days, including the 157 added on Saturday - is likely to force the government to activate the crisis contingency plan of reserving 1,000 beds in private hospitals. The government has already taken over 424 hotel rooms for asymptomatic patients and a senior official such patients would be increasingly sent to private quarantine while hospitals would cater to the more serious patients. With an undisclosed number of patients in home or hotel quarantine while under treatment for Covid-19 in the city, the designated Covid hospitals have been able to keep some margin for admitting more serious patients. But the sudden surge has reduced that margin considerably. As of Saturday, Gurugram had more than 450 active cases and at least 321 beds (not counting those in Narayana and Columbia Asia hospitals, which did not share the numbers). The three Covid-19 hospitals - ESIC, Civil and SGT - collectively have 205 beds and the rest are in six private hospitals. Only 64 beds are unoccupied - 15 in ESIC, 5 in Civil, 20 in SGT, 10 in Signature, six in W Pratiksha and eight in Park. Of the hospitals that shared hospital bed information, only Medeor has all 50 beds occupied. But given the surge in cases in Gurugram, the state government on Friday sent senior health officials to the city to monitor and plan for the days to come and prepare for a scenario where many more will require hospitalisation. "Private hospitals in the city have been asked to not refuse any Covid-19 patient," a health department official said. On the contingency plan, besides allowing patients to quarantine themselves at home or hotel rooms, are two things - 1,000 additional beds on standby in nine private hospitals and paid isolation facilities (only for asymptomatic patients) in 12 hotels. "With the lockdown being gradually eased, we expect the number of cases to go up. So our focus is on having more isolation facilities in the city. We are also planning on increasing the number of beds for critical Covid-19 patients," said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (health).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurugram-to-reserve-1000-private-hospital-beds-as-covid-19-cases-rise-steeply/articleshow/76114837.cms||Ipsita Pati
May 31, 2020||Goa||Maharashtra fisher held for stealing from Goa boat||PANAJI: Harbour coastal security police arrested Narayan Adkar and 14 others, all occupants of the fishing trawler ‘Omkar’, for allegedly stealing fresh fish and other fishing equipment from the trawler of a Goan fisherman on Friday. The incident occurred off the coast between Goa and Malwan. The trawler used by the accused group had a Maharashtra registration. Acting on the complaint of trawler owner Joao Fernandes from Colva, harbour police arrested the accused for forming an unlawful assembly, criminally trespassing into the complainant’s trawler, wrongfully restraining the crew and taking away their fish and navigation and wireless system from the trawler. The complainant’s loss was estimated at Rs 9 lakh. The complaint also stated that the accused threatened Fernandes’ crew with dire consequences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/maha-fisher-held-for-stealing-from-goa-boat/articleshow/76114419.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Mumbai businessman cons UAE traders, lands in Hyderabad on Vande flight||HYDERABAD: Leaving several UAE traders in a state of shock, an Indian businessman flew out of Abu Dhabi to Hyderabad in a Vande Bharat flight before they could even realise that they have been duped of three million dirhams (Rs 6.15 crore in Indian currency). Yogesh Ashok Variava (36) issued cheques for the loans he owed to as many as 40 businessmen, which bounced. By the time they had realised that the post-dated cheques were bouncing and gone to his Royal Luck Foodstuff Trading office to question him, Variava had made good his escape. The conned businessmen lodged a complaint with local police on May 21, but Variava had left the Gulf nation on May 11 itself. His whereabouts are not known yet. Assuming that Variava had flown down to Hyderabad on May 11, he had completed his mandatory 14-day quarantine period, which got over on May 25. “We sent a mail to the Telangana police on how Variava had duped several traders. No action has been taken against him yet. We had written a mail before his quarantine period was to end so that he could be caught,” advocate Salam Pappinisseri, who has taken up the case on behalf of some of the aggrieved traders, told STOI on telephone from Sharjah. He said they were weighing legal action against Variava both in India and the UAE. Variava, who hails from Mumbai, set up his business in Abu Dhabi a couple of years ago. It remains a mystery as to how Variava was able to fly out on an evacuation flight which was primarily meant to transport Indian nationals stranded abroad and those who needed to fly back to India in emergency conditions. Accused issued post-dated chequesWhen STOI called Vipul, Consul General of India (CGI), Dubai, he could not be reached. It appears Variava had issued post-dated cheques to the businessmen on different dates. As each one found out that the cheques had bounced, they all had gone to CGI to lodge a complaint against him. His office was shut down when they went and all their 18 staffers had also disappeared, it is learnt. A business owner said he visited Royal Luck’s office after his cheque of 79,552 dirhams returned marked insufficient funds, following which he filed a police complaint. Variava purchased several items in bulk from various sellers to run his business, sources said. He bought items like frozen Indian beef, orange valencia fruits, rice, nuts, facial tissues and maxi roll, fresh fruits, face mask, dates, oil, tahina (product made from sesame seeds) and halawa (byproduct of tahina). He also purchased Amul ghee, milk, french fries, mozzarella cheese, sunflower oil, gloves and masks, sanitisers, medical masks, luxury dates, 3,000 kg of plastic garbage bags, chicken, oil, pistachio, tuna and saffron. These items were supplied to Variava by 33 traders, sources quoting a list prepared by some of the duped businessmen said. Meanwhile, the Dubai police are investigating into the complaint lodged against Variava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mumbai-businessman-cons-uae-traders-lands-in-hyderabad-on-vande-flight/articleshow/76114702.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
May 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Bison rescued from Savarde well||KERI/PANAJI: An adult male gaur (Indian bison) that was reported struggling in an uncovered well in a private property near Savarde, Sattari, was rescued by the forest department on Thursday. The gaur was trapped in a six-feet-deep open well, with only its head and upper body above the water surface.“Since the well was around nine feet deep and the ground soil was loose and muddy, it was not able to climb out,” a forest official said. The North Goa forest division’s special squad was mobilised, which used a JCB machine to break open one side of the well to make space for the gaur to climb out. After a 10 minute operation, the wild beast was rescued and walked towards nearby forest area, officials said. Range forest officer Deepak Tandel said, “We are monitoring the movement of the bison as it was under stress.” In many areas of Sattari, bisons have been entering and damaging plantations of banana, cashew and other crops. Keri range officer Vivek Gaonkar said, “Our staff have been patrolling at night and taking steps to restraint the movement of bisons.” Vitthal Shelke, a wildlifer,said, “Due to the increasing heat, bisons are searching for water bodies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bison-rescued-from-savarde-well/articleshow/76114423.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
May 31, 2020||India||Casteist slurs made on mobile phone not an offence under SC/ST Act: HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that casteist remarks made over mobile phone against a member of the Scheduled Caste community does not constitute any offence under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The high court was of the view that uttering of wrong words over phone and in absence of any public view “does not show any intention or mens rea to humiliate the complainant.” Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill of the high court passed this order on Friday while setting aside an FIR, chargesheet and framing of charges against two persons from Kurukshetra in Haryana. The duo had allegedly used abusive language against the sarpanch of their village over mobile phone. “Moreover, basic ingredients of the offence in the FIR are that there must be intentional insult, secondly the insult must be done in a public place within public view, which is not in the present case. Thus, the essential ingredients, which must be fulfilled, are not found in the present case. Since these are the penal provisions, the same are to be given a strict construction and if any of the ingredients are found lacking, it would not constitute the offence under the SC/ST Act,” observed Justice Gill while exonerating the petitioners. The judge also clarified that if two views are possible and one gives rise to suspicion only as distinguished from grave suspicion, the trial judge will be empowered to discharge the accused and at that stage, it is not to be seen whether the trial will end in conviction or acquittal. An FIR was registered on October 26, 2017, under IPC and SC/ST Act sections on the complaint of Rajinder Kumar, alleging that the petitioners -- Sandeep Kumar and Pardeep Kumar -- used abusive language against him on mobile phone in the name of his caste and also threatened to kill him. The chargesheet against the accused was submitted and on May 9, 2019, a local court in Kurukshetra ordered framing of charges against them. Aggrieved by this, the accused approached the high court, submitting that the allegations made against them do not fall within the provisions of the SC/ST Act as the telephonic call is not in public view. Contesting the petition, the complainant argued that the accusations fall within the provisions of the SC/ST Act as specific allegations were made against the accused petitioners. After hearing both the parties, the HC held that once it is admitted that the alleged conversation over the mobile phone was not in public gaze, nor witnessed by any third party, the alleged use of caste words cannot be said to have been committed in public view.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/casteist-slurs-made-on-mobile-phone-not-an-offence-under-sc/st-act-hc/articleshow/76114703.cms||Ajay Sura
May 31, 2020||Delhi||Can’t have permanent lockdown, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal as new cases rise by 1,163||NEW DELHI: Shopping malls in Delhi will be opening from June 8, going by the new phased reopening plan unveiled by the Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday. This is in line with what the Delhi government was seeking. It wants the shops in malls to open on an odd-even basis. So far, only the shops selling essential goods were functioning. Neighbourhood religious places are also set to open. However, no relaxations will be allowed in the 123 containment zones in the capital. A total of 1,163 fresh cases was recorded in Delhi on Saturday, a new single-day high for the city. Though the MHA has proposed reopening of hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services from June 8, it remains to be seen if the Delhi government goes along with this. However, the city government has been pushing for more relaxations to give economic activities a boost. “We can’t have a permanent lockdown, CM Arvind Kejriwal said. Markets to stay open till 9pm from MondayNo one can predict that the coronavirus will go away if the lockdown is extended by one or two months. We have to learn to live with corona and we have to arrange for everything required to treat corona positive persons,” Kejriwal said at a press conference on Saturday. With the current phase of lockdown to be over on Sunday, markets in the city will be allowed to remain open till 9 pm from Monday. Traders have been complaining that they have been losing out on business because of the 7am-7pm restriction. Customers prefer to go in the evening because of the heat during the day. MHA’s new order has relaxed the night curfew timing and now movement of individuals for non-essential purposes will be prohibited from 9pm to 5am. This will also enable morning walkers to complete their routine before the sun starts beating down. However, there won’t be any early resumption of Metro services which the Delhi government has been quite keen on. It was responding to demands from traders to restart the services for giving business activities a major thrust. But the MHA has decided to deal with this issue later. Public transport has already been operating in Delhi, albeit with restrictions, and shops are now allowed to open based on the odd-even plan. Offices and business establishments, besides takeaways at eateries, are also allowed to run. People will have to wait longer for schools and other educational institutions, gyms, cinema halls and swimming pools to open. A decision on educational institutions will be taken in July and the rest in the third phase of the reopening plan. Delhi government, too, has also not been in favour of opening them soon. There is no word yet on reopening of salons, barber shops. An official said the state government will study the standard operating procedure prepared for resuming various activities and take a final decision based on that for allowing more relaxations after June 8. “The number of cases has been rising but the number of people admitted in hospitals has not gone up in a similar way. More people prefer home isolation because over 80% people have mild symptoms. It does not, however, mean that there is any dearth of beds in hospitals,” said an official. Watch Covid-19: We can’t be in a permanent lockdown, says Delhi CM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cant-have-permanent-lockdown-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-as-new-cases-rise-by-1163/articleshow/76114705.cms||AlokKNMishra
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Rs 50 lakh cover for frontline staff of BEST||MUMBAI: Finally, BEST workers will get Rs 50 lakh insurance cover for frontline duties during the battle against Covid-19. Eight staffers have died and 269 tested positive so far, with the recovery rate being 55% till Saturday. Sources said a notification on the insurance was likely in a few days. They said it would be discussed with municipal commissioner I S Chahal for budgetary allocation. The state government had on Friday announced insurance for all its employees on duty against Covid-19. At first, BEST staff members felt they would be excluded from the benefit, which they had been demanding for two months. On Saturday, the government issued a circular with a clause saying "similar ex gratia assistance scheme will be implemented at local bodies".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-50-lakh-cover-for-frontline-staff-of-best/articleshow/76114712.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||3,400 return to Mumbai under Vande Bharat||MUMBAI: Over 3,400 stranded Indians have returned to Mumbai by 26 flights so far, under Vande Bharat mission, while six more repatriation flights are expected till June 7, according to state government officials. A total of 3,459 passengers have returned to Mumbai from UK, Singapore, Philippines, US, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Kuwait, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, Oman, South Africa, Indonesia, Netherlands, Japan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Tanzania by 26 flights, under Vande Bharat initiative, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials said 1,137 of them were Mumbai residents, while 1,572 were from other parts of Maharashtra and 750 from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3400-return-to-mumbai-under-vande-bharat/articleshow/76114714.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab extends lockdown till June 30 with relaxations||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a four-week extension of the lockdown in Punjab, till June 30, with certain more relaxations, subject to the new guidelines issued by the Centre. The move is in line with the Centre's decision to extend the national lockdown beyond May 31.  Though experts have advised against opening of the hospitality industry and malls, the chief minister said the state would take into account the Centre's guidelines for Lockdown 5.0.  Amarinder announced his decision after an on-ground assessment of the Covid-19 situation through a video conference with health experts along with top officials and Cabinet ministers Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. ’covid threat not over’ 85% of Pb industry has started operations: CaptAmarinder later said during his weekly Facebook Live session that the threat of Covid-19 was not over yet, and if necessary, he would continue to take tough measures to save the lives of Punjabis. Underlining the need to continue to exercise extreme caution, he lauded the citizens for following all health norms to help the state government in controlling the pandemic spread to a great extent. He said extension of the lockdown in Punjab would be conditional to strict adherence to Covid safety protocols, including physical distancing and wearing of masks. He also ordered distribution of free masks to the poor as part of ration kids to the needy and poor, who could not afford to purchase them. More than Rs 1 crore collected so far in fine from the offenders, he added. Amarinder said 85% of the state’s industry had already started operations with 65% of labour engaged in it. The government was facilitating many multinational IT firms, including Quark, to set base in Mohali and many more would come to Punjab as the situation improves, he said in reply to another query.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-extends-lockdown-till-june-30-with-relaxations/articleshow/76114715.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||12 migrant workers died in Vid, no one cares||Nagpur: Twelve migrant workers have died in little over a month in different districts of Vidarbha, the highest being four in Wardha. Let alone state or Centre, even local administration is not aware of it. Government officials TOI spoke with said there is no order to document the deaths. All are being treated as stand-alone cases. Social workers and experts said that movement of migrants should have been tracked right at the start. Various high courts have passed judgements on the plight of the migrants. On Thursday, the Supreme Court directed the state and central governments not to charge migrants while arranging for their transportation home. In Nagpur division comprising six districts, eight migrant workers have died as per various media reports. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said he was aware of only one. When asked if the Maharashtra government had asked him to keep track of the deaths, he said, “Only one has died in the division so far. A migrant had a heart attack in Bhandara district.” Basavaraj Teli, superintendent of police in Wardha district, too has no data on death of the four migrants. “The information may be available with the civil surgeon,” he said. Even though in Nagpur district, a migrant worker was found murdered with police suspecting sexual assault, resident deputy collector Ravindra Khajanchi told TOI that no “such incident has happened”. “The administration was not keeping track of migrant deaths,” he added. Anu Chhabria, a social worker who has been in the forefront of helping migrants, was shocked at the number of deaths. “Unfortunately, the administration has not informed us. Our economy can’t survive without the migrants but apathy towards them and lack of empathy towards them is shocking. District administrations, state government and centre all are guilty,” she said. Some of the deaths have happened in remote places and reported to the authorities after some days. A correspondent of a local newspaper in Bhandara said that district administration was not providing any information regarding the deaths. “We get the news after many days from other sources and it takes time to confirm them,” he told TOI. According to additional CP (crime) Nilesh Bharne, the Sonu Sood of Central India, there is a possibility that almost 50% of deaths were not reported. “A sea of humanity hit us like a tsunami and we were only a handful few. Whenever we came to know, we helped with cremation or safe passage but many may have taken bodies in vehicles or truck and cremated them elsewhere,” he told TOI. Bharne, however, doesn’t feel that this number would be very high. “Police were present along highways and roads, and constant checking was on,” he said. Former corporator Rekha Barahate, who too has been assisting the migrants, blamed the Centre for not giving time to labourers to go back before announcing lockdown. “The Nagpur district administration sent back all registered migrants home. Those from other districts were a burden on them. I don’t blame the district administration at all,” she said. “Pathetic” is how another social worker Joseph George described the situation. “What should have never happened is happening now,” he said. Head of Nagpur University’s department of economics Sneha Deshpande said a record of migrant movement ought to have been maintained right from the grass roots level. “Migrants are passing through villages, tehsil places and cities. Each local body must have a record of not only their numbers but also information of any casualty happening in their jurisdiction,” she said, adding that the information could then have been passed on to state and central governments “which can assess the situation and plan well in future”. Barne said police in an affidavit before the high court have listed around 49,000 migrants, with their names and phone numbers, who “received assistance from us for safe passage”. “It is possible that record for another 50,000 is not available but they had got some kind of assistance,” he said. MIGRANT DEATHS THAT WILL HAUNT 3 in Arni tehsil of Yavatmal district in road accident 1 suicide in Girad, Wardha district 1 at Wardha bus depot of extreme fatigue 1 aboard Shramik Special on way to Wardha hospital 1 took ill near Jam, Wardha district, and died on way to hospital 1 died of heart attack in a quarantine centre in Sakoli (Bhandara district) 1 5-year-old child died (cause unknown) on national highway in Bhandara district 1 old man in Godia district on an ST bus on way to Chhattisgarh 1 man found murdered in Kapsi village of Nagpur district. Sexual assault suspected 1 senior citizen at migrant camp in Nagpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-migrant-workers-died-in-vid-no-one-cares/articleshow/76114050.cms||Ashish Roy
May 31, 2020||World||Vaccine could be ready by 2020 end: China body||HONG KONG: A Chinese-made coronavirus vaccine could be ready for market as early as the end of this year, China’s State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) said in a social media post. In trials, more than 2,000 people have received vaccines developed by the Wuhan Institute of Biological Products and the Beijing Institute of Biological Products. A vaccine could be ready for the market as early as the end of this year or early 2021, according to the May 29 post on Chinese social media platform WeChat. Vaccines from the Wuhan Institute of Biological Products and the Beijing Institute of Biological Products had entered Phase II clinical trials. Both groups are affiliated with state-owned pharmaceutical group Sinopharm, whose management is overseen by SASAC. The Beijing Institute of Biological Products' production line will have an annual manufacturing capacity of 100 million to 120 million doses, according to the article.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/vaccine-could-be-ready-by-2020-end-china-body/articleshow/76114720.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||Govt to seek legal opinion for cancelling univs exams||Nagpur: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday directed the state higher and technical education department to seek legal opinion on whether final year/semester students in traditional universities could be awarded average marks/grades based on their previous performance.Addressing an online meeting of all vice chancellors, the CM also directed them to explore whether students could be offered an option of appearing in percentage/grades improvement test, if regular examination wasn’t conducted due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Asserting that not a single student should contract coronavirus due to exams, Thackeray told VCs to clear the confusion from the minds of anxious students and parents. “The timetable and methodology of exams should be made known to them in advance if those are to be held. Various options should also be explored in this regard,” he said.Higher and technical education minister Uday Samant had already told TOI in an exclusive interview on Friday that it wouldn’t be possible to conduct even final university exams when Covid-19 cases are spiralling in the entire state.“The CM directed us to take legal opinion as early as possible to end the stalemate. He spoke with VCs for over two and half hours and discussed various options. As per his instructions, I will speak to chief secretary Ajoy Mehta to get a legal opinion from our Law and Judiciary Department,” Samant told TOI after the crucial meeting.Amravati and Nagpur University VC Murlidhar Chandekar said there were mixed reactions to the suggestion to do away with the final exams and award average marks based on the previous performance. “Many suggestions came for holding exams and also doing away with them. Students’ career and their health were primarily discussed while examining both the aspects. The government would be scrutinizing suggestions from both sides and would clear its position within a couple of days after seeking legal opinion,” he said.Apart from VCs of traditional universities, minister of state Prajakt Tanpure, education department secretary Saurabh Vijay and technical education director Abhay Wagh also attended the meeting.Pointing out that the pandemic had offered an opportunity to end the regional imbalance in the education sector, the CM earlier called on VCs to use it for increasing the standard of primary and higher education. “It’s high time we ended the confusion over exams with proper planning. It’s now clear that exams can’t be held in July. The situation in Mumbai, Pune and Aurangabad is changing constantly. “All of us should think about converting this unprecedented situation into opportunities with the help of technology,” Thackeray said.Earlier, Samant informed VCs about various efforts made by the government to conduct the exams. “We’re in constant touch with the VCs for taking a stock of the pandemic situation in their respective jurisdictions. All our efforts are being made by keeping students as the nucleus and we’re exploring all options with a view to hold the exams,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-to-seek-legal-opinion-for-cancelling-univs-exams/articleshow/76114056.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||MHA to issue guidelines of opening of educational institutes:Pokhriyal||Nagpur: Union human resources development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said the central government will first come up with guidelines on reopening of educational institutes after which states can take a call depending on the ground situation. In an exclusive interview to TOI, Pokhriyal also accepted that not all students have access to smartphones for online education and hence, the government is going ahead with a multi-pronged strategy to reach out to every student in the country. Responding to a query on the intention of the Maharashtra government to reopen schools from June 15, Pokhriyal said both the centre and state will play a role in the decision. “The ministry of home affairs (MHA) will be coming up with guidelines on the opening of the educational institutes. Thereafter, education being a concurrent subject, the state governments will assess the situation in the specific zones/district and states before opening of schools,” said Pokhriyal. The push by both government and private educational institutes for ‘online learning’ may leave out a large number of rural or poor students who do not have access to smartphones or related technology. “MHRD accepts and acknowledges the varied conditions of the students and is thereby working tirelessly to derive solutions so that no one is left untouched from the power of education. Mechanisms are being developed to provide textbooks to all children at home. The curriculum is being transacted using community radio too. The state governments are doing remarkable a remarkable job,” said Pokhriyal. The minister added that the alternative academic calendar developed by NCERT provides “options for teachers to guide learners through mobile to other reference sources such as the dictionary, atlas, news headlines, storybooks, etc.” Talking about the various e-initiatives, Pokhriya said mobile app DIKSHA will now become the “nation’s digital infrastructure for providing e-content in school education for all the states/UTs.” Also, there will be TV with one class-one channel concept, SWAYAM online courses, IITPAL for IITJEE/NEET preparation, community radio and CBSE Shiksha Vani podcast and study material for the differently abled developed on Digitally Accessible Information System (DAISY) and in sign language on NIOS website/ YouTube. “This will benefit nearly 25 crore school going children across the country,” said Pokhriyal. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, awareness about infections diseases will be created through the traditional learning system. “I have conducted webinars with students, teachers and parents to spread sensitization on Covid-19 and to address the issues and challenges being faced by them. However, from now on, the sensitization on health and hygiene will be promoted more through academic curriculum,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mha-to-issue-guidelines-of-opening-of-educational-institutespokhriyal/articleshow/76114067.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
May 31, 2020||Nagpur||Serious +ve patient dies while ‘travelling’ from Mum to Ytl||Nagpur: For the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak, Vidarbha recorded 5 deaths in a day on May 30. Two patients died in Nagpur, one in Akola, one in Yavatmal while another positive patient died in an ambulance while reaching Yavatmal from Mumbai. However, how come a serious Covid-19 positive patient got permission to travel from Mumbai to Yavatmal along with his family members in still unknown. Rajesh Kalu Rathod (43), a resident of village Aarambhi in Digras tehsil of Yavatmal, was admitted to the Ghatkoper-based Rajawadi Hospital on May 28 where he tested positive. Rajawadi Hospital is run by the BMC. Within 24 hours, he was discharged as stated by his brother who accompanied him in an ambulance from Mumbai. On the way, Rajesh died for want of proper medical treatment. The body was directly brought to GMC on Saturday evening. The foursome (brother of the deceased and three drivers of the ambulance) were kept in institutional Quarantine in Yavatmal. Yavatmal’s guardian minister Sanjay Rathod told TOI that the medical records brought with the body revealed that Rajesh tested positive on May 28 itself. “I spoke to the municipal commissioner and sought his explanation as to how come a positive patient was discharged from the BMC hospital?,” said Rathod, adding that it’s a very serious lapse and it would be viewed as such. “I briefed the CM’s principal secretary Vikas Karge and instructed him to look into the matter on a priority basis,” said Rathod. Records of the hospital have also been sought. Earlier in Yavatmal, a Mumbai returnee woman from Nagapur village in Umarkhed Tehsil, who had tested positive on May 28, died during treatment. She was 46 and had several comorbidities. Her husband also tested positive. This was Yavatmal’s first death. In Nagpur, Saturday began with the death of a 50-year-old beggar who had tested positive on May 24. A patient of severe liver cirrhosis and abdominal problem, he was on ventilator support from last two days. In the evening, a 73-year-old man from Hingna Road, who had tested positive on May 29 in a private hospital in Dhantoli, and was transported to GMCH the same day, died of severe complications. The patient was having severe comorbid conditions, said doctors. In Akola, a 71-year-old man, a resident of Sai Nagar, Dabki Road, who tested positive on May 24, died during treatment at GMCH Akola. He was having severe comorbidities. This was Akola’s 30th death that took the rate to 5.26%. Akola recorded 12 new patients, taking the total number of patients to 570. The same day, 35 patients recovered, taking the total number of recovered patients from Akola to 423. In Amravati, the threat of virus entered the walled city as a 30-year-old youth from Ambagate locality figured among the nine who tested positive on Saturday to take the district’s covid count to 212. While four cases came from new hotspot Frezerpura, two each came from Ratanganj and Masanganj. On the other hand, four got discharged from the covid hospital to take the count of discharged patients to 120. The youth was an employee at a car showroom on Badnera road and fell ill on May 25. He got tested two days ago. The report on Saturday said positive following which five members of his family have been quarantined. Two of the four Frezerpura cases — females aged 40 and 25 — are family members of the first case reported on May 26. Three of his family members had tested positive on Friday. In the evening, two more youths, aged 22 and 28, tested positive to take the Frezerpura count to eight in five days. AMC commissioner Prashant Rode and CP Sanjay Bawiskar visited the area and instructed their men to implement the lockdown strictly. On Saturday, two cases emerged from Ratanganj, a male (aged 20) and a female (aged 48), to take its count to 12. Hotpot Masanganj also increased its tally to 32 with a father-son duo (aged 80 and 54) testing positive. They were quarantined after the 75-year-old woman of this family tested positive on May 27. 41-day-old baby tests positive in Wardha A woman who came to Arvi from Akola on May 24 also tested positive for Covid-19 and so did her 41-day-old baby. Both the mother and the baby have been admitted to Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram, and are undergoing treatment. The baby is the youngest patient of Covid-19 in Vidarbha. Meanwhile, no positive patient was detected in Chandrapur on Saturday. It is fifth consecutive day when there has been no positive patient detection. A total of 22 positive patients have been detected so far in Chandrapur of which 12 have recovered. Nearly all the patients either have a travel history or are contacts of the positive patient. More than 72,000 people have come to Chandrapur from other districts in Maharashtra or other states so far. In all, 48 new cases were recorded on Saturday. These include Nagpur (13), followed by Akola (12), Amravati (9), Gondia (4), Buldhana (3), Bhandara (3), Gadchiroli (2), Wardha (1), and Yavatmal (1). Total covid-19 cases in Vidarbha reached 1,656. On the other hand, 67 patients were discharged from the region. Highest 35 patients recovered from Akola, followed by Yavatmal (7), Nagpur (5), Wardha (5), Amravati (4), Buldhana (4), Gondia (4) and Gadchiroli (3). With 1,123 patients recovered till date, the rate surged to 67.81%. an all-time high against Maharashtra’s 43.07% and India’s 47.4% so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/serious-ve-patient-dies-while-travelling-from-mum-to-ytl/articleshow/76114060.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
May 31, 2020||Thane||Thane jail cop, guard, pregnant inmate test +ve for coronavirus||MUMBAI: A pregnant woman prisoner at Thane jail, who was sent to the Thane Civil Hospital after she complained of uneasiness, tested positive for Covid-19 when she returned to the jail after 10 days of treatment. She was sent back to the hospital, said inspector general of police (south region), Deepak Pandey. A jail guard and a constable posted outside Thane jail also tested positive and were sent for treatment. Three other jail constables, who were in contact with the two, tested negative. Meanwhile, superintendent of Arthur Road jail, Nitin Vaychal, was transferred back to Ratnagiri jail. He was on deputation at Arthur Road jail, and has been replaced by senior superintendent Jayant Naik. Of the 158 prisoners in Arthur Road jail who tested positive earlier this month, 120 have now tested negative. - Mateen Hafeez||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-jail-cop-guard-pregnant-inmate-test-ve-for-coronavirus/articleshow/76114723.cms||Mateen Hafeez
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to go MHA way||CHANDIGARH: Within hours of release of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) advisory on extending lockdown till June 30, the Haryana government on Saturday announced that the state would follow suit. A communication by state chief secretary Kesni Anand Arora, who is also the chairperson of state executive committee for implementing NDMA orders said, "This order of MHA and the guidelines affixed thereto are further subject to any instructions or guidelines that may hereafter be issued by state government... in conformity with orders by national executive committee of NDMA.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-go-mha-way/articleshow/76114724.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Transport firms gear up to move office-goers||BENGALURU: With most offices in the state capital and other parts of Karnataka expected to reopen from June 1, transport firms are gearing up to resume normal services and ferry office-goers. But experts say the demand for such shuttles will remain low for a few months as many companies plan to call only half the workforce to office. The other half will continue to log in remotely. Apps and platforms like Routematic, MoveInSync, SRide and Shuttl, and traditional cab and bus operators are hoping that things will pick up sooner than expected once more people gain confidence to move around. “As we gradually return to normalcy and companies reopen for operations, our app has integrated social distancing measures, helping team leaders and managers to plan staffing, not only in office operational areas but also in cafeterias and meeting rooms,” said Deepesh Agarwal, CEO and co-founder of MoveInSync. The app powers various other features like mask detection in cabs during transit and QR code-based office gate-pass. “We will get business only if companies resume full operations. The demand for business-class vehicles will take some more time, so our focus is on economy vehicles,” said K Radhakrishna Holla, president, Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association. State-run bus operator Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is offering services on charter to companies. Its managing director, C Shikha, said 159 buses had been hired by 14 companies and government departments so far. “We have not received any new request from these companies yet. We are yet to resume dedicated pass bus service as most IT employees are still working from home,” she added. KT Rajashekar, managing director of SRS Travel, which caters to over 100 companies, said the demand should improve in June. “We have started providing buses to some firms and we are hopeful that numbers will go up after June 1,” Rajashekar said. The state government gave the green signal to intrastate bus operators on May 19, but many players decided to wait and watch as they were worried that they might have to pay tax for the entire month. Only a few began ferrying passengers from Bengaluru to other parts of the state. From June 1, most intrastate operators are expected to restart operations after a hiatus of over two months. Online platforms like redBus have begun taking bookings. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has been running services since May 19. So far, it has operated over 7,630 buses and ferried 1.2 lakh passengers from Bengaluru to other districts. To ensure social distancing, the government has allowed only 30 passengers per bus. Masks are mandatory for passengers, drivers and conductors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-transport-firms-gear-up-to-move-office-goers/articleshow/76114734.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
May 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Fishing ban ends today, but trawlers not sea-ready||CHENNAI: The annual fishing ban is set to end on Sunday, a fortnight ahead than normal, but deep sea trawler owners in Chennai are not ready to put out to sea. Repairs to boats that had been idle for more than two months are not complete, there are few operators available and there is no designated place for fish sale in retail and wholesale and for export, they say. M E Raghupathi, who owns a trawler, said the experts from Cuddalore and Tuticorin who normally arrived in the city 10 days before the end of the ban to supervise repairs couldn't come this year due to the lockdown and the boats were not sea-worthy. Almost 80% of trawlers in Chennai are operated by guest workers from Andhra Pradesh who had gone home 10 days ago. "Without them trawlers cannot be operated," said D Jayaram, another owner. Maintaining social distancing will also be difficult, he said, adding that a minimum of 10 crew members are needed on a deep-sea vessel. Director of fisheries G S Sameeran has instructed officials at the fish landing centres and fishing harbour to earmark space for vessels coming from the deep sea and to ensure social distancing in retail and wholesale fish trade, said an official. Even the fish export units, where 30% of the staff are guest workers, are finding it difficult to prepare to start operations. "Most of the workers in these units are from Kerala and it will be difficult to bring them here," the official conceded. Most trawler owners say they didn't have liquid cash with them and had to borrow heavy sums to get ready to operate the vessels. This issue has to be sorted out by the authorities, said one owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-fishing-ban-ends-today-but-trawlers-not-sea-ready/articleshow/76114736.cms||P Oppili
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||From protective gear to community kitchen, help pours in for Sunderbans||KOLKATA: City-based NGOs have come forward to stand by the Sunderbans and its villagers in the difficult times following the lockdown and Cyclone Amphan. Nature Mates-Nature Club has taken up relief work at Patharpratima and already reached out to more than 400 families with material like puffed rice, jaggery, sugar crisps, gram flour and biscuits, along with basic medicines and masks. “ People had also sent us dry food, baby food, clothes, essential accessories so that we can send it to the Sunderbans,” said a member of Nature Mates-Nature Club. Society for Heritage and Ecological Researches (SHER) reached out to the foot soldiers of the Sunderbans — the forest staff — with face shields as they have been helping the villagers with relief material ever since Amphan had struck the region on May 20. The NGO distributed 300 face protection shields among the staff of Basirhat, Bidya and Sajnekhali Wildlife Sanctuary ranges in the presence of senior officers of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve (STR). The NGO has also been supporting the tiger reserve authorities in relief distribution at ground zero with several SOS supplies from Day Two after the cyclone broke in. Human and Environment Alliance League (HEAL), in collaboration with forest department, has started community kitchens in Sunderbans villages. The kitchens were set up in Kultoli and Bhubaneswari, where over 700 people were fed every day between May 25 and 29. The NGO will also reach out to over 600 families in Kultoli and Patharpratima blocks and take up plantation activities in the villages in the days to come. “After Amphan, we took up reach-out programme by providing basic stuff like food, drinking water and sanitary napkins to Sunderbans villagers. Later, we started reaching out to more people through various other relief activities,” said a member of HEAL. Stripes and Green Earth (SAGE), with the help of forest department, reached out to over 800 villagers in Jharkhali, Deulbari and Jatirampur with relief material after Amphan. They also conducted medical camps. “We carried out relief material distribution activities on May 22 at Jharkhali, on May 24 at Deulbari and on May 29 at Jatirampur and Rangabelia,” said an NGO member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-protective-gear-to-community-kitchen-help-pours-in-for-sunderbans/articleshow/76113743.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Two institutes in Bengaluru to lead India’s Covid prediction model||BENGALURU: The department of science and technology (DST) has started ‘Covid-19 Indian National Supermodel’ for prediction and monitoring of infection patterns. The project will aid decisions on health and mitigation measures. Two top institutes in Bengaluru — the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) and Indian Institute of Science (IISc) — will play a crucial role in the programme. The department has initiated the project to pool in expertise in the field and create one forecast and monitoring model for the entire country. It will be subjected to rigorous tests required for evidence-based prediction, which is routinely practised in weather forecasting communities. The model will rely on data relevant to Covid-19 and have an adaptive built-in component to learn from new trends. “It will aggregate successful evidence-based mathematical and statistical forecasting models and include the best predictive analytics for robust forecasting of infectious disease spread,” the department said. “The supermodel could be used by policymakers in India and around the world to overcome difficulties in predicting the rate of spread of infection and how it would burden the healthcare sector.” It added that JNCASR and IISc would coordinate and lead the effort, connecting with existing Covid-19 modelling projects and programmes in the country. This will help develop a set of benchmarks to assess various models and deliver ‘Covid-19 India National Supermodel’. The coordination team will consult and work with research groups active in modelling, software developers and reputed companies to ensure delivery of a suitable user interface and software. “While the government is keeping a close watch on infectivity and mortality, it is imperative to bring in a robust model for predicting the spread and enhancing disease surveillance. Numerous mathematical models for Covid-19 forecasting and surveillance are being worked out by investigators funded by DST-SERB [Science and Engineering Research Board] and other agencies,” the department said. Further, a consultative committee will work with the department, SERB, JNCASR, IISc and modellers to provide critical inputs on technical aggregation, guidance and delivery of the supermodel. “Mathematical modelling and simulations for the spread of Covid-19 and its impact are not mere academic exercises. They are critical needs for rational decision-making, planning and resource management. It is of vital importance that a robust national model, vetted by a large cross-section of the scientific community working in the area, is developed,” said professor Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, DST.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-institutes-in-bengaluru-to-lead-indias-covid-prediction-model/articleshow/76114742.cms||---
May 31, 2020||India||‘Border’ born in no-man’s land between India, Nepal||GORAKHPUR: As India and Nepal remained locked in a territorial dispute at Kalapani, a “Border” was born in flesh and blood on no man’s land between the two countries near Sonauli in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. Border’s mother, a migrant woman from UP’s Bahraich, had gone into labour while queuing up to cross over to Maharajganj district on the Indian side through the Sonauli entry point from Nepal. Her husband, supported by other women in the queue, helped deliver the baby. Mother and son were taken to the community health centre at Nautanwa in Maharajganj, where both are said to be doing well. The new mother apparently decided on the spot to name her fourth child Border. “Mother and child are healthy. She has two older daughters and a son,” said Nautanwa CHC staff nurse Amisha Williams. The woman, identified as Jamtara, and her husband Lalaram are from Chala Prithvipurva village in Bahraich district. They couple, both workers in a brick kiln at Nawalparasi in Nepal, was returning home due to the lockdown. After Jamtara told her husband that she was in labour, Lalaram quickly enlisted the help of all the women around. The group formed a ring around Jamtara and created a makeshift curtain using clothes and sheets. A few others helped her through the pangs of childbirth. Police arranged an ambulance to take the mother and child to the nearest health centre. Content state: ReadyIn use by: Reporter(s): Subhabrata GuhaLast modified: 30-05 23:22 - Subhabrata GuhaRequested size: Actual size: 50 lin - 451.69pCategory: Contextual use: NormalDescription: Correction: All usages:||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/border-born-in-no-mans-land-between-india-nepal/articleshow/76114738.cms||Arjumand Bano
May 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru cop recovers from Covid-19, to report for duty in a day||BENGALURU: Constable N Guruswamy, 37, who was the first member of Bengaluru police force to test positive for coronavirus, has recovered and was discharged from Victoria Hospital on Saturday. The force organised a warm celebration for him. “The nine days I spent in the hospital are unforgettable. I thank my family and the department for the support they extended. Special thanks to Dr Asima Bhanu who was like a mother to me,” Guruswamy told STOI after hospital discharge. He was admitted to Victoria Hospital on May 22. On Saturday, police officials, including Bengaluru police commissioner Bhaskar Rao, waited for him outside the hospital gates. As Guruswamy stepped out at 5.10pm, they gave him a red-carpet welcome, applauding and showering rose petals on him. A police band also performed. The police convoy carrying him first went to the police commissioner’s office and then to Guruswamy’s residence in Adugodi. “I was nervous when I found out that I was positive. Senior police officials, including commissioner Rao and joint commissioner BR Ravikante Gowda spoke to me and said there was nothing to worry,” Guruswamy said. He felt dejected during the first couple of days. “I felt like everything was over. Slowly, confidence grew, though I was worried about my wife Mamata and sons Vishwas and Rithiwik,” he said. Four constables from Bagalkot and one from Vijayapura had tested positive for coronavirus in March and April. All of them have recovered. As on Saturday, 12 police officials in different parts of state are being treated for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-cop-recovers-from-covid-to-report-for-duty-in-a-day/articleshow/76114746.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
May 31, 2020||Ranchi||43 from E Singhbhum among 72 fresh cases, 2nd peak in 2 days||Ranchi/Jamshedpur/Gumla: Coronavirus cases continued to surge in East Singhbhum as the district, with its headquarters in the steel hub of Jamshedpur, detected 43 new Covid patients on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 96 in just 18 days since May 12, until when Jamshedpur was the largest urban cluster in the country untouched by the virus. This is the biggest single-day figure for any district in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, 29 more cases were detected in nine other districts of Jharkhand, taking the number of active cases above the 300-mark. One of them is from Sahebganj, which was until Saturday untouched by the virus. All 24 districts in the state are now affected by the novel coronavirus. With 72 fresh cases on Saturday, Jharkhand has recorded its second peak in as many days. The state recorded 46 cases on Friday. Of the, 594 positive cases, 332 are active and 257 have recovered, including 40 from five district on Saturday. Five patients have succumbed to the virus in the state. On Saturday, Dhanbad recorded 13 cases, Simdega and Hazaribag detected four positive patients each, Khunti and Garhwa detected two each and Palamu, Pakur, Sahibganj and Gumla reported one each. A large chunk of the 72 cases reported on Saturday are migrants, taking the number of returning workers testing positive to at least 411 since May 5. The rate of transmission is so high among migrant workers that the state health department recently had to create a dedicated column in its daily Covid-19 bulletin only for data related to migrants testing positive. Jamshedpur, which recorded its first Covid case 42 days after the viral outbreak in Jharkhand on March 31, is now a major concern for the state health authorities. The district had also reported 15 cases on Friday. Of the 96 cases in East Singhbhum, more than 50% are from the city areas and the number is expected to rise as a few who tested positive in the last 48 hours were in home quarantine. East Singhbhum DC Ravi Shankar Shukla called in an emergency meeting of the district administration officials on Saturday evening and instructed them to keep a strict vigil on migrant movement. “We have been directed to keep an eye on anyone arriving from Chennai, Mumbai, New Delhi and Kolkata,” said an official. Meanwhile, 40 positive patients were discharged from various Covid hospitals — this is also the hignest number of single-day recoveries in the state. Koderma and Garhwa discharged 19 and 13 patients from their hospitals. Five patients from Ranchi, two from Lohardaga and one from East Singhbhum were also declared cured on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/43-from-e-singhbhum-among-72-fresh-cases-2nd-peak-in-2-days/articleshow/76113562.cms||Gaurav Pandey
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||Arms factory busted by STF in West Burdwan||KOLKATA/ASANSOL: Hours after a top JMB operative was nabbed by the Kolkata Police special task force, a joint operation with Asansol-Durgapur police led to the busting of an illegal arms factory at Niyamatapur in West Burdwan’s Kulti block on Friday night. A 6-member team, in plainclothes and riding bikes, raided landlord Afsar Khan’s home — a 10x6ft room — around 6.30pm. STF officers said they recovered about 350 state-of-the art semi-finished 7mm pistols. They believe these were being made for sale either to state criminals before elections in Bihar and Bengal or to criminals in Bangladesh. “Pursuant to the statement of the main accused in another arms case, Saukat Ansari, who is in Presidency Correctional Home after being arrested in February, five Jharkhand-based persons have been arrested. Parts of 300-350 7mm improvised pistols and semi-finished 7mm arms were seized. Heavy machines, including four lathe machines, have been seized,” said DC (STF) Aparajita Rai. Rai said the five — Md Israr Ahmed, Md Arif, Suraj Kumar Shaw, Umesh Kumar and Arun Kumar Verma — are residents of Dhanbad. Their phones, wallets and cash, and a Maruti Omni were seized. The STF team brought them to Kolkata early on Saturday. Khan told TOI had rented out the room 14 months ago. He fixed the rent at Rs 5,000 after being told the accused needed a small manufacturing unit. But they gave him only Rs 3,000, saying they would invest the rest on sprucing up the room. “I had no idea they would run an illegal factory. I learnt about it only during the raid. I have promised STF I will co-operate,” he told TOI. Police said there was a possibility the final assembly work took place in Munger, Bihar. STF said more arrests are likely and some Kolkata conduits are on the radar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/arms-factory-busted-by-stf-in-west-burdwan/articleshow/76114558.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
May 31, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Now, family disputes to be settled on video calls||RANCHI: Legal service authorities in all districts of Jharkhand were recently asked to settle family disputes through mediations using WhatsApp video calls and other means of video conferencing. In a directive to principal judges and additional principal judges of family courts, the Jharkhand high court asked to identify and enlist maximum number of cases for a mediation drive from June 8 to 12. After cases are shortlisted, the family court clerk will contact the parties of each case over phone and motivate them to get their matter settled either through WhatsApp video calls or other means of video conferencing, the high court said. Secretary of Ranchi district legal service authority Abhishek Kumar said, “So far, mediations were being carried out through various mobile applications, including Google Meet, during the lockdown. Now, WhatsApp, which is user-friendly, has been added to the list.” Kumar added Ranchi DLSA aims to take up 125 mediation cases during the drive and they have already been allotted to 14 mediators. “The cases selected are pending due to the lockdown with many awaiting either divorce or reunion,” Kumar said. “Neither the parties nor their advocates or mediators will come to the DLSA office. They will carry out the mediation from their home offices,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/now-family-disputes-to-be-settled-on-video-calls/articleshow/76117874.cms||Sanjay Sahay
May 31, 2020||Ranchi||Quarantined youth in Ghatshila elopes with girlfriend||JAMSHEDPUR: The girlfriend of a tribal youth sneaked into the quarantine centre he was lodged at on Thursday night and the duo eloped from there, sources at the isolation centre said. The matter came to light on Friday morning when breakfast was being served. As soon as the news spread, the district officials informed Chandra’s family and tried to find out if he and his girlfriend had reached home. Chandra Mohan Hansda (22) was put in quarantine with 10 others at the Nutandih Primary School, 45km from the Steel City, when he returned from Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh on May 24. Chandra’s friend and neighbour Ramesh Hansda said, “The two have been in love for two years but they could not marry as they belonged to different tribes. They had tried to elope twice earlier, but their family members managed to catch them and bring them back,” Hansda added. Chandra’s father, Ropai Hansda, blamed the administration officials for not keeping an eye on his son at the centre and questioned how an inmate can escape from a secure centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/quarantined-youth-in-ghatshila-elopes-with-girlfriend/articleshow/76113523.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
May 31, 2020||Jamshedpur||Quarantined youth in Ghatshila elopes with girlfriend||JAMSHEDPUR: The girlfriend of a tribal youth sneaked into the quarantine centre he was lodged at on Thursday night and the duo eloped from there, sources at the isolation centre said. The matter came to light on Friday morning when breakfast was being served. As soon as the news spread, the district officials informed Chandra’s family and tried to find out if he and his girlfriend had reached home. Chandra Mohan Hansda (22) was put in quarantine with 10 others at the Nutandih Primary School, 45km from the Steel City, when he returned from Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh on May 24. Chandra’s friend and neighbour Ramesh Hansda said, “The two have been in love for two years but they could not marry as they belonged to different tribes. They had tried to elope twice earlier, but their family members managed to catch them and bring them back,” Hansda added. Chandra’s father, Ropai Hansda, blamed the administration officials for not keeping an eye on his son at the centre and questioned how an inmate can escape from a secure centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/quarantined-youth-in-ghatshila-elopes-with-girlfriend/articleshow/76122197.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
May 31, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Now, family disputes to be settled on video calls||RANCHI: Legal service authorities in all districts of Jharkhand were recently asked to settle family disputes through mediations using WhatsApp video calls and other means of video conferencing. In a directive to principal judges and additional principal judges of family courts, the Jharkhand high court asked to identify and enlist maximum number of cases for a mediation drive from June 8 to 12. After cases are shortlisted, the family court clerk will contact the parties of each case over phone and motivate them to get their matter settled either through WhatsApp video calls or other means of video conferencing, the high court said. Secretary of Ranchi district legal service authority Abhishek Kumar said, “So far, mediations were being carried out through various mobile applications, including Google Meet, during the lockdown. Now, WhatsApp, which is user-friendly, has been added to the list.” Kumar added Ranchi DLSA aims to take up 125 mediation cases during the drive and they have already been allotted to 14 mediators. “The cases selected are pending due to the lockdown with many awaiting either divorce or reunion,” Kumar said. “Neither the parties nor their advocates or mediators will come to the DLSA office. They will carry out the mediation from their home offices,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/now-family-disputes-to-be-settled-on-video-calls/articleshow/76113538.cms||Sanjay Sahay
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||5 injured in Halisahar violence||Kolkata: Five people were injured and at least four houses ransacked in a clash between Trinamool Congress and BJP activists at Halisahar in North 24 Parganas on Saturday, prompting Barrackpore’s BJP MP Arjun Singh to rush to the spot along with Bijpur MLA Subhrangshu Roy. Singh faced resistance from Trinamool Congress supporters and was allegedly heckled when he tried to reach out to injured BJP supporters. Trouble broke out on Friday night following an altercation between Trinamool supporters and BJP’s Parimal Kundu from Halisahar’s Khasbati. “TMC-backed goons stormed Kundu’s house and started beating him and his family members. I came to know the houses of many BJP su-pporters in the locality have been ransacked. When I tried to reach out to them, TMC supporters with Bijpur police behind them came in my way,” the MP said. Trinamool district observer Nirmal Ghosh put the blame on the BJP MP, saying Singh had come to the area to disturb peace. Ghosh said the BJP MP was trying to use the incident as a plea to regain control of the area. “Singh had come to Halisahar to create a ruckus. He instigated BJP supporters, who attacked Trinamool men,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-injured-in-halisahar-violence/articleshow/76114551.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
May 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru firm to make Nasa’s Covid-19 ventilator||BENGALURU: Bengaluru firm Alpha Design Technologies is among three Indian entities which have been picked by US space agency Nasa to manufacture a Covid-19 ventilator. The two other Indian firms are Bharat Forge and Medha Servo Drives Private Limited. The ventilator is developed by Nasa’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). Globally, 21 companies, including from Brazil, Mexico, UAE and Malaysia, have been selected to manufacture it. Alpha Design chairman and managing director Col (retd) HS Shankar told STOI that Nasa had already begun the process of transferring the technology to the chosen firms. “We really appreciate the fact that they wanted the technology to reach different parts of the world and they decided to offer all the technology, including software, drawings and all documents, free of cost. So far it has been a very professional experience to see how quickly such an elaborate process has been completed in such a short time,” Shankar said. Alpha Design works closely with Isro and Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO). “The prototype, which was created by JPL engineers in just 37 days, received an emergency use authorisation from the Food and Drug Administration on April 30,” JPL said in a statement. The ventilator intervention technology accessible locally, or VITAL as JPL calls it, was designed to use only one-seventh of the parts of a traditional ventilator, relying instead on components already available in supply chains. “It offers a simpler, more affordable option for treating critical patients while freeing up traditional ventilators for those with the most severe Covid-19 symptoms. Its flexible design means it also can be modified for use in field hospitals,” JPL said. The Office of Technology Transfer and Corporate Partnerships at Caltech, US, which owns the patents and software for VITAL, is offering a free licence for the device. Shankar said the companies would make five prototypes to be sent for FDA clearance. This will enable them to market the product in the US and Europe. “For the Indian market, we will have to make five more prototypes and send it to ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] for certification. Once this is done, we can start selling the product, which, in my opinion, is far more advanced than any other product in the market,” Shankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/three-indian-firms-to-make-nasas-covid-ventilator/articleshow/76114754.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Ranchi||Among 5 divisions, Santhal records least cases at 14||Ranchi: At a time when Covid-19 cases in the state have crossed the 500-mark with more than 300 active cases, the Santhal Paragana division, comprising six districts and 20% of the geographical area of Jharkhand, has only 14 cases, the least among the five divisions of the state. Of the 14, only four are active. However, experts feel the low count of cases may be due to the least number of tests carried out in the division compared to the figures in the four others. Among the six districts in Santhal Pargana, Sahibganj has not reported a single case till date while Godda has one, Dumka and Jamtara two each, Pakur four and Deoghar five. Barring Pakur, all Covid-19 patients in the four out of six districts of the division have recovered, raising chances of entire Santhal Pargana being declared a green zone. Retired principal of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital in Jamshedpur, Dr A C Akhouri, said, “Conclusion about the spread of the disease can be made only on the basis of the ratio between the number of positive cases and the number of tests conducted.” Of the 71,328 samples collected throughout the state till date, results of 11,078 samples are awaited. Among the four divisions of the state, Santhal Pargana has collected and carried out the least number of tests. Across the six districts, only 5,937 samples have been collected, out of which, 1,397 reports were pending till Saturday afternoon. Of the 24 districts in the state, Pakur has collected only 675 samples, which is the least in the state. Though Sahibganj has collected 1,556 samples, nearly 50% (714) results are awaited. Akhouri, a microbiologist, added, “RT-PCR tests are not enough and we need to conduct more tests by using rapid test kits so that the real spread of virus can be gauged.” Among the five divisions in the state, South Chhotanagpur tops the list with 21,047 samples collected till Saturday afternoon, of which 4,415 reports are awaited. Talking to TOI, Sahibganj deputy commissioner Varun Ranjan said they have conducted door-to-door screenings of over 14 lakh people through 1,688 teams of Sahiyas. “The fifth round of surveillance is on and we are shifting suspected patients to quarantine centres,” Ranjan said. The district has also tested 70 samples on Truenat machines. “We have found five suspicious cases through Truenat tests and the samples have been sent to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital in Dhanbad for confirmation through RT-PCR tests,” Ranjan said. Sahibganj has also put and released around 10,000 people into institutional quarantines till date. After migrants started reaching the district, 25,000 were screened. “Though we do not have any confirmation, we are expecting two-three thousand migrants to return to the district and tests will be conducted on a priority basis on them,” Ranjan said. The district has issued cards to those in institutional quarantines and health officials conduct a regular check-up and record the details in the cards. “We have done our best to contain the spread of the infection and will continue with our efforts as we have ample time to make arrangements. As of date, 300 beds, with 80 at the dedicated Covid hospital, are in place and equipped to treat symptomatic patients,” the DC informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/among-5-divisions-santhal-records-least-cases-at-14/articleshow/76113469.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
May 31, 2020||Ranchi||City’s only electric crematorium revived||Ranchi: The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Friday made the city’s sole electric crematorium at Harmu Muktidham, operational again in view of the coronavirus pandemic, which has so far claimed five lives in the state. A city-based group helped financially to repair the device, which was lying defunct for a decade. RMC officials said the crematorium, which has been out of order since 2010 will now be used to dispose of bodies, including those of Covid-19 victims. The officials also said they arranged a site near Bundu for burial. In Ranchi, one man had succumbed to the viral infection while another woman had died of co-morbidities. When the two bodies were taken for the last rites in their respective localities, the residents came out in large numbers and forced the authorities find a burial site away from habitation. RMC deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijayvargia said, “Such protests will no longer be there as we have the electric crematorium, which can efficiently burn the bodies within 25 minutes, and arranged a burial site at Bundu on city outskirts.” A Muslim cleric, Kari Jaan Mohammad Mustafi, said, “Any Covid-related victims from our faith will be buried according to religious and government protocols.” Talking to TOI, Vijayvargia said, “City-based group, Marwai Sahayak Samiti, which financed the repair and maintenance work, has been entrusted to operate the crematorium.” He further said, “We have been trying to revive the crematorium. When a person died from Covid-19 here, the administration faced problems in identifying a site for disposing of the body. Thereafter, deputy commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray asked us to explore the possibility of reviving the crematorium at the earliest.” Vijayvargia added, “We have requested the government to waive off the crematorium’s pending electricity bill. The civic body has invested roughly Rs 3 lakh in constructing a new boundary wall and digging an underground well near the crematorium. All other expenses were borne by the samiti.” He said a fee for using it will be decided soon but it has tentatively been fixed at Rs 1,800 for now. “However, we will charge only 50% of this for the poor,” he added. The crematorium was commissioned in 2007 at a cost of Rs 3 crore to reduce environmental pollution. It became operational in 2008. However, frequent technical snags forced the RMC to abandon it and declared it defunct in 2011. Numerous tenders were floated to revive it. RMC then accepted the proposal of the samiti to repair and maintain it. The samiti said it will run the crematorium on gas to make it more cost effective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/citys-only-electric-crematorium-revived/articleshow/76113549.cms||ASRP Mukesh
May 31, 2020||Ranchi||More than Covid, snakebites keep Simdega villagers on toes||Gumla: More than the Covid-19 outbreak, snakebite casualties are keeping villages in Simdega on the edge. While no one has died of the virus in this district, three persons, including a child, have died after being bitten by snakes in the last week. With the number of such cases rising in the district, people said they are not geeting any help from government health centres despite the availability of anti-venom. Until Saturday morning, Simdega recorded 10 coronavirus cases since the first patient was diagnosed on May 19. Of these, eight are migrants who have returned home recently. Of the total, eight cases are active and two have recovered. The district has not recorded any Covid-related death so far. On Thursday, 33-year-old Brismani Devi of Karwajor village in Kesrai block was bitten by a snake. When her family members took her to the sadar hospital, the doctors allegedly referred her to Rims, citing lack of anti-venom. The woman died on her way to the hospital. On the same day, four-year old Kartik of Parkala Tongritoli village in Kurdeg block died on his way to the community health centre in Kurdeg after suffering a snakebite. On Wednesday, 32-year-old Padmani Singh of Targa Mahuwatoli village, who was also a ward member of the Targa panchayat in Bansjor block, died after a snake bit her while she was sleeping. Deputy commissioner Mrityunjay Barnwal ordered Simdega civil surgeon P K Sinha to conduct a probe into the death after district council member Sanjay Sindhia complained about the incident. Accepting the lapses, Sinha said, “There is no shortage of anti-venom and on-duty doctors should treat all patients. The doctor on duty on Thursday said the hospital did not have the facilities to treat the vivtim and he referred her to Rims after her attendants agreed to take her to Ranchi. A detailed report on a probe conducted by a team of doctors is awaited.” Simdega MLA Bhushan Bara questioned the negligence and demanded the administration to ensure availability of anti-venoms at panchayat levels and primary health sub centres before the onset of Monsoon to prevent further casualties in the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/more-than-covid-snakebites-keep-simdega-villagers-on-toes/articleshow/76113477.cms||K A Gupta
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||Howrah worker murdered in Ranchi, body reaches home||Howrah: Jagatballavpur in Howrah has been tense since Friday night as the body of Sheikh Muidul Ali, 36, a migrant worker murdered in Ranchi on his way to Bengal from Mumbai, reached his home here. Ali, a zari designer in Mumbai’s Marad, ran out of money after the workshop where he was employed downed shutters. He boarded a bus on May 22 for Odisha, from where he planned to board another vehicle for Howrah. He last spoke to his wife, Moslema Begum, after boarding the bus and said he would be home before Eid. On Thursday, the family received a message from Jagatballavpur police station that said a body with multiple wounds had been found in Jagannathpur, near Jharkhand capital Ranchi. “We contacted Jagatballavpur police when we did not hear from him (Ali) after May 22. We again contacted police after Eid. I was called to the police station on Thursday and shown a photograph of the murder victim. It was my husband! I have lodged a murder complaint. How will I survive now? How will I raise our five children?” Moslema said. Police in Jharkhand sent Ali’s body to Howrah after autopsy. A senior officer at Jagatballavpur police station said: “We are in touch with Jharkhand cops. We are questioning five friends of Ali who also boarded the same bus. Jagannathpur police station (in Ranchi) has started a murder case under Section 302 IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/howrah-worker-murdered-in-ranchi-body-reaches-home/articleshow/76114548.cms||Rupak Banerjee
May 31, 2020||India||28% of Covid patients asymptomatic: ICMR Study||NEW DELHI: At least 28% of 40,184 people who tested positive for Covid-19 between January 22 and April 30 in India were asymptomatic, a study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) shows, underlining that a large proportion of those tested and found positive were family contacts who did not display symptoms. Asymptomatic cases also include healthcare workers in contact with positive cases without adequate protection, although these account for only 2.8% of positive cases. Between January 22 and April 30, more than 10.21 lakh people were tested for Covid-19, of which 40,184 or 3.9% were positive. On April 21, ICMR had said 69% of positive cases were asymptomatic, which was a much higher number. However, till then only around four lakh samples were tested for Covid-19 in India and just 18,601 were positive. The latest study points out that testing has increased several times over the eight weeks from 250 individuals per day at the beginning of March to 50,000 per day by the end of April. A significant over 44% of positive cases have been identified as under “no specified” category. Officials said the percentage of asymptomatic people is likely to be more as many have not been able to provide details properly. However, the spread in the wider population is being tracked by periodic increases in the ambit of testing with serological surveys of low and high risk categories being the latest measure. The study shows Covid-19 cases were most common among close contacts and affected men and the elderly more. According to the study published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR), of the 28.1% asymptomatic patients, 25.3% were direct and high-risk contacts of the positive cases. The attack rate (per million) by age was highest among those aged 50-69 years (63.3) and was lowest among those under 10 years (6.1). The attack rate was higher among men as 41.6 of them tested positive, while 24.3 of the women contracted the infection. Attack rate is people affected or positivity rate in a particular age group. Among 12,810 cases with reported symptoms at the time of specimen collection, cough and fever were the most commonly-reported, while around one-third reported sore throat and breathlessness. Gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea were reported by less than 5% of cases, the findings show. More than 71% districts of the 736 total districts in the country reported cases infected with the virus. States with the highest proportion of districts reporting positive cases included Delhi, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. The states and UTs with the highest test positivity were Maharashtra (10.6%), Delhi (7.8%), Gujarat (6.3%), Madhya Pradesh (6.1%) and West Bengal (5.8%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/28-of-covid-patients-asymptomatic-icmr-study/articleshow/76114774.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 31, 2020||Salem||Grasshoppers seen in Tamil Nadu, not locusts, says agriculture department||KRISHNAGIRI: The agriculture department and Krishi Vigyan Kendra have clarified that the insects spotted in Neralagiri village in Krishnagiri as well as two villages in Kanyakumari district were grasshoppers and not the locusts ravaging crops in some northern states. Thousands of insects had swarmed Neralagiri since Friday evening. The matter was brought to the attention of Veppanahalli MLA P Murugan. On Saturday morning, agriculture department officials and KVK insect researchers in Piyur visited the village along with district collector S Prabhakar collector. On closer inspection, they confirmed that the insects were not schistocerca gregaria, which is commonly known as desert locust. “Grasshoppers are usually found in calotropis gigantea and cactus plants especially when it rains during summer,” said S Rajasekar, joint director of Krishnagiri district agriculture department. He said farmers need not panic as they do not ravage standing crops. State agriculture secretary Gagandeep Singh said it was not possible for locusts from the North to enter southern states. The officials advised the farmers to spray neem oil with water to control the grasshopper. In Kanyakumari, farmers of Mulavilai and Vettukuli villages in Thiruvattar taluk saw thousands of big grasshoppers preying on banana, rubber and other leaves and also covering bushes and plants in the two villages. They measured two to three inches, had stripes of dark green and pale yellow. “As a group of 50 to 100 grasshoppers on a banana plant, they destroyed a sizeable portion in less than an hour,” said Padmanabhapuram MLA T Mano Thangaraj who visited the place. District collector Prashant M Wadnere sent a team to the spot with scientists from the KVK and officials of agriculture and horticulture departments. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University in Coimbatore later confirmed that it is a species known as spotted or ‘coffee grasshopper’ (Aularches milliaris) that affects coffee plantations. KVK scientist and programme coordinator K Thirukumaran said that ‘coffee grasshopper’ is easily controllable by spraying Malathion 50 EC pesticide by mixing 2 ml in 1,000 ml water. ( Inputs taken from Kanyakumari and Chennai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/grasshoppers-seen-in-tamil-nadu-not-locusts-says-agri-department/articleshow/76114764.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Pay fine for flouting lockdown norms?||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration plans to fine people for violating Covid-19 guidelines on the pattern of the Punjab government. Recently, the state government had issued a notification fixing penalties ranging from Rs 500 to 3,000 for violations. A senior UT official said they are studying Punjab’s notification and planning to implement it in Chandigarh. The UT adviser, as chairperson of the Chandigarh Disaster Management Authority, under Section 22 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, is competent to issue such orders, the official said. As per the notification issued by director, health services, Punjab, those who don't wear a mask in public places will be imposed with a penalty of Rs 500. For violating home quarantine instructions, a fine of Rs 2,000 will be applicable. Those who are found spitting in a public place will be charged a penalty of Rs 500. Apart from that, the Punjab health department has also notified a penalty of Rs 2,000 if owners of shops/commercial places violate social distancing norms. The UT officials said Chandigarh was the first UT in the country to make masks mandatory at public places. The UT had issued orders that violators to be booked under Section 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Under this section, people can be imprisoned for about six months or pay a fine extending to Rs 1,000 or both, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-pay-fine-for-flouting-lockdown-norms/articleshow/76114779.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
May 31, 2020||Chennai||Railways to run eight special trains from June 1 but will skirt Chennai||CHENNAI: Southern Railway will start running eight trains, including return trips, from June 1 within the state as part of steps to resume services in a phased manner. However, the move has received lukewarm response from people as none of them connects Chennai. Two daily trains are intercity expresses to Madurai that will be operated from Villupuram at 4pm and to Coimbatore that will be operated from Katpadi at 4.20pm instead of from Chennai. Since there is no overnight journey, the trains have 13 second class chair car coaches. Nevertheless, more than 1,000 second class seats are vacant on these two trains three hours after bookings opened. More than 70 seats on AC chair car are available for booking on train to Coimbatore and 128 seats on AC chair car are available for booking on train to Madurai on June 1. In contrast, tickets for Chennai-New Delhi Rajdhani Express are getting sold out minutes after booking open. Senthil Kumar, who wanted to book a ticket to Madurai for his brother, said, "I have dropped the idea as it is difficult to drop him at Villupuram and come back." Sources say the patronage for the trains is likely to be low as passengers from Chennai will not be able to reach Villupuram or Katpadi which is more than 100km away without public transport. Those who reach from Madurai and Coimbatore may not find it convenient to travel by road to Chennai because the trains reach late at night. A senior railway official said, "Trains are not being operated from Chennai because the city is a red zone. We want to avoid passengers from Chennai and do not expect passengers to travel to Villupuram and Katpadi to board these trains because getting epass for boarding trains will be difficult." Other four trains are Coimbatore - Mayiladuturai- Coimbatore Janshatabdi specials, Tiruchchirappalli - Nagercoil - Tiruchchirappalli superfast specials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/railways-to-run-8-special-trains-from-june-1-but-will-skirt-chennai/articleshow/76114780.cms||---
May 31, 2020||India||‘Not unusual to make bahu work at home’: Kerala HC upholds mother-in-law’s ‘rights’||KOCHI: It is quite common for elders in a family to reprimand younger members and making a daughter-in-law do household or domestic work is not unusual, the Kerala high court observed in a recent judgment. The observation was made by a division bench comprising Justices AM Shaffique and Mary Joseph while considering whether a wife trying to force her husband to throw out her mother-in-law from their home amounted to "cruelty" and therefore sufficient grounds for grant of a divorce. In the judgment authored by Justice Mary Joseph, the court said, "No family is totally devoid of clashes among members constituting it. It is common for elders to scold and sometimes abuse youngsters. Making a daughter-in-law do the household/domestic work is also not something unusual. From the evidence tendered by the respondent (daughter-in-law), it is all the more clear that the afore-stated factors formed the basis for her ill-will to the petitioner’s mother (her mother-in-law). We do not find any other justifiable reason for her to get the petitioner’s mother excluded from the family or to be desirous of having a separate residence to the exclusion of her." The court was considering a case (Mat. Appeal No. 137/2014) where a 41-year-old man from Thalassery, in Kannur district, sought a divorce from his 37-year-old wife. They got married in April 2003 and had a girl child. In January 2014, the Thalassery family court had turned down the husband’s plea for divorce on grounds of "cruelty". At the high court, the husband’s counsel argued that the wife forcing the husband to abandon his mother amounted to cruelty and that the family court was wrong in not granting a divorce. The counsel relied on a 2016 judgment by the Kerala high court (Narendra vs. K Meena) in which it was held that the effort of a wife to separate the husband from his family would be "torturous" and constitutes an act of cruelty. Though the wife’s counsel argued that such a contention was not taken before the family court, the high court held that it was evident in the pleadings. The court also said the petitioner becoming a drunkard can only be taken as the natural outcome of the pressure exerted on him by the wife to have a separate residence by excluding his mother. The bench referred to the Supreme Court’s judgment of 2003 (Vijayakumar Ramachandra Bhate Vs Neela Vijayakumar Bhate) to point out that in Hindu society it is a pious obligation of the son to maintain the parents and that the wife must have justifiable reason to attempt to deviate from the normal practice and custom of society. Allowing the appeal, the high court reversed the family court’s judgment and passed a decree on grounds of cruelty for dissolution of the marriage in favour of the husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-unusual-to-make-bahu-work-at-home-kerala-hc-upholds-mother-in-laws-rights/articleshow/76114786.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Doubling time improves to 20 days in 6 most-hit wards||MUMBAI: In the six wards worst affected by Covid-19 — five have recorded over 2,000 cases — the doubling time improved to 20 days on Saturday. In five of these wards, the doubling rate was between 10 days and 13 days on May 19. While the BMC said the average doubling rate across the 24 administrative wards in the city was 16 days, an analysis of the data showed it to be 14 days. The BMC claimed that it had been able to achieve the improvement through measures like lockdown in containment zones, house-to-house survey, setting up of more fever clinics and identification of vulnerable senior citizens. The BMC had also formed a team of seven senior IAS officers, giving each of them specific zones to handle. The recovery rate also improved to 43%. In G North ward, where just Dharavi has record 1,715 cases, the number of new positive cases every day has been between 30 and 40 in recent days. Earlier this month, the number of cases reported in a day from Dharavi was around 90. On Saturday, G North recorded 18 new cases, ncluding a death. Officials said that although in the ward the doubling rate was 20 days, in Dharavi it was around 25 days. Of the total cases in the ward, 59%, or 1,708 patients, had recovered. In G South, which consists of Jijamata Nagar and Worli Koliwada, the BMC managed to curb the spread considerably and lifted the containment tag in several areas. The doubling rate has been 20 days since May 19. In M East ward, which covers Govandi and Shivaji Nagar, where a large population lives in the slums, inadequate infrastructure is the worry. Here the BMC held fever clinics and roped in local doctors who are into alternative therapy and are popular in the slums. Officials said one of the key areas they were focusing on was an increase in the number of high-risk contacts in all wards and it was showing results. A few days ago, the municipal chief asked ward offices to increase the number of high-risk contacts to be traced to 15 for each positive patient. The average daily growth rate of positive cases on Friday was 4.93%. It was 6.7% two weeks ago. The six worst-affected wards where doubling rate increased to 20 days were GNorth (Dharavi-Dadar-Mahim) with 2,900 recorded cases, E ward (Byculla, Mazgaon, Nagpada) with 2,528 cases, F-North (Wadala, Sion, Matunga) with 2,517 cases, HEast (Bandra East, Khar East, Santacruz East) with 2,221 cases, G-South (Worli, Prabhadevi, Lower Parel) with 2,008 cases, and M-East (Govandi) with 1,814 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-doubling-time-improves-to-20-days-in-6-most-hit-wards/articleshow/76114749.cms||Vijay V Singh
May 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Sunday is back: No 'curfew' in Karnataka today from 7am to 7pm||BENGALURU: For the first time in more than two months, across Karnataka, there will be no curfew on Sunday. Only the 7pm-7am curfew, that is applicable on week days, will be in force. "We have taken a decision in view of the interests of the general public of the state," said a statement from chief minister BS Yediyurappa's office on Saturday.  At the beginning of the fourth phase of lockdown from May 19, the state government had ordered that an all-day total lockdown - on the lines of 'janata curfew' - would be enforced on Sundays to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. The total lockdown was observed last Sunday, a day prior to Eid-ul-Fitr, across the state. In the state capital, curfew was imposed from 7pm on Saturday to 7am on Monday. In his order on Saturday, chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said complete lockdown had been eased on Sunday on public request. However, restrictions on movement at night would continue. The nationwide lockdown was first announced by PM Narendra Modi on March 24 for three weeks to curb the spread of Covid-19. Karnataka restricted activities as early as March 18. The lockdown was then extended till May 3 and again till May 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sunday-is-back-no-curfew-in-karnataka-today-from-7am-to-7pm/articleshow/76114793.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa grandnephew's appointment as political secretary raises eyebrows||BENGALURU: Amid voices of dissent, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday appointed his former personal assistant and maternal grandnephew NR Santosh as his political secretary.  Santosh is the fourth political secretary to the CM besides SR Vishwanath, MP Renukacharya and Shankaranna Munavalli. Santosh was arrested for allegedly trying to kidnap Vinay NS, personal assistant of BJP leader KS Eshwarappa in 2017. He's also facing attempt to murder and dowry harassment charges.  The 30-year-old had fallen out with the CM's younger son BY Vijayendra soon after the BJP came to power and had been reportedly asked to keep away from him. He had identified with some MLAs who were up against the CM.  It's said the appointment was made to send out a message to the rivals after some MLAs launched a renewed campaign against Yediyurappa over a dinner meeting at BJP MLA Umesh V Katti's house. Though Yediyurappa was not keen, sources said Santosh brought pressure from RSS and some BJP leaders, whose help he had sought to reunite with the family. Santosh from Tumakuru is the son of the CM's sister's daughter. He was Yediyurappa's Man Friday and his job was confined to ensuring he took his medicines on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-bs-yediyurappa-grandnephews-appointment-as-political-secretary-raises-eyebrows/articleshow/76114800.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu intelligence chief who handled EPS-OPS feud retires on Sunday||CHENNAI: Though a DGP and three ADGPs are retiring from service on May 31, it is the superannuation of an inspector general of police that has grabbed eyeballs.  Inspector general K N Sathiyamurthy , a no-nonsense man who has been leading the state's intelligence wing for the past four-and-a-half years, has handled all turbulent events since late CM Jayalalithaa's return to power in 2016.  Sathiyamurthy will be succeeded by C Easwaramoorthy, the inspector general of police, intelligence (internal security). He is also additional commissioner of police, central crime branch, Chennai. Both are first generation officers from Erode district. DGP Sri Lakshmi Prasad, ADGPs K C Mahali and S N Seshasayee are retiring on May 31. Sathyamurthy had seen the tumultuous days of Jayalalithaa's prolonged hospitalization and subsequent death in December 2016. During the short-lived CM tenure of O Panneerselvam, Sathyamurthy was shifted out, only to be brought back in 20 days by OPS' successor Edappadi K Palaniswami. He was the Palaniswami government's eyes and ears during the factional feud with Panneerselvam, the no-confidence motion, expulsion of V K Sasikala and T T V Dhinakaran from AIADMK. The government survived another no-confidence motion sponsored by the DMK during Sathyamurthy's term.  He leaves behind a legacy that is hard to match. Though he had served three chief ministers, his role in handling the instability blues of the Palaniswami dispensation earned him praise and he dug in as the chief minister's most trusted officer. An officer who never flaunted his clout in the administration, Sathyamurthy is the lone intelligence chief to see a party voted to power for a consecutive second term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-intelligence-chief-who-handled-eps-ops-feud-retires-today/articleshow/76114810.cms||A Selvaraj
May 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Mother, 3 children hounded in Udupi||BENGALURU: The Bengaluru police control room received a call on Friday from a worried man who claimed his wife and three children in Udupi were going to commit suicide because villagers were harassing them following rumours that they had Covid-19. The control room roped in the Vanitha Sahayavani (women’s helpline), whose team coordinated the rescue of the family. Those spreading rumours and harassing the family were issued a warning by local police. The ordeal of the woman and her three children began on Monday when her husband, a truck driver, returned home from Mumbai. When he was bathing at a water pipe near his home, local health officials took him away to an institutional quarantine facility. Villagers started ostracising woman and her three childrenMessages about his wife and children testing positive started spreading in the village and she was virtually forced into self-imposed quarantine. Her husband told Bengaluru police he was not Covid positive and would be discharged on Sunday. “The distress call was diverted to us as it involved a woman and kids. The driver who was quarantined 12km away from home was desperate for someone to help his wife as she had threatened to kill herself,” Sandhya Rani, a counsellor at Parihar Family Counselling Centre at Bengaluru police commissionerate, said. Rani immediately called the woman to pacify her. According to the counsellor, the brothers of the woman had alerted Udupi health officials about his arrival. “They then spread false messages on social media,” said Rani. Villagers started ostracising the woman and her three children. “She rolls beedis and sells it every weekend. Buyers started avoiding her, leaving her without any income. With villagers also taunting her, she was pushed to the edge and called her husband on Friday saying she didn't want to live anymore,” added Rani Shetty, head of Parihar. Local police teams rushed to the woman's home. "Officers gave her food and rations. They warned the culprits and explained to local panchayat leaders the real picture." Rani Shetty added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-mother-3-children-hounded-in-udupi/articleshow/76114807.cms||Petlee Peter
May 31, 2020||World||Trump postpones G7 summit, plans to invite India, Russia, South Korea, Australia||ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE: U.S. President Donald Trump said on Saturday he would postpone the Group of Seven summit that he wanted to hold in late June and expand the list of countries invited to include Australia, Russia, South Korea and India. Speaking to reporters on Air Force One during his return to Washington from Cape Canaveral in Florida, Trump said the G7 in its current format is a "very outdated group of countries." "I'm postponing it because I don't feel that as a G7 it properly represents what's going on in the world," Trump said. The decision is a dramatic pivot for Trump, who had sought to host the group of major industrialized countries in Washington as a demonstration that the United States was returning to normal after the coronavirus epidemic, which has killed more than 103,000 Americans to date. The G7 is made up of the United States, Italy, Japan, Canada, France, Germany, Britain as well as the European Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/trump-postpones-g7-summit-seeks-to-expand-invitation-list/articleshow/76114824.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Chennai||TNSCB tenement in Pulianthope now 1,400-bed Covid care facility||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation has converted the Kesava Perumal Park (K P Park) slum clearance board tenement in Pulainthope as one of the Covid care centres. With 1,400 bed capacity, medical teams and oxygen supply at all floors, this mini hospital-like facility will strive to create a home-like environment, said health minister C Vijayabaskar. This care centre is located in Pulianthope in Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar zone (zone 6), one of the highly infected zones in the city. "We have taken over the new buildings and allotted one block to each government medical college in the city. The buildings itself will be like a containment area," said the minister. Explaining about the facilities that will be in place, the minister said that the buildings will be monitored 24/7 by CCTV cameras and that every floor will have a medical team along with rooms for nurses, paramedical and technical staff. There will also be separate space for storage of PPE kits and a computer room for data entry operations. The care centre will also have lift facility for patients and doctors and oxygen supply in all floors. From Saturday, patients with mild symptoms and those without comorbidities will be admitted in this care centre. "Who is eligible for admission here will be decided by the medical teams," the minister said. Apart from this, the corporation has also set up fever outpatient wards in all its 140 primary health care centres. Pointing out the recent appointment of NGO outreach workers to work with the civic body in the slums, the minister said the government has been reaching to the door of the public. He, however appealed to not feel stigmatised and asked people to come forward. "We are also coming to your doors. If you choose to come when you have symptoms, we can control the spread," Vijayabaskar said. Civic body officials said the new care centre will have adequate facilities in place and would not backfire as happened at Chennai Trade Centre in Nandambakkam and colleges-turned-care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tnscb-tenement-in-pulianthope-now-1400-bed-covid-care-facility/articleshow/76114831.cms||---
May 31, 2020||World||US protests over Minneapolis death rage on amid political finger-pointing||MINNEAPOLIS: The full Minnesota National Guard was activated for the first time since World War Two after four nights of civil unrest that has spread to other U.S. cities following the death of a black man shown on video gasping for breath as a white Minneapolis policeman knelt on his neck. Minnesota Governor Tim Walz said the deployment was necessary because outside agitators were using protests over Monday's death of George Floyd to sow chaos and that he expected Saturday night's demonstrations to be the fiercest so far. From Minneapolis to several other major cities including New York, Atlanta and Washington, protesters clashed with police late on Friday in a rising tide of anger over the treatment of minorities by law enforcement. "We are under assault," Walz, a first-term governor elected from Minnesota's Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party, told a briefing on Saturday. "Order needs to be restored. ... We will use our full strength of goodness and righteousness to make sure this ends." He said he believed a "tightly controlled" group of outsiders, including white supremacists and drug cartel members, were instigating some of the violence in Minnesota's largest city, but he did not give specific evidence of this when asked by reporters. As many as 80% of those arrested were from outside the state, Walz said. But detention records show just eight non-Minnesota residents have been booked into the Hennepin County Jail since Tuesday, and it was unclear whether all of them were arrested in connection with the Minneapolis unrest. The Republican Trump administration suggested civil disturbances were being orchestrated from the political left. "In many places, it appears the violence is planned, organized and driven by anarchic and left extremist groups - far-left extremist groups ... many of whom travel from outside the state to promote violence," U.S. Attorney William Barr said in a statement. In an extraordinary move, the Pentagon said it put military units on a four-hour alert to be ready if requested by Walz to help keep the peace. Activists staged another round of protests on Saturday in at least a dozen major U.S. cities coast to coast, including Seattle, Los Angeles, Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, Atlanta, New York and Atlanta. In the nation's capital, hundreds of demonstrators assembled near the Justice Department headquarters, then marched toward the U.S. Capitol, chanting, "Black lives matter," and "I can't breathe," a rallying cry echoing Floyd's dying words. Many later ended up near the White House, where they faced off with shield-carrying police, some mounted on horseback. The streets of Minneapolis were largely quiet during daylight on Saturday, though several National Guard armored personnel carriers were seen rolling through town. On Friday, in defiance of a newly imposed curfew, Minneapolis protesters took to the streets for a fourth night - albeit in smaller numbers than before - despite the announcement hours earlier of murder charges filed against Derek Chauvin, the policeman seen in video footage kneeling on Floyd's neck. Three other officers fired from the police department with Chauvin on Tuesday are also under criminal investigation in the case, prosecutors said. The video of Floyd's arrest - captured by an onlooker's cellphone as he repeatedly groaned, "please, I can't breathe" before becoming motionless - triggered an outpouring of rage that civil rights activists said has long simmered in Minneapolis and cities across the country over persistent racial bias in the U.S. criminal justice system. 'PAINS ME SO MUCH'The mood was somber on Saturday in the Minneapolis neighborhood of Lyndale, where dozens of people surveyed damage while sweeping up broken glass and debris. "It pains me so much," said Luke Kallstrom, 27, a financial analyst, standing in the threshold of a fire-gutted post office. "This does not honor the man who was wrongfully taken away from us." Some of Friday's most chaotic scenes were in the New York City borough of Brooklyn, where police armed with batons and pepper spray made more than 200 arrests in sometimes violent clashes. Several officers were injured, police said. In Washington, President Donald Trump said on Saturday that if protesters who gathered the night before in Lafayette Square, across from the White House, had breached the fence, "they would have been greeted with the most vicious dogs, and most ominous weapons, I have ever seen." CHAOS IN ATLANTAIn Atlanta, Bernice King, the youngest daughter of slain civil rights icon Martin Luther King Jr., urged people to go home on Friday night after more than 1,000 protesters marched to the state capitol and blocked traffic on an interstate highway. The demonstration turned violent at points. Fires burned near the CNN Center, the network's headquarters, and windows were smashed at its lobby. Several vehicles were torched, including at least one police car. Rapper Killer Mike, in an impassioned speech flanked by the city's mayor and police chief, also implored angry residents to stay indoors and to mobilize to win at the ballot box. "But it is not time to burn down your own home." Floyd, a Houston native who had worked security for nightclubs, was arrested on suspicion of trying to pass counterfeit money at a store to buy cigarettes on Monday evening. Police said he was unarmed. An employee who called for help had told a police dispatcher that the suspect appeared to be intoxicated. In a striking coincidence, Floyd and Chauvin had both worked security at the same Latin nightclub in Minneapolis, though it was unlikely they ever interacted, former owner Maya Santamaria, who sold the El Nuevo Rodeo club in January, told Reuters. Santamaria said Floyd worked inside the club on certain nights, supporting other staff with security. She said Chauvin, who worked outside the club as an off-duty cop for 16 years, had a reputation for roughing up customers, but she considered him responsible and a friend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-protests-over-minneapolis-death-rage-on-amid-political-finger-pointing/articleshow/76114839.cms||---
May 31, 2020||India||Recovery rate hits record high, 11,264 cured in 24 hrs||NEW DELHI: The number of active Covid-19 cases declined marginally on Saturday compared to previous day owing to high number of recovered patients, even as the country registered a record single-day spike of 265 deaths and 7,964 new cases. On Saturday, health ministry reported 86,422 active Covid-19 cases or patients currently under medical treatment, down 0.4% from 89,987 patients on Friday. There was a significant rise in recovered cases in Maharashtra and the overall trend will need to be monitored for a few days more to see if a pattern emerges. Meanwhile, the doubling time of coronavirus cases also improved to 15.4 days during last three days from 13.3 days recorded in past 14 days. A total 1,73,763 cases were recorded till Saturday, while the Covid-19 death toll climbed to 4,971. During the last 24 hours, a total of 11,264 Covid-19 patients have been cured. This is the highest number of recovered patients recorded in a day taking the recovery rate of 47.40% amongst Covid-19 patients, an increase of 4.51% in the recovery rate from the previous day’s recovery rate of 42.89%. Meanwhile, the health ministry reiterated that all precautions must be taken while “living with the new normal” of Covid-19, while the home ministry issued a new order with a slew of relaxations and allowing inter-state and intra-state movement of goods and persons without any restrictions. It is imperative that all guidelines on physical distancing are followed at public places and workplaces, hand hygiene including frequent hand washing and respiratory hygiene is maintained, mask or face covers are used in public places and coughing and respiratory etiquettes are followed, the health ministry said. “It is highlighted that the management of Covid-19 is only possible when all the due care is taken by everyone without being complacent about the situation and by not taking the relaxations during the lockdown situation for granted,” the ministry underlined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/recovery-rate-hits-record-high-11264-cured-in-24-hrs/articleshow/76114866.cms||Sushmi Dey
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Only a quarter of 172 Covid moms' newborns test positive for Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: Several of the city-based women were in for a shock when they underwent Covid-19 testing before their planned child birth and tested positive. Many of them were asymptomatic but were from the containment zones and possibly contacted the viral infection through community transmission. In all, only 44 of the 172 children delivered of pregnant women in Civil hospital, SVP, Shardaben, LG and Sola Civil hospital have tested positive so far. "One of the first questions the women ask is, whether their child would be safe," said Dr Amiya Mehta, head of obstetrics and gynaecology (obgyn) department at Civil hospital. "Figures in past two months show that we had carried out about 90 child deliveries where women were Covid-19 positive but only in less than 30% cases the children tested positive." Likewise, at SVP hospital, a total of 70 deliveries of Covid-19 positive women took place, out of which 15 or 21.4% of the children tested positive, said Dr Parul Shah, head of obgyn department. ‘Mothers coping very well’Out of all the women, only one had to be provided assistive breathing whereas others recovered very well on their own,” Dr Parul Shah, head of obgyn department at SVP hospital said. “Unlike infectious diseases such as swine flu, Covid-19 positive mothers are coping very well.” Dr Ajesh Desai, head of obgyn department at Sola Civil hospital, said that out of 12 deliveries of Covid-19 positive mothers that took place at the hospital, none of the children have tested positive. “Pregnancy presents complexity in some cases as the condition itself is immuno-suppresent. If we can delay the procedures such as C-section for a few days, we delay it so that the mother can be treated for Covid-19 symptoms if any. But there is no option for emergency cases and we have performed the procedures with all precautions,” he said. Experts said majority of the mothers - mostly in 20-30 years age bracket - were free of co-morbidities. Barring a few children, who succumbed to the infection, majority of the children also survived the infection. Dr Mehta said that the viral infection from mother to child is identified as vertical transmission and it requires thorough study. “Parameters such as when the child tested positive, when he/she tested negative, what complications did he/she develop and when the antibodies were developed need to be studied which is not being done in all the cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-only-a-quarter-of-172-covid-moms-newborns-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76114872.cms||Parth Shastri
May 31, 2020||Lucknow||Decision on movement between NCR, Delhi on Sunday||LUCKNOW: While the Centre has provided several relaxations under lockdown 5, which will start from June 1, UP government will be issuing its own detailed guidelines on Sunday. A senior official said that UP's rules would be as per central guidelines though district administrations may still have the prerogative to enforce a stricter version of the lockdown in their areas depending on the severity of the Covid-19 spread. The government will also take a final call on opening of Noida and Ghaziabad borders with Delhi by Sunday, said a state government spokesperson. At present, there are major restrictions at the border due to the high number of cases in the national capital. However, the Centre has permitted free movement across states under the next phase of lockdown. So far, UP has largely followed the central government's guidelines in implementing the first four phases of the lockdown and currently, most parts of the state, other than containment zones, have witnessed a substantial easing of lockdown rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/decision-on-movement-between-ncr-delhi-on-sunday/articleshow/76114877.cms||---
May 31, 2020||India||Queer in quarantine: Verbal assaults, bullying & crass jokes make quarantine experience a nightmare for transgenders||BENGALURU: When Meena*, an 18-year-old transwoman, was quarantined in a school in Odisha's Ganjam district last month, she was put in a facility along with 14 men. Subjected to cruel jokes, sexual innuendos and crass questions over her anatomy, the teenager made several appeals to the local administration for a separate room but to no avail. “It was a never-ending nightmare for me. I chose to spend most of the time outside on the playground so I could be at ease,” said the teenager. For another 28-year-old transgender in Mumbai, who works at a wedding photography studio, using toilets in a quarantine facility became traumatic. “I was using the women’s washroom when a woman screamed at me and ran away in disgust. Many others had the same reaction. I stopped drinking water to reduce my daytime trips to the loo," she said. But that wasn’t all. In yet another humiliating experience, the lab assistant who took her samples for Covid-19 testing asked her what she would “charge for a night”. “People think they can take liberties, just because we are transgenders. Even if I had complained against him, I don’t think anyone would have taken it seriously,” she said. In Hyderabad, another transwoman, Shylaja (who only uses her first name), was housed in a government hospital ward with three men while she awaited her Covid-19 test results despite protests by her. Transgender rights activists said quarantine centres or healthcare facilities weren’t taking into account gender expression (sense of identification as male or female) when accommodating transgenders. “Placing someone like Meena, who identifies as a female and behaves and dresses in a similar way, in a dorm-type sleeping arrangement with men is putting her safety at risk,” said Rachana Mudraboyina, founding member of Telangana Transgender Hijra Intersex Samithi. But taking cognisance of such concerns, Manipur has already set up two quarantine centres for the LGBTQ community. “Both centres have a capacity of 40 people each,” said Ngangom Uttam, director of the social welfare department in Manipur. The director added, “Several members of the community who came back from various states told us about inconveniences they had to face because they were accommodated in quarantine centres with male or female inmates. We found it necessary to provide emotional security to those belonging to the third gender by making exclusive spaces available to them.” “We are hoping other states follow suit,” said Shanta Khurai, secretary of All Manipur Nupi Maanbi Association (AMANA), which coordinated with the district administration to set up the centres. An official from the National Health Authority, the apex body responsible for implementing Ayushman Bharat, told TOI that directions have been sent out to government hospitals to be more sensitive in their approach towards LGBTQ members, pregnant women and the elderly. But members of the transgender community said they were afraid to visit hospitals as they had been frequently turned away in the past or had to put up with harassment. Malathi R, a transwoman, who recently visited a government hospital in Chennai was told to pay a bribe in “cash or kind” to get a Covid-19 test. “Several hospitals refused to test me and there was no other reason for this discrimination other than my identity. I tweeted about it and a government doctor intervened and ensured I got tested. My results came back negative,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/queer-in-quarantine-verbal-assaults-bullying-crass-jokes-make-quarantine-experience-a-nightmare-for-transgenders/articleshow/76114890.cms||Rachel Chitra
May 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Seven Air India staff among 58 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala on Saturday reported 58 new Covid-19 cases, which included seven Air India employees who were on duty last week and three persons in Palakkad who contracted the virus through contact. As many as 10 persons undergoing treatment tested negative and were discharged. Health minister K K Shailaja said 31 of the new patients had travelled from other states and 17 from abroad. Thrissur (10) had the maximum cases, followed by Palakkad (9), Kannur (8), Kollam, Idukki, Ernakulam and Kozhikode (4 each), Kasaragod (3), Alappuzha (2), Thiruvananthapuram (2) and Kottayam (1). The positive cases include a health worker in Palakkad and the 36-year-old man who died in Alappuzha on Friday whose test results came late in the night. The total number of cases reported in the state so far is 1,209, of whom 624 are under treatment. Of the 10 who recovered from infection on Saturday, four are in Malappuram, three in Thrissur and one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam and Kannur. Five more hotspots notified in KeralaAs many as 1,30,157 people are under observation in the state, of whom 1,204 are admitted to hospitals. On Saturday alone, 243 persons with symptoms were admitted to hospitals. In 24 hours till Saturday evening, 3,204 samples were collected and sent for tests. The number of samples collected as part of sentinel surveillance rose to 12,255. Considering the spread of disease, five more regions were notified as hotspots on Saturday. Manikkal in Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad municipality, Thachampara and Pattambi in Palakkad and Madappally in Kottayam are the new hot spots, taking the total number of hotspots to 106.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/seven-air-india-staff-among-58-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala/articleshow/76114894.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Kolkata||Shutdown till June 15 in affected areas of West Bengal||KOLKATA: The Bengal government on Saturday extended the lockdown for another two weeks till June 15. It will be enforced mainly in Covid-affected areas classified under Category A of the state containment plan and relaxed for buffer zones under Category B (areas adjoining the affected spots) and unaffected areas under Category C. The categorisation has been made based on ground-level inputs from wards, buildings, mohallas and will not be applicable for the entire district even if it comes under the Red Zone. The state has also stuck to its decision to throw open places of worship (with restrictions) from June 1 even though the centre has set June 8 as the date for reopening religious places. A state notification, issued shortly after the MHA came out with the Unclock I guidelines, says authorities running places of worship would have to reopen after "consultation with the police". No more than 10 people will be allowed in these places at any given time. The MHA notification, however, doesn't impose any restriction on the number of people at religious places from June 8. In keeping with the MHA guidelines, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls will be allowed to open from June 8. These did not figure in the state's plan of phased lifting of the lockdown. Indoor and outdoor activities related to TV and cinema production will be allowed from June 1 with a maximum of 35 people taking part. However, the state won't allow production of reality shows.  Schools, colleges and universities will be shut till June-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shutdown-till-june-15-in-affected-areas-of-west-bengal/articleshow/76114908.cms||---
May 31, 2020||India||Will focus on health infra, says PM on 1st anniv of 2nd innings||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday marked the completion of the first year in his second tenure by saying that the government will focus on improving public health infrastructure in the forthcoming days. “In the times to come, healthcare will assume even greater importance. We in India have been working to create a system where the poor have access to top quality and affordable healthcare,” Modi said. The comment comes at a time when the coronavirus pandemic has put the spotlight on the need to improve and expand health care and make it more accessible. The first anniversary of Modi 2.0 saw BJP launching a blitz around important decisions taken by the government since the PM secured a bigger mandate for the party in May 2019. Modi used the occasion to amplify his call for self -reliance, “Aatmnirbhar Bhara”. Modi shared on his App the chapter “Aatmnirbhar agriculture” from Vikas Yatra, a compilation of the measures taken by the government. “India is extremely proud of our farmers. We are energising the agriculture sector with reforms and measures that improve the lives of farmers, ensure better markets and eliminate the role of middlemen,” said Modi. The PM emphasised the need the country to be self-reliant for its defence needs. “Being self-reliant in the defence sector is the need of the hour.” The hint about his intent to improve public healthcare is part of the “jaan hai to jehan hai(life comes first) chapter of Vikas Yatra. In the 6 years spanning his two terms, the Modi government has launched Ayushman Bharat to fund the treatment of underprivileged and has expanded the price regulation to cover more medicines and medical devices. It has also started a campaign to provide dialysis facility at the level of districts, build more AIIMS -like institutions and has helped state governments fight endemics like encephelities. However, the challenge presented by the virus has starkly underlined the need for the governments at the Centre and in states to do more to upgrade the public health apparatus, a victim of under-funding over several decades, in order to fireproof the people against similar emergencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-focus-on-health-infra-says-pm-on-1st-anniv-of-2nd-innings/articleshow/76114911.cms||Akhilesh Singh
May 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown contained, Gujarat set to unlock||GANDHINAGAR: After more than two months of lockdown, where commercial activity and movement were highly restricted, Gujarat will get into unlock mode from Monday. CM Vijay Rupani announced on Saturday night that barring containment zones – where no relaxations have been granted – all other areas in the state will be opened up for commercial activity from Monday. Gujarat on Saturday recorded 27 more deaths taking the total number of lives lost to 1,007. It is the second sate after Maharashtra to cross the 1,000 death-mark. The unlocking plan was declared by CM hours after Union ministry of home affairs allowed prohibited activities outside containment zones after Lockdown 4.0 ends on Sunday. The state government is expected to announce the revised list of containment zones on Sunday. Signalling the government’s clear intent to open up commercial establishments and the service sector to full steam, the government announced on Saturday evening that hotels, malls, shops in malls, restaurants and religious places will open in Gujarat from June 8. Odd-even system has also been removed. However, they will have to strictly follow a standard operating procedure (SOP) that will be announced later. The government also announced further relaxation in timings for keeping shops and establishments open as well as night curfew. From Monday, economic activity outside containment areas can continue until 7 pm instead of 4 pm allowed in Lockdown 4.0. Also, the night curfew timings have been truncated which will be in force only from 9 pm to 5 am from Monday instead of 7 am to 7 pm in Lockdown 4.0. GSRTC buses will now operate across the state, including in Ahmedabad city and city bus services will commence with 50 per cent capacity in the city. Most restrictions to be easedGSRTC buses will now operate across the state, including in Ahmedabad city and city bus services will commence with 50 per cent capacity in the city. Meanwhile, people will now be able to ride pillion on twowheelers and three persons will be allowed in small cars, while four will be allowed in bigger cars. Rupani said, “A majority of the restrictions during four phases of the lockdown will be eased from Monday. But we must remember that we are passing through the Covid-19 pandemic stage. We cannot afford to let our guard down.” Like in the four phases of lockdown, swimming pools, public gardens, zoos, water parks, beaches and places of tourist interest will remained closed until further directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-contained-gujarat-set-to-unlock/articleshow/76114880.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Lucknow||Conclude Babri trial swiftly, end communal politics: Iqbal Ansari||AYODHYA: One of the key litigants in the Ayodhya title suit, Iqbal Ansari has demanded swift disposal of the ongoing Babri Masjid demolition case in the special CBI court in Lucknow for the greater cause of communal harmony. His views were echoed by other litigants from the Muslim side in the now settled Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri title dispute — Mohammad Umar, Haji Mehboob and Khaliq Ahmad Khan. Talking to TOI, Ansari said, “In the same way as Supreme Court set up a speedy trial to dispose the nearly seven-decade old Ayodhya title suit, the CBI court must also conclude the mosque demolition trial swiftly to end communal politics over the issue. After the apex court verdict in the Ramjanmabhoomi case last year, there should be no room for dispute between Hindus and Muslims anymore,” said Ansari. Khaliq Ahmad Khan, a former litigant in the title suit, said, “Even Supreme Court had mentioned in its Ayodhya verdict that demolition of the Babri mosque was a crime and has now asked CBI court to pronounce its judgment by August 31 to put an end to the issue forever.” Two other former litigants Mohammad Umar and Haji Mehboob also told TOI they were of the opinion that the protracted trial in the Babri demolition case must conclude at the earliest and punishment awarded to the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/conclude-babri-trial-swiftly-end-communal-politics-iqbal-ansari/articleshow/76114912.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
May 31, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 69,000 teacher recruitment list out on Sunday||LUCKNOW: The merit list for the recruitment of 69,000 assistant teachers in UP primary schools will be released on Sunday. The merit is based on candidates' educational qualification and their performance in the Assistant Teacher Recruitment Test (ATRE), results of which were announced on May 13. Of the 1.46 lakh candidates who qualified , 1.36 lakh have applied online for appointment. Districts of posting for the top 69,000 candidates will also be announced. Counselling will be held from June 3-6. Considering the ongoing lockdown, basic education department's additional chief secretary Renuka Kumar has written to all DMs to allow the qualified candidates to travel to other districts for their counselling. Name in the list doesn't guarantee appointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-69000-teacher-recruitment-list-out-on-sunday/articleshow/76114921.cms||---
May 31, 2020||India||India leading global response to Covid-19 among MEA’s key feats||NEW DELHI: Leading the global pandemic response of the Indian government is on top of the list of MEA’s achievements in the first year of Modi’s second term, according to official sources. MEA has brought back 40,000 Indian nationals from different parts of the world in 230 flights and naval ships. In a document to mark the first year of Modi 2.0, the MEA said it had overseen Covid-related medical supplies to over 154 countries. The foreign ministry also counted a Saarc video conference PM Modi held with other South Asian leaders among its top achievements. A year back, Modi kicked off his second term with visits to Maldives and Sri Lanka and Bhutan. He also hosted visits by leaders from Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, Myanmar and Mauritius. In the neighbourhood, India inaugurated the 720 MW Mangdechhu hydropower project, the Motihari-Amlekhganj cross border petroleum products pipeline besides assisting in the rebuilding of 45,000 houses. In a rare collaborative effort, India and Pakistan launched the Kartarpur Corridor in November. With Bangladesh, Modi and Hasina jointly inaugurated an LPG pipeline, students’ hostel in Dhaka and a professional skill development institute in Khulna. In Sri Lanka, India opened a much needed emergency ambulance service, while in Maldives, India gifted a coast guard ship. The India-US relationship moved apace, with the foreign office considering the “Howdy Modi” and “Namaste Trump” events to be major highlights. Modi’s visit to Russia in September 2019, saw India announce a $1 billion credit line for the development of the Russian Far East.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-leading-global-response-to-covid-19-among-meas-key-feats/articleshow/76114926.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Tom Jose had a challenging tenure, says Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Kerala might not have seen a chief secretary like Tom Jose who had to face so many daunting challenges during his tenure. He said during each challenge Jose could sense the will of the government and acted accordingly. Vijayan was inaugurating the farewell meeting organised for the chief secretary who is retiring from the service on Sunday. "Tom Jose could deal with all crises due to hard work, dedication and sincerity. In his 23-month tenure, Jose and team had to face challenges such as Nipah, flood and Covid-19. No CS had to work so tirelessly during his tenure," he said. The farewell was organised at the Secretariat on Saturday, his last day in office. He will formally hand over the charge to new chief secretary Vishwas Mehta on Monday. Since restrictions due to Covid-19 were in place, the function was attended by a limited audience including the chief minister, ministers and government secretaries. In his farewell note, circulated to his colleagues earlier, Jose said that it was his honour and privilege to be the chief secretary. "I am proud of the many things we achieved together and the many challenges we braved together: two floods, Nipah & now the new coronavirus. As I exit the stage, I am comforted by the fact that the service can meet any challenge head on, given the talents and dedication of its officers," he said. Other than being the chief secretary, he also mentioned his assignments as director of Air in the defence ministry, chief coordinator for military technical cooperation between India and Russia, from 2004 to 2008 in Moscow, conducting the first ever Skill Fiesta in the country while serving as the additional chief secretary of labour and skills in Kerala and being the first MD of Kochi Metro. A 1984-batch officer, Jose took over as chief secretary on July 1, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tom-jose-had-a-challenging-tenure-says-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan/articleshow/76114929.cms||---
May 31, 2020||Lucknow||Cops fail to nab 13 drivers who mowed down migrants in UP||LUCKNOW: Truck drivers allegedly involved in 13 of the 18 accidents that killed 70 migrants in a month in UP have managed to give the slip to the police so far. The UP police has arrested only five truck drivers against whom FIRs have been lodged. The 13 who are still on the run are accused of causing 27 deaths. The unsolved cases include death of six migrants in Mathura, three each in Aligarh, Barabanki and Jhansi and two each in Prayagraj, Jalaun and Lucknow. Overloading and reckless driving allegedly led to the 18 accidents. In four of these accidents, migrants were on foot, three were on bicycles, two on motorcycles, seven on trucks and two were sleeping on the roadside. The police blame long duty hours during Covid-19, because of which they could not work upon these cases, whereas others said that the vehicles which mowed down migrants were of other states and it was risky to send teams for search operations. ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar-I told TOI that all pending cases involving migrants' death are under the purview of senior police officers. He said arrests were made in cases where evidence was clear. "We are tracing the whereabouts of the truck which crushed two Bhadoi labourers in Jalaun on May 15," said Ait SHO, Vinod Kumar. Police in Barabanki, Maharajganj and Unnao have been roped in for the task. ACP, Mohanlalganj, Sanjeev Sinha said the case in which an unidentified vehicle crushed Krishna Sahu, Pramila Sahu of Chhattisgarh on Shaheed Path on May 8 is being worked on. Investigating officers of cases involving deaths of nine migrants in accidents in Mathura and Aligarh claimed vehicles which crushed migrants were of other states and the drivers had fled. SHO Magorra in Mathura, Rohan Lal said the truck which rammed an auto killing six migrants on May 4 was seized from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-fail-to-nab-13-drivers-who-mowed-down-migrants-in-up/articleshow/76114931.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
