04-10-2020||---||Haven’t burnt crop stubble for 16 years: Barnala farmer||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, October 3Jagseer Singh, a farmer from Rureke Kalan village, has set an example for others by not burning the stubble of his crops for the past 16 years. Also, he has been takin agriculture-related activities and earning a handsome income.“Apart from paddy and wheat, I have also been sowing pulses and maize. I am also involved in dairy farming, beekeeping and allied work. I have not burnt the stubble of my crops for the past 16 years and have been sending the crop residue to a gaushala,” said Jagseer.Praising Jagseer, Barnala Chief Agriculture officer Baldev singh assured full support to all farmerswho wanted to take initiatives for not burning stubble in their fields.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/havent-burnt-crop-stubble-for-16-years-barnala-farmer-150766
04-10-2020||---||Farmers forced to sell cotton below MSP||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 3Cotton farmers in the Malwa region are upset over being forced to sell the produce way below the minimum support price (MSP) to private players. Though the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) had decided to start procurement at 21 centres in the state from October 1, it has not bought even a single bale in the past three days due to “high moisture content and low quality”.Talking to The Tribune, CCI General Manager Neeraj Kumar said, “Initial pickings of cotton farmers are not that rich in quality with moisture content varying from 15 to 22 per cent against the CCI’s permissible limit of 8 to 12 per cent. We have fixed a certain criteria and can only procure cotton that adheres to those quality parameters. We have been recommending farmers to dry the cotton properly and then bring it to the market. In its current shape, the CCI would not be able to procure the produce in the first week of October.”With the CCI not starting procurement in mandis, it is the private players who have been calling the shots and procuring cotton as per their convenience and rates.Sukhwinder Singh Bhokhra, a farmer from the Goniana block of Bathinda district, said, “I had to sell fine quality cotton picked from fields around five days ago for Rs 4,700 per quintal against the MSP of Rs 5,725. Last year, I had sold cotton for Rs 4,500. It is surprising that the government fixes the MSP for farm produce, but it does not have a proper mechanism in place to facilitate even remunerative prices to the farmers.”Another farmer Gurpal Singh from Nasibpura village in Talwandi Sabo had to sell the produce for Rs 3,500 per quintal. An official of the Market Committee said cotton was sold between Rs 3,500 and Rs 4,950 per quintal in the district on Saturday. A factory owner said they could not procure the produce at government rates as the quality was not good and the moisture content was high.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-forced-to-sell-cotton-below-msp-150765
04-10-2020||Sameer Singh||Delayed diagnosis putting breast cancer patients at risk||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 3The saying ‘Early detection increases the chance of healthy outcome’ seems to be lost on women diagnosed with breast cancer. Satnam Kaur (name changed) is now no more. Reason: By the time she was diagnosed with stage IV breast cancer, the doctors had already proclaimed it was “too late”. She was given treatment, but couldn’t be saved.‘Symptoms ignored’It’s not that Satnam, a resident of Talwandi Sabo, didn’t show signs of cancer. She had complained of a lump in the breast for over two years, but chose to defer a visit to the doctor. However, she did go for the ancient medicine system and even visited an occultist for treatment.Breast cancer has recently emerged as one of the most common cancers among women in the Malwa belt. Doctors at the government-run Advanced Cancer Institute and Hospital (ACI) here have cited delayed diagnosis and lack of awareness among people as the most challenging factors.The hospital records suggest as many as 920 women were diagnosed with breast cancer in the past four years, but only a minuscule percentage was diagnosed with stage I cancer. Besides, cervical cancer has been identified as the second most common cancer with 375 cases in the past four years, followed by ovarian cancer. Lack of hygiene was observed as one of major factors for cervix cancer.As per the doctors, there has been a sizeable increase in the number of breast cancer patients over the years. It is often seen that women from the rural belt of the region ignore the symptoms of the disease. Dr Deepak Arora, Director, ACI, says: “More than advancements in medical techniques or equipment for the treatment of cancer, efforts are required to spread general awareness about cancer, its symptoms and the right treatment for it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/delayed-diagnosis-putting-breast-cancer-patients-at-risk-150819
