19-12-2021||Jharkhand||Udayan Mane wins Tata Steel Tour Championship, emerges as PGTI Order of Merit Champion ||After a pulsating day of twists and turns, Olympian Udayan Mane won the PGTI’s season-ending Tata Steel Tour Championship by a narrow one-shot margin. In a battle of nerves, Udayan took all upon himself for his second triumph at Jamshedpur that helped him bag the PGTI Order of Merit title for the 2020-21 season. Mane (68-66-67-69) made six birdies, a bogey and a double-bogey in round four to end up with a tournament tally of 18-under 270 to bag Rs. 1.5 crore prize money. The overnight joint leader along with Shubhankar Sharma, seized the early initiative with birdies on the second, third and fourth, making two-putts on the two par-5s on that stretch. He made double-bogey on the eighth but soon recovered with birdies on the 11th and 13th where he sank 10-feet putts. He said: “My mind was racing at the start of the day but I just calmed myself by telling myself that it’s just another round of golf with my good pals Shubhankar and Veer and we’re just going to have a shootout.” “I had no idea about my Order of Merit chances until informed by my good friends Khalin Joshi and Chikkarangappa on the second day. It played in my mind but I knew that I still had to play good golf at the end of the day to win,” he added. Speaking about the golf course, he said, “I just like the courses here in Jamshedpur. That’s the reason I’ve won here twice. It’s a good test for the professionals to adapt from one course to another in the middle of the round.” Two-time Asian Tour winner Rashid Khan (70-72-66-63) matched the tournament’s lowest round of nine-under 63 on Sunday to climb 10 spots and finish runner-up at 17-under 271. Delhi-based Khan, made an eagle and seven birdies in round four, gave himself an opportunity to have a shot at the title. Khan, lying tied 30th after his first two rounds of 70 and 72, made a brilliant rearguard action with scores of 66 and 63 in the last two rounds to make a strong comeback in the tournament. As a result of his runner-up finish, Khan jumped from ninth to fourth place in the PGTI’s final money list. Two-time European Tour winner Shubhankar Sharma, the overnight joint leader, shot a final round of 72 to take the fourth place at 15-under 273 along with four-time European Tour winner SSP Chawrasia (70). Shubhankar’s challenge faded away on the back-nine where he conceded three bogeys and a double-bogey in exchange for two birdies. Kartik Sharma is Emerging Player of the Year Twenty-one-year-old Kartik Sharma of Gurugram won the PGTI Emerging Player of the Year title with season’s earnings of Rs. 18,22,750, the highest among the rookies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
19-12-2021||Jharkhand||Mortar blast kills BSF jawan from Dhanbad in Jaisalmer||A pall of gloom descended on Charak Kala Village of Tundi block, Dhanbad this morning  as the news of BSF jawan Sandip Kumar Singh's death, posted at Jaisalmer, Rajasthan reached his hamlet. Sandip was killed in a mortar explosion that took place when he was undergoing training with his battalion (36 Battalion ) in Kishangarh Firing range of Jaisalmer District of Rajasthan. Four other jawans were injured during the incident. The explosion took place this morning when the jawans were warming themselves by the bonfire to beat the cold. A mortar shell lying underneath the ground where they were seated suddenly exploded. The injured jawans were immediately rushed to Ramgarh hospital, where Sandip succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment. Notably the deceased, son of a widow, Shanti Devi  was married to Sima Devi of Poraiyahat area of Godda four-year-ago  and both his mother and wife have been inconsolable ever since they received the news of Sandip’s death. He is survived by his three-year-old daughter, Saumya Singh. Maniadih Police station officer in charge, Ashfaq Ali, reached the deceased jawan’s residence and consoled the bereaved family members. He has also assured all necessary support to the family members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
19-12-2021||Jharkhand||Walkie-talkies, other gadgets for civic vigil in Ranchi ||Citizens caught violating civic rules will henceforth be fined on the spot with Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) deciding to arm  enforcement teams with walkie-talkies and other gadgets for proper enforcement. Mayor Asha Lakra said that in the first phase 60 walkie-talkies and 17 e-PoS (point of sale) machines were being handed over to RMC teams. "We will increase these gradually as per the requirement,” she said, adding that the technological advancement of the enforcement team was to fast-track work within the city. “Also, we will now do away with the manual challan system in a phased manner. With e-PoS machines, allegations of illegal fines will also come to an end,” she said, adding that RMC was probably  the first civic body in the state to upgrade its systems. Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar said that although RMC teams have phones and are connected via Whatsapp for day- to-day coordination,  walkie-talkies would help improve response time. Over the last few weeks, the civic body has initiated crackdowns against all kinds of civic rule violations. The department is currently focusing on illegal constructions and removing encroachments from roadside. Kumar said, “RMC’s mandate is to ensure proper upkeep of the city from cleanliness to beautification, which we are also working on simultaneously. We have come up with a couple of new parks, set up a dedicated vegetable mart and undertaken wall beautification.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
19-12-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: Home Guards demand salary regularisation||Home guard personnel from across the state congregating at Dhanbad on Sunday to participate at a conclave of Jharkhand Home Guard Welfare Association at Gandhi Seva Sadan Dhanbad, demanded amendment to the Home Guard Act 1947 and 1963 to give them the status of public servant instead of volunteers. National President of Bhartiya Janta Mazdoor Sangh, Om Prakash Jataw who was the chief guest at the conclave, said, “Due to volunteer status provided to them under the Home Guard Act there is neither any regular service nor fixed salary for them.” He added that despite discharging all the crucial responsibilities related to law and order along with law enforcement agencies and also assisting police and other law enforcement agencies in conduction elections and others, they are not alloted regular duty and thus given wages at the rate of Rs 300 to Rs 500 per day. Exhorting home guards to fight for their rights Jataw said that in order to press upon the central government to make amendment in the Home Guard Act, they have a devised a plan of action as per which the home guards across the country will give a memorandum to the Prime Minister, President and Union Home Minister. He elaborated that the memorandum demanding the amendment would be sent through the respective magistrates of their area. Ravi Mukherjee, State president of Home Guard Association while addressing the participants of the state level conclave of the association said, “Very few home guard Jawans get regular allotment of duty and a huge majority gets work allotment creating sustenance problem," ading, "the changes in the act will help to regularise their job and ensure the end to the life of uncertainty."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
19-12-2021||Jharkhand||Woman crushed to death by SUV owned by Congress leader in Bistupur||A middle-aged woman, who used to earn her living by begging in the Bistupur locality of the steel city was crushed to death by a speeding SUV near the Keenan Stadium on Sunday afternoon. The incident took place around 1.45 pm when the SUV owned by Saagir Khan, district president of the Congress Minority Cell hit the woman who was sitting at one side of a road linking the Straight Mile Road, a busy thoroughfare which connects Sakchi with Bistupur. According to eye-witnesses, the SUV carrying four persons including the driver was coming from the JRD Tata Sports Complex side at a speed of over 60 kmph. "The speeding vehicle first hit a bike and then it crushed the woman sitting at one corner of the road connecting the Straight Mile Road, " said an eye-witness. According to him, after hitting the bike, the SUV lost its control and hit the poor woman who was killed on the spot. Two youths including the driver managed to escape leaving the vehicle on the spot. The other two were caught and thrashed by the crowd which assembled at the spot soon after the tragic mishap. A PCR ( Police Control Room ) van of the Bistupur police station reached the spot and seized the erring vehicle. "The victim is a poor woman who used to beg in that area. We will register a case against the owner of the SUV. Hunt is on to nab the driver," said SK Singh, a police constable who was present at the spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
19-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: Jamshedpur FC to lock horns with Bengaluru on Monday||Jamshedpur: After giving an absolute firecracker of a performance against Odisha FC, Jamshedpur FC cross swords with Bengaluru FC in an Indian Super League 2021-22 tie in Goa on Monday evening. The Men of Steel are high on confidence and would like to do an encore in a tough outing. Head coach Owen Coyle wants to make sure his team is fresh and ready to give their best against Bengaluru. "We'll approach the game the same way we did in the previous ones and it is really one game at a time because it's such a tight set of fixtures we have this season. We are coming in and out of frequent games which bring injury concerns as well, and we have that in almost every game, so it would be very naive to look too far ahead in the season," Owen said ahead of the match versus Bengaluru. He added they have to focus on as and when the next game comes up. "We will have a tough game against Bengaluru FC and so we have to make sure we are fresh and ready to give our best. Of course, we feel it's a game we can win but I have to admit it is going to be a tough game as they are a very good side," the Scotland-born coach admitted. On his thoughts on Greg Staewart's brilliant performance and if he is the best player in the league now, Owen said: "Well, Greg Stewart is a wonderful player. That's why I brought him to Jamshedpur football club and I told everybody in the pre-season about the qualities he has. It's nice when that's vindicated and everybody can see why we brought him here. "He aspires to do even better than yesterday and still wants to give more to the team; I love that quality of his. It makes him a wonderful player both on and off the field. You can ask anybody in our squad and they will tell you he's got a lovely personality, a caring nature; he's a real team player. He's showing his quality on the field, he can easily score goals and even create goal-scoring chances for others equally. Greg works very hard with the ball and against the ball for the team which is exactly what we need in an attacking midfielder. So he's certainly a very good player. There are some fantastic players in the league and there’s no doubt Greg's certainly among one of the best," he added. On the next game against Bengaluru FC considering their performance in the season so far, the highly-experienced Owen added: "I've always said this before that people always make quick judgements. They often judge on the final results, but if you actually look at the individual performance of Bengaluru FC, they could have won each and every game they played. They've been in control of games, but they have had luck go against them and have had bad decisions given that were unfair to them. So I'm under no illusions about the difficulty of this game against Bengaluru FC. Jamshedpur are placed 3rd on the table with 11 points (6 matches, 3 wins, 2 draws and 1 loss) while Bengaluru are on the 10th spot with 5 points  (7 matches,   1 win, 2 draws and 4 losses). Jayesh Thaker  Dhanbad: As coal town residents were sleeping amid the chill, a group of Nobilians who are also part of the Art of Living Dhanbad chapter came out of their houses and distributed blankets among the shelterless at different places across the district. The drive that began last night at around 10 pm from Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College continued till 1 am during which over 200 blankets were distributed among the needy on the streets of commercial hub of Dhanbad, Bank More, Purana Bazar, Dhanbad Railway station,  Hirapur, Bartand based bus depot and Jharia. The drive launched last night under the leadership of  Mayank Singh, a 1998 batch ICSE passout of De Nobili School CMRI, continued during the second day today also distributed around 60 blankets among the lepers at Karkend based Gandhi Gram Basti of Lepers. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Singh said, “We started the blanket distribution drive during last winter and carried out distribution of around 1000 blankets and  in fact also celebrated the new year by cutting cake among rickshaw pullers and other daily wage earners” “We will be continuing our drive this time till the first week of January next year (2022) as we believe that it is our responsibility to help the haven’t in our limited capacity of ours” said Singh. Praduman Choubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
19-12-2021||Jharkhand||Tribals in eastern India to observe Hassa-Bhasa Vijay Diwas on December 22||Tribal people in eastern Indian states along with those in Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan will observe Hassa-Bhasa Vijay Diwas on December 22. Former MP of Mayurbhanj (in Odisha) Salkhan Murmu, who is also the national president of Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan, on Saturday made an announcement about the tribal fraternity observing the day. “Very few tribals, especially the new generation, are aware of the importance of December 22 for the Santhals and this is the reason we have decided to observe the day as Hassa (motherland in Santhal language) Bhasa (language) Vijay (victory) Diwas. We have  held virtual meetings with our counterparts in Odisha, Assam, Bihar and Bengal apart from Jharkhand. “There have been meetings with tribal members residing in Jhapa, Biratnagar and Morong districts of Nepal, areas in Bhutan bordering Baksa district of Assam and in Dinajpur districts in Bangladesh who have agreed to observe the day on December 22,” said Murmu, who stays in Kadma in Jamshedpur. The Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan, which was founded by Murmu, has printed pamphlets on the importance of Hassa Bhasa Vijay Diwas. “The day holds special significance as on December 22, 1855, the British gave independence to the Santhals through the enactment of Santhal Pargana Tenancy Act after around 10,000 tribals led by Sidho Murmu rebelled against the British in Bhognadih (in present-day Sahibganj district of Jharkhand)  in June 1855. The British were forced to liberate the Santhal Parganas after the rebellion, nearly 100 years before formal Independence in 1947. However, our tribal youths are not aware of this,” Murmu said. The day is also important for the Santhal language. “On December 22, 2003, the Santhali language got national recognition in the Lok Sabha and was included in the eighth schedule of the Constitution. This feat is significant as most of the tribal languages of India are on the verge of extinction. This has been possible due to the struggle and cooperation of several organisations and language lovers under the leadership of Santhali Bhasha Morcha,” said Murmu, who is also associated with the Santhali Bhasa Morcha. Tribal outfits will organise dance and song competitions and felicitate tribal leaders on the occasion. The tribal leader will also write to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging them to declare December 22 as a national holiday and accord Santhal Hul of 1855 the status of the first war of independence instead of the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857. “I will also write to the United Nations to observe the day as the Mother language day,” Murmu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
