20-12-2021||Jharkhand||Birsa Munda Park in shambles due to poor maintenance||The picnic spots of the district are languishing in neglect owing to their poor maintenance. And as for the condition of the lavatories, perhaps the less said, the better as around a dozen toilets of the Birsa Munda Park, the lone amusement park of the district are in extremely unhygienic condition due to lack of regular cleanliness. This is just the tip of the iceberg. Most of these toilets even lack regular water supply facility, the primary requirement of any lavatory. As regards entertainment facilities, things leave much to be desired as majority of half a dozen swings as well as the bamboo-made seating arrangements in two picnic lawns of the park are in deplorable condition. Similar is the condition of the playing equipments for the children including jungle gym, monkey crawl, lunar slide, sea saw which are an accident waiting to happen. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Anil Kumar, one of the regular visitors to the park, along with family, including his two children, said, “We can’t fathom the reason behind the lack of maintenance of lone entertainment park during the peak picnic season when more than fife thousand visitors are visiting the park daily.” Echoing similar sentiments, Tapas Das, a teacher of Jharia, who visited the park yesterday along with family, said, “How can the authorities managing the park be so oblivious of the fact that the toilets lack even basic facility like water and where will the visitors including the children will go to answer nature’s call?” He also expressed concern over the poor maintenance of equipments including the sea saw. “Who will take responsibility if there is any accident.’’ When contacted, the manager of Birsa Munda Park Niwas, Kumhkar said, “Due to irregular power supply we often face shortage of water in toilets.” Regarding the lack of cleanliness he said, “Although we daily carry out cleaning of toilets in the morning but due to increased footfall during the picnic season the condition deteriorates after a few hours and we have requested for four more sweepers from Dhanbad Municipal Corporation for the picnic season so as to ensure cleaning of toilets at least twice a day. According to him, the existing workforce of two sweepers is too inadequate to meet the cleanliness requirement of the park including the toilets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
20-12-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant defends JPSC in Assembly, Rs 2,926 cr supplementary budget passed||Chief minister Hemant Soren defended the conduct of civil services examinations by Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) in the Assembly on Monday, coming out in support of JPSC that has been facing severe criticism from aspirants backed by the Oppositon alleging anomalies in the results of the preliminary test published last month. Hemant said there was nothing wrong with the examinations and accused the BJP of orchestrating protests on the streets using Vishwa Hindu Parishad cadres. Accusing the Opposition party of not being able to come to terms with the fact that scores of adivasis and moolvasis would get a chance to enroll themselves for good jobs, he said, “They (BJP) are feeling a stomach ache because they failed to conduct exams during their five-year stint. We have held the exam in such a large scale to provide employment that it can’t digest it.” Several JPSC aspirants are have been on an indefinite protest in Ranchi to demand cancellation of the exams. They met Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais on a couple of occasions, alleging anomalies in the preliminary test results of seventh to 10the civil service exams. The Opposition BJP has also met Bais seperately, demanding a CBI probe or an inquiry by a sitting judge to look into the alleged anomalies. The clamour for cancelling the exams has grown louder now with JPSC recently disqualifying 49 candidates, citing "missing OMR sheets" after declaring them successfull (pass) in the results. On Monday, as proceedings of the third day of the winter session of the Assembly began, the BJP moved a work adjournment motion on the JPSC row. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto, however, opened the floor of the House for pre-scheduled business. Amid the din, the chief minister stood up to speak on the issue around 12.30 pm. He said, “The BJP has fielded Vishwa Hindu Parishad cadres in the name of JPSC protestors and is helping them with backdoor logistics. As far as JPSC exams are concerned, the examination conducting body is an independent entity, and the government does not intend to interfere. Interfering in independent bodies is in the nature of the BJP. "Irregularities in JPSC used to happen when the BJP was in power in most of the years since the formation of Jharkhand in 2000. Many past JPSC officials are either in jail or are facing probe only due to the BJP. In the last five years, the BJP’s double engine government was running without a bogey! Hence, it failed to provide stable jobs and appoint aspirants. We are carrying the baggage of its past mistakes." Responding to the chief minister's statement outside the House, former BJP chief minister Babulal Marandi said the government was hell-bent on destroying future of thousands of job aspirants. “The CM’s clean chit to JPSC makes no sense when JPSC itself has exposed itself by first passing 49 candidates without OMR sheets and then disqualifying them when protests began. Let an independent probe take place to unearth further wrongdoings," the Dhanwar MLA said. The House was adjourned for lunch around 1pm. After it reconvened at 2pm, a supplementary budget of Rs 2,926.12 crore was passed without debate as BJP legislators boycotted the proceedings. The supplementary budget has allocated Rs 620 crore for paying pensions, Rs 588 crore for the energy department, Rs 518 crore for the health department, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
20-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand shivers as mercury drops below normal winter temperature||Winter seems to have finally made its presence felt in Jharkhand, leading to cold wave conditions for the first time this season. Both Daltonganj and Hazaribagh shivered as the mercury touched 4.9°C, the season’s lowest so far. At both places the minimum reading was around five notches below normal. The minimum reading nosedived to 7.2 °C in Jamshedpur on Monday, the season's lowest and 4.5 notches below normal. Weathermen confirmed that cold wave conditions are prevailing at isolated places over Jharkhand including Daltonganj, Jamshedpur and Hazaribagh. In met parlance, a cold wave condition is declared when the minimum temperature remains below 10 degree Celsius and when that particular day's temperature remains 4.5 notches below normal. Jamshedpur, Daltonganj and Hazaribagh fulfil the cold wave criteria. Capital Ranchi recorded the season's lowest temperature at 6.4°C. While the night record in the capital was three notches below normal, Kanke - the freezer on its outskirts - was bone-numbing at around 5°C. Besides Ranchi, several other places like Bokaro (5.5 degrees), Deoghar (6.9 degrees), Godda ( 6 degrees ), Pakur ( 8.1 degrees ), Chaibasa ( 8.6 degrees ) too felt the sub-10 chill on Monday. Dhanbad and Giridih also experience chilly weather with Bokaro, the temperature was three notches below its average normal. Minimum readings in districts like Koderma, Latehar, Simdega, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan too witnessed a downward trend in the past 24 hours. This unexpected Celsius free fall has spurred the cold wave. "The entire state is in the grip of the north- westerly wind, which will drag down minimum temperatures further in another 24 hours. The chill has intensified because of the strong and dry current. Snowfall in northern India is adding to the crispness of weather in Jharkhand," explained Abhishek Anand, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Clear skies, characteristic of winter, and low humidity aided the Celsius plunge. Weathermen at the IMD office in Ranchi issued moderate to dense fog warning in the next 48 hours. Weathermen, however, maintained that the chill may take a break after the next 48 hours owing to the impact of a western disturbance passing through northern parts of the country. Pratima Payal Dingh, a 52-year-old homemaker and resident of Sonari, was late for her morning walk. "I usually reach Jubilee Park around 6.45am. Today, I reached around 7.30am. There were many like me because of the intense cold," she sai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
20-12-2021||Jharkhand||Petrol pumps to stay shut on Tuesday to demand VAT cut ||Over 1,400 petrol pumps of Jharkhand will remain closed on Tuesday as petroleum dealers will stage a day-long strike to demand that the state government reduce VAT on diesel and stop the sale of adulterated fuel in the name of biodiesel. Dhanbad-based Ashok Singh, the state president of Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers' Association, said, "The present rate of VAT of 22%  on diesel is too high. We have demanded that the state government bring it down to 16%." He said a delegation of members of the association met state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon in Ranchi to air their grieveances and asked him to constitute a committee to look into their demands. But since the government had not responded, the association had been compelld to go ahead with the strike. “No sale or purchase of petroleum will be carried out tomorrow (Tuesday) between 6am  to 6pm at any petrol pump in the state. However, ambulances and vehicles carrying milk and dairy products, and vehicles belonging to the administration would not be denied fuel in case of need," Singh said. He elaborated that in 2015-16, the monthly sale of diesel was to the tune of 1,28,000 kilo litre. That figure has now come down to about 1,16,000 kilo litre. “Imagine the kind of losses we are incurring,” he said, citing how the state government was also sitting on crores of unpaid dues for buying fuel on credit for running government vehicles. "In every district, two to three petrol pumps are tagged for providing fuel to government establishments on credit. But bills worth over Rs 30 crore are pending with the government for the last one year,” he said. Sharad Dudani, general secretary of the association, said, "Due to the high VAT charges on diesel  in Jharkhand, majority of bulk purchasers like transporters are buying fuel from neighboring states." He said that if the government did not act on their demands after Tuesday's strike, they would decide on the future course of action in Ranchi on December 31 at a meeting of the association. Notably, speaking on the issue a few days ago, the state finance minister had ruled out reduction of VAT on petroleum products, saying that the Hemant Soren-led government had not imposed any fresh taxes, but was was continuing with rates fixed by the previous BJP government led by Raghubar Das. He also blamed the Centre, claiming that the responsibility of controlling fuel prices lay solely with it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
