21-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: BIT Sindri alumni bag National Metallurgy Award ||Dhanbad: Two Alumus of Department of Metallurgical Engineering of  BIT Sindri including  Amit Kumar Sharma ( 2019 pass out) and Nilesh Kumar (2020 Pass out)have brought laurels to their alma-mater by bagging winner and and runner up award  in eBTTD2021, an event organized by  Behind the Techer’s Desk (BTTD), a forum of students and teachers for discussion on Metallurgical and Material Engineering. The duo won the award in the category of New product developments, Characterization & Failure analysis. Amit Sharma who won the winner prize of Rs 8,000 teamed up with  Sapan Kumar Nayak of IIT Kharagpur while Nilesh Kumar of BIT Sindri who bagged up runners up prize of Rs 5000 teamed up with Adarsha Ranjan Mishra of IIT Kharagpur. The event was jointly organized by the Jamshedpur Chapter of the Indian Institution of Metals (IIM), National Institute of Technology Jamshedpur, Tata Steel Limited and CSIR-National Metallurgical Laboratory of India. Giving details, Ghanshyam Rai, Training and Placement Officer  of BIT Sindri, said, “The field of materials and metallurgical engineering is projected to be of enormous importance for the progress and growth of the society. Young practitioners of this field, therefore, require to be imparted with better skill-sets." Rai further added, "In order to fulfill this objective, Jamshedpur Chapter of the Indian Institution of Metals (IIM), National Institute of Technology Jamshedpur, Tata Steel Limited and CSIR-National Metallurgical Laboratory of India have been working together to nurture and mentor young metallurgists and inspire them to transform into dedicated professionals." The event was organized in the form of a seminar with its objective to provide a common platform for promising and aspiring metallurgists to interact with the pool of experts from industries, R&D centers and academic institutes. The student participants of this event got an  opportunity to update their current knowledgebase, and share their academic achievements, innovative thoughts and new ideas in the field of metallurgy and materials technology. Since its inception in the year 2012, the seminar "Behind the Teacher’s Desk (BTTD) has blossomed into one of the most sought-after event among the student fraternity. The event provides a launch pad to the students for showcasing their novel ideas/ innovations and interacting with scientists, eminent metallurgists, engineers and entrepreneurs so as to develop new skills in the field of metallurgy and material technology. Like last year, this year the event was held in a virtual platform as the theme of eBTTD202i was “METALLURGY for new Technologies and Innovations” which was broadly classified under four topics including minerals to metals, related to mining and raw materials processing; processes improvements/ material processing; new product developments, characterization and failure analysis; sustainable material processing/ startup business ideas/ digital integration. Praduman Choubey Hazaribagh : Koderma Police stepped in at the right time to stall the wedding of a 16-year-old girl with a 40-year-man named Rakesh Yadav. The police has been arrested the three individuals who are being interrogated. “The girl's brother-in-law Hulas Turi went to Gaziabad for the treatment of his son where he came in contact with Yadav. Turi put forward the proposal for the minor girl’s wedding. Yadav, agreed to pay Rs.50,000 for all wedding arrangements. But as Yadav and his friend Mukesh reached to Nawalshahi, villagers informed them about the wedding, following which members of the district child helpline reached the spot and dissuaded her parents to not get her married before she attained the correct age. Vishvendu Jaipuriar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
21-12-2021||Jharkhand||Philanthropist launches computer training centre||At a time when others of his age prefer to take life easy, Rameshwar Prasad, an octogenarian and a retired mechanical engineer of ACC Sindri, is busy helping people in remote Tundi block of Dhanbad by establishing a computer training centre cum library with the help of funds provided by the Indian technocrats settled abroad. Prasad, who visited the computer training centre cum library yesterday at Saparo in Tundi along with his family members said, “We interacted with the trainees as well as with trainers at the centre, established around a year ago in memory of my father Keshawa Prasad, and witnessed significant and visible  improvement among the village students, women and youth after receiving training at the centre.” Prasad also informed that apart from the centre at Saparo equipped with three desktops, one laptop, and three sewing machines, they are also running two more centres at Mairanwatand and Kolhahir village in Tundi where they have been imparting computer training and stitching training for the last 18 months. “We have established all the three centers at the vacant buildings of Ekal Vidyalaya, Single Teacher schools established by Vanvasi Kalayan Kendra which were lying unused since a few years ago due to establishment of government schools in such village under the Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan scheme,” said Prasad and added that several books of general use have been stocked in all the centers for the benefit of the trainees that include the local students as well as youth and women. “We have constituted a committee of the local residents for running all the three centers and the trainers also include  local residents who have some skill computer operation as well some women who are either skilled or semi skilled in stitching, sewing embroidery etc," said Prasad who is also the vice president of Vanvasi Kalyan Kendra, Dhanbad. He added that they will be imparting further training to the trainers at par with professional trainers. “The funds for all the three computer training cum library centres have been provided by Indian technocrats settled abroad and primarily in US who  are already providing financial support to meritorious students of engineering, technical and medical colleges through Foundation of Excellence (FFE)  an NGO of NRIs in US having its office at Bangalore," said Prasad who himself funds scholarship to meritorious girl students of plus two under the banner of Prakash Foundation. Encouraged by the success of three existing centres, Prasad is now planning to start a new center at Bartand village of Tundi for which all preparations have been completed. According to Prasad, social service helps him to keep busy at this age and also provides satisfaction of giving back to society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
21-12-2021||Jharkhand||Clay bottles for tourists visiting Dalma wildlife sanctuary  ||Clay bottles have replaced the ones made from plastic at the Dalma wildlife sanctuary. With plastic banned inside the scenic elephant abode, 30 km from Jamshedpur, clay bottles made by villagers living inside the sanctuary and its periphery are being sold to tourists. Besides clay bottles, plates and hats made from leaves will also be sold to the tourists from next month onwards. Honey collected by villagers living inside the sanctuary will also be sold. Tourists purchase fresh honey from villagers in good quantity by paying a pittance. Soon, honey will be sold from the information kiosk in packets and the price will be fixed accordingly. The 1.25 liter clay bottle carries a price tag of Rs 20. "Use of plastic is banned inside the sanctuary. Clay bottles made by village potters are being sold to the tourists who flock the sanctuary in peak winter season. Items, including clay bottles, hats and plates will help villagers earn some extra money," said Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra. According to him, the price of hats and plates will soon be fixed in consultation with villagers. "Clay bottles are currently being sold from near the ticket counter at Makulakocha. The items will be later sold from the information kiosk which is expected to be inaugurated next month," Chandra said. The range officer said plastic ban was being strictly implemented inside the sanctuary. "Tourists visiting the sanctuary with plastic bottles are asked to deposit money at the ticket counter. The money is refunded if they deposit the bottles at the counter. For example, tourists need to deposit Rs 20 for carrying plastic bottles inside the sanctuary. This would deter tourists from throwing plastic bottles inside the reserve," Chandra added. Tourists also throw plastic and thermocol plates inside the 192 sq km sanctuary. So, plates made from leaves are a handy option for them. “Unlike plastic items, clay bottles and leaf plates can be discarded inside the reserve. The effort of promoting clay bottles will also keep the sanctuary clean and tidy. The effort will also keep the environment  clean,” Chandra said. Tourists from Jharkhand, Bengal, Odisha, Bihar and Chhattisgarh flock to the sanctuary in impressive numbers in winter. Villagers can sell tourist-friendly products made by them. Income from the sale will go directly to them. "We are helping villagers to display their products at the entrance and later at the information kiosk. The villagers are happy with the initiative. More products made by villagers will be sold from next month onwards," a forester said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
21-12-2021||Jharkhand||Covid effect: No takers for Tatanagar station’s parking area||Chakradharpur railway divisional authority on Tuesday decided to offer parking tender for Tatanagar station on negotiated terms as there are no takers despite repeated attempts. No one is interested to bag the once-lucrative railway parking as Tatanagar station is witnessing lesser footfall due to the Covid-19 pandemic, thus causing huge revenue loss to the railway. Since September 2020, the Chakradharpur railway division has floated parking tender for Tatanagar six times, latest being on December 17. But there were hardly any takers,  forcing the railway authority to go for a negotiated terms for settling the tender issue. The railway parking tender for Tatanagar is given for three years, the last time the tender value was fixed at Rs 5.6 crores. But after the Covid-19 hit the steel city in March 2020, a Delhi-based firm which had bagged the tender surrendered it midway in August last year. The firm had to surrender the tender as passenger train services had come to a standstill, causing zero footfall at the railway station for a considerable period. Speaking about the matter, senior divisional commercial manager, Chakradharpur, Manish Pathak said they follow a practice of floating a fresh tender with a 10 percent hike in the last tender amount. "We had attempted to float the tender in September 2021 without customary 10 percent hike. But no one came forward. Then we floated fresh tender having reduced the existing rate, keeping the Covid factor in mind. But despite giving so much relaxation, no tender was put out.  Ultimately, we decided to settle the issue on the basis of negotiated terms," said Pathak while talking to The Telegraph Online. The senior divisional commercial manager said that on Tuesday they have decided to offer the parking tender to anyone at one's negotiated terms otherwise the railway will incur heavy loss. "We had floated tender for six consecutive times since September 2020 till December 17, 2021. We will float a fresh tender for the railway parking shortly on negotiated terms so that the issue is settled without further delay, " said the senior railway officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
21-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Assembly passes anti-mob lynching bill ||The Jharkhand government passed the anti-mob lynching bill during the ongoing winter session of the state assembly on Tuesday within an hour after it was tabled without any debate. The Opposition camp, mainly the BJP pressed for discussions and dubbed the bill as an attempt of appeasement politics. The bill titled Jharkhand (Prevention of Violence and Mob Lynching) Bill of 2021 was tabled in the second half of the second last day of the session and passed by voice vote in an hour. Only Bengal and Rajasthan are the states to have put in place such laws so far. State parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam tabled the bill in the House. Without specifying the dates, he said that about 53 incidents of mob lynching took place in Jharkhand out of which 33 had died. A report by the Jharkhand Janadhikar Manch, a conglomeration of rights bodies, in the past, too had said that more than 30 tribal Christians and Muslims had either been lynched or beaten up on suspicion of cow slaughter, sale and consumption of beef and religious hatred between 2016 and 2021. Once the law is enacted, in case of lynching, the guilty will be jailed for life and have to pay a penalty of anywhere between Rs 5 lakh-25 lakh. For minor injuries of the victims, there will be three-year jail term for guilty and a fine of Rs 3 lakh. For grievous injuries, the guilty will be imprisoned for life or up to 10 years with a fine of up to Rs 5 lakh. Those found guilty of conspiring, aiding and attempting to lynch will be treated at par with those who commit lynching. For those guilty of false propaganda through hate speeches and the likes to create toxic environment against a particular person/community, they will be jailed for three years with fine provision of up to Rs 3 lakh. Other provisions include appointment of a state co-ordinator not below the rank of the Inspector General of Police to be called the Nodal Officer to monitor and co-ordinate prevention of lynching. The nodal officer will be appointed by the Director General of Police. The Nodal Officer, on enactment of legislation will be required to hold regular meetings, at least once a month, with local intelligence units in the Districts, so as to identify tendencies of vigilantism, mob violence or lynching in an area and take steps to prevent dissemination of offensive material through different social media platforms or any other means which could incite mob vigilantes. The new legislation also states that every police officer, directly in charge of maintaining law and order in an area, shall take all reasonable steps to prevent any act of lynching including incitement and commission and will make all possible efforts to identify and prevent instances of dissemination of offensive material or any other means to incite or promote lynching. District magistrates too are mandated to take every possible action to curb creation of any hostile environment against a person or group of persons. Hailing the passage of the bill, chief minister Hemant Soren talking to reporters outside the House said that the new laws are aimed at maintaining harmonious environment for people of all castes and faiths. He said, “We have seen several untoward incidents of mob attacks and deaths in our state. Now, we have stringent laws to tackle it.” Hemant's cabinet colleague Hafizul Hassan called it a historic feat stating that it exhibited their government’s commitment towards safeguarding humanity. “Our government is committed to safeguarding everyone. No mob has the right to attack anyone no matter what. This law will now act as a deterrent to control such unruly mobs,” he said, thanking chief minister Hemant Soren for the development. Opposition BJP on the other hand, demanded the bill be sent to a select committee for scrutiny stating that the bill defines mob as two or more persons but it requires to be reasonable and that the definition of mob should be classified as group of 10 persons and above. BJP’s MLA from Godda Amit Mandal said, “The bill looks more of a tool for appeasement of few people as there are certain loopholes that require proper studies and has the potential to be misused.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
21-12-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad petrol pumps observe 12 hour strike ||All 171 petrol pumps of Dhanbad remained closed from 6 am to 6 pm today  as part of the day long strike called by Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers Association (JPDA) to press for their demands, including the reduction of VAT on diesel from 22% to 16%, payment of pending arrears of government offices on account of fuel purchase and the use of adulterated diesel in the name of biodiesel. This, despite the fact that the state government has termed the strike as illegal and warned the petroleum dealers association against carrying out strike and denying fuel to the common people  under the Essential Commodities Act, 1952. Talking to the media, Ashok Singh, President of Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers Association, said, “The strike has been almost near total and we are thankful to the petroleum dealers.” Reacting over the government decision declaring the strike as illegal against the Essential Services Maintenance act, Singh said, “Though, I have not received any government notification with regard to the strike being declared illegal and only came to know about it through social media, but to my knowledge, petrol and diesel have been removed from the purview of essential services maintenance act with the private players entering into the petroleum and diesel sale arena.” He further said, “At least the government has taken notice of the issues being raised by the petroleum dealers but it would have been better had the government simultaneously taken steps to address the issue of pending dues of government offices with the petrol pumps as raised by our association.” Citing an example of the difficulties faced by the petrol pump owners, he said a sum of around Rs 1 crore of pending dues of government offices is lying with the Green View petrol pump of Dhanbad and petrol pumps are being made to pay the interest of these pending dues also," said Singh adding they have planned  to send the bank statement with the regard to the interest being paid by petroleum dealers  to the government. He also raised the issue of adulterated oil being sold by some private players in the name of biodiesel. Sanjeev Rana, general secretary of district unit of Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers Association  said, “All 171 petrol pumps of the district went on strike today and we can’t understand why the government is not addressing issues raised by us.” “We have carried out study which revealed that if the government reduces the VAT as per our demand the sale of fuel will lead to an increase in revenue of around Rs 600 crore on account of fuel sale in state ” said Rana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
21-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand has double-jabbed one crore residents||Jharkhand has fullt vaccinated over a crore residents, but is racing against time to achieve 100 per cent coverage by January 15, 2022, the deadline fixed by the health department. According to the latest bulletin, out of 2,41,21,312 eligible beneficiaries, 1,00,05,687 have received both doses, which is 41 per cent of the target. The number of people with the first dose stand at 1,77,68,657 which works out to 74 per cent. Among the districts, East Singbhum has done the best with vaccines, recording 58 per cent coverage. The remaining 23 districts are in the red-category, having vaccinated less than half of their respective populations. East Singbhum is in the pink category as its vaccine coverage is in the range of 50-60 per cent. Amid the growing scare of the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov2, the health department has been running a month-long vaccination drive across districts from December 15 to achieve 100 per cent coverage. But, Covid-19 cases are again witnessing an upward trend. On Monday, as many as 32 new cases surfaced in the state with Koderma alone reporting 12, taking the state's count of active cases to 159. “On November 30, active cases in the state were 98 but in less than a month, it has now touched 159. In Ranchi, it has more than doubled. On November 30, we had 33 active cases, but currently the numbers stand at 76. Testing has been stepped up leading to detection of more cases, but the only way to fight Covid is aggressive vaccination,” remarked an official at the sadar hospital. Another official maintained that one of the key reasons behind the poor second dose coverage is Jharkhand's migratory population and the lack of real-time data. “In Jhrkhand, Covishield has been used a lot more than Covaxin. The gap between the first and second doses of Covishield is 84 days. Since travel curbs were lifted months ago, whoever may have taken the first dose of Covishield here, may have migrated to other states for employment purposes. These people may have got the second dose elsewhere. But that data may not be reflecting in the state’s overall vaccination count,” he explained. A woman health official in Seraikela-Kharsawan added, “Our first dose coverage is 73 per cent. But our second dose is at a paltry 33 per cent. We are discovering that many who took their first dose in Adityapur were from Jamshedpur (in neighbouring East Singhbhum) and received the second dose in their home district. Both places are only a few kilometers apart.” Garhwa civil surgeon Kamlesh Kumar too was of the similar opinion stating that they have begun door-to-door surveys using electoral rolls to ascertain the actual number of vaccinated people in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
21-12-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel’s innovative initiatives during Covid earn recognition ||Tata Steel’s two innovative initiatives during the Covid pandemic have earned recognition from World Steel Association under the category ‘occupational health management’. The recognition has been given for the two technology-driven safety and health initiatives — ‘POD Concept’ and ‘Digital Covid Safety Tracks’— deployed at the company’s manufacturing units. These applications ensured workforce safety and business continuity by mitigating Covid-19 risks and were implemented via the Covid impact centre. The POD, a workforce modularisation concept, introduced self-sufficient groups comprising operations and maintenance personnel, including contractors, with self-contained skill sets to perform specific jobs. The concept is built on a foundation of protocols, namely entry-exit norms, shift operating norms, and POD breach norms, which constitute the key guiding principles. Digital Covid Safety Tracks successfully contained the spread of Covid-19 via real-time monitoring and compliance to standard operating guidelines. The tracks are broadly classified under three areas — risk mitigation, risk intelligence and compliance. Tata Steel vice-president of safety, health and sustainability department, Sanjiv Paul, said: “At Tata Steel, we have implemented multiple tech innovations and leveraged our digital transformation journey to pursue workforce safety and business sustainability, aided by agile decision-making. This recognition will further motivate us to pursue excellence and prepare for the future.” Tata Steel chief of safety department, Neeraj Sinha, received the award during the safety and health committee meeting in Brussels, Belgium, on November 18, 2021. Apart from these initiatives, the company introduced a beacon and RFID-based Suraksha Card (safety card) for contact tracing of all employees within the plant, including work sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
21-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: Jumbos attack Hazaribagh village, 3 dead||Dhanbad: A herd of 15 wild elephants attacked a mud house in Kandaber panchayat’s Itij village, killing a woman and her two children. Incident took place early Monday morning. According to sources the herd attacked the house of Rambriksh Ram Mahto(45). Mahto's wife Rohini(40), his son Mukesh Kumar(12) and daughter Sundari Kumari(19) were trampled to death. Ram suffered grievous injuries and has been admitted to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital. After this killing spree, the herd went on a rampage here damaging a series of houses and crops in the adjoining fields. The forest department failed to take any immediate action in this regard, alleged the residents. The news of three deaths made divisional forest officer(wildlife) Ravindra Nath Mishra send range officer Chotelal Shah to spot, who assured compensation to those affected by the rampage. Vishvendu Jaipuriar Dhanbad: The historic grand trunk road’s (National Highway 2) stretch between Barwaddah and Maithon check post is in a bad shape for the past five years, as the contractors had left the six-lane work mid-way. However, the work is soon going to be resumed, as a fresh tender for the incomplete project has been issued by Barwa Adda Express Limited, the concessionaire for the National Highway Authority of India.. Welcoming the development, Sharad Dudani, a local Dhanbad trader and the president of Govindpur Nagrik Samiti said, “We welcome the move. The resumption of the pending 6 lane work will definitely be beneficial for us. The divider and railings are lying broken at several places including at Govindpur, Nirsa, Barwa Adda  and Maithon, while the signage and other indicators are also in a bad shape.” He further added, “We raised the issue of pending work with both the local administration and central government. We met Nitin Gadkari, the Union  Minister of Road Transport  and  Highways,” said Dudani. Balram Sao, added, “The pending work has greatly affected the normal traffic on the national highway in Govindpur.” Hazaribagh: A couple and their six-year-old son died of suffocation in their newly built house in Romi area of town. Rinku Khan(35), his wife Nikhat Perween and son Ahmad. Nikhat’s brother Iftekhar Khan alias Vicky Khan, a resident of Dhanbad was the only survivor. According to sources, Rinku, an affluent businessman, had hosted a housewarming party yesterday at his new residence, where he, his wife, son and Vicky stayed back for an overnight stay. They light a bonfire in the room to beat the chill. But the accumulation of carbon monoxide inside the room suffocated the family of three to death. The neighbours alerted the police when they couldn’t spot the family in the morning hours. Following which the police broke the door, took out the dead bodies and for autopsy, which confirmed that it was a case of carbon monoxide poisoning. Vishvendu Jaipuriar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
