22-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia: Residents face water crisis||The woes of more than five lakh Jharia residents who are already leading precarious life since December 6 due to more than 10 hours of load shedding  being carried out by DVC on account of pending dues with JBVNL to the tune of Rs 2100 crore has been further aggravated due to disruption of water supply since Monday. The latest water crisis has been triggered due to a technical snag that developed in the inlet pipeline of the Intake well of Jamadoba based water treatment plant of civic body, Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) responsible for water supply in Jharia and Katras. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Rajesh Keshri, a resident of Hetli Bandh locality of Jharia, who operates a cyber café on ground floor of the his house said, “Though my business has been greatly affected due to power crisis that developed since December 6 but the water crisis that developed three days ago has brought life to a virtual standstill for us. Water supply from the Damodar water supply made by the civic body JMADA through its Jamadoba based water treatment plant is the sole source of water for us." Echoing similar sentiments, Amit Sahu, President of Jharia chamber of Commerce and Industry, who also operates a residential lodge at the Jharia main market said, “The business which has been greatly affected due to the pandemic has been further affected due to lack of basic civic amenities like power supply and water supply. We can’t understand the reason for the delay in resolution of the water supply issue through the Jamadoba based water treatment plant affecting a population of around 5 lakh.” Notably, the Jamadoba based Water Treatment Plant (WTP) complex of JMADA established more than 50 years ago comprises two WTPs including one of 9 million gallon per day capacity meant for supply water in Putki, Kendua, Karkend and Moonidih and another of 12 million gallon per day capacity meant for water supply in Jharia. Pankaj Kumar Jha, Sub Divisional officer of Water Supply Division of JMADA said, “We have launched the repair work of inlet pipeline on war footing and water supply in likely to be restored by the second half of tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
22-12-2021||Jharkhand||Skill development to be promoted in premier college||Intended at nurturing and growing new and small business set ups by support through early stage of development and change, PK Roy Memorial College, Dhanbad has launched, the Kalam Center for Innovation, Incubation and Entrepreneurship at the MP hall building of the college. The college at the same time has launched a skill development centre to provide adequate training in market relevant skills including communication besides various technical skills at the Girls Hostel of institute. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, BK Sinha principal said, “We would nurture the innovative business ideas of the youth during the formative stages through fund and technical support with the help of industry and financial institutions like banks. We would organise various seminars, conferences and workshops during the month of January 2022 inviting the industries and financial institutions, guiding the students about emerging areas in which new business initiatives can be launched” said Sinha and added that the overall aim of establishing the incubation center is also making the college self reliant in terms of finance through generating it’s own resources by taking up industrial projects and others." “We would be also taking the help in incubation of IIT (ISM), Dhanbad after submitting a formal proposal to the institution where a Atal Community Innovation  Center has already been launched in September this year which is already on the job helping the various entrepreneurs of Dhanbad other parts of Jharkhand,” said Sinha. “As part of the incubation centre we provided them management training, business plants and prototypes of successful ventures,” said Sinha adding that the mentor at the incubation centre will conduct a detailed research on the business plan and then come up with some effective strategies  to cope with various challenges that  that may come with potential solutions for them. As part of the skill development centre, we will be imparting training in market oriented skills to students to help them earn better livelihood,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
22-12-2021||Jharkhand||Camp on awareness of sexual and reproductive health held||Jharia division of Tata Steel Foundation as part of its focused programme for adolescent and youth sexual and reproductive health, titled Regional Initiative for Safe Sexual Health by Today’s Adolescents (Project RISHTA) is carrying out awareness drive in all its 45 lease hold villages. Weekly meetings are organised by a team of five members including four field workers and a coordinator in every village for the adolescents and youth apprising them about the basic sexual and reproductive health issues, including balanced diet,  menstruational cycle related changes, need for proper hygiene practices, disadvantages of child marriage and others. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Lakshmi Kumari (35) a field worker of the team of five members of Project RISTA of Tata Steel foundation said, “To encourage the children to get knowledge about crucial health issues we also organise quizzes, drawing competitions and debates.” Divulging more details, Laxmi, a political science graduate said, “I am associated with the project since 2014 and my family extends all kinds of support to my work as they feel that it is better to work as social change agents through awareness work rather than to let the change to take place on it’s own” and added Child marriage violates children’s rights and places them at violence, exploitation and abuse." “We also apprise the girls of the adolescent period which is very important for the children as it is  characterised by rapid physical growth, psychological and behavioral changes,” said laxmi adding that  as taboos, myths and restrictions associated with menstruation leave a negative impact on adolescent girls so  through awareness they try to help them manage these issues with confidence and dignity and improve their quality of life. Rajesh Kumar, Head of Tata Steel Foundation, Jharia divison while talking to The Telegraph Online on the sidelines of weekly awareness programme at Sakhakulhi village said, “ The focused programme of RISHTA aims to improve the sexual and reproductive health and well being of adolescents and youth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
22-12-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi planning vaccine, Covid testing camps at picnic spots||The Ranchi district administration is working on plans to conduct random tests and set up vaccination camps at key tourist places in and around the capital ahead of an expected surge in footfall during the holiday season beginning with Christmas. The state government has not begun deliberations yet on enforcing Covid restrictions to regulate year-end festivities in the wake of the pandemic that is seeing a gradual rise in cases amid concerns over the faster spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus. Sources in the district administration said that officials were planning to set up vaccination camps at half a dozen tourist spots and also conduct random tests to remain vigilant. A senior official of the district health department said, “We are identifying the spots where we will hold vaccination camps and use mobile testing vans. These will be finalised in a day or two. But as per the trend every year, these will probably be set up at the prominent waterfalls around Ranchi.” Jonha, Hundru and Dassam water falls are among the top tourist destinations that attract large crowds every winter. People from as far as Bengal, Bihar and Odisha also visit these places for picnics during weekends. Among dams, Patratu, about 40km from Ranchi, is currently the most sought-after destination. Raj Kishore, a paryatak mitra, or tourists' helper appointed by the state tourism department, said that vaccine and testing camps would be set up from December 25 onwards. “We have been told that these camps will come up at waterfalls in Ranchi in view of the tourist rush. From our end, we will ensure that no one is allowed to enter without masks, and that everyone maintains social distancing," he said. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said he had already directed officials to strengthen vigil at inter-state and intra-district borders as precautionary measure. “Besides following covid appropriate behavior, testing and vaccination are the key tools to fight the virus spread. While we are regularly holding drives to urge people to follow covid protocols, the district has also stepped up efforts intensify testing at all transit points. This apart, as a part of the ongoing month-long vaccine camp, we are also taking measures to increase vaccination,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
22-12-2021||Jharkhand||Two young men shot dead in different incidents at Sonari and Goelkera||Two persons, including a 25-year-old youth, were shot dead by unidentified gunmen in different incidents at Sonari in the steel city and Goelkera in West Singhbhum district in different incidents past midnight. While the murder victim at Gitilipi village in Goelkera was identified as Prem Singh Surin (28), the youth shot dead near Domuhani bridge in Sonari was identified as Rohit Paswan (25). Sonari police station OC Anjaani Kumar Singh said that Rohit was attacked by a gang of six bike-borne criminals close to the Domuhani bridge at around 12.30 am on Wednesday while he was riding back home at Roopnagar in Sonari from a birthday party. "The murder victim was a member of Vikash Singh Hete gang. The murder looks like an outcome of gang rivalry. He sustained four bullets and was killed on the spot. We have recovered a pistol, a cellphone and a bike from the murder scene," said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online. Singh said that Hete gang had a rivalry with two other gangs operating in the Sonari police station area, adding that they are trying to detect those involved in the attack. The other gunshot murder took place on the Chaibasa-Goelkera road about 200 metres away from the murder victim's house and about 120 km away from here at around midnight. West Singhbhum SP, Ajay Linda said Prem Singh Surin used to stay at Chaibasa and had come home in Goelkera, about 60 km away, to celebrate his son's birthday on Tuesday. "As the murder victim and other family members were preparing to sleep, five-six men stormed into the house and took all the family members hostage at gunpoint before tying them all except Prem. Then they dragged Prem away to the Chaibasa-Goelkera road where they shot him, " said Linda while talking to The Telegraph Online. The SP said since the Gitilipi village is located about 25 km away from the Goelkera police station and situated in a Naxal-infested area, the police got the information about the incident late Wednesday morning. The senior police officer refused to rule out the possibility of Naxals being involved behind the murder, adding that the murder victim would work as a bus cleaner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
22-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand regions shiver under sub-10 chill||Most parts of Jharkhand experienced sub-10 temperatures on Wednesday with places like Ranchi, Daltonganj, Hazaribagh and Bokaro having to bear with the season's coldest day so far. Both Ranchi and Bokaro recorded 5.8°C, the season's lowest, forcing local residents to wear layers of warm clothes. At both places, the minimum reading was around 4 notches below normal. Hazaribagh also experienced the season's coldest day with the local IMD observatory recording a minimum temperature of 6.6 °C. The minimum temperature in Jamshedpur was recorded at  8°C, around four notches below normal. Chaibasa in adjoining West Singhbhum district recorded 8.2 °C. IMD records suggest that sub- 10 chill was prevailing in all districts of the Santhal Pargana region, including Deoghar, Pakur, Jamtara, Sahebganj, northern, southern and central Jharkhand. IMD forecasts fog and  mist during early morning and  mainly clear sky later for the next three days. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said the dominating northerly wind has intensified the chill. However, he said there would be no significant change in night temperatures during next 48 hours. According to Anand, moderate cold wave conditions would continue to prevail in several pockets of Jharkhand for the next two days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
