23-12-2021||Jharkhand||Sarna code: Jharkhand tribal council sends memo to President ||Vice chairman of Tribes Advisory Council (TAC) and state transport minister Champai Soren led an all-party delegation without the  BJP to submit a memorandum to President of India through governor Ramesh Bais on Thursday to demand the implementation of the Sarna code, ie, a separate religion column in the upcoming nationwide census. The delegation comprised 12 members and party leaders of the JMM, Congress, AJSU-P and tribal outfits that are part of the council. BJP, the main Opposition party, however, stayed away as it has been boycotting the council since its re-formation early this year, calling it  “unconstitutional” after the chief minister was made its chairman in place of the governor. After the meeting late on Thursday evening, Soren said, “The Sarna code is a long- pending demand of tribals in the state and in other adivasi dominated regions. Therefore, ahead of the upcoming national Census, we want a separate column for it in the survey as it will provide a distinct identity to tribals. TAC, being the highest constitutional and advisory body for tribal development in the state, has formally submitted its memo to the President through the Governor.” Implementation of the Sarna code was one of the key poll planks of JMM and Congress, both members of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand. In November last year, Jharkhand Assembly passed a resolution for a separate Sarna code which was sent to the Centre. Thereafter, in September this year, chief minister Hemant Soren also led an all-party delegation including the BJP to meet Union home minister Amit Shah on the issue. The delegation was, however, told that it would not be possible to include the Sarna code in the upcoming Census. Thereafter, the council held a meeting under the chairmanship of the chief minister and passed another resolution to send a proposal to the President of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
23-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: Dhanbad police distribute blankets in Wasseypur||Dhanbad: After launching a crackdown against Wasseypur-based criminals in the aftermath of the murder of a realtor, Nanhe Khan, Dhanbad police organised blanket distribution camp, during Police Aapke Dwar Programme. Around 200 local residents were provided with quilts to beat the chill. Senior Police officers led by Sanjeev Kumar, senior superintendent of police, even heard out the grievances of some of the local residents and also provided on the spot solutions to some of the issues raised by them. The programme that began at around 10 am in the morning had several police officers, including Reshma Rameshan, Superintendent of Police (Rural); Manoj Swargiyari, Additional Superintendent of Police; AmarKumar Pandey, DSP (Govindpur) and Rajesh Kumar, DSP (Traffic) besides local residents led by Nisar Alam, former councilor of Ward Number 17 and others. Talking to media at the site, Sanjeev Kumar who also dined with the commoners during the feast said, “Today’s programme is part of community police effort that aims at apprising people that we are to serve them and that they can freely interact with the police to seek solutions for their problems.” “Besides organizing the feast for more than 1000 persons and distributing blankets among the common people we also listened to their complaints and problems and tried to address the issues raised by them to the best of our community,” said Kumar. Senior journalist-cum-social worker Md Imtiyaz said, “This is a commendable initiative by the police. But real change will happen when the local residents will have no inhibition in speaking to the cops.” Praduman Choubey Garwa: Sparing a though for the destitute, Garwa’s superintendent of police, Anjani Kumar Jha, distributed as many as 50 blankets among the homeless across the town. A majority of the recipients were beggars and the street dwellers The operation started at around 10 pm and continued till 12 am. Jha visited Garhwa Railway Station, near RAV Stadium, Ranka more and other places, scouting for people in need of blankets. S P said, “Blankets were given primarily to rickshaw pullers or beggars.” He even appealed to the general public to donate to the poor during the winter season. Our Correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
23-12-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: School bus crushes pregnant woman, five-year-old son ||A school bus of a private school in Barwadda, carrying over 30 students, crushed a 25 year old pregnant women, Pinki Devi and her five-year-old son this afternoon around noon near Murradih Millat Nagar under Barwaddah Police station, about 8 km from Dhanbad district headquarters. The victims belonged to Kenduadih locality of Barwaddah. The incident took place when the bus was heading towards Loharbarwa from Barwaddah to drop students to their home. It is learnt that the pregnant woman and her five-year-old son were heading towards Dhanbad to visit a doctor along with her husband on his bike. The bike on which they were travelling skidded off due to construction material lying on the roadside due to which the woman and her son came under the rear wheels of the bus leading to their deaths on the spot. The driver of the bus fled the spot. Meanwhile, more than five hundred local residents who rushed to site along with family members of the deceased attacked the bus, breaking its wind screen. They carried out a massive road blockade for more than four hours demanding compensation for the family members of the deceased by the school management and also action against the driver and school owner. A team of Barwaddah Police station of Dhanbad led by Suman Kumar, officer in Charge of Barwaddah police station which reached the accident site seized the bus and tried in vain to pacify the agitated people who were demanding negotiations with the school owner. The blockade was lifted only at around 5 pm after talks held between the agitators and school management led by  Dharnidhar Mandal, Secretary of School Management Committee led by Dharnidhar Mandal was successful. An eyewitness of the incident while talking to the media said, “The incident took place due to construction material dumped irresponsibly besides the road.”  Suman Kumar, Officer in Charge of Barwaddah said, “We have organized the talks between the family members and other residents and school management committee. We have launched a manhunt for the driver of the bus who escaped from the site.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
23-12-2021||Jharkhand||Popular tourist hub Topchanchi gasps for respite||Topchanchi, one of the most popular tourist spots of the region is lying in shambles due to abject administrative neglect. As a result it is causing a lot of difficulties to picnickers from Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih, Jamtara and adjoining areas of Bengal. The shoddy state of affairs can be assumed from the fact that one of the important bridges situated on the bank of the lake has been lying damaged since more than three months making travelling around the scenic lake a one-way affair leading to traffic congestion. Not only this, the two guest houses of the civic body, Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA)-the custodian of the lake is also lying in extremely bad shape due to lack of renovation turning them useless. All this, despite the fact that due to abundant rain during this monsoon, the lake is flowing at 75 feet only 3.5 feet below the maximum level of 78.5 feet adding beauty to the scenic beauty of the lake surrounded by a group of hillocks. Notably the comprehensive broadening and strengthening of the 5-km road lying all around the lake has been carried out by JMADA as part of a series of projects but due to heavy transport vehicles plying over the bridge constructed during the British era, it has been damaged. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Raman Sinha, a picnicker who visited the site along with his wife and children, said,  “It is one of the best picnic spots of the region as the serene locales also make it a favourite for the wide variety of migratory birds.” Developed as an artificial lake by the British Government in 1924 by tapping the ten natural channels flowing through the nearby Parasnath group of hills, Topchanchi lake is a major tourist destination and besides the lake a wild life sanctuary situated on 8.75 square km area also draws a large number of tourists. Surrounded by several beautiful hillocks, the lake was once popular among filmmakers and film stars including Dharmendra , Ashok Kumar,Uttam Kumar, Mazhar Khan, Girish Karnad, Suchitra Sen who have shot  here. Indresh Shukla,  Executive Engineer cum Technical Member of JMADA said, “We will carry out repair of the bridge after the water level recedes in two-three months and simultaneously the pending work around the road will also be completed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
23-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC look to continue fine run as ISL announces tournament’s 2nd half fixtures||After a satisfactory performance in the first-half of the ongoing Indian Super League (2021-22) in Goa, Jamshedpur FC would look to carry forward the momentum when they take the field in the second-half of the cash-rich tournament next year. The Men of Steel, who are currently placed 2nd on the table with 12 points (7 matches, 3 wins, 3 draws and 1 loss), are still required to play 3 more matches to complete their first-half-engagement. The remaining first-half matches are against Kerala Blasters FC (December 26), Chennaiyin FC (January 2) and Northeast United FC (January 6). Jamshedpur will clash with SC East Bengal in their opening match of the second-half on January 11 and follow it up with encounters against Hyderabad FC (January 17), Mumbai City FC (January 21), FC Goa (January 28), Bengaluru FC (February 5), Kerala Blasters FC (February 11), ATK Mohun Bagan (February 16), Odisha FC (February 22), Northeast United FC (February 27) and Chennaiyin FC (March 3). According to the second-half schedule announced by Football Sports Development Limited, the final round will begin on January 10 and will be played over a 55-day period as the teams fight it out for the end-of-season silverware. This season’s ISL has so far captivated the fans with high scoring games with many teams still being in contention to not only win the league but secure a place in the top 4 to go on to reach the final. Defending champion Mumbai City FC is set to emerge as league leaders, However, they are being given a chase by Jamshedpur FC and Hyderabad FC – two teams desperate for their first semi-finals appearance along with two-time winners Chennaiyin FC. Jamshedpur have never made it to the semi-finals ever since making their ISL debut in the 2017-18 season. The Tata Steel-owned club experimented with four coaches (Steve Coppell), (Cesar Ferrando), Antonio Iriondo) and the current incumbent (Owen Coyle) who took charge in the last season. The current form of the club has shown a lot of positivity and the boys under head coach Owen are playing with an intent to reach their desired goal this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
23-12-2021||Jharkhand||Retired octogenarian technocrat imparts computer training to needy ||At a time when others of his age are leading a secluded life, octogenarian Rameshwar Prasad, a retired mechanical engineer of ACC Sindri is busy helping the needy in the remote Tundi block of Dhanbad by establishing computer training centre cum libraries with the help of funds provided by the Indian technocrats settled abroad. Prasad who visited the centre recently at Saparo in Tundi along with his family members said, “We interacted with the trainees as well as trainers at the centre established around a year ago in memory of my father Keshawa Prasad, and witnessed significant improvement in village students, women and youth. Apart from the centre at Saparo equipped with three desktops, one laptop, and three sewing machines, we are also operating two more centres at Mairanwatand and Kolhahir villages in Tundi where we have been imparting computer and stitching training since over 18 months". “We have established all the three centers at the vacant buildings of Ekal Vidyalaya, a single-teacher school established by Vanvasi Kalayan Kendra which were lying unused since a few years due to establishment of government schools under the Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan scheme,” said Prasad. “We have constituted a committee of local residents for the running of all the three centres and the trainers also include locals who have some computer operation skills as well as some women who are adept at stitching, sewing embroidery and others," said Prasad. “Technocrats primarily in US are already providing financial support to meritorious students through the Foundation of Excellence (FFE)  an NGO of NRIs in US having its office at Bangalore,” said Prasad who himself conducts scholarship programmes to meritorious girl students of plus two under the banner of Prakash Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
23-12-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city: Migratory birds flock in small numbers||Migratory birds though in small numbers, have started flocking together in various waterbodies in and around the steel city. Flights of birds from as far away as Siberia have descended on the picturesque Dimna lake, Chandil dam and Sitarampur dam in Gamharia, adding colour to the waterbodies. Rise in activities and pollution have been obstacles for such birds to make it to the waterbodies in the recent past. Revealing about the foreign winged guests to the foothills of Dalma hill,  Dalma divisional forest officer, Abhishek Kumar said the Siberian birds have been sighted recently. "We used to keep a tab on the arrival of the migratory birds to the region in the foothills of Dalma every year around this period of the season," said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online.  The DFO pointed out that an increase in the number fishing activities in the waterbodies, including at the sprawling Chandil dam is suspected to have distracted the migratory birds from coming here. The senior forest officer added that since the past three years, the migratory birds were sighted in Pata lake along the NH-33 in the foothills of Dalma and even at some places on the Subernarekha river, but the birds have not been seen in these places this time. Lakes and ponds get frozen in Russia during the winter, forcing the birds from this freezing region to migrate over to the tropical countries, including India every winter. "Once the migratory birds hit the local waterbodies, it adds to the beauty of the lakes and dam much to the delight of the tourists and those willing to spend some quality time there. But the decreasing number of the migratory birds is causing a concern for us, " deplored the Dalma DFO, expecting that something has to be done for the winged guests from getting further distracted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
