24-12-2021||Jharkhand||ISL: Jamshedpur FC face Kerala Blasters in crucial tie on Sunday  ||Jamshedpur FC, which is eyeing a spot  in the top 4, would like to put up a solid performance when they it takes on Kerala Blasters FC in a crucial Indian Super League (ISL) 2021-22 tie in Goa on Sunday. The Men of Steel are placed 3rd on the points table (behind  Mumbai FC and Hyderabad FC) and have so far performed satisfactorily in the cash-rich tournament.A win against Kerala would certainly bolster their dream of making it to the top 4 for the first time. Kerala, on the other hand, is positioned 4th. Head coach Owen Coyle said, “It's always nice when we get clean sheets. We feel that in a couple of games we could have had clean sheets but we gave away sloppy goals in some instances. But, obviously we have to have that focus, that concentration and step up the pitch even stronger since we were playing a wonderful team." "The in-form Kerala Blasters are doing very well, particularly the attacking players like Pereyra Diaz, Vasquez, Luna, Sahal Samad who are all terrific. So we've got to be wary of the threat they've got and give them the utmost respect as we always will do. It's a game that we're looking forward to," he added. When asked about an update on the injuries in the squad, Owen said they obviously had injuries before the previous game. Pronay had missed out and Nerka Valskis felt a niggle in the warm up and had to be taken off the line-up to rest, Komal got injured in the game as did Len Doungel. “So I think it's fair to say we have four or five knocks and injury concerns ahead of the Kerala Blasters game. But we will give the lads time till the last minute, but I can confirm that a few will miss out. That's why we have a squad, so that we have players who are ready and looking to get in and play their part, and that's what we'll look to do,” he added. Owen added that Kerala Blasters have wonderful foreigners. Alvaro Vasquez, a striker who has played at a very high level, Pereyra Diaz, is also solid. "Young Sahal Samad is an offensive player who is pleasing to watch, is quick, can score a goal and also create chances to score. They also have other wonderful players, Prashant, the winger who is a good substitution player and quick with the ball. So, they've got  dangerous players," he elaborated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
24-12-2021||Jharkhand||Omicron effect: Mixed festive spirit for Dhanbad clubs||The two oldest clubs of the district, Dhanbad club and Union Club are moving in diagonally opposite directions with regard to the new year celebration. While Dhanbad club is not holding any special programme, the Union Club has lined a series of programmes beginning from Saturday. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Amitesh Sahay, Secretary of Union Club said, “Our series programmes will begin with the live band performance by The Silk Route during the Christmas and all covid protocols will be followed." The Christmas Band performance will be followed by DJ night by Ajay Kumar of city of Joy, Calcutta on December 26. On December 27, members of the club will have full entertainment with a Karaoke performance by Dishani and Abhimaan. As part of Karaoke entertainment, the machine plays only the music of the popular song while the people sing the song themselves. On December 28 a street food festival will be organised in the club. Tambola game, a type of housie, titled popular Bollywood Tambola will be held in the club on December 29 while on December 30 the audience will be regaled through the performance of saxophone by Shautak Ali Khan. “There will be no special performance on December 31 but the gala dinner will be enjoyed by the club members,” said Sahay. Sanjeev Beotra, Secretary of Dhanbad club, Oldest Club of the district said, “We are not holding any special programme this year due to increased threat of spread of omicron etc but the club with remain open with all its vividity like any other day and club members themselve can enjoy."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
24-12-2021||Jharkhand||New Year darshan only for vaccinated devotees at Baidyanath dham, Basukinath temple||Entry to unvaccinated people to famed Baba Baidyanath dham and Basukinath temple will not allow unvaccinated people to visit the abodes of Lord Shiva in Deoghar and adjoining Dumka on New Year's Day to try prevent the traditional rush of devotees on account of the Covid-19 pandemic that is staring at a new phase of uncertainty on account of the new fast-spreading omicron variant. While the state government hasn’t yet announced any fresh curbs or new  regulations, district administrations are taking a host of steps to prevent a  resurgence of the virus. Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri said, “We have decided to allow entry to only  devotees who are fully vaccinated. This apart, other safety precautions like mandatory use of masks, proper cleaning and sanitation of the temple and its adjoining premises will continue to be in force.” On Friday, he along with SP Dhananjay Kumar Singh inspected the temple premises to monitor administrative preparedness for overall maintenance of law and order. The two officers also inspected the routes leading to the temple and directed local authorities  to clear roadside encroachments to prevent overcrowding. “Officials have been asked to install makeshift toilets as well make proper drinking water facilities at multiple points on temple routes for maintaining overall hygiene and sanitation in the city,” he said. At least 50,000 people visit Deoghar temple every year from different parts of the state as well as from neighbouring Bihar to offer prayers to Lord Shiva on January 1. Similar measures have been sounded by Dumka district administration for the Basukinath temple, another prominent religious hotspots. A temple official said, “A meeting was held with the authorities of Basukinath temple on Thursday after which we decided that only fully vaccinated persons will be allowed  darshan on January 1. Along with temple volunteers, the administration will also deploy magistrates and security personnel for  crowd control.” Jharkhand has so far not reported any case of Omicron infection. But there is a steady increase in the number of  new Covid-19 cases for the last few days. The active case count in the state is now at  236, as per Thursday night’s bulletin, which is almost double of what it was  last month. Over the last two days alone, the state witnessed 95 cases of fresh infection after 44 new cases came to the fore on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
24-12-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri fertilizer factory to be fully operational from March, 2022 ||The fertilizer factory of Sindri established by Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL) at a cost of Rs 6500 crore is likely to be more operational in March next year with 60% capacity. All this as 93% work of the plant laying has already been completed and the testing of one of the boilers of the factory has already been successfully completed on December 13. Sources in HURL indicated that 97% installation work of the Urea plant has already been completed while 80% of the installation of the Ammonia plant has also been completed. Talking to media, Kameshwar Jha, General Manager of Sindri unit of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited said, “Production in Urea plant is likely to begin with 60% capacity from March next year and after the production at 60% capacity for initial three months, it will be increased to the full capacity of 12.7 tonnes per annum.” “Installation work of different machineries and equipment is being carried out on war footing and  the commissioning of the plant will also help to generate employement for more than 1500 persons” further said Jha. Notably, the factory comprising a 3850 tons per day Ammonia Plant, 2220 tonnes per day capacity Urea plant besides the captive power plant of 30 MegaWatt for which the foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister, Narendra Modi on june 25, 2018 is being established on 751 acres of land of Old fertilizer factory of the FCI by dismantling and removing  the scrap of the old fertilizer factory of Sindri. The new factory being established by Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited, a joint venture company of  National Thermal Power Corporation (30%), Coal India Limited (30%), Indian Oil (30%) and Fertilizer Corporation of India (10%) will be a natural gas based factory and the pipeline has also been laid for the natural gas supplyby Gas Authority of India Limited though the Haldia Gorkhpur gas pipeline passing through Ganduwa area of Chandankiyari Block of Bokaro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
24-12-2021||Jharkhand||Christmas: Drones to keep vigil on crowd in steel city||District police has geared up security arrangements at popular spots in view of the Christmas celebrations in the steel city and beyond from Saturday. Apart from police deployment the district police authority have decided to use drone camera for keeping a vigil on the crowd of revelers in attractive places like Jubilee Park in Bistupur, Dimna lake near Mango and Bhurudih dam in Ghatsila. Revealing about the security arrangements, superintendent of police (City) Nathulal Meena said they have decided to deploy over 500 police personnel, including lady cops in Jubilee Park, Dimna lake and Bhurudih dam on Christmas day on Saturday. "While 500 police personnel will remain posted at the three popular tourist hotspots, about 100 men will be moving around these spots in plain clothes so as to keep an eye on proceedings," said Meena while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said adequate number of magistrates will also be deputed at these places so that the police personnel may take any punitive measure against the law breakers in consultation with the former. Meena who is SP (Rural) and doubling up as SP (City) pointed out that they have kept drone cameras in reserve and will use the gadgets if the crowd gets unexpectedly bigger during the Christmas celebrations. "Crowd at tourist spots like Jubilee Park and Dimna lake during Christmas celebrations does not get as massive as the year end and new year celebrations. But still we have kept drone cameras in reserve. During new year celebrations, drone cameras will definitely be used, " said the senior police officer. Apart from the three popular tourist hotspots, police personnel will remain deputed in good number at lesser-known places like Modi Park, Bhatia Park, Ghorabandha theme park and Domuhani bridge area. Patrolling will also be intensified at marketplaces and important thoroughfares in the city. Large number of people, including women and children tend to turn up at public places during this time -  even from Bengal and Odisha besides the local region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
24-12-2021||Jharkhand||CRPF officer found dead in Palamu ||A CRPF officer, who had suspectedly suffered a heart attack, was found dead in Jharkhand's Palamu district on Friday, police said. Superintendent of Police Chandan Kumar Sinha said that Central Reserve Police Force Sub-inspector Bhupendra Singh Yadav, who suffered from low blood pressure, was found dead in Dagra picket under Nawabazar police station. Yadav, who hailed from Rajasthan, was in the 134th battalion of the CRPF and was deployed for anti-Naxal operations, the SP said. The CRPF SI had gone to sleep after having his dinner on Thursday night, and when he did not wake up on Friday morning, his fellow jawans took him to Chhatarpur Sub-divisional Hospital, where doctors declared him dead, Sinha said. Though the cause of death seems to be a heart attack, it can only be ascertained after post-mortem examination, the police officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
24-12-2021||Jharkhand||Train service severely disrupted for modification in Bilaspur division||Check your travel plans before going out for a train journey. Due to a non- interlocking work (modernisation and modification work of signalling system)  in Bilaspur division of South East Central Railway, several trains of South Eastern Railway would remain cancelled. The Howrah – CSMT (Mumbai) Express which travels via Tatanagar was cancelled from Howrah on Friday while the CSMT(Mumbai) - Howrah Express will remain cancelled from on December 26. The Hazur Sahib Nanded - Santragachi Express which goes via Tatanagar will remain cancelled from Hazur Sahib Nanded on December 27 while the return train Santragachi - Hazur Sahib Nanded Express will remain cancelled from Santragachi on December 29. The Bilaspur - Patna Express was cancelled today while the Patna - Bilaspur Express will remain cancelled from Patna on December 26. The Hatia – Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) Express will remain cancelled from  Hatia on Friday and Saturday. The Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) -Hatia Express will remain cancelled from  LTT on two days - December 26 and 27. The Udaipur - Shalimar Express will remain cancelled from  Udaipur on December 25 while the return train Shalimar - Udaipur Express will remain cancelled from  Shalimar on December 26. The Kamakhya - LTT Express which goes via Tatanagar railway station will remain cancelled from  Kamakhya on Decembe 25 while the LTT - Kamakhya Express will remain cancelled from  LTT on December 28. The Howrah - CSMT(Mumbai) Mail will remain  cancelled from Howrah on December 26 while the return train will remain cancelled on December 28. The Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) – Shalimar Express will remain cancelled from  LTT on December 22,  23 and 29 The Shalimar - Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) Express will remain cancelled from  Shalimar on December 24, 25 and 31. The Porbandar - Santragachi Express  which travels via Tatanagar was halted from  Porbandar today while the Santragachi - Porbandar Express will remain cancelled from  Santragachi on December 26. The Howrah - Sainagar Shirdi Express will remain cancelled from Howrah between December 24 and December 30 while the Sainagar Shirdi – Howrah Express will remain cancelled from Sainagar Shirdi on December 25 and January 1. The Gondia – Jharsuguda Special will remain cancelled from Gondia on December  30 while the  Jharsuguda - Gondia Special will remain cancelled from  Jharsuguda on December  31. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Neeraj Kumar said apart from cancellation of  trains, Howrah – Ahmedabad Express will run as a passenger train from Jharsuguda to Raigarh between December 25 and 30. He said all stations under SER jurisdiction have been intimated about the cancellation of trains for the development work in Bilaspur railway division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
24-12-2021||Jharkhand||Church to celebrate Christmas sharing happiness with poor||In line with the Christmas Pastoral letter, the Catholic Archdiocese of Ranchi will celebrate Christmas sharing happiness with the poor and distributing cycle rickshaws, sewing machines and blankets for the underprivileged. Informing media on Thursday, Ranchi Archbishop Felix Toppo and auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas who is also apostolic administrator of Daltonganj diocese, said that like earlier years they will be focussed on a spiritually rich but materially sober Christmas and sharing the love of Jesus Christ with poor and downtrodden. “We have already started distribution of blankets for nearly a month among poor and on October 26 morning we will be distributing 20 cycle rickshaws for poor men and 32 sewing machines to needy women in order to assist them in their livelihood. The distribution of blankets would continue throughout the winter season,” said Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas. According to sources in the Catholic Archdiocese, the donation would be done through contributions of the faithful and also from the archdiocese. “It is the sacrificial contribution of the faithful and also from the archdiocese that we are organising such distribution right throughout the Covid pandemic. The selection of the archdiocesan secretary Father Sushil Toppo. Significantly, over 3000 blankets have already been distributed by the archdiocese and also by Catholic Youths of Ranchi in the outskirts of Ranchi and other nearby districts. It was also announced by auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas that like last year there will be both offline and online midnight mass on December 25. However, those coming to the church will have to follow the Covid protocols. “We will also be holding special prayers so that the new variant of concern Omicron does not impact the country and world,” added Bishop. Throughout the pandemic the Archdiocese of Ranchi along with many religious congregations has been out in the streets at the service of the poor, organizing shelters for migrants, distributing dry rations, dispensing blankets, aiding people with medical help. At the height of the second wave, the Ranchi Catholic youth under Ranchi Archdiocese were outside the Government hospitals (frequented mostly by the poor) providing cooked food for thousands of patients and their attendants. The archdiocese had earlier this year also distributed 21 cycle rickshaws to needy rickshaw pullers. The Advent and Christmas Pastoral letter issued on November 28 by the Ranchi Catholic Archdiocese had called upon the faithful not to splurge with expensive decorations, lightings and prohibited bursting of crackers and instead urged to contribute for charity. Jharkhand Christian Youth Association president Kuldeep Tirkey speaking to The Telegraph informed that so far 700 blankets have been distributed among poor in Ranchi and outskirts areas since the last few weeks and would continue in the New Year too. “We contribute among ourselves for this charity as we believe that real Christmas lies in sharing our happiness with the unfortunate,” said Tirkey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
24-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Lynch bid video after Assembly passes lynch law||A video has emerged purportedly showing a man tied upside down from a tree and beaten by a mob, a day after the Jharkhand Assembly passed the Prevention of Mob Violence and Mob Lynching Bill, 2021. The video that went viral on Wednesday evening had an 18-year-old youth, identified as Khustar Ansari, being beaten after he was tied upside down from a tree and was tonsured by relatives of a girl with whom he was purportedly in a relationship. The victim is a resident of Satbarwa under Lesliganj police station area of Palamu district, nearly 165km from Ranchi. Both the youth and the girl belong to the same community. “I have directed the officer-in-charge of Lesliganj police station to probe into the issue and take suitable action. However, till Wednesday neither side had lodged any formal complaint in the police station,” said Palamu SP Chandan Kumar Sinha. Lesliganj police station official Gautam Kumar Rai said that they identified the victim during the course of investigation on the basis of the viral video. “After locating the victim youth who had been beaten, we reached his house on Thursday. We came to know that the incident had taken place six days back in Karma village, where the girl stays. But the youth had hesitated to lodge any complaint. He was in love with the minor girl and was caught at the girl’s house by family members who thrashed him and tonsured his head. Fortunately, the youth had not sustained any grievous injury except to his foot. We will take action against the named accused soon,” said Rai. After requests from the police, the youth lodged an FIR against five persons at Lesliganj police station on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
