25-12-2021||Jharkhand||Hard coke factory owners protest against power cuts; write to Centre||Perturbed over long hours of power cuts in seven districts of Jharkhand - including, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih, Chatra, Hazaribagh, Ramgarh and Koderma, a group of 75 hard coke facotry owners of the state have written Raj Kumar Singh, Union Minister of State (Independent charge), Power, New and Renewable energy expressing resentment and shock over the alleged arm twisting technique used by Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). BN Singh, president of Industries and Commerce Association (ICA), the oldest trade and commerce body of the state that represents the 75 hard coke manufacturing units said that they have also written to the minister against unexpected treatment from a PSU in the past. “Such power cuts put hardships on citizens,” Singh pointed out in his letter and added that the same applies to indusrial units and coporations in the state for whom long power cuts cause massive disruption of production processes. “DVC depends on Jharkhand for coal but it is highly illogical that if a state government is not able to pay dues, people of the state are made to suffer on this pretext,” he said adding it seems that DVC is an entity that is independent of any control and can do anything it wants. “There can be other ways of recovering dues from a state government rather than doing things wrongly,” the letter adds. "The association  seeks your attention at the earliest  to take up the matter with DVC as well as the state government and sort out the problems amicably by arbitrating under the ambit of law rather than thretening a  duly elected state government and punishing the people of state who are caught in the cross fire," it states. Talking to The Telegraph Online on this issue, Singh, said, “The hard coke factory owners of the region are already suffering due to short supply of coal by Coal India and the power crisis is further affecting them." Notably, DVC has taken to over 10 hours of load shedding in seven districts of Jharkhand falling under its purview since December 6 in order to realise its dues worth over Rs 2100 crore lying with the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
25-12-2021||Jharkhand||Precious Christmas for special children organised in coal town||More than 50 special children suffering from hearing problems and mental ailments enjoyed a spcial Christmas at their school, Jeevan Jyoti School dancing to the tunes of jingle bells, eating cakes, chocolates, biscuits, chilps and enjoying variety of beverages. The occasion was organised by Rotary Club of Dhanbad and Inner Wheel Club during which, Dasrath Chandra Das, Dhanabd Deputy Development who was present as chief guest, handed over a tricyle to a needy person behalf of Rotary Club.  Rajesh Parkeria, Secretary of Jeevan Jyoti School Management Commitee informed Das that the school is serving special children since the last 31 years and imparts education as well as training to students suffering from cerebral palsy, autism, speech and language disabilty, dwarfism, muscular dystrophy, deaf and hard to hearing  students. He further elaborated that besides imparting academic lessons and special training vis-a-vis physical exercies, students are also trained in livelihood skills like candle making, incesnes stick (Agarbatti Making), designer diya making and others. Notably, the designer diyas and candles made by the students of Jeevan Jyoti School are sold to various eminent personalities includingsome doctors from different parts fo the state besides adjoining Bihar. Meanwhile a similar celebration was held at Hindu Mission Orphanage at Hirapur in Dhanbad where the passout batches of All Nobilian Alumni Association distributed wide variety of goodies, cakes, biscuits, chocolates, potato chips and others among children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
25-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand could receive sudden showers in 72 hours||If the weathermen have it right again, Jharkhand, particularly its north-western and central parts, may get surprise showers after the next 72 hours even as sub-10 chill was prevailing in some isolated pockets of the state on Saturday. According to IMD offices in Patna and Ranchi, an approaching western disturbance in lower latitudes would impact the weather in Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar around December 28, Tuesday, bringing about light unseasonal rainfall that would, in turn, jack up night temperatures. "A passing western disturbance in the north is expected to result in an induced cyclonic circulation over southeast Uttar Pradesh extending 1.5 km above the mean sea level. Under its influence, cloud cover and rainfall are expected at several places in the state especially north western and central parts from Tuesday," said Abhishek Anand, head of  Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Corroborating this,  another official at Patna Meteorological Centre added that the impact of the western disturbance was expected to remain for three days from Tuesday. "The system will result in moisture incursion into the atmosphere. Clouds will automatically push up minimum readings," he added. Meanwhile, dry weather prevailed over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours with dominating westerly winds. Shallow fog resulted in poor visibility on Saturday morning at several places, especially those located in high terrains. Daltonganj on Saturday recorded the state's lowest minimum temperature 8.0°C. Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 10.2°C, one notch above normal on Saturday, while steel city Jamshedpur recorded a minimum temperature of 10.4°C, two notches below normal. Bokaro recorded 8.5°C, three notch below normal while Hazaribagh recorded 9°C, two notches below normal. Chaibasa in adjoining West Singhbhum district recorded a minimum reading of 11.2°C, one notch below normal. Most districts in the Santhal Pargana region, including Dumka and Pakur recorded a minimum reading above 11 °C on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
25-12-2021||Jharkhand||Unlit Adityapur toll bridge causing difficulties to commuters||During day time the Adityapur toll bridge over the Kharkai river is a pleasant stretch to ride through, but one needs guts to negotiate through it in the night. Connecting Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district to Kadma locality in the steel city, the two km-long toll road turns scary after the dusk as none of the lamps on the important road is functional. As a result, the toll road remains unlit and commuters are left with the option of either detouring through the Kharkai bridge in Bistupur or risking their lives while riding through the unlit stretch. A large number of commuters use the toll bridge for going to the Adityapur industrial area for attending their duty in the night. Apart from the industrial workers, the toll road is also used by people and students who come to the steel city from Adityapur and Gamharia for shopping purpose and coaching classes. "While riding through the unlit toll road, I have to take extra precautions against heavy vehicles coming from the opposite direction. Though it is a one-way road, the strong beams of headlights get my vision blurred. Had the road been properly lit, the headlights' beams would not have been an issue," said Tarkeshwar Sinha, a resident of Ulyan in Kadma. Sinha (56) who works in an industrial unit at Adityapur had met with an accident on the toll road in January this year but survived the mishap with a multiple injury on his left leg. Like Sinha, several others have been victims to the unlit toll road, but the authority concerned did nothing to fix the defunct lamps. Set up by Adityapur Toll Bridge Company Ltd (ATBCL) in the year 2011, the toll bridge was maintained well till 2018, but after the Domuhani bridge was set up over the Subernarekha river connecting Sonari to NH-33 through Dobo in Chandil, its maintenance has suffered. An official of the ATBCL said that after the Domuhani bridge came into being in 2018, a good number of heavy vehicles evade the toll bridge route, thus causing huge revenue loss leaving impact on its maintenance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
25-12-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren extends Christmas greetings to Felix Toppo||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren at the Archbishop’s House in Ranchi to extend Christmas greetings to Ranchi Archdiocese Archbishop Felix Toppo. They cut a cake to mark Christmas Eve. The chief minister also prayed to Jesus Christ for peace and prosperity in the state. Soren said Christmas is a festival of sharing happiness and cautioned all to celebrate ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
25-12-2021||Jharkhand||Student credit card scheme for higher education in Jharkhand||The Jharkhand government has taken a cue from Bengal to ensure that students pursue higher education through a credit card scheme. The project, being finalised by the Jharkhand higher and technical education department, will be announced by chief minister Hemant Soren at a function to mark two years of the JMM-led UPA government on December 29. “The student credit card scheme is loosely based on the Bengal model. The scheme would be tabled during the budget session of the Assembly for a formal nod in February-March next year. The department is working on the nitty-gritty of the scheme. The move is aimed at benefiting tribal students who face problem in getting educational loans,” said a senior official in the higher and technical education department. During the launch of the Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Overseas Scholarship scheme for tribal students in Ranchi in September this year, Hemant had said the government wad working on plans to facilitate higher studies for other communities, too. “Lack of education is the cause of most of the problems confronting the state. Our government is working on supporting students of other communities to pursue higher studies, be it in the country or overseas,” Soren had said during the function. Under the student credit card scheme, the government will help students to get a soft loan of up to Rs 10 lakh for higher studies with the help of a credit card. “A student will have to be a resident (domicile) of Jharkhand to avail the benefit of the scheme. The age limit of the student will also be fixed for the scheme. The student will have a tenure to repay the soft loan, which can possibly be 15 years. “In an improvement on the Bengal scheme, the Jharkhand credit card scheme will also benefit students studying in various coaching institutes in the country to prepare for national-level competitive exams such as civil services, engineering, medical and business management,” said a source in the chief minister’s office. The student credit card scheme in Bengal, which was launched in June this year, supports students financially by providing up to Rs 10 lakhs collateral-free loan at four per cent simple interest. One per cent interest concession will be provided to the borrower if the interest is fully serviced during the study period. The repayment period is 15 years for any loan availed under the scheme. Loans for tribal students The sub-committee of the Tribal Advisory Council has decided to visit tribal-dominated states such as Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha to study how the tribal students are getting education loans. The sub-committee led by JMM senior leader and MLA Stephen Marandi has accepted that due to the prohibition on purchase and sale of tribal land owing to CNT and SPT Act, tribals face difficulty in taking education loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
