26-12-2021||Jharkhand||Train services disrupted in Ranchi-Rourkela route after goods trains collide||Train services were disrupted on the Ranchi Rourkela section of Railway as two goods trains collided near Kurkura railway station about 250 km from Dhanbad railway station last night. The accident took place at around 9.40 pm last night due to brake failure of a vacant goods train heading on the Rourkela Ranchi line from Bano railway station which collided with another loaded goods train heading toward Rourkela from Ranchi. Several wagons of both the trains overturned during the accident and an assistant loco pilot also sustained injuries.  He was admitted in hospital. The relief team, carrying the rescue workers, reached the site from Ranchi. The railway police launched the rescue and repair operation during the night itself but the normal traffic on the track could not be restored till the morning due to which several trains had to be cancelled or diverted on Ranchi Rourkela section. The cancelled trains included Jharsuguda Hatia MEMU Express (18176) and Rourkela Hatia Passenger Special (08150). Besides, several other trains including, Alappuzha- Dhanbad Express (13352) and Dhanbad Alappuzha Express (13351) and Tapaswini Express (18452) have been diverted. Sources in Railways said that after the break failure, the empty goods train crossed the Mahuabuang railway station breaking the signal and entered platform number 3 of Kurkura Railway station where a loaded goods train was coming from opposite direction and both the trains collided with each other. The crew members of both the trains managed to save their lives by jumping off from the running train. However, one of the assistant loco pilots, Ranjeet Kumar was injured in the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
26-12-2021||Jharkhand||Three killed as gas tanker overturns in Hazaribagh||Three persons were burnt to death and seven heavy vehicles suffered extensive damage after a gas tanker overturned in Danuwa Ghati on GT Road in Chouparan, around 65kms from Hazaribagh district headquarter. One of the diseased was identified as Bablu Yadav (35), the driver of the oil tanker. The identity of two others is yet to be ascertained. The accident took place at around 10pm yesterday. The tanker was engulfed in flames after it overturned with a loud bang. Many vehicles passing by the stretch also caught fire including a dumper and a truck. The local police immediately swung into action and stopped the vehicular movement on this stretch. Sapan Kumar Mahto, Chouparan officer-in-charge and his team were present at the spot. Relief work started this morning. One could still see smoke billowing from the burnt vehicles. Gajendra Kumar, a truck driver said that the ear-splitting sound of the explosion could be heard five kilometers away. He said he was the first to reach the spot but he had to park his truck at a distance as the truck was up in flames. According to him, it was a macabre sight to behold as human flesh were sent flying due to the sheer impact of the accident. Officials said efforts are on to tow away the gas tanker from there. They also informed that they are trying their best to start the vehicular movement as soon as possible. Meanwhile, Barhi MLA Uma Shankar Akela termed the accident as unfortunate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
26-12-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: CM to inaugurate newly developed golf ground on Dec 29 ||Coal town residents missing the newly developed facilities of Golf Ground in Dhanbad, including the open gymnasium, children playing arena, jogging track, yoga centre since over a week due to the final round of the renovation of the ground will be able to enjoy the same from December 29, as chief minister Hemant Soren will inaugurate the newly developed park as a new year gift to Dhanbad. Unlike the existing free arrangement, visitors however will have to pay a nominal charge as entry ticket for the park. Talking to the media, Satyendra Kumar, Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner, said, “Besides the extensive renovation of the park we have also carried out development in the surrounding areas also as the encroachment lying in the approach road to the park from Hirapur Hatia side have been removed and we have further plans to developed the area into a green zone to add to aesthetic beauty of the park.” “Only a nominal charge will be fixed as entry fee while and we will be also carrying out further development in the park as part of the second phase of development work,” said Kumar. Notably, the extensive renovation and beautification of the park have been carried out by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation as part of phase I of development under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme of central government to provide basic amenities like water supply, sewerage, urban transport and parks to improve the quality of life of all especially the poor and the disadvantaged. Notably, the ground spread over 12 acres of area less than 500 metre away from district headquarters was previously used as a golf course during the British era and later developed into a shooting range. Shooting practice however was shopped in late 1970s and the ground was used by morning walkers till 1990s after which a proper boundary wall was developed around the park and pavilion was developed in 2001. As part of renovation and beautification work carried out by DMC  at a cost of Rs 4.48 crore construction of a jogging track, skating zone, yoga platform, meditation platform, green zone have been done but the centres of attraction of the park are children playing arena and open gymnasium. As part of the open gymnasium, a host of equipment including, double surfing post, double wheel shoulder builder,  elliptical exerciser, leg press cum air walker, double standing twister have been installed while in the children playing area wide range of equipments like swing, slider, lunar slider, jungle gym and a magic carpet have been installed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
26-12-2021||Jharkhand||City-based doctor's arrest for liquor consumption in Patna slammed||Doctors' fraternity in the steel city was left shocked following the arrest of a city-based doctor in Patna on Saturday evening. The Jamshedpur chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Sunday verified the news and found it to be true. The doctor who is behind the bar is Abhishek Mundu (42), posted in the ESI Hospital here. The only crime Abhishek committed was that he was consuming liquor while celebrating Christmas at his home located on the Church premises in Gardanibag area of Patna. "It is an inhumane act on the part of the Patna police to arrest any visiting person engrossed in celebration of Christmas at home. On behalf of the IMA's Jamshedpur chapter, I condemn this barbarism and demand unconditional release of Abhishek Mundu," said Dr Mrityunjay Singh, secretary IMA, Jamshedpur while talking to The Telegraph Online. Singh said that sale of liquor is prohibited in Bihar, but Dr Abhishek's act of consuming liquor at home during the Christmas celebrations could have been taken in a lighter vein. Another IMA member, Capt (Dr) NN Jha  criticised the doctor's arrest. "If the police in Bihar does show the same alacrity with which they arrested Dr Abhishek for consuming liquor, then Bihar would be a crime-free state," said an aghast Jha while talking to this website. Relatives pointed out that while leaving his Sakchi residence for Patna on Friday, Abhishek had taken a liquor bottle along for the celebrations of Christmas there, but he unfortunately landed in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
26-12-2021||Jharkhand||Five karatekas from Jharkhand to be part of global event ||Five teen karatekas from Jharkhand have been selected to participate at the International B.G Karate Championship to be held at B.K.S.P Sports Village (Indoor Stadium in Dhaka (Bangladesh) from December 28 to 30. The list also includes one karateka from Kharagpur in Bengal. The selected karatekas include Neeraj Kumar (18, Adash Kumar Singh (17), Pranab Paul (18), Karnisha Das (18) – all from Jamshedpur – Arsh Paul (16, Noamundi in West Singhbhum) and Narayan Tanti (Kharagpur, Bengal). The championship is being organised by Bangladesh Goju Ryu Karate Federation under Shihan Khalid Mansur Chowdhury, organizing secretary and chief coach of Bangladesh karate as per the guidelines issued by Bangladesh government. The rules and regulations of the World Karate Federation will be followed in the event. The chief referee during the championship is Nepal-based Shihan B.R. Mitra, who is a qualified Asian Karate Federation and World Karate Federation qualified referee. Shihan L. Nageshwar Rao from Jamshedpur will be the chief coach and referee during the event. Rao, chief coach of Tata Steel Karate Training Center at JRD Tata Sports Complex the selected karatekas are excited for the Dhaka trip and are expected to perform well at the event. “We are leaving for Dhaka on Monday," he added. Chess The East Singhbhum District Chess Association is organising a Hybrid Online Chess Championship at JRD Tata Sports Complex between December 27 and 30. Participants from East Singhbhum are eligible to compete at the event. Participants of different age groups are required to submit the birth certificate from Notified Area/Municipal Corporation. Players have to bring their mobile phone or laptop for participating in the event. Cricket The finals of 28th S.R. Rungta  District League 2021-22 between Larson Club (Chaibasa)and Y.J.C.C (Chaibasa) will be held at the Birsa Munda Cricket Stadium in Chaibasa on Monday. West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Ananya Mittal and police superintendent will grace the occasion as chief guest and guest of honour, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
26-12-2021||Jharkhand||Bus overturns in Giridih; 10 passengers injured||A bus running between Gaya and Calcutta overturned in Nimiaghat Area of Giridih district at around 7 am on Sunday causing injury to 10 passengers. Local residents who rushed to the site called Nimiaghat police which evacuated the trapped passengers from the bus and admitted them to a local hospital from where they were released after four hours. The incident took place when the 30-seater bus, titled Maharani, overturned due to fog as the driver could not spot the diversion near the Galachi chowk of Nimighat on National Highway -2 about 45 km from Dhanbad and suddenly applied the brake due to which the bus overturned. A police team led by officer in charge of Nimiaghat, Gopal Mahto and ASI, Shailendra Marandi rushed to the site and evacuated the injured passengers with the help of local residents and admitted to Nimiaghat Referral Hospital. Dr Jitendra Kumar Singh of Nimiaghat Referral Hospital, said, “Ritesh Kumar, one of the passengers had his left arm fractured while others including, Nasir Hussain, Shankar Kumar, Inayat  Hussain, Arjun Kumar and others received minor injuries and were released after primary treatment.” Arjun Singh, an injured passenger said, “The driver was taking a nap and thus he could not spot the diversion and applied the brake suddenly due to which the bus turned turtle and as many of the passengers was also sleeping so they fell down from their respective seats causing injury to them.” Gopal Mahto, officer in Charge of Nimiaghat police station said, “The driver and conductor escaped fled the site after the incident."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
26-12-2021||Jharkhand||Dr AK Singh elected as state Indian Medical Association president||For the fourth consecutive time, Dhanbad-based Dr AK Singh has been elected as the state president of Indian Medical Association (IMA). Dr Singh defeated his rival Dr RK Agarwal from Ranchi by a margin of 48 votes. He secured 96 votes, while Dr Agarwal could fetch only 48 votes during the election that was held at Ranchi today. Bokaro-based Dr RK Srivastava, with 40 votes secured the third position. Singh, a retired doctor from Dhanbad-based subsidiary of Coal India Limited (CIL) earlier also served as the president of Dhanbad unit of IMA for several years. Talking to The Telegraph Online after his win, Dr. Singh said, ‘The implementation of the medical protection act in the state will be a top priority for me. The state government has also made some preparations to pass the bill during the present Assembly session.” The medical protection Act will help avert incidents of violence taking place at different hospitals and clinics across the state. Sometimes the goons on the pretext of a patient’s death while undergoing treatment settle scores with the hospital management. “We at the same time will also demand the state government to bring an amendment in the Clinical Establishment Act of Jharkhand on the line of Clinical Establishment Act of Haryana to favour the small clinics situated in the remote areas. It is very difficult for them to meet the standard prescribed in Act like minimum requirement of having a generator and air conditioner,” said Singh. He added that the state government is positively considering their demand. “We will also demand to make necessary preparations to cope with the impending Covid 19 third wave by gearing up the state machinery including designating the hospitals and equipping the hospital with necessary infrastructure to treat Covid patients.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
26-12-2021||Jharkhand||10% more seats at UG and PG levels annually in all farm varsities||The Indian Agricultural Universities Association (IAUA) has recommended enhancement of 10 per cent seats at undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) levels annually in all farm varsities. The IAUA, after the end of its two-day annual convention on Tuesday which was attended by 40 vice-chancellors from across the country at Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) campus in Ranchi, passed the recommendation for all farm varsities to increase the gross enrolment ratio (GER) in the higher educational institutions of agriculture and allied disciplines. GER is the ratio of the number of enrolments in higher education to the total population in the age group of 18-23 years. “At present agricultural universities, totalling about 75, represent nine per cent of the country’s public sector universities but intake capacity is only one per cent which is a matter of concern,” said a vice-chancellor on condition of anonymity. The GER for India is 26.3, which is lower than the world average and much lower than most of the developed countries. The National Education Policy 2020 has fixed a target of 50 per cent by 2030. The IAUA also recommended designing market-oriented course curricula by involving industry experts in designing courses. Certificate and diploma courses in skill development and rural entrepreneurship will also be started under self-financing mode for the generation of rural employment. Optional courses in agricultural journalism and mass communication, corporate communication, religion and culture, foreign languages, environmental conservation, yoga, physical education, dance, music, soft skills development may also be started. PG students and young researchers will be encouraged to visit centres of excellence in India and abroad. The convention also advocated that organic or natural farming should be conducted in 10 per cent area of the country’s arable land with the prime objective of improving soil’s health and checking environmental degradation. In the initial phase yield will be only optimal and not maximum but disease and pest management issues will have to be well taken care of. “Establishment and strengthening of incubation centre for encouraging entrepreneurship and startups among farm graduates for increasing innovation, processing and profitability in farm sector was also recommended,” said a spokesperson of BAU. IAUA secretary general and vice-chancellor of Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Samastipur, Bihar, Dr R. C. Srivastava, stressed that state governments should provide adequate funds to agricultural universities for the construction of new hostels so that increased number of students as envisaged in the New Education Policy could be accommodated because farm varsities are residential in nature. BAU VC Dr Onkar Nath Singh said agricultural universities are a mirror of the society in which expectations of the state’s populace is reflected. Agriculture being a state subject, the state government’s consent will also be required while introducing major shift in admission policy or starting new courses. There were technical sessions on enabling farmers’ access to technology, market, credit and extension service and on creating a favourable ecosystem for entrepreneurship development in the agriculture and allied sector on the last day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
