27-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: Awareness programme for street vendors||Dhanbad: Seventy street street vendors from across the district learnt about the intricacies of various schemes of the government including housing provided under the PM Awas Yojna, E Shram Card registration, Rain Basera and others. A district level conclave and election of town committee of the National Association for Street Vendors of India (NASVI) was held at a hotel during which Chandrashekhar Singh, City Manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) apprised the gathering about the eligibility criteria as well as the benefits of the schemes meants of economically deprived section of the society, including the street vendors, daily wage earners and others. Talking to the media, district coordinator of NASVI, Sneham Sinha said, “The participants took keen interest in the schemes." Singh also intimated the gathering on the benefits of shifting to the newly developed vending zone of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at Baniahir of Jharia under the National Urban Livelihood Mission. Talking to media, Singh said, “All the apprehensions of street vendors have no basis at all and rather they will have access to better facilties from their existing place of operation where they face the risk of eviction." Praduman Choubey   Dhanbad: The painful experience of Dhanbad passengers with dirt, stink, lack of basic amenities like drinking water facility, urinals and toilets at the existing bus depot will be a thing of the past. The tender for development of a Inter State Bus Terminus at Dhanbad is likely to be issued soon. Initial draft DPR for the development of ISBT on around 13 acres of land at Panduki Area of Dhanbad near the national highway –2,  has been prepared by Karnataka based consultancy firm ‘I Deck private Limited’. Confirming the development, Executive Engineer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, Anup Kumar Samanta said, “We have identified a land near the National Highway -2 for development of ISBT but several formalities are to be completed before we move to the execution of the IBST project”. As per the initial plan prepared by I Deck Private Limited the ISBT will be developed by a private agency on Public Private Partnership model. Out of 13 acres, four acres of land would be provided to the selected agency which will develop facilities like malls, food outlets, markets etc. The upcoming ISBT which would be developed on the model of central bus Depot of Vadodara, titled Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Bus Station, will be equipped with an Electronic Scrolling system which provides details of arrival and departure timing of buses to the commuters. The other facilities at Vadodara Bus Station include, an air conditioned deluxe waiting hall and lounge, dormitories for passengers. Altogether there are 35 bays including 5 for alighting from the buses, 20 for boarding and 10 reserved bays. Notably, the existing bus depot of Dhanbad spread over a span of around 6 acres at Bartand and is used for parking of over 200 inter district and interstate buses. The remaining 12 acres is used for parking of over 70 city buses of Dhanbad Corporation. Praduman Choubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
27-12-2021||Jharkhand||BJP stages rally against failure of state government||As the Hemant Soren government is gearing up to celebrate two years of its journey on December 29, BJP leaders on Monday staged a Halla bol rally across the state  to ‘expose the misdeeds of the government.' A rally was also organised at Randhir Verma Chowk of Dhanbad near the district headquarters where BJP workers led by Raj Sinha, Dhanbad MLA accused the state government of being anti tribal, anti backward and anti dalit and added it  "was trying to deceive people by inaugurating schemes and projects lauched during the tenure of previous Raghubar Das government under BJP." Talking to media on the sidelines of the rally, Sinha said, “Official data shows that the government spent only 35% of the fund meant for development than how can it claim to carry out development” and added this proves all the schemes and projects which will be inaugurated or for which foundation stone laying  will be carried out on December 29 to mark the completion two years of government have been launched by the previous Raghubar Das government of BJP. He also raised the issue of increase atrocities against the government during the present government and said, “The government statistics prove that around more than 3000 incidents of atrocities against the women took place during the last two years out of which FIR have been registered in only 1900 cases.” Terming the state government as anti tribal, anti dalit and anti backward Sinha said, “The government launched a schemed to provide bicycles to students for which the students of backward section, tribal and dalit are required to submit the caste certificate but for Muslim students only self declaration was required which shows that government partiality," he added. “This shows that anyone be it a Bangladeshi or Pakistani can take benefit of the scheme and this is an attempt of Islamization of state” charged Sinha. Charging the government of not utilizing the fund provided by central government for Covid control measures he said “the central government provided Rs 725 crore to the state government for Covid control all the ventilators, masks, PPE kits are lying rusting without any use” He further accused the government of deceiving youth, "The government promised 5 lakh jobs to the youth but the fact remains, it has not been fulfilled. The promise to provide Rs 7000 and Rs 5000 stipend to unemployed post-graduates and graduates has also fallen flat.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
27-12-2021||Jharkhand||Intensified Covid test leaves tourist hotspots deserted  ||Concerned with the increasing number of omicron variant of Covid, the East Singhbhum district administration on Monday intensified sample tests at public places, especially picnic spots. As a fallout of the increased level of sample tests, the popular places of tourist attraction lost the expected footfall on Monday. Even Jubilee Park, which is considered to be the most popular place for passing quality time during this period of the year sans its usual crowd of visitors. As many as five teams of the district health department officials are camping at as many strategic locations in the sprawling park forcing each and every visitor to undergo the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) there. But at the sight of the health department camps most of the visitors were seen taking a U-turn, obviously evading to face the sample test. Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer, Sandeep Kumar Meena informed that the district administration has decided not to allow even a single person for entering into any tourist spot without being subject to the RAT.  "The East Singhbhum deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar has instructed to carry out sample tests for Covid at all the places of tourist attraction, including Jubilee Park and Dimna lake area in the city, and at Bhurudih dam in Ghatsila, " said Meena while talking to The Telegraph Online. The Dhalbhum SDO pointed out that keeping the surge of revellers at the Jubilee Park on Christmas Day on Saturday, the administration started sample test drives at the park on Sunday by engaging a single team of health department officials. "During a two-hour-long sample test drive on Sunday, one Covid positive case was detected. On the basis of the finding on Sunday, the deputy commissioner decided to launch a rigorous sample test drive at the Jubilee Park and other tourist spots in and around the city from Monday, " said the SDO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
27-12-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town remember 372 miners who died in worst-ever tragedy||Coal town on Monday paid rich tributes to the 372 miners who died during the worst ever mine tragedy at Chasnala in Dhanbad way back on December 27, 1975. The occasion was the 46th anniversary of Chasnala mines tragedy organised by trade unions in association with Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) management at Martyr Memorial of Chasnala Colliery of SAIL. Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh; Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha;  Executive Director of SAIL BK Tiwari, senior trade  union leaders and workers were present on the occasion. Speaking during the occasion, Purnima Singh said, “Every year we congregate here to pay tributes to the innocent miners who laid down their lives during the course of their duty.” Sinha added, “The incident serves as a grim reminder to the mining companies to pay priority to safety while carrying out production. Though production is quite important for meeting the energy demand of the country, safety of miners is more essential."  Tiwari said, “We have plans to further renovate and beautify the Martyrs' Memorial and will appeal to local residents to help the management to maintain it.” When asked about the claim of some of the family members of deceased not getting jobs, he said “Providing jobs is a tricky issue but we have plans to launch the mines' expansion in Chasnala after which we will try to accommodate all genuine claimants". The mine was inundated due to caving of a roof at around 1.30 pm in the combined seam Number One and Two of colliery following which water entered the mine. The miners were trapped in a mountain of debris. Though rescue efforts were launched immediately after the incident, as water entered into the mine at the rate of 3200 meter cube per minute the miners  died due to rising water level in the mine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
27-12-2021||Jharkhand||ISL: Jamshedpur climb to second spot after 1-1 draw against Kerala ||Jamshedpur FC have climbed to the second spot on the points table after playing a 1-1 draw versus  Kerala  Blasters FC in an Hero Indian Super League 2021-22 tie at Tilak Maidan in Goa on Sunday. The Men of Steel, who are eyeing a place in the play-offs, have secured 13 points (8 matches, 3 wins, 4 draws and 1 loss) in the cash-rich tournament. So far the team’s form  is satisfactory and Owen Coyle’s boys are expected to continue in the same vein in the rest of the matches ahead. The result means Kerala Blasters are now third on the table with 13 points (8 matches, 3 wins, 4 draws and 1 loss) Jamshedpur, having the same number of points from 8 games but ahead on goal scored. Mumbai City top the table with 15 points (7 matches, 5 wins and 2 losses). Jamshedpur were placed 3rd before the match against Kerala. Jamshedpur FC put Kerala Blasters on the back foot after the in-form Greg Stewart put them ahead in the 14th minute. The Scottish forward converted a free-kick with a swinging strike from the left foot. However, Jamshedpur could not crown  this special goal with a victory as Kerala’s Sahal Abdul Samad equalized in the 27th minute. Head coach Owen Coyle said : “Two draws against two very good teams, coming on the back of a 4-0 win against Odisha. We had 13 points from 12 matches last year. So there is an improvement already.”. He added they were in a very competitive league and are going to have many draws and twists and turns. “We’ve to focus on Jamshedpur, the players get fit and healthy because we have shown if we’re at our very best we can stay toe to toe with anybody,”Owen said.   The Tata Steel-owned club takes on Chennaiyin FC in their next match on January 2.  Jamshedpur have never made it to the play-offs since making their ISL debut in the 2017-18 season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
27-12-2021||Jharkhand||Covid affected mental health of children and adolescents: Professor ||The post-pandemic world of children and adolescents would not be the same as it used to be earlier. Professor Shekhar Sheshadri, who just retired from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences, Bangalore, said this while addressing nearly 300 delegates of the 16th biennial conference of Indian Association of Child and Mental Health (AICAM) that concluded in Ranchi on Sunday. The three-day conference that had “Child and mental health in changing time: Opportunities and challenges” as its theme was hosted jointly by the AICAM and the Centre for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry of the Central Institute of Psychiatry, Ranchi, and held in hybrid mode when most of the outstation delegates attended it virtually. “The pandemic may have helped increase interaction within the family but, with schools closed during the lockdown,  inter-personal relationship in the society deteriorated, affecting the mental health of children and adolescents and their overall development,” Prof Sheshadri said. Speaking on “The youth mental health crisis: How India should response”, Professor Vikram Patel of the US who is also closely associated with Sangath, an NGO in India, suggested that activities associated with implementation of government developmental schemes meant for children and adolescents would be helpful. Citing a study report, he said a model involving training of anganwadi workers in the basics of child mental health would help address the problems at an initial stage. “When the pandemic has increased the mental health problems and National Crime Records Bureau reported rise in suicide cases, some model needs to be developed for addressing the concerned issues,” said Dr Nishant Goyal, organising secretary of the event, adding the suggestion of Prof Patel sounded encouraging. “Covid is a new challenge but it reminded us that our services need to be always ready to change and adopt as we face new challenges and work with limited resources,” added AICAM secretary-general Dr Chhitij Srivastava. Reminding that India is the home to largest number of children, Dr Satya Raj of the Christian Medical College, Vellore stressed that it was important to help them thrive in this country. “Infant mental health is a rapidly growing field and establishing services to address this is the need of the hour,” she said, emphasising improvement in awareness of both the professionals and public. While others touched upon topics like substance use or even mobile phone use among children and adolescents, Dr Sincy Tressa Joseph from Bangalore alerted about their eating disorder. “Eating disorder is one of the most life threatening psychiatric condition, with high fatality rates,” she informed and presented a case series of three adolescents with eating disorders, showing they had common comorbid psychiatric diagnosis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
