28-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: Congress launches scathing attack on BJP||Dhanbad: A day after BJP organised a rally across the state to expose the alleged misdeeds of the Hemant Soren government, Congress, the alliance partner of the state government on Tuesday held BJP responsible for all the problem being faced by the common people across the country. The Congress leaders led by Jaleshwar Mahto, state working president who assembled here at the inspection bunglow to participate in a function organised on the occasion of 137th foundation day of the grand old party also charged the Narendra Modi led BJP government at the center of misleading people by resorting to Jumlebaji instead of doing anything concrete on the ground other than favoring its corporate friends. Talking to media on the sidelines of the function, Mahto said, “Our party has clinched freedom from the oppressive foreign regime and established the system of democratic governance as a result of which the poor and oppressed sections are able to become ministers, top bureaucrats but the BJP government on the other hand, during its rule established the regime of hatred among different communities, led to highest ever price rise, unemployment and job losses due to closure of factories established during our government and also due to disinvesting the profit making PSUs to favor its corporate friends.” He also added that the alliance government  led by Hemant Soren is moving in the right direction with firm steps. Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh while reacting to the BJP accusation against the state government of not doing anything for the people of state during last two years said, “It is like Ulta chor kotwal ko daante meaning that BJP despite remaining in power for maximum period of time in  the state ever since the creation of the state in 2000 has done nothing concrete to address the core issues affecting the common people including, the employement.” Praduman Choubey Dhanbad: The Jharia division of the Tata Steel Foundation has relaunched the offline pre-matric coaching classes for underprivileged students of its 45 lease hold villages spread across Jamadoba and Sijua group. More than 1500 students of Class VI to X of different schools affiliated to Jharkhand Academic Council will be provided free of cost coaching under the PMC at nine centers situated over the different lease hold villages of Jharia Division at  Tata Steel at  Sijua and Jamadoba group. Notably, expert lessons in English, Science, and Mathematics are imparted to the students of the underprivileged sections of the society since 2012 for improving the matriculation results. “As a result of the eight-year initiative of the Tata Steel Foundation, the performance of the students has improved from 70% to 92.14%” said Rajesh Kumar, head of Jharia division of Tata Steel Foundation. He further said, “Though earlier in the year, classes under the pre-matric coaching arrangement were held online due to covid restrictions but with the state government  opening up schools gradually from Class VI to X, offline coaching classes have been relaunched for 2021-22 session which were inaugurated yesterday". Notably, Tata Steel Foundation engages teachers from the local community, including some students pursuing B Tech, M Tech and MBA from adjoining colleges and these teachers are selected through the written test. Praduman Choubey Jamshedpur: Police on Tuesday arrested five members of a criminal gang which had attempted to kill a land dealer in Sonari on December 23. The criminals had lobbed a bomb on the car of the land dealer, Ganesh Singh near Sai Temple under Sonari thana area on December 23 night before shooting at the car targeting him. But fortunately, Singh (42) escaped unhurt. In this connection, the victim who is a resident of Ulidih in Mango had lodged an FIR against Lalit Sharma, Amarnaath Singh and seven unidentified persons with the Sonari thana. On getting the FIR, senior SP, M Tamil Vanan set up a team headed by DSP (Headquarters-II) Kamal Kishore for the detection of the case. The team finally solved the case by arresting five of the total accused on Tuesday. Those arrested were identified as Shahid Khan (21), Dastagir Alam (23), Sajjat alias Tanda (50), Ahmad Raja (23) and Neeraj Prasad (29), all residents of Mango. Police have also recovered pistol, bomb-manufacturing materials and two bikes while arresting the five. Revealing about the breakthrough, the senior SP, M Tamil Vanan said that in the year 2020 a 27-year-old man, Sanki Yadav was murdered in Mango. "The police solved the Sanki Yadav murder case and arrested a kin of Ganesh Singh for being involved in the murder. But Yadav's close friends Rizwan and Ankit had suspicion that Ganesh Singh was also behind the murder. Rizwan and Ankit had, therefore, set a contract killer Sajjat to murder Singh. This was the reason that's henchmen of Sajjat had attempted to kill Singh by launching the murderous attack near the Sai TempleTemple in Sonari on December 23 night, " said the senior SP while addressing a press conference. Vanan pointed out there were in all 11 persons involved in the attack and that all those arrested have confessed their involvement. Kumud Jenamani||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
28-12-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad sports lovers protest against renaming of golf ground||Coal town sports lovers are unhappy with the government’s move to rename Randhir Prasad Verma stadium. The golf ground that has been recently revamped is all set to be inaugurated tomorrow by chief minister Hemant Soren  on the occasion of two years of completion of his government. The ground had earlier been named after former SP of Dhanbad Late Randhir Prasad Verma, an Ashok Chakra Awardee. Many believe that the rechristening is an insult to the former SP. A former cricketer of Dhanbad, Rajan Sinha, has launched a social media campaign in this regard that has garnered the support of several social workers, cricketers, sportsmen as well as political leaders. Sinha who is also the founder member of voluntary organization Rising Charitable trust said that after the renovation the park has been rechristened as UDHD Government of Jharkhand, Garden and Gym, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. “This is nothing but a clear cut disrespect to a martyr who laid down his life, who single-handedly took on the militants engaged in a bank dacoity attempt in Dhanbad,” said Sinha who raised the issue through his facebook wall today. According to Sinha there was no need of changing the name of a park established in the name of a valiant police officer of the district who has also been awarded Ashok Chakra by the  government. Sinha feels that there is no political motive involved in raising the issue as being sportsmen they are attached to the park. Randhir Prasad Verma took part in various sporting activities including horse riding. Sinha is miffed by the fact that there are people who say that the name of Late Randhir Prasad Verma is mentioned in the plaque. He feels that this is nothing but a hollow argument because how many people look at the plaque,” said Sinha. Nitin Bhatt, BJP leader while echoing similar sentiments, said, , “I fully endorse the point raised by Sinha through social media as removing the name of a martyr from the main gate of the newly renovated part which will be inaugurated tomorrow  by the CM is akin to disrespect.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
28-12-2021||Jharkhand||Samiran Dutta is BCCL’s new chairman cum managing director||Samiran Dutta (Director Finance) of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), who was also holding the additional Charge of Director (Finance) of Coal India, has been appointed as the new Chairman cum Managing Director (CMD) of BCCL. Dutta who joined BCCL, Dhanbad in August 1988 and later transferred to Coal India (HQ) in Calcutta in 1990 Dhanbad,  served there in various capacities. He became the general manager (finance) of BCCL in January 2018 and was elevated to the post of Director (finance) of BCCL in July 2019. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Dutta said, “Increase in production will be my top priority” “Though, production of coal has already increased significantly in BCCL, my focus will be on improvement of quality of coal produced through different mines which are known for special coal and cooking Coal,” said Dutta who was also in additional charge of Director finance of Eastern Coalfields Limited from August 2019. “For further improvement of quality of coal, we will also focus on coal beneficiation for which the coal washery development will be carried out with greater intensity,” said Dutta. Notably, the BCCL production dipped to less than 50 thousand tonnes per day due to heavy rains affecting production work but the production again jumped to over 90 thousand to 1 lakh tonnes per day recently. “We will also focus on our employees who are our greatest assets so their well-being will also be our priority,” informed Dutta. According to Dutta, “We will also lay greater stress on development activities as part of the corporate social responsibility  programme  for which the pollution mitigation  measures will be intensified as production can't be carried out by ignoring the environment.” When asked about the slow pace of rehabilitation under the Jharia master plan, the delay of which in many ways is also impacting the increase in production by creating hurdles in expansion of coal mines in these affected areas, Dutta said, “The issue is being monitored by a high power committee of the ministry of coal and we are extending all support with regard to data and logistics for making policies and plans to accelerate the rehabilitation work." The post of CMD of BCCL was being managed with additional charge since 2014 barring a brief period of one year from 2017 to 2018 when Ajay Kumar Singh served as CMD. PM Prasad, CMD of Ranchi based CCL was holding the additional charge of BCCL CMD also since January 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
28-12-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant to unveil new projects worth over Rs 12,000 cr on govt's 2nd anniversary ||Chief minister Hemant Soren will lay the foundation stone for projects worth Rs 12,558.50 crore on Wednesday, a bulk of the spending focused on upgrading drinking water facilities, to mark the second the anniversary of the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government. He will also inaugurate ready projects worth Rs 3,195.30 and distribute assets to the tune of Rs 1,493 crore among beneficiaries, according to details released by the chief minister’s office. “Projects worth Rs 8,428 crore are under the rural drinking water and sanitation department. The other focus area is road and rural development and the foundation stone will be laid for projects worth Rs 1,639 crore covering 102 roads and two bridges.Rs 1,300 crore is being spent on new rural development schemes,” an official said, adding that new projects in healthcare, urban civic amenities and creation of infrastructure for skilling through ITI institutes were also in the pipeline. Most of the projects set to be inaugurated are new roads, amounting to Rs 1,560.61 crore. "As many as 27 roads and five new bridges are to be opened. Other projects awaiting inauguration include newly set-up drinking water facilities across districts (Rs 572 crore), school buildings/revamp under tribal welfare department (Rs 20.51 crore), construction and upgradation of  health centres (Rs 113.67), a Khadi Park in Dumka (Rs 2.10 crore) and over a dozen power sub-stations (Rs 317 crore)," he said. Letters for government jobs in departments like agriculture, excise and industries, would be handed to 100 people. A state- level function to commemorate two years of the Hemant Soren government will be held at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground from 11.45am. The venue has been decorated with giant-sized canvasses. Seating arrangements have been made for about 5,000 people. On Tuesday evening Hemant inspected the venue with officials to oversee preparations for Wednesday's grand show. He also made it a point to direct local authorities to ensure that Covid appropriate behavior was adhered to by all visitors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
28-12-2021||Jharkhand||Expect fair weather across Jharkhand on New Year's Day||If Met predictions are any indication, the weather god won't spoil New Year festivities in whatever limited form these have been planned. IMD offices in both Patna and Ranchi have predicted dry weather in Jharkhand on January 1. The weather forecast suggests fog and mist early in the morning on Saturday, January 1, and clear weather later in the day. "We don't find any adverse conditions on New Year's  Day on Saturday in the chart analysis and satellite imagery," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. According to him, the weather will be pleasant in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Daltonganj and elsewhere. Anand said that the chill will not bite on the first day of 2022 Maximum temperatures are expected to hover around 24- 25°C and minimum readings around 11-12°C in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro and several other places on the New Year's Day. According to the IMD forecast, adverse weather conditions would prevail in Jharkhand for the next two days due to the impact of a western disturbance passing through northern parts of the country and an associated cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh. There may be light unseasonal rain at many places across Jharkhand on Wednesday, December 29. Rain was forecast in isolated places in north- eastern Jharkhand on Thursday, December 30. The Ranchi Met centre also predicted dense fog in most parts of Jharkhand on Thursday and Friday. Also, expect abrupt rise in minimum temperatures across the state. Ranchi on Tuesday recorded a minimum temperature of 14.2 degree Celsius,  five notches above normal while the Steel city of Jamshedpur recorded 15.4 degree Celsius, also five notches above normal. Chaibasa in adjoining West Singhbhum district recorded a minimum temperature of 16.4 degree Celsius, six notches above normal. Weathermen said that the minimum reading is expected to rise for another 48 hours due to the adverse weather conditions caused by the influence of the western disturbance. After 48 hours, the minimum reading would again witness a gradual fall, bringing back the chill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
28-12-2021||Jharkhand||CM regrets breaking of democratic principles of federal governance ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, leading the JMM-led UPA government in the state, regrets the breaking of democratic principles of federal governance by the Modi-led BJP government at the Centre. Speaking to selected media at his Ranchi residence on Monday afternoon about achievements of his government which will complete two years on December 29, Soren claimed that his biggest regret was the poor relationship between the Centre and state which is creating obstacles in state’s government development plans for the state. “In the current political scenario wherever there is double engine sarkar (a term used by erstwhile chief minister Raghubar Das during BJP rule symbolising BJP government at Centre and state) that state will receive all the benefits. While opposition ruled state are always at the receiving end of a political tussle as if in a wrestling ring which is not good for federal governance,” said Soren. Elaborating further, Soren said: “It is expected that political parties in power at Centre do resort to some favouritism to states ruled by their party but in democracy, there are certain principles which should not be broken. A Central government cannot simply look down upon and ignore the problems of a state ruled by Opposition parties which happened in our case that too during a global pandemic. Solutions to longstanding problems of state can be found jointly by Centre and state.” Reacting to BJP charges on the recent anti-mob lynching Act as a ploy to appease minorities, the chief minister said, “Our government is only implementing what has been decided by the erstwhile government and Supreme Court. Mob lynching is not meant for any particular religion or community but the law was enacted due to the scenario created when BJP was in power to deter some vested interest groups from taking law into their own hands.” Soren stressed that the act should have been made by the Centre on its own as it is necessary to protect the democratic ideals of peaceful coexistence of all sections. He indirectly supported the JMM agitation  against Tata Group companies for their decision to shift headquarters to Maharashtra. “We are trying to invite industries through lucrative industrial policies but when industries who have been established for long in the state suddenly start shifting their headquarters, then they are sending wrong message and there is bound to be a protest from the local level,” said Soren. Soren termed the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Act which raised the marriageable age of women to 21 years as a decision taken to send a “political message”. “What was the need for bringing this Act when the Central government has already legalised live-in relationships. The government is simply trying to send a political message through the Act to a particular community,” said Soren. He also hinted at the Jharkhand government starting a survey on OBC reservation like Nitish Kumar has done in neighbouring Bihar. “Reservation for OBC was in our election manifesto and we are keen on it. It seems our idea has been stolen by Bihar chief minister,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
