29-12-2021||Jharkhand||Banna Gupta attacks Centre while inaugurating development schemes||To mark two years of the Hemant Soren government, Health, Medical Education and Family Welfare minister Banna Gupta unveiled and laid the foundation stone for development schemes worth Rs 855 crore at Dhanbad’s New Town Hall.The function was also graced by Jharia  MLA, Purnima Singh and district administration officials. He even distributed assets among 170 beneficiaries out of the 8600 individuals marked under various welfare schemes during the function. Speaking as the chief guest of the event, Gupta, termed the two-year tenure of the alliance government led by Chief Minister Hemant Soren as a successful one, which was full of achievements. He also highlighted the non cooperative attitude of the central government towards states with non-BJP governments. “Though the federal governance policy calls for cooperation between the central and state government over issues concerning the common people. But at a time when the state government was busy saving lives during the second wave of pandemic the central government turned non-cooperative when it came to supplying crucial medicines like Remdesivir and also for making arrangements for oxygen supply in hospitals,” he said. He began his speech by amplifying Jharkhand’s history of struggle against oppression. Gupta said, “Jharkhand has a long history of struggle against the oppression and exploitation beginning with rebellion of Tilka Manjhi against the British in 1784 around 70 years before Mangal Pandey, followed by struggle of Buddhu Bhagat against Jamindars and British regime in 1832 in form of Larka rebellion and rebellion of Siddhu Kanhu in 1855.” He added, “Though, people of the state are very innocent, when it comes to the issue of Jal, Jungle and Jamin they have fought bravely and unseated such regimes.” However, he felt that the historians never did justice to the saga of bravery of the heroes and heroines of Jharkhand including the likes of Phulo Murmu and Jhano Murmu who along with their brothers Siddhu and Kanhu who were martyred for rebelling against the British. He then went on to highlight the achievements of the present state government. “The government which came into power under the leadership of Hemant Soren two years ago launched Phulo Jhanto Yojna to financially help women from the weaker section of the society, who are traditionally engaged in making liquor to eke out a living,” said Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
29-12-2021||Jharkhand||Covid scare:  BIT Sindri cancels offline classes for B Tech students ||The increasing Covid cases across the state, including Dhanbad, has been taking its toll on educational and technical institutions. BIT-Sindri the lone state-owned engineering college of the state has cancelled offline classes for the B Tech (5th semester) students and at the same time has postponed the hostel allotment for the newly admitted students which was scheduled to begin from January 3, 2022. A notice issued by Ramji Verma General of BIT Sindri said, “this is to inform all students of B Tech 5th semester that there offline classes  is hereby postponed, in view of  Covid 19 (Spreading of Omicron) pandemic till further further order” “The online classes will continue as usual” further reads the notice and adds that the hostel allotment which was scheduled to begin from 3rd January 22 is also deferred consequently. “The  students advised to remain in contact with the website of the institute for any development in the matter” sums up the notice. Notably, B Tech third year and final year students besides the final year students have been allowed at the hostels while the hostel allotment for newly admitted B Tech students was scheduled to begin from January 2. Contacted, Dharmendra Kumar Singh, BIT Sindri Director said “Yes, we have suspended the offline classes as the Covid cases are increasing in the state including in Dhanbad and at the same time also postponed the hostel allotment schedule to begin from January 3, 2022” “The hostel allotment postponement has been carried out temporarily for a week or so as we are keeping close watch on the Covid situation and we may resume the allotment as the situation improves after holding talks with the local administration” said Singh. He further elaborated, “ the hostel allotment process  has been kept at bay as we don’t have vacant single seated hostel rooms at present as all the single seated rooms are occupied by the B Tech final year and M Tech students and we can’t take the risk of keeping the students in double seated, triple seated or more than triple seated rooms in present situation when the covid cases are  on the rise and the threat of spread of Omicron is also looming large”. Notably, 27 hostels of BIT-Sindri spread over its 480 acres of campus has the capacity to accommodate around 3000  students, including B Tech and M Tech students during the normal but in the present condition of pandemic when social distancing norms are required to be observed all students can’t be accommodated due to lack of single seated rooms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
29-12-2021||Jharkhand||Power crisis sparks row as Hemant celebrates two years of governance||At a time when the state government is celebrating two-years of governance, the residents of Dhanbad are having to face the brunt of acute power crisis. Many are upset with the fact that when the residents are having to endure power cuts for long hours, the government is celebrating by inaugurating a series of schemes, instead of resolving the issue with DVC. Traders of the town have been the worst hit due to the power crisis and hike in diesel prices. Unhappy with the state of affairs, they have now raised the issue through social media. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Surendra Arora, state GST Council member, and  former vice president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCI), said, “The pandemic had already impacted the business of the city traders. Many had to move on to online trading. Continuous power crisis is now affecting the business.” “Generators were being used to entertain the customers and do online trading. But the hike in diesel price has made its usage dearer,” said Arora. He maintained that the traders have requested the state government to iron out the issues with DVC. “Due to the power crisis the traders are having to suffer despite paying bills on time,” said Arora. Raising the issue of high diesel prices he said, “Had the VAT been reduced to 17% as per the demands of petroleum dealers then diesel would have been much cheaper.” Echoing a similar sentiment, Anup Sao, Jharia-based social worker who is also the former councilor of Ward Number 37 of Jharia, said, “A host of schemes is being inaugurated today to mark the completion of two years of the government. But the celebration has no meaning for the Jharia residents who are  having to face not just power crisis but also acute water crisis.” “Load shedding marked by DVC to realize its dues worth Rs 2100 crore has aggravated since yesterday evening. Power supply has not resumed since 8 pm yesterday,” said Sao. Amit Sahu, president of Jharia Chamber of Commerce, summed up by stating that the power and water crisis has made life hell for the 5 lakh residents of the coal town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
29-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: Steel city covid cases in double digits ||Jamshedpur: After Coronavirus positive cases remained under control during the last three months, the positive cases have begun to rise again in the steel city. Since the past 48 hours Covid cases are being reported in double digit, leading the district administration to focus on more and more testing and vaccination. "The number of Covid-infected cases remained in single digit and sometimes to zero during the past three months in the East Singhbhum district. But on Tuesday, 14 fresh cases were reported and a day earlier 13 cases were reported. The Covid cases have started to rise again," said Dhalbhum sub-sivisional officer, Sandeep Kumar Meena while talking to The Telegraph Online. Meena pointed out that the number of Coronavirus positive cases started to pick up again after the picnicking activities began in and around the steel city a week ago. "Keeping the rising positive cases, we have decided to focus on two things - carrying out as many sample tests as possible and intensify the vaccination drive. Apart from this, we have decided to intensify in creating awareness about the Covid control measure, " the Dhalbhum SDO said. Though very few people are turning up at Jubilee Park located in the heart of the city, large number of people are visiting Dimna lake and several lesser-known places for the picnicking. Interestingly, the health department officials are also approaching each and every such spot where people are gathered in separate groups, obviously for picnicking. Bhurudih dam in Ghatsila, Narwa dam in Jadugora, Domuhani in Sonari and Bhatia park in Kadma have emerged as some of the new picnic spots this year end. A senior district health department official informed that the number of sample tests for Covid has been increased to 5,000 a day from 3,500 per day, keeping the picnic season in view. Kumud Jenamani Dhanbad: Dhanbad Police arrested five members of a vehicle lifer gang and seized from them 10 stolen motorcycles, six mobile phones and 17 bike keys. The arrested persons belonging to a gang of vehicle lifters of Jamtara included four persons of Jamtara including Farooqe Ansari (30), Sutilal Tuddu (22), Sukal Besra (27), Sahban Mian (50) and one person of Tundi in Dhanbad Saddam Shah (26). Dhanabd SSP, Sanjeev Kumar said that the police arrested four persons  during a vehicle checking drive near police line of Dhanbad this morning at around 10.45 am and later arrested one person on their indication. Police later conducted a raid at Jamtara and recovered the stolen vehicle. Praduman Choubey Dhanbad: A team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) raided the house of Dhanbad based vehicle recovery agent Upendra Singh at Bhuli in Dhanbad during the early morning at around 6 am on Wednesday. The team questioned the members  of the family but is yet to divulge details. Notably, Upendra is also accused of several crimes including the murder of his distant relative Meera Devi (58) on October 16, 2020 over a family dispute. Praduman Choubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
29-12-2021||Jharkhand||Unseasonal rain, courtesy western disturbance, drenches Jharkhand||Unseasonal rain caused by a western disturbance passing through the northern parts of the country, coupled with a cyclonic circulation, resulted in rainfall across Jharkhand since Tuesday evening. Met statistics revealed that light to moderate rain occurred at most places innthe state while several places experienced  heavy showers. Chas in Bokaro witnessed the highest rainfall  of 76.3 mm recorded between 5.30 pm of Tuesday and 8.30 am of Wednesday. Koner in Hazaribagh also experienced heavy rainfall (56 mm)  while Ramgarh logged around 50 mm  rain. Several places in Dhanbad, including Putki, recorded over 35 mm rain while Simdega and Jamshedpur recorded around 30 mm. Capital Ranchi recorded around 20 mm rain. Met data revealed that over 15 IMD observatories across the state recorded rainfall between 10 and 15 mm. "The rain was caused by a western disturbance passing through higher latitudes, coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation over central parts of Uttar Pradesh, which today lay over east Uttar Pradesh and adjoining Bihar  extending upto 2.1 km above mean sea level, " said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Ranchi Met Centre has forecast a generally cloudy sky with light rain at several places during the next 24 hours. Light rain was also predicted in several isolated pockets of north- east Jharkhand on Thursday, December 30. The Met office forecast suggests that the weather condition would improve after the next 24 hours and that dry weather would prevail in the state from Friday, December 31. The weather office also issued an alert of dense fog for the next 48 - hours. According to weathermen, minimum temperature will again witness a gradual fall from Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
29-12-2021||Jharkhand||Koderma district experiences sudden surge in Covid-19 cases ||Jharkhand’s Koderma district experienced a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases during the past fortnight that it surpassed Ranchi to have maximum active Covid patients in the state on Monday. The medical authorities, however, termed it as “not alarming” and said they had increased surveillance and vaccination drive. According to data released by the state government at 9pm on Monday, the number of active cases in Jharkhand increased over three and a half times during the past fortnight, from 131 on December 12 to 477 on Monday, also recording an increase in positivity rate from 0.03 per cent to 0.46 per cent during the period. The number of active Covid cases in Koderma district remarkably went up during the period — from just two to 180 that comprised 37.73 per cent of the total active cases in the state. Ranchi that always had maximum number of active Covid patients in the state experienced an increase from 71 on December 12 to 174 on Monday that comprised 36.47 per cent of the state’s total cases. East Singhbhum district, on the other hand, showed negligible increase — from 34 to 38 active cases — during the period. “Though more new cases were detected yesterday, the situation is not at all alarming,” Koderma civil surgeon Dr D.K. Saxena informed when contacted, referring to 63 new cases detected in that district on Monday that was 45.65 per cent of the total 138 new cases detected in the state that day. Koderma had no new cases detected on December 12 but then the number of new cases suddenly started increasing from only 3 cases on December 18 to 26 and 22 on December 23 and 24 respectively and then finally to 63 on Monday. “Almost all the new patients have travel history,” Dr Saxena said while explaining the reason of sudden increase in Covid-19 infection in Koderma, adding movement of passengers from other districts who use Koderma railway station on the Howrah-Delhi main line increased due to recent festive and marriage season. Besides, there was also an increase in inter-state movement across the Bihar border during marriages when people from both states partied together, he further said. “However, the situation is not at all alarming and we have increased surveillance and also vaccination drive,” the civil surgeon assured. “It’s not alarming and the sudden increase detection of infected persons is most likely due to their travel history,” agreed state epidemiologist Dr Praveen Kumar Karn. “As the winter set in, man suffer from cold and flu-like condition,” he further said, adding more Covid-19 patients were detected when many of them approached physicians and turned positive when they were asked to get tested for Covid-19. Though the state aimed to vaccinate its entire eligible population by January 15, 2022, it looks difficult as only 45 per cent were fully vaccinated till December 27. While East Singhbum vaccinated 63 per cent and Ranchi 49 per cent of its eligible population, Koderma could achieve 46 per cent only. Meanwhile, a public health team sent by the Centre to 10 states, including Jharkhand, to assess epidemic and help strengthen Covid-19 surveillance, containment and also vaccination campaign reached Koderma and held talks with the local authorities on Tuesday. They reportedly suggested measures such as contact tracing, hospitalisation of Covid patients in home isolation and creating containment zones in affected areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
