30-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: Eastern Central Railways GM meets MPs||Dhanbad: Anupam Sharma, general manager of East Central Railway who was in Dhanbad on Thursday discussed the ongoing development projects and schemes of East Central Railway with the members of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha falling under the jurisdiction of Dhanbad division spread over more than 140 stations and halts lying in five states including Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bengal. The meeting held at the office of Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad during which senior officials of Dhanbad Division including Ashish Bansal, Divisional Railway Manager;  Akhilesh Pandey, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager and others were present also discussed the demands of different participating MPs about the development work in their respective areas and also increasing the public  utilities. Talking to media after the meeting, PN Singh, Dhanbad MP, who was also present in the meeting, said, “We discussed a whole range of issues right from public amenities at the railway stations to development of other facilities including the Railway Overbridge and others.” “We also raised the discontinuation or withdrawal of some of the existing facilities and pressed for resumption of such facilities and General Manager assured to analyze the demand for resumption of  such facilties” said Singh. Nitin Bhatt, senior BJP leader of the district who also attended the meeting added, “The issue of neglect of Dhanbad Division, with regard to development work of railways, which is one of highest revenue earning division of the East Central Railway zone also raised by Dhanbad MP during the meeting” and participating MPs also raised the demand for launching of different trains from their respective areas. Praduman Choubey Dhanbad: Chief Minister, Hemant Soren's announcement of cheaper petrol by Rs 25 for those ration card holders who are covered under the National Food Security Act has stirred a political controversy with opposition BJP terming it as a political gimmick intended to befool the common people. Talking to media, Raj Sinha, Dhanbad MLA, said, “The announcement shows its immaturity as it seems to have made in  a hurry without calculating the financial implications. The impracticality can be assumed from the fact that neither the finance department has been consulted nor a resolution in this regard has been passed in the state cabinet.” "The Chief Minister should realise the fact that he is not running a monarchy and rather acting as the head of a democratically elected government and thus things have to go as per the laid procedure of governance," added Sinha. He further said, “The decision also shows the poor financial management of the government which has been proved time and again earlier. It is only due to poor financial management of the current government that it has failed on all developmental fronts.." Amitesh Sahay, Central President of Trade and Commerce Cell of JMM, however defended the the chief minister. “The BJP leaders in the state have no business left other than to stay in the news by making unfounded allegations against the democratically elected state government.” And he added, "The benefit of the scheme will be provided to those card holders who have been provided cards by the previous Raghubar Das government." Praduman Choubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
30-12-2021||Jharkhand|| 87 BIT-Sindri students get job offer from Cognizant||BIT Sindri, the lone state-run engineering college of Jharkhand has made record of sorts when it comes to year-end placement. Aso, one of its students has bagged a job with the highest pay package of Rs 14.5 lakh per annum. The institute meanwhile has also secured a place in the list of ‘performing institutes’ of the recently released Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA), 2021. ARIIA is an attempt to recognise innovation and start-up incubation initiated by the institute. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ghanshyam Rai, Training and Placement Officer of the institute said, “Cognizant selected 87 B.Tech students from our institute for full-time roles. Of these selected candidates, two have been picked for the company’s Genc Next wing for a package of Rs 6.76 lakh, while Genc Elevate has inducted four of our pupils for a package of 4 LPA. The remaining 81 will be working for the tech giant’s Genc for the same package of Rs 4 LPA.” Earlier on December 28, around 15 BIT Sindri students have been selected by three different companies - 11 were hired by Samsung for the highest pay package of Rs 14.5 lakh. The other students who were selected were - four from the Information & Technology department, six from Computer Science Engineering and one for Electronics and Communication. Apart from Samsung, two other B Tech (Electronics and Communication Engineering) students have been selected for a package of Rs 3.5 LPA by Hexaware Technologies Limited, a leading global IT and BPO service provider. PI Industries Ltd, an agritech industry on the other hand selected two of BIT Sindri’s Chemical Engineering students for a CTC of Rs 5.5 LPA on December 28 itself. With the most recent campus placement figures, around 420 students for the current batch i.e B Tech (2022 pass out) batch have secured jobs. Notably, out of a batch of 750 BTech students around 550 are eligible for campus placement as per the fixed criteria for placement of different recruiters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
30-12-2021||Jharkhand||Covid spike: District administration gets stricter on New Year bash||Those willing to participate in the year-end bash at major hotels and clubs in the steel city will have to undergo Covid test before entry into the event venue. Moreover, if a single Coronavirus positive case is detected from any place as such, the celebrations will have to stopped instantly. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar on Thursday announced these strict measures following a review meeting over the spike of Covid cases here in Jamshedpur as the city is gearing up for the year-end and new year celebrations. Moreover, the deputy commissioner has shot mails to the state health secretary, pleading a fresh guideline to be implemented here in the steel city in the light of spike in the Covid cases. "The Covid cases are rising at an alarm speed in the steel city. Though we can not ban the celebrations as per existing Covid protocol of the state government, we can go for random sample tests for Covid which we will follow at the major hotels and clubs during the year-end celebrations, " said Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer Sandeep Kumar Meena while talking to The Telegraph Online. Meena said the district administration is expecting some fresh directive from the state health department by late in the night and if no new directive comes, the administration will go ahead with the decision as mentioned above. The SDO informed that soon after the review meeting was over late in the afternoon, the district health department swung into action for setting up medical teams which will be carrying out sample tests for Covid of the revellers at the entrance of hotels and clubs on Friday. During the past 24 hours, 43 fresh Coronavirus positive cases were reported from the city, sending the district health department officials into tizzy. Concerned with the surge in the Covid cases here in the city, the East Singhbhum district administration convened a meeting of health department officials and others concerned so that spread of Covid could be prevented further. The year-end bash are organised majorly at over a dozen hotels and clubs where large number of revellers, including women and children participate till the new year. Those matter in the district administration maintained that a surge in the Covid cases was due to gathering of picnickers at places of tourist attractions in and around the city and if they do not curb the year-end celebrations, then there could be blast in the Covid cases here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
30-12-2021||Jharkhand|| IIT (ISM) to set up centre of excellence in association with Dassault Systemes||Intended at providing radical technology support and also preparing workforce for future mining and allied industries by setting up a world class Center of Excellence, the technology Innovation hub of IIT (ISM) Technology Innovation in Exploration and Mining, (TEXMiN) has joined hands with Dassault Systemes, a multinational software company, that specializes in 3D design and product lifecycle management (PLM). The Centre of Excellence that will be established at IIT (ISM),will be helped by Dassault Systemes as its technology and solution partner by providing experiential learning through it’s 3D EXPERIENCE platform to support the industrial and startup ecosystem with complete optimization. The optimisation support of Dassault Systemes will range from geological modelling and mine engineering to workforce and production scheduling, supply chain optimization, portfolio optimization and plant design. As sustainability, traceability and safety which are paramount for mining organisations in today’s world can only be achieved by accelerating their digital transformation journey and integrating the entire value chain from the mine to the plant, to the port. The partnership between TEXMiN and Dassault Systemes is also aimed at empowering the students and professionals with unique learning opportunities and preparing them for this fast paced industry. The course and curricula for the Center of Excellence will be designed by combining virtual worlds  on 3D Experience Platform. Naresh Soni, Chief Executive Officer of TEXMIN at IIT (ISM) who signed an MoU in this regard on behalf of IIT (ISM) with Dassault Systems in Calcutta Yesterday said “We are excited to collaborate with Dassault Systems for setting mining technology excellence center and giving our students the opportunity to experience on the job learning environment via virtual simulations” “We are committed to train the new generation innovators, startups and professionals with future ready innovation technologies” further said Soni. Deepak NG, Managing Director, India, Dassault Systems who signed the MoU on behalf of Dassault Systems said, “ Today, Mining companies need to adapt to greater economic uncertainty, climate change and resource depletion and are expected to be more sustainable, efficient, safe and resilient” “We are proud to partner with premiere mining institute like IIT (ISM) Dhanbad to bring the technologies of the future to the students, startups and the ecosystem” further said Deepak. “The mining industry has a critical role to play in supporting mining communities to develop the skills needed to fully participate in the digital economy of the future” elaborated Deepak and added that academia and industry collaboration like this will help Indian Mining and Metal companies in their current, skilling and upskilling programs on digital transformation and build the workforce for the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
30-12-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma daily wagers set to receive their pending salaries||Daily wagers of Dalma wildlife sanctuary can look forward to finally receiving their pending dues during the New Year. The state government has released the fund for clearing the dues of the 45 daily wagers (men and women). Dues of the hapless daily wagers were pending for the past nine months. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed that the fund has arrived and it would take a couple of days for daily wagers to get their dues. The payment would be directly credited to their respective bank accounts. “It’s a huge relief for the daily wagers who have been patiently waiting for their dues since April. It is good they will finally receive the much-needed money before the Tusu festival on January 14,” Chandra said. The workers at Dalma are engaged in maintaining accommodations, taking care of two domesticated elephants (as mahauts) and some also works as cooks and trackers (who are recruited to keep a tab on movement of animals across the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur). They are paid Rs 311.26 for their labour. The daily wagers work for about 26 days in a month. The last payment was received was in March this year. Shrishtidhar Mahto, who heads the Dainik Vetan Mazdoor Sangh and works as a nightwatchman at the sanctuary, said it’s a huge relief for them. “Tusu is our main festival. We were keeping our fingers crossed but it’s good that we would finally receive our dues,” he added. Some daily wagers had to mortgage their motorcycles to get money. Some had taken money on 10 per cent interest. The Dalma foresters had asked grocers to provide grocery on credit to the daily wagers. The information kiosk and museum inside the Dalma sanctuary are likely to open for tourists next week, said range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra. “Renovation of the museum is almost complete. Work involving the information center is also nearing completion . They are likely to open next week,” he added. More elephants have returned to Dalma from their annual migration to the forests of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighboring Bengal. A few jumbos are positioned uphill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
30-12-2021||Jharkhand|| Fears of 3rd wave as over 300 Covid cases emerge in a day in Jharkhand||Jharkhand recorded 344 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, one of the largest single-day spikes in recent months, triggering fears of yet another wave of infections amid the growing scare of the new, faster spreading Omicron variant. The last time Jharkhand registered a 300-plus single-day rise in Covid cases was in early May this year amid the peak of second wave. Of the 344 cases reported on Wednesday, Ranchi accounted for 118 cases, followed by Koderma with 56 cases, East Singhbhum with 43, Dhanbad with 31. Even though the state hasn't reported an Omicron infection yet, health department officials suspect that the variant of concern may have already entered Jharkhand, given the speed of fresh infections in the last couple of weeks. The state's count of active cases is close to 1,000 (992) now. "Of these, 50 per cent cases have come in just four to five days," said an official, adding that Ranchi, Koderma and Dhanbad were emerging as the current hotspots. Concerned over the surge, state health department's additional chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh wrote to district officials on Wednesday detailing emergent steps to be taken by them to control the spread of the virus. Among his directives were door-to-door testing and mass testing drives to detect early cases and setting up containment zones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
30-12-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant govt anniversary offer: Rs 25 off on petrol for users of two-wheelers||The Jharkhand government announced a major relief for  two-wheeler users from the spiralling fuel prices during an event to mark the second anniversary of the JMM-led UPA government on Wednesday. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren expressing concern over the rising inflation and its effect on the poor and middle class announced in his speech that the government would give a relief of Rs 25 per litre in petrol from January 26. “The prices of petrol and diesel is now reaching sky high and its bad effect can easily be seen among poor and middle class segment of the population. People are not able to ride their two-wheelers due to the high prices and are not able to sell their crops or vegetable products in the market. Those having higher income and who drive four-wheelers do not mind spending an extra amount on fuel expenses. Keeping this in mind the government has decided to give relief of Rs 25 per litre for two-wheelers users from January 26 next year,” said Soren. The chief minister further announced that those ration card holders (there are nearly 59 lakh ration cardholders who are covered under National Food Security Act in Jharkhand) who refill petrol in their two-wheelers, the government will send through direct benefit transfer to their bank account amount at the rate of Rs 25 per litre. A poor and middle-class person can avail the benefit of this rebate for refilling up to 10 litre petrol each month. Sources in the Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers Association informed that Jharkhand has a VAT and cess of Rs 18.41 per litre of petrol and the remaining amount (nearly Rs 6.50) would have to be borne by the state government from its own resources. The day also saw the release of Jharkhand tourism policy, signing of MoU between Bharti Institute of Public Policy-ISB and Jharkhand government to help in creating scalable, sustainable solutions for regulating forest economy and empowering livelihood in Jharkhand especially in tapping the vast resources of forest produce like sal, lac, mahua etc. “The tourism policy 2021 aims at making Jharkhand as a must-visit destination on the tourism map of India and to ensure the overall development of tourism by showcasing its enriched heritage and tradition,” said Soren. Soren and governor Ramesh Bais also jointly launched a 1000-day SAAMAR (Strategic Action for Alleviation of Malnutrition and Anemia Reduction) campaign to tackle malnutrition in the state by identifying anaemic women and malnourished children and converge various government departments to effectively deal with the problem in a state where malnutrition is a serious issue. Soren and the governor also launched 17 Kisan Pathshala schemes in the first phase. “There is a target of setting up 100 kisan pathshalas (agriculture schools) across the state in the remaining three years. The pathshalas will dole out information about modern methods of farming, pisciculture and poultry along with providing information on modern agriculture equipment. Three to four Birsa villages will be established around the pathshalas and solar-powered cold rooms of capacity ranging between 5 and 10 MT will be constructed in each pathshala. It aims at increasing income of farmers through up-gradation of knowledge, market linkage, storage capacity and modern tools,” said a senior official in the state agriculture department. In his speech, Soren praised the government initiative of Apke Adhikar, Apki Sarkar, Apke Dwar (government at your doorstep), a 45-day campaign from November 16 in which 24,72,746 complaints out of a total of 35,41,532 applications were disposed and 10,09,778 are under process. “I would like to call upon those contractual workers that dharna and agitations would not lead to a solution. The government is there to listen to you and find a solution. Please come forward for discussions,” said Soren. The chief minister also stressed on state optimising internal resources through transit tax and toll tax to fund its development initiative. “Despite negligible support from Central government we have built on our internal resources to fund development and welfare initiatives like increasing MGNREGA wages, universal pension scheme and dhoti saree scheme. I had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi that was there not enough money to provide pensions for all widows, destitute women and elderly. But did not get any reply. So we started the universal pension scheme on our own, perhaps the only state to do so,” said Soren. Soren also announced of Student Credit Card scheme providing soft loans to help students prepare and pursue higher studies. “I have held talks with bankers but it seems banks are not willing to give loans to ST/SC. We are talking with the Union government and also the Reserve Bank of India on this aspect and if required we can also seek legal recourse to ensure that ST/SC get loans from banks,” said Soren. Governor Bais also praised the government for efforts at fulfilling people’s aspirations and reaching out to the last mile in ensuring benefits of the government welfare measures. Earlier, governor and the chief minister jointly laid foundation stones of projects worth Rs 12,558 crores and inaugurated projects worth Rs 3195.30 crores virtually. Assets worth Rs 1493.38 crores were also given to beneficiaries of government schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
