31-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: No new curbs now, Hemant asks people to be responsible||Jharkhand has decided to wait and watch for another week before announcing restrictions in the wake of a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in the state over the last seven days with chief minister Hemant Soren appealing to people to exercise restraint and welcome the New Year responsibly. Hemant, who held a high-level meeting on the Covid situation on Friday, asked residents to follow all prescribed Covid norms and appealed to them to avoid venturing out to crowded zones in the interest of their families. Last night, Jharkhand clocked 482 cases of which Ranchi alone accounted for close to 250 cases, prompting health workers to demand that the state government impose stringent measures in the wake of the fast-spreading Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov2 virus. While Jharkhand is yet to report any Omicron case so far, the intensity of fresh infections has had officials and doctors worried. Hemant also directed authorities to strengthen testing and ensure total enforcement of Covid guidelines at all tourist spots like picnic places, waterfalls and dams. At the meeting, officials expressed concern about the situation in Hazaribagh and Bokaro where even though testing was low, the positivity rate was increasing. Currently, the state is conducting about 35,000 Covid tests per day. Hemant, however, directed officials to increase the number to about a lakh a day. “Only by intense testing and tracking can the spread be curbed. Hence, immediate arrangements must be made to increase the testing numbers,” he said. The chief minister also asked authorities to step up vaccinations so as to achieve 100 per cent coverage by January 15, 2022. “At least, every one must be vaccinated by a single dose by January 15,” he said. After the meeting, state health minister Banna Gupta said, “We have not decided on any new curbs as of now. But, directives have been given to all enforcement agencies and stakeholders to pull up their socks to curb the spread of the virus by proper implementation of all the prescribed rules and regulations. "Also, we appeal to people to be cautious, make use of masks and sanitisers and consider holding New Year parties at their homes. Another review will be conducted in first week of January.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
31-12-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad imposes stricter rules for New Year bash to prevent Covid-19 spread ||With the rise in active Covid cases in Dhanbad to 115, the district administration has decided to prevent gatherings of large number of people on picnic spots during New Year celebrations. Section 144 has been imposed at all picnic spots, parks and open grounds of the district from the midnight of December 30 which will continue till January 2. This apart, wearing of masks in all clubs, hotels and restaurants besides picnic spots have been made mandatory. Deployment of sufficient security forces have been made at all picnic spots and on roads to ensure the observance of all rules. Special vehicle checking and mask checking drives have also been launched by the police at different spots of the district from today. As an additional measure, the district administration has decided to carry out Covid sampling as well as a special vaccination drive at all picnic spots for two days beginning from tomorrow. Sanjeev Kumar, Senior Superintendent of Police said, “We have made all necessary arrangements to ensure the enforcement all guidelines with regard to Covid norms as well as prohibitory orders imposed under section 144 at picnic spots.” Shyam Kishore Kant, Dhanbad Civil surgeon, while giving details about the health department's steps to prevent covid spread, said, “We will carry out covid sampling of all visitors as well as special vaccination drive at picnic spots." “Kant also added that sampling and vaccination has started from today itself as the rush at the picnic spots was lesser as compared to yesterday. Notably, 28 Covid cases were detected in Dhanbad yesterday, eight more than the 20 cases of day before yesterday (December 29) and the total number of active cases in the district at present stands at 115. The district administration, during a meeting held yesterday under the chairmanship of Sandeep Singh, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, decided to ramp up testing as well as step up vaccination drive while  instructing the health department officials to ensure  sample testing of every person within 24 hours of coming into contact with an infected person. He further said that all infected persons will be admitted to the hospitals as there is no provision for home isolation at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
31-12-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel adjudged ‘Great Place to Work’ for the fifth consecutive time||Tata Steel has been adjudged as a Great Place to Work organisation in India for the record  fifth time by Great Place to Work Institute. The annual certification from the Great Place to Work Institute recognises Tata Steel’s efforts towards building an organisation of 'High-Trust and High-Performance Culture'. Significantly, over the years, Tata Steel has introduced several path-breaking policies, practices, and initiatives for various segments of the workforce. The company has been constantly innovating and pioneering people practices in the realms of hiring, engagement, diversity and inclusion, rewards and recognition, employee relations, social security, and career  development. This year, one of the remarkable achievements of the company was that it successfully onboarded 14 transgenders in core mining operations and 38 women heavy earth moving machinery operators in a path breaking initiative. The company has been pioneering worker welfare schemes and community initiatives even during the pandemic and introduced the Agile Working Model in 2020. Earlier this year, Tata Steel was named as one of ‘India’s Best Employers Among Nation-Builders’, by Great Place to Work India in a special category introduced in 2021, as a part of a national study. Expressing his pleasure over this rare recognition, Atrayee Sanyal, vice-president (Human Resource Management), Tata Steel, said, “We are honoured to be certified as a Great Place to Work for the fifth time. We have always believed in building and nurturing an organisation that is driven by a high standard of performance. When it comes to workforce management, we've always tried to set new standards with our pioneering initiatives. Reviving from the effects of the pandemic, the Great Place To Work certification is a testament to our efforts of building a high trust, high performance and highly engaged workforce. The increase in the trust index score reflects the faith of our people in the organization." For more than 114 years, Tata Steel has emerged as one of the most employee-friendly companies in the world and is known for creating industry standards in the field of human resources. The company has been a pioneer in employee welfare schemes and community initiatives, even before the legislation mandated them. A few of these include the eight-hour workday, leave with pay, workers’ provident fund scheme, all of which were adopted by the International Labour Organisation and enacted by the law in India. Every year, more than 10,000 organisations from over 60 countries partner with Great Place to Work Institute for assessment, benchmarking, and planning actions to strengthen their workplace culture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
31-12-2021||Jharkhand||Howrah-Jagdalpur Samaleshwari Express to resume services from January 3, 2022||The South Eastern Railway ( SER ) has decided to restore the operation of Howrah-Jagdalpur Samaleshwari Express (18005/18006 ) via Sambalpur from January 3, 2022. The above mentioned train will be departing from Howrah every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday at 10.20 pm to reach Jagdalpur at 10.05 pm, the following day. In the opposite direction, the 18006 Jagdalpur-Howrah Express will depart from Jagdalpur every Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday at 5.05 am will arrive Howrah at 5.15 am, the next day. The Up train will reach Tatanagar station at 2.25 am while the return train will reach the same station at 1.05 am. Station director P K Balmuchu, said, “The train’s services had been suspended in April earlier this year during Covid second wave.” Chhotanagpur Passenger Association's senior functionary Arun Tiwari said the restoration of the train will immensely benefit passengers. “Numerous passengers travel to Chhatisgarh from Tatanagar and other places under Chakradharpur division. Restoration of the train will make their travel easy and hassle-free,” he said. The train will have one First AC, one AC 2-Tier, two AC 3-Tier, six sleeper class and two general second class coaches. It will be stopping at Uluberia, Bagnan, Mecheda, Panskura, Kharagpur, Jhargram, Tatanagar, Chakradharpur, Manoharpur, Rourkela, Rajgangpur, Bamra and Jharsuguda, for passengers to embark or disembark. The return train (18006) will be halting at Santragachi instead of Mecheda station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
31-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia students’ launch postcard campaign for pollution free area||As the country gears up to welcome the New Year, Jharia residents, reeling under the impact of severe air and water pollution, made a fervent appeal to the authorities, local representative and coal companies engaged in coal mining operation, to ensure a pollution-free New Year for their area. Leading by example, a group of school students shot off postcards to Deputy Commissioner, Sandeep Singh; Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar; BCCL CMD, Samiran Dutta; Dhanbad MP, PN Singh and Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh, requesting them to take steps to mitigate air and water pollution. The students, belonging to different private and government schools, gathered at Katras More, one of most polluted traffic squares of the district today, under the banner of Youth Concept, an organization committed to social and environmental causes, led by a speech therapist cum special educator, Akhlaque Ahmad. The students also carried posters and placards bearing slogans like Sansad dada hamari awaz uthaiye, pradushan se mukti dilaiye; DC Uncle DMFT (read District Mineral Foundation Trust) ke paise se hamari zindagi bachaiye; Vidhayak aunty hame pradushan se bachaiye as part of their awareness drive which began at around 11 am this morning. The students, through their post cards, also appealed to the BCCL top brass to ensure coal transportation through covered vehicles only, sprinkling of water on the muddy roads being used for coal transportation, proper washing of wheels of coal transporting vehicles before they come on the road from mines besides adequate tree plantations in colliery areas. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Akhlaque Ahmad said, “We decided to spread awareness among people and also highlight the crucial issue of pollution affecting the health and well-being of around five lakh residents of Jharia before the bureaucrats as well as people’s representatives.” Ahmed also said, "Funds worth around Rs 54 crores provided by central government through the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) and meant for procuring pollution control machines are lying idle with the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC).” According to him, the ground reality can be assessed from the fact that the five dust sweeping machines procured in 2019 are also rusting at the compactor stations of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC). Ahmed also pointed out that despite drinking water supply, environmental preservation, pollution control measures, health care, education being high priority areas for District Mineral Foundation Trust Fund (DMFT), very little of the allocated DMFT fund is being spent on environmental preservation and pollution control measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
31-12-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city prodigy nine-year old Adhiraj Mitra leading in online district championship ||Steel city youngster Adhiraj Miitra has once again proved his mettle across the chessboard, after starting the game two-and-a-half years ago. The 9-year-old Jamshedpur-based Adhiraj held sway over the district Hybrid Online Chess Championship organized by East Singhbhum District Chess Association at JRD Tata Sports Complex between December 27 and 30. Adhiraj, who idolizes Norwegian Grandmaster Magnus Carlsen and is a big fan of Viswanathan Anand, pocketed the under-11, under-13, under-15 and the senior titles in the boy’s category during the course of the championship. The kid, who loves to beat players of higher age groups, belies his age with intelligent moves and is all set to take big strides in the future. “I am very happy with my performance. I won four titles, including one in the senior section. I will continue to train hard and make more improvements to my game,” said Adhiraj, a standard IV student of Loyola School. The parents of Adhiraj, Uttam and Runa, said they were very proud of their son for winning so many titles at such a young age. “Any parents will be happy and proud if their ward achieves success,” said Uttam ,a businessman. Adhiraj has also proved his prowess on earlier occasions. He claimed the under-18 title, topped in the under-12 and under-10 section, besides finishing runner-up in the under-14 age category at the chess festival organized by All Jharkhand Chess Association earlier this year. The young player, who works 10-12 hours on the chess board under his maternal uncles Dushyant and Abhishek Das, both international players, had also emerged as a champion in the district under-18 online chess event conducted earlier this year. "I dream of becoming a world champion. I will do everything to achieve this dream," said Adhiraj, who also loves roller skates and is fond of watching cartoons. Adhiraj had met Viswanathan Anand when the Grandmaster was in Jamshedpur to promote his book Mind Master in February 2020.  He had always wanted to play with the five-time world champion. The dream came true when Adhiraj went up to Anand at the JRD Tata Sports Complex where Viswanathan was meeting 200 chess enthusiasts and taking the opportunity he requested the Grandmaster for a game. To the boy’s utter delight, Anand said yes. “I cannot forget that moment. Though I played for just five minutes with the great Viswanathan Anand, it was an unforgettable experience,” Jharkhand’s chess prodigy Adhiraj recalled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
31-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand sees 500 new Covid cases, one death ||Jharkhand registered close 500 cases of new infections and one casualty in the last 24 hours with capital Ranchi accounting for more than 50 per cent of the case load, according to a state health department bulletin issued late on Thursday night. The total number of active cases stands at 1,371 after rapid increases over the past week. On Thursday, a 64-year-old woman succumbed to a heart attack while being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Ranchi, officials said. She is the thrid person to die of Covid this month. Ranchi alone registered 246 infections in the last 24 hours, followed by Koderma (56), East Singhbhum (42), Bokaro (29), Dhanbad (28) and Deoghar (13). Even though the state government is not calling the current spread of infections as a third wave, health department officials and doctors on the field maintained that there were clear indications of another wave and called for stringent measures to try and control the situation. A doctor at sadar hospital in Ranchi said, “On December 24, the state’s count of single-day infections was 55. This rose to 60 on December 26, followed by 138 on December 27, 155 on December 28, 344 on December 29 and close to 500 on December 30. "Unlike the previous trend, we are seeing a rise in cases in our state too, almost at par with big cities. During the two previous waves, cases in smaller states like ours peaked once big cities neared saturation levels because there were certain curbs in the movement of people along with other regulations. The situation is different this time with no curbs anywhere, mainly on movement of people.” The doctor feared that with Delta and Omicron variants currently in circulation, the next few days will be crucial for Jharkhand. “While studies say that Omicron may be less severe and requiring less hospitalisation, we must not forget that Delta is still very much active in the state. A dozen samples sent for genome sequencing about a month back revealed three Delta infections. Having said this, we suspect Omicron too may have made its way into Jharkhand considering the rapid doubling of cases in recent days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
31-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand health department tightens Covid leash as cases rise||The Jharkhand health department has directed deputy commissioners of all the districts to implement stricter Covid-19 management and control measures, including RT-PCR tests of all travellers, in view of the recent surge in cases. The letter by additional chief secretary health, Arun Kumar Singh, informs about the continuous surge in the number of Covid cases in Jharkhand in the last four weeks. The letter directs the deputy commissioners to conduct door-to-door search and test all severe acute respiratory infections cases, especially vulnerable people and those with co-morbidities, ensure the right proportion of RT-PCR tests and organise mass testing drives in areas with high positivity rates. “All residual daily cases or any new emerging clusters are to be completely traced and treated to suppress any large outbreak. All Covid-19 positive patients should be brought to the respective government hospitals and thoroughly questioned over travel history, their movement, for the purpose of finding all possible contacts for effective contact tracing,” the letter directs. The letter also asks for testing of all contacts of positive cases within 24 hours along with constant monitoring of international passengers and persons coming from omicron-affected states of India. The data on contact tracing along with travel history have to be mailed on a daily basis at idspjharkhand3@gmail.com. “The samples of positive cases from all travellers, including samples of the community found positive in RT-PCR test, are to be promptly sent for genome sequencing to the Institute of Life Sciences Bhubaneswar,” the letter states. It advises the district administrations to allow home isolation only on case-to-case basis after fully satisfying the justification of such permission and strict monitoring of such cases through call centres. The Union health ministry had on Wednesday written to eight states and Union Territories, including Jharkhand, to enhance testing, strengthen hospital preparedness, increa­se the pace and coverage of Covid-19 vaccination drive and ensure strict enforcement of restrictions to counter the spread of the infection. The other states include Delhi, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka. Jharkhand recorded 344 new Covid cases on Wednesday, one of the largest single-day spikes in recent months, triggering fears of yet another wave of infections. The last time Jharkhand registered a 300-plus single-day rise in Covid cases was in early May this year amid the peak of the second wave. Of the 344 cases reported on Wednesday, Ranchi accounted for 118 cases, followed by Koderma with 56 cases, East Singhbhum with 43, Dhanbad with 31. Even though the state hasn’t reported an omicron infection yet, health department officials suspect that the variant of concern may have already entered Jharkhand, given the speed of fresh infections in the last couple of weeks. The state’s count of active cases is 992 at present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
31-12-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi flags fuel cash-back drive for two-wheeler users from Jan 26  ||Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon has termed as historic the decision to give a cash-back of Rs 25 per litre on petrol for poor and lower-middle-class two-wheeler users from January 26. “We are the first state in the country to execute such a historic decision for the poor and lower-middle-class residents owning two-wheelers. This despite the indifference on the part of the BJP-led central government to our repeated requests to pay our outstanding dues in terms of royalties and payments accrued on behalf of PSUs,” said the former Congress state president and a retired IPS officer. Oraon said there had been deliberations by various government departments on this issue following a directive by chief minister Hemant Soren to provide relief to the poor from spiralling fuel prices. “The announcement has been made following days of deliberations between various government departments following a request by the chief minister on giving relief to the poor from rising inflation and fuel prices. We know that it would be a huge cost on the state exchequer and we might have to make a budgetary provision of over Rs 800 crore on this head in the next budget session. But we had to take this burden for the sake of our people,” Oraon said. Soren has announced a fuel price relief for the poor and lower-middle-class sections using two-wheelers at a function to mark the second anniversary of the JMM-led UPA government on Wednesday. “The prices of petrol and diesel are now sky high and its adverse effect can easily be seen among the poor and middle-class segments of the population. People are not able to ride their two-wheelers due to high fuel prices and are not able to sell their crops or vegetable products in the market. Those who have higher income and drive four-wheelers do not mind spending an extra amount on fuel expenses. Keeping this in mind, the government has decided to give a relief of Rs 25 per litre to two-wheelers users from January 26,” Hemant had said on Wednesday. For ration car holders refilling petrol in their two-wheelers, Rs 25 cashback per litre will be directly transferred to their bank accounts, Kemant had said. The rebate can be availed by those who refill up to 10 litres of petrol each month. There are nearly 59 lakh ration cardholders who are covered under National Food Security Act in Jharkhand. Oraon ruled out the apprehension expressed by Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers Association about the reduction of state VAT and cess of nearly Rs 18.41 per litre of petrol and contributing the remaining (nearly Rs 6.50) from its own fund. “We do not intend to reduce our VAT. We will be simply transferring the amount through DBT (direct benefit transfer) to bank accounts. A person refilling petrol in a two-wheeler will need to show the receipt (given at fuel refill outlet) at the PDS shop. “The receipt would be verified through the district supply officer and weight and measures inspector after which the amount would be transferred through DBT to the beneficiary’s account. We are working to ensure that DBT is done as early as possible,” the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
