02-09-2020||News||NEP fails to address concerns of students||While a lot has been written about the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 from the academic, political, and ideological lens, the perspective of students has been missing. This is in keeping with the discourse on education, which marginalises the most important stakeholder. NEP itself neglects the concerns and aspirations of the young, especially first-generation learners. One, the question of access. Young people from poor and marginalised backgrounds who want to study in colleges are completely dependent on external financial support. It is thus surprising that when the policy identifies the “major problems faced by the higher education system in India” (Section 9.2), it makes no mention of the crippling lack of funds for the higher education sector. It is this lack of public investment which explains why almost 80% of colleges are private, and why even public universities are being privatised by transitioning to “self-financing” courses. It is because of lack of public investment that many public universities shockingly don’t hold classes as there aren’t enough teachers for all the enrolled students. And it is lack of public investment that denies six out of seven students enrolled in central universities affordable accommodation. The policy barely mentions hostels, but for large numbers of first-generation learners who secure admission in state and central universities away from home, the lack of affordable accommodation is a significant barrier to completing education. For instance, average tuition fees in Allahabad University is about ~1,000 annually, but room and board costs of ~45,000 to ~ one lakh annually are prohibitive for most poor students. If education has to provide a pathway for socio-economic mobility for our aspirational young, it can only be through publicly -funded education. Yet, when the policy talks of improving access to education, it says only that “there shall, by 2030, be at least one large multidisciplinary HEI (higher educational institution) in or near every district”, without mandating that this HEI be publicly-funded. The failure to highlight the lack of funding as a central problem with the education system and the absence of any timebound redress, especially in the face of declining expenditure (from 4.14% in the 2014 Budget to 3.3% in 2020) is a capitulation. A statement of intent to enhance funding isn’t enough. Two, NEP’s disregard of students and their perspective is also evident when it talks of governance of HEIs (Section 19). The policy says that over the next 15 years, all HEIs will become “self-governing” through the institution of a “Board of Governors (BoG)...consisting of a group of highly qualified, competent, and dedicated individuals having proven capabilities and a strong sense of commitment to the institution”. At no point in this section, or throughout the policy, is there any mention of democratic student representation in academic and administrative decision-making. NEP wants to promote critical thinking in the students, but fails to acknowledge that the first pre-requisite of critical thinking is a democratic atmosphere where students are encouraged to participate in decision-making. This is all the more important because in universities across the country, the administration is cracking down on free speech and deploying disproportionately punitive measures to keep dissenting students in check. A policy empathetic to students would have also acknowledged the skewed balance of power between the students and the administration and faculty in most HEIs, and underscored the need for transparency (beyond financial disclosures) and grievance redress measures. In this context, the National Students Union of India (NSUI) has drafted students’ rights act, which codifies the minimum non-negotiable rights of a student in any college or university and series of escalating institutional measures to help enforce these rights. Three, a policy sensitive to the needs and interests of our young people would put online education in its place as a tool to supplement or enhance the university experience, and not supplant it altogether. The university is a place for learning more than information; it is the place where most young people get their first taste of independence, develop a sense of self and build networks. These are often a bigger determinant of a student’s future trajectory, and it would be unfair to equate the university experience with the singular pursuit of education online. And four, a sensitive policy would acknowledge that for many young people, the raison d’être for higher education is better employment opportunities. This leads to two imperatives. First, to eliminate the political-commercial nexus at the heart of our education system and rationalise the supply of third-rate colleges in fields such as engineering and business administration; and second, proactively using academia to structure and formalise emerging professions and employment instead of merely letting young people become fodder for the informal gig economy. Yet the policy is silent on both these issues.For too long, the education system has talked down to young people, treating them as passive recipients of top-down wisdom. This is one of the main reasons for the poor quality of education in our country. A policy which aims to reform our education sector to produce “engaged, productive, and contributing citizens for building an equitable, inclusive, and plural society” does a great disservice to its own stated intent by bypassing students entirely. Ruchi Gupta is All India Congress joint secretary in charge of its student wing. The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/nep-fails-to-address-concerns-of-students/story-HUSFzW3btMOoACZOEmZQ6M.html
02-09-2020||News||For strategic reasons, India must deepen defence ties with the US||Over the past 15 years, ties between India and the United States (US) have scaled new heights in almost every imaginable area. The annual bilateral trade in goods and services today is in the region of $150 billion. The two countries are now natural allies. And they conduct a fair number of joint military exercises annually. But despite this deepening partnership, trade in defence is a weak spot. As India celebrated the arrival of the first five of 36 Dassault Rafale jets from France late last month, in the middle of a border standoff with China in Ladakh, Washington’s strategic community and stakeholders in the defence industrial base watched with a mixture of dismay and disappointment. For the US government and the country’s defence industry, the Rafale induction at once offered a glimpse into the potential of the Indian defence market and the challenges they face in getting a foothold in the same market. India was expected to spend over $100 billion over the next decade. But now, post-Ladakh, the country will be forced to upgrade the defence systems more substantially. As part of a buying spree, earlier this month, the government announced buying equipment worth more than $1.16 billion. Prior to that, in the immediate aftermath of the border clashes, the government had approved a purchase of $5.55 billion worth of weapons and equipment.US companies have also made some inroads. In February, at the “Namaste Trump” event in Ahmedabad, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump announced a $3.5 billion deal for India to buy US- made helicopters. That was a small step forward for the US. But the fact remains that when it comes to shopping for military equipment, India routinely prefers countries such as Russia and France. Why is India hesitant to buy US defence equipment in spite of having a good and growing strategic relationship? There are a number of reasons.One, India has not been a traditional customer of US military equipment. Once major modern defence equipment is inducted into the military, it requires continuous maintenance, which deepens ties with existing suppliers. Two, India has been traditionally reluctant to purchase US hardware due to the apprehension that Pakistan, which has a huge stockpile of American equipment, may be familiar with the weapons. So, the concern that the enemy in the neighbourhood may have intelligence on your weapons gives New Delhi pause.Three, unlike countries such as Russia, Israel and France, the US has a lot of congressional regulatory hurdles to cross before selling military equipment. The president has to notify Congress before selling major defence equipment, articles and services to other countries. Congress can block deals if it is not satisfied with them. In addition, the Arms Export Control Act prohibits defence manufacturers from selling sensitive technologies to certain countries. But none of these are insurmountable. It’s worth remembering that India and the US signed a civil nuclear deal 12 years ago, overcoming intense opposition from both US domestic political forces and the global non-proliferation community.In this case, all that the two sides have to do is to negotiate in good faith to put a plan and process in place to minimise obstacles, and maximise the opportunities for collaboration. With the strategic goals of the world’s two largest democracies more aligned than ever before, that should not be too difficult. With India hoping to meet most of its defence needs locally, as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the US and its companies are ideally positioned to be the best partners and allies for India in that campaign. This is the time for the US and India to create a defining defence trade relationship for the 21st century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/for-strategic-reasons-india-must-deepen-defence-ties-with-the-us/story-R5cEmZfVjTvBwHIJ7PwMFM.html
02-09-2020||News||The myth of India’s low income tax base||In our country of 130 crore Indians, only 1.5 crore pay income taxes. Millions evade taxes,’ said Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, while launching a platform for “Transparent Taxation” recently. The PM is not alone in this belief. Most political leaders, commentators and analysts share this conviction. This is one of the most perpetuated notions about India’s taxation. With the precipitous fall in India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the gravest economic crisis in history, the income-tax payer base will only shrink further. The belief that India has very few taxpayers and millions of people routinely hide their income has been the underpinning for the country’s onerous income tax administration and a consequent mistrust of citizens. The income tax department has a Tom and Jerry relationship with taxpayers, indulging in an incessant chase of people under the conviction that nearly every Indian has large amounts of income stashed away in a secret corner.This belief was also the rationale for the 2016 demonetisation blunder, independent India’s worst economic policy decision. But this widely held notion is one of India’s costliest and most harmful myths. A small percentage of working Indians pay income tax because that is how India’s tax structure is designed and not because millions evade taxes.Only those that earn an income above the income tax threshold are liable to pay income tax. As per the current structure, only those earning more than around five lakh will effectively pay an income tax. How many Indians earn more than around Rs 5 lakh to be eligible to pay income tax? India’s per capita income is around Rs 1.4 lakh. That is, the average Indian earns less than a third of the income tax threshold and, hence, will not pay any income tax. India’s per capita income will fall further with the contraction in the economy.To put this in perspective, the average American (earning America’s per capita income) pays a 22% income tax, the average Chinese pays 10%, the average Mexican pays 15%, and the average German pays 14%. Most nations in the world have an income tax threshold that is lower than their per capita income. India is a complete outlier in this aspect.Further, India’s high-income inequality implies that only a small fraction earn more than the per capita income, and an even smaller fraction will earn thrice that amount to qualify for an income tax. Using inequality indicators derived from income tax data as a proxy, my estimate is that only 3% of working adults in India earn more than thrice the per capita income and fall under the income tax bracket. This is comparable to the rest of the world. Only 5% of working Americans earn more than three times their per capita income and 4% of British do so. When the income tax threshold is set much higher than the nation’s per capita income, it is only logical that a large number of people will be outside the tax bracket and not pay income taxes.Only 3% of working adults (aged 25-65) amounts to roughly 25 million people eligible to pay income tax. The number of working Indians that actually pay income tax seems to tally reasonably well with the number that will qualify to pay income tax. There should be no shock or awe that only such a small fraction pays income tax because India’s tax threshold is inordinately high for its levels of prosperity.Over the last three decades, India has raised its income tax threshold 13 times while China has raised it only thrice in the same period. Little wonder then that China’s share of income-tax payers grew from 3% in 1986 to 25% now while India’s has remained stuck at 3%. India’s tax policy has ensured that most Indians remain outside the income tax ambit. So, the incessant grumbling and insinuation that millions of Indians evade income taxes is facile. Is it possible that India’s per capita income is artificially low because millions hide their income? No. Even if millions of people hide their incomes from tax authorities, it will be accounted for in India’s GDP and per capita income data since they will use this hidden income to eventually spend on goods, real estate, gold and so on. It cannot be the case that millions of hoarders are stocking piles of currency notes in an attic every year without ever using it and even in that case, it will get accounted for in the “currency in circulation” data provided by the Reserve Bank of India.If one believes in India’s GDP, economic and per-capita income data, then one has also to accept that under the current income tax laws, only 3% of working Indians will qualify to pay income taxes. There is nothing spurious or suspicious about it. To be clear, there are surely income tax evaders in the country, but not tens of millions of them, as perceived.That a small fraction of working Indians pay income tax is a fact. But the corollary that millions evade income taxes is a myth. This myth has spawned a policy goal to unearth the hidden incomes of the phantom millions of tax evaders, which in turn led to foolhardy decisions such as demonetisation and has created a climate of mistrust, tax harassment and a heavy-handed state. The key to widening India’s income tax base is in keeping the income tax exemption threshold unchanged over many years, not in policing credit card bills, flight tickets, hotel stays and harassing the 3% of working Indians that fall within the income tax ambit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-myth-of-india-s-low-income-tax-base/story-UlN3FLG6NNzQilt09BSXnN.html
02-09-2020||News||In Pakistan-Saudi clash, India has an opportunity||In a surprising turn of events, Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi, in a very blunt and public statement, criticised Saudi Arabia over its aloofness and inability to conduct a meeting on Kashmir in the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). Qureshi pushed Riyadh, and the kingdom’s de-facto leader, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (MbS), to either lead the Muslim ummah from the front by standing up for Kashmir after India’s constitutional changes of August 2019, or let those Islamic countries act which are ready to confront New Delhi. A damage control trip to Riyadh by Pakistan Army and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chiefs yielded little results.The gulf between Pakistan and its long-term ally, Saudi Arabia, has been growing for some time. The major blow, arguably, for Islamabad, came when, in March 2019, India was invited as a guest of honour by OIC, and the late former external affairs minister, Sushma Swaraj, gave a strong speech to the grouping, as she led the delegation to Abu Dhabi. Pakistan attempted to stall India’s participation, but to no effect, and ultimately boycotted the speech by withdrawing its representation from the round table. The fact that Islamabad later on tried to create a parallel OIC, with Turkey, Malaysia and Iran, turned its differences with Saudi into a deeper political divide, leading to Riyadh withholding funds, pushing Pakistan to pay debts, and holding back the renewal of an oil supply pact.This moment was not sudden, but the culmination of the ever-growing ties between New Delhi and the Arab capitals in the backdrop of significant changes taking place in the region. These changes are led by a much more inclusive and outward-looking United Arab Emirates (UAE), and a change-driven Saudi Arabia under MbS. The churn is also driven by the need to break from the economic reliance on petro-dollars and an oil-related economic ecosystem, which has suffered recently with consumption and prices having crashed due to the pandemic.However, the geopolitical shifts and requirements of the Gulf do not necessarily feature Pakistan beyond a certain point, with its GDP still smaller than that of the Indian state of Maharashtra, where both the UAE and Saudi Arabia have plans to invest heavily in hydrocarbons and related infrastructure. While Riyadh had already designed major changes to its vision of how it intends to power the kingdom financially in the future, taking cues from its neighbour, the UAE and its successes, these shifts will largely rely on eastern economies, with India and China leading the pack.Even though Pakistan may publicly showcase China as its available alternative to everything, there must be concern in the country over this eventuality. It is important to remember here that China also has robust relations with the Gulf Cooperation Council region, including through its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). It makes little sense for Beijing to aggressively internationalise Kashmir on behalf of Pakistan, especially in the Gulf, when supporting Islamabad’s stance on the same regionally in South Asia including via United Nations is more than enough for its requirements. China’s plan include involving Saudi in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) itself, with a $20 billion plan which now stands at an interesting inflection point. Furthermore, CPEC is only a small part of BRI, which forces China’s hand to play its political deck of cards very carefully in the Middle East. Pakistan’s “absolutist” approach towards China may work against India. But the Gulf region is going to be a different play, and Islamabad’s lack of any hedging room against “iron brother” Beijing is going to become a challenge. This is an outcome of myopic State building, where an entire military, economic and political system is designed around one political and geographic agenda.As Pakistan and Saudi clash, New Delhi is in a comfortable position, having made strong political and economic inroads into the Gulf capitals, which realise realpolitik’s strong reliance on economics in modern diplomacy designs, giving a second-tier seat to issues such as religion. The Saudi–Pakistan kerfuffle is not a zero-sum game, and relations between the two will reconcile, led by deep defence and political roots. However, this relationship will look different from what it has historically been.This is the time for New Delhi to make some critical moves, such as rapidly clearing Saudi- and UAE-backed infrastructure projects, cementing itself as a premier investment destination for the Gulf to park its money. Pakistan’s attempt to make Kashmir a big issue in the Islamic world has failed, and the time is opportune for Indian diplomacy and economy to continue to capitalise on this in a restrained yet tactful manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-pakistan-saudi-clash-india-has-an-opportunity/story-fSBET1bADKHpL9Mbq2mZrM.html
02-09-2020||City||In Gurugram, GMDA got over 1,500 complaints of damage to water pipelines in last five months||Gurugram: The water pipeline of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) has been damaged more than 1,500 times to disrupt supply across the city in the last five months since the beginning of the lockdown, officials said. The only section that benefits from this sabotage is Gurugram’s water mafia that operates many water tanker services, which residents are forced to hire in the absence of supply, said officials.There are nearly 50 censors installed so far, out of the sanctioned strength of 500, which detect such damages and are controlled from the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) in Sector 44 through an extensive GIS-based surveillance, said GMDA officials. They added that earlier the problem of water theft and damaging of pipelines was reported only from new developing sectors such as sectors 61 to 95 and the Dwarka Expressway area but the mafia have expanded and become active across the city.Pradeep Aggarwal, who oversees the Smart City project at GMDA, said, “We have received 1,500 complaints in the last five months. Before the lockdown, there used to be a maximum of two complaints everyday but since March, we have been getting between eight and 10 complaints daily.”Thefts have been reported from Sushant Lok 1 and 2, South City 1 and 2, DLF Phase 1 to 4, Sector 54, 57, Palam Vihar, Sector 22 and 23. GMDA officials said once a pipeline is damaged, it takes at least two days to repair and at least 10 officials are involved in the process of detecting the damage and resuming operations. Water mafia is a big threat to the supply infrastructure and GMDA has appointed teams of officials from different departments to rein them in. At least 10 officials are assigned to patrol, detect and fix the damage, Aggarwal said. Officials said they also loop in the police to take prompt action. “We have already set up an extensive GIS-based surveillance which consists of a network of CCTVs and sensors that transmit real-time visual feeds and data to a dashboard dedicated to water supply at the command centre. The surveillance system is based on Geographic Information System (GIS) mapping technology, a citywide network of fibre optic cables which is running parallel to its water pipelines and CCTVs,” he said.Dr Sultan Singh, head of GIS at GMDA, and a senior scientist at the Haryana Space Applications Centre (Harsac), said that they have created the One Map platform which is helping all divisions detect theft and that they are regularly monitoring those areas which are sensitive and require more water supplies. “We immediately send feed related to water theft to the teams concerned and prompt action is taken,” he said. Singh said all censors will be installed within a few months which will solve all issues related to water theft and damaging of water pipelines.SPS Rana, consultant to GMDA, said there are nearly 574 consumers connected to them which are sanctioned, out of which 146 have been given to the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG). “We have installed 22 electromagnetic flow meters so far and the process is ongoing until we bring the entire area under GMDA. We are receiving between eight-10 complaints related to water theft and damaging of water pipelines. We are working on all aspects and by the end of the year, the issues will be resolved as all teams are working towards solving the water crisis and ensuring proper supply,” he said. GMDA is the master water supplier to the city. Officials said the authority has sufficient capacity to supply the present demand of water which is about 410 million litres per day (MLD). Bulk water supply from treatment plants in Chandu Budhera and Basai is 450-480 MLD. They are also supplying water to MCG, which is making it available for residents in their own jurisdiction. Presently, colonies on the outskirts and new licensed colonies in areas like Gwal Pahari and Ghata are facing some technical problems and are depending on tanker supply. Officials said their aim is to eventually integrate them as well. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said they have identified areas where most of the water theft cases have been reported and teams are on the lookout. “Strict action will be taken against anyone found involved. We have identified more than 50 history sheeters involved in unauthorised water supply and digging bore wells near residential areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-gurugram-gmda-got-over-1-500-complaints-of-damage-to-water-pipelines-in-last-five-months/story-2eN1n0oGd1SXYbRDwqOTMN.html
02-09-2020||Gurugram||Despite MCG takeover, water supply remains a crisis in South City 1, 2||Despite the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) taking over South City 1-2 in April last year, water issues remain unabated for residents of the two colonies.The existing water supply remains insufficient as well as substandard, they alleged. To compensate for this, the residents say they have had to rely on private tankers which is expensive, almost 10 times the rate of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) that is ₹9.45 per kilolitre. There have been at least five incidents where residents from the two colonies complained to the police that the water mafia allegedly sabotaged their civic water supply to stay in the business. Wakim Aziz, a resident of South City-1’s Block M, said that they are completely dependent on water tankers and that the shortage seemed to be increasing ever day. “We have paid more than ₹8,000 a month to water tankers as the taps went dry and no one from MCG takes the responsibility or offered any solution,” he said. The residents alleged that before they even get to know that a water pipeline would be under repair, the water tankers would have start moving from colony to colony announcing that there will be no supply for next few days. Ritik Garg, another resident from Block M of South City -1, suspected an unholy nexus between authority officials and the “water mafia”. “The people managing these water tankers are mostly those with a criminal background and if we try to negotiate with them for a reasonable price, they leave immediately, leaving us no choice. They do not let any other tanker visit the colony either,” he said. The situation remains the same in South City -2 where residents say they are paying at least ₹500 each a day for water since March. In the summers, this goes up to ₹900 to ₹1,200.“It is becoming very difficult for residents to get water. We have protested, requested authorities to look into the matter, but nothing has helped. Those who operate water tankers in our area have control over the supply,” said Vishal Vaid, a resident of Block D. A senior citizen, resident of Block D of South City 1, requesting anonymity, said, “My wife and I were on our morning walk when we caught three youths damaging a water pipeline. When I questioned them, they told me to go ahead and inform the police and to make a video to share with them. They had no fear. When we returned home, we found out that the water pipeline was damaged and there was no supply in our block.” Gurugram police officials said that three crime teams have been formed to check the issue. City police commissioner KK Rao said that the teams will inspect the areas and compile data of the spots where the pipelines were damaged. “We have requested resident welfare associations to install cameras at crucial points and to deploy guards in those area to monitor the movement of people and to ensure no one tampers the pipeline,” he said. Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG, said that the water is supplied by Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to the developer and is routed through them in South city 2. “We inspect the area immediately after we receive any complaint. Also we inform police to investigate the reason behind the damage,” he said. BOX Cases registered against people involved in watertheft, digging borewell and damaging water pipelines 2020- 15 2019- 18 2018- 157 100 illegal dealers supplying groundwater water 4 plants sealed in 2012, 2013 by police Six plants sealed in 2014, 15, 16 and 17 Three plants were sealed in 2018 Six plants were sealed in 2019 Two plants were sealed in 2020 40 persons were arrested, but back again to the business||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/despite-mcg-takeover-water-supply-remains-a-crisis-in-south-city-1-2/story-wpOC7etHCFHDcBTArYeuJP.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Former top cops move Bombay HC to restrain media trial||Five former director generals of police (DGP) of Maharashtra, two former commissioners of Mumbai Police and a former anti-terrorism squad (ATS) chief have moved a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking a restraint on the media trial in the ongoing investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. The former cops, in the PIL, have claimed a certain section of electronic media is maligning the image of the Mumbai Police through media trial, and urged the HC to restrain them. Former DGPs PS Pasricha, K Subramaniam, D Shivanandan, Sanjeev Dayal, Satish Chandra Mathur; former commissioners of Mumbai Police Mahesh N Singh, Dhananjay N Jadhav; and former ATS chief KP Raghuvanshi have filed the PIL through advocate Sanjay Ashar of Crawford Bayley & Company. Senior counsel Dr Milind Sathe and advocate Chetan Kapadia will be representing the petitioners. The PIL filed on Monday states that a section of TV channels are making false propaganda through their biased reporting of the facts and are trying to influence the course of investigation. It further states, “This has created an air of suspicion in the minds of general public as to the facts of the case under investigation and also about the Mumbai Police, health services and other support services of the state.” It adds that the irresponsible coverage of the case is damaging the image of the Mumbai Police due to the round-the-clock malicious campaign started by anchors of certain channels. The PIL states, “The anchors of some TV channels have been virtually running a vituperative 24x7 campaign against Mumbai Police and its commissioner, DCP of the zone and other officers by attacking them by name in most unbecoming manner.” The PIL has said that the ‘media trial’ has resulted into a parallel investigation being undertaken by private individuals, rendering opinions, exposing material witnesses and divulging crucial pieces of evidence which, in turn, hampers the work of investigating agencies. In light of these facts, the top cops have sought an urgent hearing of the PIL and sought directions to the government and media regulators to lay down guidelines for the mode and manner of covering any pending investigation particularly that of Sushant Singh Rajput case. The PIL has made the Union of India, Press Council of India, News Broadcasters Association, News Broadcasting Standards Authority and state government respondents and sought directions to issue guidelines to media houses to refrain from publishing and circulating any false, derogatory and scandalous comments, social media posts, news stories which would jeopardise the investigation and malign the reputation of the police force. The advocates for the petitioners informed that a praecipe for urgent hearing of the PIL was moved before the HC registry on Wednesday evening and hearing is likely to be allowed on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-former-top-cops-move-bombay-hc-to-restrain-media-trial/story-suQQW61m0rbis0QT8MoxSI.html
02-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Revenue dept reaches out to farmers to disburse ₹100 crore compensation for land||Gurugram: The Gurugram revenue department has started the process of disbursing compensation to farmers of 27 villages in Gurugram and Rewari districts whose land was acquired for construction and expansion of the 46-km Gurugram-Pataudi-Rewari expressway project, which is expected to be completed by December 2022. Also, due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation, the revenue department has adopted a novel strategy for a change and instead of calling the owners to the revenue office, they are going to villages and settling the claims there only and issuing cheques to farmers, said officials. The foundation stone of the highway project was laid digitally by Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari on July 14, 2020. The project was announced in 2017 but was delayed due to issues in land acquisition, which have now been cleared. Basti Ram, the district revenue officer, said that they have received ₹100 crore as the first tranche of compensation of a total of around ₹600 crore. “We are visiting the villages where land has been acquired, reaching out to owners and verifying claims. The payments would be made in the villages itself as we don’t want large crowds to gather at the revenue offices in view of the pandemic,” he said.Land for this road had been acquired from 27 villages of Gurugram and Rewari and these include Khandsa, Kadipur, Dhorka, Tajnagar, Jamalpur, Pataudi, Inchhapuri, Khetiawas and Khalilpur, among others.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that the contract for the project is in the process of being allotted and they have called for bids. “The first tranche of compensation has been transferred to the Haryana government and remaining will also be given gradually. The authority has, till now, received one bid for the project and it is being evaluated. The highway will reduce pressure on the existing Delhi-Jaipur highway as it will give an alternative to commuters travelling between Delhi, Gurugram and Rewari,” said PK Kaushik, project director, NHAI. According to the NHAI, the cost of the entire project is around ₹1,500 crore and the four lanes will start from Hero Honda Chowk. Besides, a toll plaza will be built near Pataudi. The road will intersect the KMP expressway and will be linked with the Rewari-Narnaul expressway. The highway will have two flyovers, one over-bridge and three interchange connections, allowing people to leave the road or take it with ease at different points, said officials. The project will also include the construction of a Pataudi bypass road, which will reduce congestion in Pataudi town, said officials. Local residents said the construction of this road will reduce travel time and traffic congestion of Delhi, Gurugram, Pataudi and Rewari and give commuters the option to avoid the national highway 48. BoxThe Gurugram Pataudi Rewari expressway will have a 7 kms long bypass at Pataudi.The highway is being developed at a cost of ₹1,500 crore.The deadline for the project is December 2022. Land from 27 villages at a cost of ₹598 crores has been acquired. NHAI has transferred the first tranche of ₹100 crore to be paid to the land owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-revenue-dept-reaches-out-to-farmers-to-disburse-100-crore-compensation-for-land/story-uku9a9F4ITg66II3K6b8yI.html
02-09-2020||City||3,381 undergo rapid antigen tests at Anand Vihar ISBT, 19 test +ve||New Delhi: As many as 3,381 people have undergone rapid antigen tests at a makeshift centre set up by the Delhi government on August 13 at east Delhi’s Anand Vihar ISBT to screen migrants heading back to the Capital as lockdown restrictions have eased, of which 19 have been diagnosed Covid-19 positive till Wednesday, government officials said.At meeting of the state disaster management authority on Wednesday, the Delhi government is learnt to have told lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal that more such testing centres would be set up at the other inter-state bus terminals, railway stations and near major construction sites in line with the Delhi high court’s directions issued on Monday.“All 19 people who tested Covid-19 positive in Anand Vihar had arrived from Uttar Pradesh. Two of them were women. All 19 were symptomatic and sent to Covid care centres,” said a senior official, citing records maintained by the Shahdara revenue district. Anand Vihar is in the jurisdiction of Shahdara district.The central government has allowed inter-state road transport under its Covid-19 unlock plan to further ease restrictions in September. But Delhi is yet to take a final call on allowing interstate buses to enter the city. However, the Anand Vihar ISBT, which is right next to the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, has witnessed large footfalls for the past one month now.Most migrants are coming back from various districts in Uttar Pradesh and step down from state buses at another bus terminal in Kaushambi on the Ghaziabad side, bang opposite the Anand Vihar ISBT. From there, they would walk a few hundred metres to Anand Vihar and then take local buses in Delhi to reach their destination within the city, said another district official who did not wish to be identified.The official cited above said heath officers deployed at the centre roughly test one out of three persons – which essentially means around 10,000 people have arrived in Delhi after August 13 via Anand Vihar in working hours. The centre operates from 7 am to 7 pm.Millions of migrant workers had left Delhi in the days following the lockdown imposed on March 25 to arrest the spread of Covid-19. The state government had set up thousands of centres to provide food and shelter to migrant workers who lost their livelihoods until arrangements were made to send them back on trains and buses. Thousands of them set off on arduous journeys back home, covering hundreds of miles, by foot.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “The objective of the tests play a crucial role in this case. Since, the government is isolating positive cases, they should ideally test all individuals. RT-PCR should be a preferred mode in this case.”Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests are considered to be more accurate.T Jacob John, former professor of virology at Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore, said using RT-PCR tests in these centres, where migrants are tested, would help the government in accurately detecting more Covid-19 positive cases but the process may have its own challenges.John said, “Conducting RT-PCR tests on all individuals arriving in the city would require the capacity of laboratories to be increased immensely. So, instead of that, the government can first reduce the numbers by a round of rapid antibody tests and relieve people who are found to have contracted the virus and recovered. The second round should be rapid antigen tests and those found positive should be isolated immediately. Both tests show results within 30 minutes and the kits are cheap. On the remaining population, RT-PCR tests can be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-381-undergo-rapid-antigen-tests-at-anand-vihar-isbt-19-test-ve/story-5zhpsd9FMrDBfArPoTW9HM.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees quietest Anant Chaturdashi since 2003||With muted celebrations of Ganeshotsav due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the city recorded noise levels below 100 decibels (dB) on Anant Chaturdashi. This is the first time since 2003, when anti-noise campaigners Awaaz Foundation began monitoring noise levels in Mumbai, that the levels have been so low. On Anant Chaturdashi, most areas in Mumbai recorded noise levels between 54.7dB and 76.8dB (equivalent to television or living room music), according to Awaaz Foundation. Prabhadevi, where firecrackers were heard, was loudest at 94.4dB (equivalent to a power mower). The lowest noise level – 54.7 dB – was recorded at Girgaum Chowpatty around 11pm. While some immersion sites saw crowds, there were no loudspeakers, dhol tashas or disc jockeys and few fireworks. “Unlike previous years, no complaints were received from citizens this year. Political mandals were absent and did not use loudspeakers,” read Awaaz’s report. Ambient noise ranges between 58-65dB in Mumbai, according to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). According to the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000, residential areas should have a maximum noise level of 55dB during the day and 45dB at night. Sumaira Abdulali, convenor, Awaaz Foundation, said, “The way we celebrated Ganesh Chaturthi this year is testimony of the change we, as a society, can be responsible for the betterment of our future generations.” The highest noise level was recorded in 2015 (123.7dB) followed by 2013 (123.2dB). The Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS), umbrella body of Ganpati mandals, attributed low noise levels to artificial immersion sites and the absence of pandals. “The number of artificial immersion sites was almost 200 across Mumbai which were even used by large Ganesh mandals. This is the first year when the vision of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak was replicated by the city, and we hope to continue this in the coming years,” said Naresh Dahibavkar, president, BSGSS.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), 28,293 idols (24,476 household and 3,817 sarvjanik) were immersed across the city on Tuesday. Of these, 13,742 idols had artificial immersions (11,691 household and 2,051 sarvjanik idols). Last year, over 38,000 idols were immersed in the city on Anant Chaturdashi. Around 31% dip was recorded in immersion of idols this year compared to 2019. BMC said the number dipped this year as many preferred to conduct immersion at their homes or inside buildings.BMC said a total of 1.35 lakh idols were immersed in 2020 compared to 1.96 lakh in 2019. However, use of artificial ponds doubled from 33,000 in 2019 to 70,000 this year. BMC attributed the rise to the 2-km limit imposed for immersion. “Apart from ensuring decongested crowds across natural immersion sites, we developed a system where citizens would give their idols to BMC workers, and only BMC workers would enter the immersion site (sea, lakes, ponds and rivers) for visarjan,” said Narendra Barde, joint municipal commissioner (zone II). Mumbai Police said no untoward incident was reported. (Inputs from Mehul Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-quietest-anant-chaturdashi-since-2003/story-A0GEMFTAwBozoixcHlp2WN.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||One booked for morphing Mumbai police chief’s tweet||Mumbai cyber police have registered an FIR against an unidentified person who used a morphed image to show that commissioner of police Mumbai Param Bir Singh liked a tweet which was derogatory in nature. Actor Kangana Ranaut had on Tuesday slammed the Mumbai Police chief and had shared the screenshot of the same on her Twitter page.Ranaut on Tuesday night tweeted, “Liking derogatory tweets about people who are fighting against the murderers of Sushant, instead of condemning public teasing and bullying like this @CPMumbaiPolice is encouraging it, @MumbaiPolice has hit all time low ... SHAME !!”Post this, many citizens slammed the police chief for supporting an offensive post.A senior police officer said, “Mumbai cyber police probed the matter and found that someone used a morphed image to show that commissioner of police, Mumbai, liked a derogatory tweet about the actor. The commissioner had never liked any such tweet.”The police have registered a first information report (FIR) against the unknown person under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act and have begun an investigation, confirmed Dr Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police, cyber.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/one-booked-for-morphing-mumbai-police-chief-s-tweet/story-KfblaQUOJ2XwthXUhkPjRK.html
02-09-2020||City||Will follow Centre’s Metro SOP, impose more norms if needed: Delhi govt||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Wednesday said it would follow the Centre’s standard operating procedures (SOP) for the resumption of Metro services in the city, and would also put in place additional regulatory measures if required. On August 23, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he had urged the Centre to consider permitting the restart of Metro services in Delhi in phases and if needed, and conduct a trial run. “People of Delhi have been requesting us to start Metro services. We have taken this up with the Central government on several occasions. We have urged the Centre to explore the possibility of resuming Metro services in Delhi, while keeping it prohibited in other states as of now. Delhi is a special case because we have the Covid situation under control,” Kejriwal had said in his digital interaction with traders last month. In an interview to HT on July 18, Kejriwal called the Delhi Metro the “city’s lifeline” and said resuming its services was “very important”.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Wednesday said the government is preparing a plan to deploy civil defence volunteers at stations to help Metro and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel control crowds. These volunteers will be deployed outside the stations, to ensure passengers enter the designated gates in a staggered manner.“The SOP released by the ministry of housing and urban affairs is on expected lines. The Centre has also left it to Metro operators, which in Delhi’s case is the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), to decide whether all Metro stations should be opened at once or not. Accordingly, the Yellow Line will be opened first,” Gahlot said. The Delhi Metro’s Yellow Line runs from Samaypur Badli Station in north Delhi to HUDA City Centre Station in GurugramHe, however, added that some stations may need to stay shut once more lines open up. “If the driver sees there is no social distance at a station and the crowds are too large, it is likely the train might not stop, or the train doors won’t open. But, the Metro and CISF also are working to deploy more staffers to ensure commuters maintain distances while waiting for trains,” he said. The Delhi government said it will hold meetings with Metro officials in the next two days and keep the public apprised of any new rules. “The public will be informed at all times on the timings of Metro operations, the stations and lines that will be open and other details, from time-to-time,” a senior government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-follow-centre-s-metro-sop-impose-more-norms-if-needed-delhi-govt/story-qa69KxEGbY7Ok5PZSSXJqN.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||Supported by IIT-Bombay, Patna, start-up’s line of prosthetics selected for scaling-up by government||A Vasai-based start-up, supported by the Indian Institutes of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) and Patna, offering a line of affordable prosthetics, is one of the 15 start-ups chosen under the StartupToScaleup scheme supported by the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY), Government of India (GOI). Through the programme, young healthcare and edtech start-ups get a chance to elevate their innovation to the international markets.Grippy—Robo Bionics’ product—is a line of inexpensive prosthetics that are easy to use and also addresses some of the difficulties that amputees face with body-powered as well as externally powered prosthetics.Llewellyn Dsa, co-founder of Robo Bionics, started developing the technology after he completed her M Tech on a Robotic Prosthetic Hand at IIT Patna. Inspired by a batchmate, who had no hands owing to a birth defect, he started the firm in 2016.“When my team and I started looking at the market for myoelectric (prosthetics that use electronic sensors to detect muscle and nerve activity) hands, we found that while they are available in the market, they have a lot of drawbacks. They are heavy, have a steep learning curve and function in a very robotic way. To solve this we, at Robo Bionics, researched the market, customer pain points and technology to bring out Grippy,” said Dsa.Grippy, while being affordable, offers features such as a sense of touch, grip control and adaptive shape control which is unique for every user. While a basic prosthetic of grippy is priced at ₹60,000, an advanced one can cost up to ₹75,000. A professional approved by the Rehabilitation Council of India makes the socket that connects the part between Grippy and the user’s hand. The cost for the socket could range from ₹25,000 to ₹50,000 depending on the complexity.Incubated at IIT-Patna, the startup is supported by the Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE), IIT-B, as well as the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), Government of India.“Our device is undergoing rigorous safety testing in a lab accredited to the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories in Pune. After that we will bring our Grippy, a high-quality prosthetic hand, made in India, to a limited set of users, as a pilot study under the supervision of clinicians and professionals,” said Dsa. The product, which is awaiting two patents, is expected to be launched in the market by April 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/supported-by-iit-bombay-patna-start-up-s-line-of-prosthetics-selected-for-scaling-up-by-government/story-u3CzoQgEkSaA52nlPvWbqL.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for duping foreign nationals; cash, gold recovered||The criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of Mumbai Police’s crime branch busted a fake call centre racket and arrested a 30-year-old. The racket allegedly operated from call centres and duped several persons from the United State of America and Canada.Police have seized ₹40 lakh in cash and four gold biscuits weighing 200 grams from the accused and his bank locker in Malad.The arrested accused, Nishant Nagraj Shirsikar, a resident of Evershine Nagar in Malad (West), is the mastermind. Police suspect around 200 people are associated with him in the fraud.After the lockdown was imposed in view of Covid-19 pandemic, the accused started working from their homes, said deputy commissioner of police Nandkumar Thakur of crime branch. According to the police, following specific information by inspector Sachin Vaze, CIU officers on laid a trap and intercepted Shirsikar in Malad (West) on August 29. During search, officers found unaccounted cash of ₹5 lakh and small quantities of ganja in his possession. A case was registered in Bangur Nagar police station against the accused under the charges of cheating and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. “Investigation revealed that the accused is a part of an international racket. He and his associates operated from various cities in India through certain call centres and from their homes. The accused called foreign nationals in the United State of America and Canada from call centres, impersonating as officials from revenue service or US citizenship and immigration services to defraud people by threatening them with arrest, fines or deportation if they did not pay the demanded amount allegedly to the government,” said Thakur.When the victims agreed to pay the accused, they were asked to make payment either online or via hawala operators. The accused is in police custody till September 4, said Thakur adding that other suspects have been identified and police have started conducting an inquiry against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-duping-foreign-nationals-cash-gold-recovered/story-mb25fWYtYuhRFoceSnJQyO.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||34-year-old arrested for molesting minor daughter in Mumbai||Bangurnagar police on Monday arrested a 34-year-old man from Goregaon (East) for allegedly molesting his 10-year-old daughter. The mother of the minor filed the complaint after the girl narrated her ordeal to her. The mother in her statement said that on the day of the incident she had gone out to purchase vegetables and her daughter was alone in the house with her father. “The accused took advantage of the situation and molested the child. He even assaulted her and threatened with dire consequences if she revealed the incident to anyone,” her mother said in the statement.The officer added that on the basis of the woman’s complaint first information report (FIR) has been registered under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) 354-D (stalking), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) and 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of Indian Penal Code and section 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/34-year-old-arrested-for-molesting-minor-daughter-in-mumbai/story-ijRuqlQoZzHA4QizUka1eL.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||100 groups in Maharashtra to hold protests to mark Gauri Lankesh’s 3rd death anniversary||A collective of more than 100 civil society groups and organisations from all 33 districts of Maharashtra will hold online and offline protests on September 5, which marks the third death anniversary of journalist and activist Gauri Lankesh.Lankesh, who published a weekly magazine, was shot thrice outside her house in Bengaluru on September 5, 2017. In 2018, 26-year-old Parashuram Waghmore, allegedly confessed to the shooting, in which 16 people have so far been arrested by the special investigation team (SIT).The ‘Aataa Uthaav Kelaa Naahi Tar’ protest is the Maharashtra chapter of the nationwide ‘If We Do Not Rise’ campaign aimed at reasserting people’s right to freedom of expression and safeguarding constitutional values. The national campaign aims to highlight a multitude of issues plaguing the country such as lack of transparency in the election in funding with electoral bonds, dilution of Right to Information Act and rising violence against religious minorities, women and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender/transexual, queer/questioning, intersex, and allied (LGBTQIA) community. It also raises questions on the Citizenship Amendment Act that led to protests across the country.In Maharashtra, organisations working for the improvement of working and living conditions of women, farmers, migrant labourers and members of the LGBTQIA community, will protest to highlight the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on marginalised groups. They will also raise issues about the poor healthcare system in the state as well as the rise in gender and caste-based atrocities during the lockdown.“The lockdown has exposed that women are among the worst affected by the pandemic, especially those from the Dalit, Adivasi and nomadic tribes. Many have not even received food and ration,” said Vimal Thorat from the All India Dalit Adhikar Manch.“If we do not rise now and question the policies of the establishment, the situation will only worsen. The issues we are raising about women, farmers, LGBTQIA members as well as unemployment are not in isolation but are connected,” said Smita Pansare, National Federation of Indian Women.The last few years have witnessed a frontal attack on the freedom of expression guaranteed by the Constitution – the right to dress, speak, write, eat and choose one’s religion– which has impacted women and the LGBTQIA communities disproportionately. Regressive laws by the Centre like the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act have adversely impacted the rights of Transgender persons. There are very few provisions in place to protect the safety and rights of the entire LGBTQIA community, said the collective.As part of their protest, the collective will draft a charter of demands and submit the same to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Protests will include short videos on various social media platforms, e-posters, animation, memes, songs and performances on social media. Some will also take to streets to protest in small groups with social distancing norms in place.“We urge everyone to come forward and participate in the protest. The youth must question the government on why students are arrested baselessly when they ask questions,” said Sharddha RR, youth activist, Lokayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/100-groups-in-maharashtra-to-hold-protests-to-mark-gauri-lankesh-s-3rd-death-anniversary/story-WD0iysDnOzRnrYvxGXf8DJ.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||Car driver booked for Mumbai’s Crawford Market accident; one more succumb||A 21-year-old man who sustained serious injuries in Monday’s major accident near Crawford Market, succumbed on Tuesday early morning, taking the toll in the accident to five. He was undergoing treatment at Sir JJ Hospital. Earlier four senior citizens including three women were killed at the spot.The car driver Samir Ali Ibrahim Sayyed alias Diggy has been booked for culpable homicide, not amounting to murder, by the police. He is in police custody.According to the police, following the accident at around 9pm on Monday, opposite Cafè Janata restaurant, a total of eight people were rushed to the Sir JJ Hospital. Four were declared dead at the hospital, while rest four were admitted.The deceased Kamlesh Nankau Singh was among the injured. A resident of Sutar Chawl on Lokmanya Tilak Road, Singh succumbed at the hospital during treatment. As per procedure, his Covid test was done and on Wednesday his report revealed that he was negative for Covid, confirmed Subhash Dudhgaonkar, senior inspector of Pydhonie police station.Police said that Sayyed was headed towards Carnac Bunder in his silver Maruti Esteem, and was driving at a high speed. “Sayyed first hit a woman (Saroja Naidu, 71) near Sadanand Hotel, around 100-meters away from Cafè Janata restaurant, the actual spot of the accident. Due to high impact, the injured woman flung in the air and fell on the car’s bonnet. Sayyed didn’t stop there and carried the woman on the car’s bonnet for over 100 meters till it crashed on the kitchen wall of the Cafè Janata restaurant, where it hit pedestrians on the footpath,” said Dudhgaonkar.Two individuals namely Mohammed Rafi Mushabhai and Mohammed Altaf Qureshi have witnessed the entire incident and narrated this sequence of events in their police statement.The police on the complaint of Salim Harun Maredia, 33, the manager of Cafè Janata restaurant, have registered an FIR and arrested Sayyed under sections 304(II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 ( mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) of the IPC and sections 183 (speeding) and 184 (driving dangerously) of Motor Vehicle Act. A holiday on Tuesday remanded Sayyed to four days police custody.“We are waiting for the reports to come from laboratory to ascertain if the accused was under influence of alcohol or drug at the time of the accident,” Dudhgaonkar said.He said that Sayyed, a Bhendi Bazaar resident, is a history-sheeter and has several criminal cases on him. Another police officer said that Sayyed has cases of assaults, rash driving, counterfeit currency and also of breaching communal harmony by making communal statements.Meanwhile, one of the three injured persons Nadeem Ansari 40, has tested positive for Covid-19. Doctors at the Sir JJ Hospital confirmed the same and said that he is being shifted to St George’s Hospital for further treatment. His condition is critical. Conditions of rest two injured persons are stable.The family members of the deceased are in a shock and have demanded the authorities to punish the guilty. Noor Shaikh, son of deceased Saira Banu Shaikh, 60, said, “My mother had gone to purchase vegetables in the market. She was hit by a speeding car. She got stuck on the bonnet of the car and was trying to save herself but the driver didn’t stop the vehicle. She worked as a house help and was the only breadwinner. The accident didn’t just kill five individuals, but it killed five families. We want justice from the authority.”Ganesh Naidu, son of deceased Saroza Naidu, 71, said, “She had gone to buy an eye-drop, but it was not available at the medical shop. She then called me. She was waiting for me and was standing with her friend Zubeida who also died in that accident. When I reached there, I found both under the wheels of that car.”Nephew of deceased Mohamad Naim, 73, a bag seller, Afzal Shaikh said, “He was selling bags just outside the cafe when the accident took place. He was about to leave for home. He was wrapping up everything when the car came crashing on him. I was there when this happened. With the help of people, I pulled out my uncle who was under the wheels and rushed him to hospital, but he was declared dead on arrival.”Uncle of deceased Kamlesh Singh, 21, Vinod Singh said, “On that day he had gone to purchase food from the same hotel. Due to lockdown norms, he was not allowed to sit inside the hotel. He had ordered biryani and was waiting outside the hotel when he was rammed by the car. I got a call from a local and I reached the spot. He was not responding and was declared dead at the hospital.Ali Khatoon Shaikh, 65, brother of deceased Zubeida Abdul Rehman Khan, 70, said, “She was at home and told me that she is going for tea. At around 9pm one of my neighbours told me about the accident. I rushed there and found my sister under the wheels of the car. She was not breathing and died on the spot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/car-driver-booked-for-mumbai-s-crawford-market-accident-one-more-succumb/story-YS9Tk5or9qZueLRwNeqjEL.html
02-09-2020||Noida||Noida police start door-to-door interactions with public to understand local issues||In order to better understand and resolve public concerns, Noida police said they are interacting with residents of the city at a local level.The initiative involves police personnel not only conducting meetings with residential bodies but also interacting with random groups of people.“Sometimes the public has misconceptions about the police and sometimes there are issues that are left unresolved because we are not familiar with them. A basic-level interaction would help in both cases. All circles are being encouraged to follow this model,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.According to assistant commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajneesh Verma, they have already covered 10 to 12 sectors under this.“Our personnel are speaking with people who have just about stepped out of their houses. During patrolling also, officers are interacting with people out on roads. Sometimes people have certain issues for which they cannot come down to the police station. Such an interaction will help us understand and address them,” said Verma.He said that they have already started making adjustments to patrolling routes and schedules based on feedback from the public so far.“We met people from Gijhore on Tuesday. There were mentions of empty plots being used for anti-social activities like alcohol consumption. We have instructed the locals to immediately reach out to us in such instances. When it comes to women safety issues as well, feedback are being taken from the public to identify hotspots. A few areas are being covered everyday so that people can report suspicious activities and action can be taken on them,” said the ACP.Police officials also said that they will continue meetings with residential bodies to address their concerns. However, while the public has welcomed the move, people said they are not hopeful about the implementation.“It’s not enough if just one officer is doing this. All police personnel need to understand the importance of sensitivity towards the public. The way local police personnel interact with the people is very uncomfortable at times. Also, they say that things like patrolling are happening, but the public hardly ever sees it being executed. No initiative is enough if it is there only in theory,” said KK Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (RWA).He said that street crime is rampant in the district. “Every day we have instances of chain snatching, robberies, burglaries, etc. Police data shows that crime has gone down but it’s still happening. In addition, there is often harassment of office bearers of RWAs by local police with issues going unresolved for months. We need better policing in the district,” said Jain.He said that even though the Noida police department claims to be better involved in public affairs, it is often difficult to reach out to officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-start-door-to-door-interactions-with-public-to-understand-local-issues/story-3CdfMg5xR6UKjbLPV8bgOL.html
02-09-2020||City||Domestic help held for theft at elderly woman’s home in GK-1||New Delhi: A 26-year-old man was arrested for allegedly stealing diamond and gold jewellery from an 80-year-old woman’s Greater Kailash - 1 house, where he began working as a domestic help just weeks before the crime, the police said on Wednesday. Three diamond rings have been recovered from the arrested domestic help, Mantu Yadav, while two other stolen diamond rings, one pearl ring and a gold chain are with his associate, who helped him get work at the elderly woman’s home, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur. Thakur said a case was registered under Section 381 of Indian Penal Code at the Greater Kailash police station based on the woman’s complaint. The woman, who lives with her son, said she suspected the domestic help, who had been missing since the theft came to light. Thakur said the domestic help was hired in early August and had been avoiding sharing his personal details for police verification. Since the complainant needed a domestic help immediately, she employed him without completing the verification, he said. “A local enquiry led us to the suspect’s brother, who was asked to join the probe. He gave us his home town’s address and contact numbers of his family members. Due to the continuous pressure, the suspect returned to Delhi and joined the probe. We arrested him and recovered three stolen diamond rings,” the DCP added. The police are now on the hunt for Yadav’s associate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/domestic-help-held-for-theft-at-elderly-woman-s-home-in-gk-1/story-u4ygd9R0ua8Yhcc05Dq85N.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||BJP to issue no-confidence motion against Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar||In wake of the allegations against Mayor Kishori Pednekar of misusing her position to award contracts to her son’s firm, Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is issuing a no-confidence motion against the mayor by September 7. Senior BJP leaders had a meeting with Opposition parties in the BMC. However, none of the political parties has so far committed to supporting the BJP but has suggested to bring it in the general body meeting.BJP leader Prabhakar Shinde said that the party is still discussing with the Opposition parties. “We are holding a discussion with all Opposition parties. A final decision on the motion to be tabled will be made soon,” he said. On August 20, party leaders of Maharashtra Navanirman Sena had alleged conflict of interest regarding a firm that was awarded a contract in June to supply manpower at the NSCI Covid facility in Worli without following the due process of tendering. The firm is registered in the name of Mayor’s son, Saiprasad Pednekar.Councillors of Congress and NCP are unhappy with Sena’s decision-making in the BMC. It is being said that Sena does not take Congress or NCP in confidence while making key discussions.A senior Congress leader in the BMC said, “Even though we are in alliance in the state, Sena has never considered us a partner in the civic body. We are discussing the no-confidence motion without party high command. A decision is yet to be made.”For BJP to get the no-confidence motion passed, they will have to achieve a simple majority among the councillors present during the voting. Currently, Shiv Sena has a strength of 97 councillors, BJP has 83, Congress has 29, NCP has eight, Samajwadi Party has six, MNS has one and AIMIM party has two corporators in the BMC.Meanwhile, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya has linked eight companies with the firm associated with the mayor and demanded the state to probe into the matter. Somaiya said that there are eight companies whose registered address is same as Kish Corporate Services Private Limited; the firm is run by Mayor’s son Saiprasad Pednekar. Somaiya further alleged that the Mayor has been the additional director in this firm in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-to-issue-no-confidence-motion-against-mumbai-mayor-kishori-pednekar/story-YoiQSUcGlB9C6VamuZUIRM.html
02-09-2020||Noida||Woman sets herself on fire after domestic dispute, dies||A 45-year-old woman died after she allegedly set herself on fire at her house located the Sector 39 police jurisdiction Tuesday night. According to police officials, the woman allegedly had an ongoing dispute with her husband. Things escalated and the woman allegedly poured kerosene on herself and self immolated, police said.“When a police team reached the spot, the woman was struggling for life but she later succumbed to her injuries. Her body was sent for an autopsy and the report is awaited,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.He said that the woman’s family has, however, alleged foul play.“We will investigate once the family files an official complaint. Prima facie it seems to be a case of suicide but the autopsy report will shed more light on the matter,” said Singh.In another incident, under the Phase 2 police jurisdiction, a 30-year-old man allegedly took his life at his rented accommodation. “The incident came to light in the morning after which his body was sent for an autopsy. Prima facie it seems that he was having a dispute with his wife because of which he took this step. No suicide note was recovered at the spot and this happened during the night,” said DCP, zone 2, Harish Chander.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-sets-herself-on-fire-after-domestic-dispute-dies/story-5bTO7zhvIkkW1sYyMgLHQM.html
02-09-2020||Noida||Property of ₹33.20 crore belonging to criminal gangs attached since commissionerate system, say police||Aimed to break the economic backbone of different gangs operating in the district, the Gautam Budh Nagar police, after the introduction of the commissionerate system on January 14 this year, have so far attached properties worth over ₹33.20 crore till August 31. The crackdown is being carried out mainly under Section 14(1) of the Gangsters Act, which allows attachment of illegal properties in order to effectively curb operations of gangsters, mafias and criminals and their associates, police officials said.According to commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh, following the directions of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on crackdown on organised crime, the district police have demolished unaccounted property worth ₹33,20,1528 allegedly belonging to gangsters Sunder Bhati, Anil Dujana and their accomplices.“The most recent attachment is related to Sunder Bhati and his associate Satveer Bansal in Ghanghola village, where a 650 square meters piece of land, which was originally allotted to the panchayat of the area for a pond and was illegally captured after which the gangsters built a structure on it. The construction on the land was unauthorised and the claimant is already booked under the Gangster Act; we are legally empowered to attach the property. We have also ensured construction will not be resumed in the future,” he said.The commissioner further said that the police are preparing a list of other gangsters active in Gautam Budh Nagar and their unaccounted properties that need to be attached. “We are keeping a close tab on the activities of all gangsters, especially the associates of Sundar Bhati and Anil Dujana, especially Suraj Bhati, Satbir Bansal, Singhraj Bhati, Sumit Nagar, Arun Sharma and Sanjay Bhati. Recently, three trucks worth ₹36 lakh belonging to Sumit Bhati, two trucks and a scooter totalling ₹29.70 lakh of Satbir Bansal and a truck worth ₹12 lakh of Sinhraj were attached,” he said. Singh also said that the police have been keeping a constant watch on the gangsters – who are presently behind the bars. “We have inputs that these criminals are trying their best to trap petty criminals in the lure of the lucre for furnishing their bail bonds. They are also reportedly luring them to join their gangs. We are compiling details of criminals who have recently furnished their bail bonds and are out from jails. These men are under our radar,” said the district police chief. Giving details of properties attached from gangsters who were allegedly involved in the Shahberi twin building collapse incident, Singh said that as many as 19 criminals were involved in it. “We have attached the properties worth over ₹20 crore under Section 14(1) of the Gangsters Act,” he said. On the other hand, sources in the special task force (STF) said that despite being shifted to different jails to avert gang wars, the gangsters have allegedly yet not given up their business of manpower contract, extortion and contract killing. “They have become very smart now and have started exploiting religious sentiments of the common people. Sunder Bhati, who is presently lodged in Hamirpur jail, is said to get built a place of worship worth over ₹10 crore. His goons are also reportedly running hotels and lodges,” said a senior STF official, on grounds of anonymity. At present, Anil Dujana is lodged in Banda jail and his main rivals – Sundar Bhati and Singhraj Bhati – are lodged in Hamirpur jail. Bhati gang’s other members, Balram Thakur and Randeep Bhati, are in Unnao and Basti jails, respectively. Dujana gang’s Vikas Pandit and Yogesh are lodged in the Sitapur jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/property-of-33-20-crore-belonging-to-criminal-gangs-attached-since-commissionerate-system-say-police/story-ogc5iG4xvTZI72TdHBHdMP.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||Notices to two DU colleges for ‘caste discrimination’||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes has issued notices to Delhi University (DU) vice chancellor Yogesh Tyagi seeking a report in connection with the alleged discrimination against SC and ST ad-hoc teachers in two university colleges.According to the notices received by the university on Wednesday, the Social Democratic Teachers’ Front (SDTF) — a teachers’ body — had filed complaints of SC and ST ad-hoc teachers at Daulat Ram College and Dyal Singh College (evening) being discriminated against. “A complaint has been received regarding gross discrimination against a scheduled caste ad-hoc teacher in the department of psychology by the principal of Daulat Ram College. The commission has decided to investigate and inquire into the matter in pursuance of the power conferred upon it under article 338 of the Constitution of India,” the commission said in a notice.In another notice, the commission said, “A complaint has been received by the National Commission for Scheduled Castes regarding the joining of SC and ST candidates for the post of assistant professor (ad-hoc) in the department of English, Dyal Singh College (Evening), Delhi University...The commission has decided to investigate and inquire into the matter...”The commission has asked the university to submit an action taken report in both the cases within 15 days, failing which it will issue summons to the university officials, the notices added.Despite several attempts, DU V-C Tyagidid not respond to calls and texts sent for comment. A senior official, requesting anonymity, said, “The administration will ask for a report from both the colleges and action will be taken after examining the reports.”When contacted, Daulat Ram College principal Savita Roy said that the college did not discriminate against anyone on the basis of their caste or religion. “The concerned teacher was appointed on an ad-hoc basis in August 2019 in the department of psychology in our college. But after a few months, students started complaining about her teaching abilities and a written complaint was also received in October last year. In January, I decided not to renew her contract, but after a lot of protest by DU teachers’ association, we decided to give her another chance. But the complaints did not stop and even students stopped attending her online classes after the college was shut in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. We cannot let her continue in such circumstances,” she said, adding the college will submit its response with the university.Pawan Sharma, principal of Dyal Singh College (evening), said that the college’s governing body — the highest decision-making body — had not approved the joining of one SC and one ST ad-hoc teachers. “This is a year-old case now. The selection committee had selected the concerned candidates but the governing body did not approve their joining due to some reason. The college cannot take any decision without the approval of the governing body. We will submit our report with the university,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/notices-to-two-du-colleges-for-caste-discrimination/story-uCPAh84TVG3dRu9ltOAH9L.html
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Customers say cheers as Chandigarh bars open, but you can’t dance as yet||ChandigarhThere’s been an enthusiastic response to Chandigarh administration’s nod to reopening of bars from September 1, with most places packed to the 50% limit allowed for social distancing. However, those expecting to shake a leg and let down their hair will have to wait – as safe distances have to be maintained.Happy about the “decent response,” from patrons, Manish Goel, director of Social in Sector 7, which started services from Tuesday evening, says people have been observing safety rules. “Things are going better than we had expected. The public understands all the rules and is being very responsible about it.” Goel, who also runs Swagath restaurant in Sector 26 and Elante, where alcoholic beverages are also served, says, “At Swagath we get people who might have a beer with their meals as alcohol isn’t the main attraction for them, but from Tuesday the crowds at lunch are getting bigger.”Sunveer Sondhi, proprietor of Pyramid Bar in Elante and the head of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI’s), Chandigarh chapter, is also happy with the response. “We managed to open even on Tuesday, usually a slow day, yet the place was almost packed to the 50% limit. Our regulars are calling us and starting to reserve places as well.”  For minimum human contact, Sondhi adds that his bar has gone all digital from menus to payments. Staff, however, has been instructed to stop playing music to maintain social distancing should the customers get carried away and start dancing. Local resident Shrey Budhiraja, enjoying an evening out at a bar, says, “People were beginning to feel cooped up inside their homes. They will be happy to go out and have a good time.”Licence issues being sorted outSome bars, however, have delayed opening as owners scramble to get liquor licencing issues sorted out. Sandeep Sahni, Chandigarh Club president, confirms that their bar will open over the weekend while Ramandeep Marwah, general manager, JW Marriott, adds that all safety protocols will be in place when they open on Friday. Some microbreweries, however, expect delays. Debdip Chaterjee, manager of Great Bear microbrewery in Sector 26, says most of their staff members are from Odisha and have gone back to their home states. “It will be a challenge getting them back, but some local brewmakers will start brewing the next batch of beer soon.”Picture clearer over the weekendA number of bar owners, however, are not sure whether they will be able to drum up good business after opening up. Ankit Gupta, president of the Chandigarh Hospitality Association, says some owners face delays in getting liquor licences. “Those who do not have liquor in their inventory are also facing problems. The picture of the percentage of bars already open will become clearer over the weekend , he adds.Gupta’s own Himani’s Vertigo Lounge in Sector 35 will start alcoholic beverage services from Thursday.Manmohan Kohli, chairman of the Chandigarh Restaurants and Hotels Association, who is also the proprietor of Hotel Aroma in Sector 22, adds: “Many bar owners remain sceptical wondering if they will be able to net business after opening. A large chunk of people including professionals and tourists are still missing in the city, and they were some of our biggest clientele. So many owners are adopting a cautious approach before starting operations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/customers-say-cheers-as-chandigarh-bars-open-but-you-can-t-dance-as-yet/story-icneKaYMPiFP6ux1s0bHlJ.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||From Thursday, NDMC will start charging fee at all its parking spaces||After a hiatus of five months, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has directed its parking contractors to start charging fee from visitors at all of its parking lots, starting Thursday. Visitors will now have to pay the standard parking charges, as applicable before the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March.There are nearly 125 parking sites (multilevel and surface parking) managed solely or jointly by the NDMC. All of them were shut as part of the nationwide lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Later, in May, parking lots were opened but visitors were few and so from May to August, visitors were using these parking spaces for free. Officials said parking contractors had said that they were short of hands to manage parking spaces.They had also demanded a rebate in the annual fee that the concessionaire pays to the municipality, citing the complete shutdown for three months and the fewer number of visitors once lots were opened. The NDMC had agreed to the request but last month, the civic body asked its contractors to start charging for parking as the number of vehicles has started increasing once again.“Parking lots were closed from March 22 (the day of Janta Curfew). The NDMC requested the concessionaire to reopen the lots in end-May, after lockdown measures were relaxed. The concessionaire had some reservations, but they agreed to resume services. Last month, they were asked to start collecting the standard fee from visitors,” a senior NDMC official, privy to the development, said on condition of anonymity.Visitors will have to pay the standard charges of ₹20 per hour. However, those who wish to park vehicles in pockets of Connaught Place and Bengali Market during peak hours might have to pay an increased fee as part of dynamic pricing, as suggested in the Delhi Parking Policy, 2019.“Under such an arrangement, visitors will have to pay ₹50 per hour for parking in the Middle Circle of Connaught Place, in Bengali Market and on Janpath Road, near Allahabad Bank. This move was taken in October 2019 to reduce parking on busy roads,” a second senior NDMC official said, on condition of anonymity.The officials added that dynamic pricing will be implemented only if there is huge parking demand during peak hours in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/from-thursday-ndmc-will-start-charging-fee-at-all-its-parking-spaces/story-jITmUeoSJY8sWGCJQvzQWM.html
02-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad civic agency to rope in ragpickers as ‘segregators’ to recycle solid waste||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has embarked upon a plan which will not only help get rid of about 70% of solid waste collected by it daily but will also gainfully employed about 10,000-12,000 ragpickers who are working across the city in an unorganised manner. The newly joined municipal commissioner on Wednesday held meetings with representatives of the rag pickers’ community and presented before them a plan which he said aims to uplift their socio-economic condition. The city generates about 1,600 metric tonnes of solid waste daily which is collected through door-to-door vehicles and also collected from different other sources. Under the new plan, municipal commissioner MS Tanwar has planned that the ragpickers will be roped in for daily segregation of solid waste and also be paid by the corporation for the same.“Under the plan, we have proposed that the ragpickers, which we now call as segregators, will be deployed at the solid waste collection centres and will be provided with gloves, tables, etc. They will be roped in to segregate the solid waste. The garbage collection points will be modified and will be enclosed. The segregators will be working in a more orderly and safe manner like workers do in a factory. We expect that the segregators will segregate items like plastic, metal, cardboard etc which will be put to gainful use by the corporation,” Tanwar, said. The civic agency has planned that the segregators will be provided uniforms as well as accounts for them will be opened wherein their earnings will be transferred directly by the corporation. “We expect that the segregation activity will help them earn at least three times the amount they get while segregating waste and in turn selling it to agents. Of the segregated items, we plan to develop small items. For instance, we have roped in artistes who will manufacture items like flower pots, chairs etc from recycled plastic waste. Likewise, all segregated waste will be put to meaningful uses and the leftover waste will be scientifically processed at sanitary landfills,” he added further. The officials said they expect that the leftover waste after segregation will be about 30% of the daily waste generation.At present, the civic agency is facing issues with solid waste disposal as the landfill site at Pratap Vihar was closed down last year on directions of the Uttar Pradesh solid waste monitoring committee. “A meeting was held with the garbage segregators on Wednesday and they were told by the corporation about the plan. The segregators will also be registered with the corporation and the registration process will start from next week. This way, they might also feel attached to an organisation and will also get a suitable amount for their work. Besides, the corporation will ensure that their accounts get opened and that they are provided better working conditions unlike what they get while working in an unorganised manner,” said Mithilesh Kumar, corporation’s city health officer.The Ghaziabad city, in the recently announced Swachh Survekshan rankings, slipped to the nineteenth spot from the earlier thirteenth spot after the results were announced on August 20 by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-civic-agency-to-rope-in-ragpickers-as-segregators-to-recycle-solid-waste/story-qrFzmoih5fTLPkeuhqCDcK.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||Family of pharmacist who died of Covid-19 gets ₹1cr assistance from Delhi govt||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday gave a financial assistance of ₹1 crore to the family of a government pharmacist, Rajesh Kumar Bhardwaj, who died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in July, the Delhi government informed in a press statement.Bhardwaj, a resident of Faridabad, was posted as a pharmacist at the office of the central district’s chief district medical officer. He tested Covid-19 positive on June 29, following which he was admitted to a private hospital in Delhi. He died on July 20, the statement said.“I met his family today (Wednesday) and offered them an assistance of ₹1 crore. I hope that the family will get some help with this amount. I assured them of my support in the future as well,” Kejriwal said.In April, the Delhi government introduced a scheme under which families of individuals engaged in Covid-19 management are given a financial assistance of ₹1 crore in case the individual dies of Covid-19. So far, more than 20 such families – including those of a doctor, a police officer, a civil defence volunteer and a sanitation worker --have received the assistance from the government .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/family-of-pharmacist-who-died-of-covid-19-gets-1cr-assistance-from-delhi-govt/story-Ebk9YeW7kSWT0Wqc0LdXqK.html
02-09-2020||City||Forty-year-old man arrested for barging in to woman’s home and molesting her||A 40-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly molesting a woman in Akilpur village in Greater Noida. The suspect was identified as Satish, a resident of Badalpur. Patnish Kumar, station house officer, Badalpur police station, said a complaint was filed against the suspect on August 31. The victim lives with her family in the same area. “The complainant, 25, said that she was making tea in her kitchen when the suspect barged into her house on Monday around 3pm. The woman was alone while her husband was at his workplace in Noida. The suspect asked her why she was not talking to him, and if she was angry,” Kumar said. The woman, in the complaint, said the suspect allegedly tried to pull her veil. “I put up resistance and raised an alarm. He tore my clothes in the scuffle. My father-in-law, who was sleeping in the backyard, came to my rescue,” the victim stated in her complaint. The suspect fled the spot when locals gathered, she alleged.She then informed her husband and filed a complaint at the Badalpur police station. Kumar said that based on the complaint, a case was registered against the suspect under Section 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), Section 354 A (sexual harassment), Section 354B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), and Section 3 (2) of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. “The suspect fled the spot after the crime. A police team on Wednesday received information about his movement in the village and arrested him from the spot,” Kumar said. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forty-year-old-man-arrested-for-barging-in-to-woman-s-home-and-molesting-her/story-CmYUcquMR5mLxQWjJe8hIJ.html
02-09-2020||City||Delhi man’s wife stages robbery with friend to steal husband’s cash, gets herself attacked with a hammer||New Delhi: When a 30-year-old woman was attacked with a hammer during a robbery at her home in North Delhi’s Sarai Rohilla on Sunday afternoon and found tied up, her 67-year-old husband told police he suspected a friend of his former wife.But when police investigated the robbery, they found that his present wife had allegedly got a friend to tie her up and attack her with a hammer to stage a robbery and steal her husband’s money.Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (North), said the woman (who the police did not identify) and her friend Jitender have been arrested and Rs2.18 lakh of the stolen money and some jewellery recovered from them.The man whose house was robbed ran a ceiling fan factory until last year. He has been married three times. His first wife died in 2010, after which he had remarried in 2016.In his complaint to the police, he said his second wife deserted him in February this year after stealing some money. He had filed a police complaint but a police officer said no evidence emerged against his second wife.The man went on to marry a third time -- his domestic help’s widowed daughter -- a month ago.On Sunday afternoon, the man had returned from the market to find his wife tied up and bleeding from the head. “She told him someone had knocked on the door and when she opened it, an unidentified man hit her with a hammer. She said he tied her up and took Rs2.18 lakh in cash and some jewellery,” said DCP Alphonse.The woman was admitted to a hospital and police began probing the alleged robbery.“When we spoke to the injured woman, her story had a lot of loopholes. We questioned her further to realise she was lying. She eventually confessed that it was a fake robbery of which she was a part,” said the DCP.The woman allegedly said she had told her friend, Jitender, about cash and jewellery in the house and they decided to stage a robbery.“On Sunday, while her husband was away, she allowed Jitender into the house. He hit her head with a hammer, tied her up and took away the cash and jewellery,” another investigator said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-man-s-wife-stages-robbery-with-friend-to-steal-husband-s-cash-gets-herself-attacked-with-a-hammer/story-C09fQ9MKIrPsQl0cSUDIJP.html
02-09-2020||City||Ten-year-old boy electrocuted to death after he came in touch with overhead cables||A 10-year-old boy was allegedly electrocuted after he touched a live overhead power cable close to his house at Ronija village in the Rabupura area on Wednesday morning. According to the victim’s family members, the boy, Dipanshu, had gone upstairs to sleep at night. In the morning, he mistakenly touched the wire from the terrace and was electrocuted, the family said. The family members heard the sparking sound and as soon as they reached the spot, they found the boy stuck with the live wire. “It again sparked and my son was thrown away. We immediately rushed him to a local government hospital from where he was referred to a higher centre. We then took him to a private hospital in Greater Noida where doctors declared him dead,” said Dharmendra, victim’s father who runs an automobile repair shop. Dharmendra alleged that the local people had informed the electricity department earlier to repair the loose wires but the problem was not fixed. “Ten days ago, a live wire fell on a motorcycle and damaged it completely in our neighbourhood. We had informed the power department but situation remains the same,” he said. VN Singh, chief engineer, Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), said that he has not received any information about the incident. “We are sending a team to get information about the incident. We will be able to comment only after getting the information,” he said. According to the victim’s family, it appears that the boy woke up in the morning and was climbing down when he mistakenly touched the wire which passes by the terrace. “We are very sad after the incident. We will soon file a police complaint in this regard,” Dharmendra said. Vinit Kumar, station house officer of Rabupura police station, said that the police have no information about the incident. “We have not received any complaint or call from the victim’s family or local people. We came to know that the family performed the last rites of the victim. We will investigate the matter once a complaint is filed,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ten-year-old-boy-electrocuted-to-death-after-he-came-in-touch-with-overhead-cables/story-sviMGJCFxF6HpERcnxNAdL.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||Court grants bail to riots accused, says there’s no electronic evidence||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to a man accused in a north-east Delhi riots case, while stating that there is no electronic evidence against him. The court also said while in the charge sheet the complainant has said that he was shot in the left leg , the FIR had said that he was shot in the right leg.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav granted bail to Imran, who was accused of rioting and attempt to murder on a complaint by one constable Deepak, on a bail bond of ₹20,000, while observing that the accused was not named in the FIR. The judge also said there is no CCTV footage of the incident available, wherein the accused could have been seen to be a part of the “riotous mob”.Imran was arrested on March 18 in connection with the rioting that took place in Bhajanpura area. Later, on the basis of his “disclosure statement”, he was arrested for shooting constable Deepak in his leg.The court said the investigating agency has failed to provide the call detail records (CDR) location of the accused, placing him at the scene of the crime on the date of incident. It said that even the“test identification parade (TIP) of the accused was not conducted by the police.The judge said the complainant was discharged on the same day from the hospital and the injuries suffered by him were stated to be “simple” in nature.“A perusal of the examination report (charge sheet) of complainant constable Deepak reveals that he was medically treated for the gunshot injuries sustained in his left leg, whereas in the FIR, he had stated that he suffered gunshot injuries in his right leg,” the court said in its order of September 1.The judge noted that the accused was not arrested from the scene of crime; instead, he has been picked up merely on the basis of his disclosure statement made in another FIR. The judge said that besides this disclosure statement, “prima facie there is no direct evidence to connect him with the incident”.“….there is no electronic evidence on record against the applicant. The investigation in the matter is complete. There is no public witness cited in the case, whom the applicant can threaten or intimidate,” the judge said while granting bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/court-grants-bail-to-riots-accused-says-there-s-no-electronic-evidence/story-2MIr50AwUdLTjYQE6CR7KN.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to automatically renew nursing home licences till March 2021||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Wednesday directed the health department to issue an order, automatically renewing licences of all nursing homes in the city till March 31, 2021, a press statement from the Delhi government said.“The chief minister has directed the health department to immediately pass an order renewing the licences of all nursing homes till March 31, 2021. The nursing homeowners along with senior members of the Delhi Medical Council (DMC) and Delhi Medical Association (DMA) had met the chief minister on Wednesday and flagged the issue of renewal of licences,” the statement said.It further said, “In that meeting, the owners of nursing homes said that every year, they had to renew the licence to run these homes. This year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, some of the nursing homes could not renew their licences in March and this was creating issues in their daily operations.”There are about 700 nursing homes in the city, most of which have around 20 beds, according to estimates by the DMA.President of DMC, Dr Arun Gupta, welcomed the move and said the government decision would “bring relief to nursing home owners”.Dr R K Gupta, former president of DMA, said, “The Delhi government has taken commendable measures during the time of Covid-19, and have honoured the private and government hospital and health care workers. The meeting with the nursing home owners was successful. The automatic licence renewal will help nursing home owners extend better care to patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-automatically-renew-nursing-home-licences-till-march-2021/story-E5983Zlxb7CT9spmzM1NrL.html
02-09-2020||City||In Noida, several high-rises running without STPs, releasing untreated sewage, finds UPPCB||Noida: The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), which had last week inspected about 20 high-rise societies in the city, said it found only seven residential societies following environmental norms while the rest either did not have a sewage treatment plant (STP) installed or were not operating it.While most high-rise societies inspected -- from sectors 75, 76, 78 and 137 – have had residents since at least five years or more, millions of litres of untreated sewage has been flowing from these buildings and into flood drains, making it to Yamuna or Hindon rivers. Recently, HT had reported that residents of areas living near the Kondli drain had complained of stench emanating from the floodwater drain due to effluents being released into it by nearby high-rise societies, which carries sewerage from at least 30 smaller drains.According to rules laid down by Noida authority, all high-rises in the city must treat sewage generated within their premises through STPs. The treated water should be used for horticulture and washing purposes within the residential societies, and only leftover, treated wastewater should be released into drains. According to UPPCB officials, a total 21 high rises were inspected last week, of which six high rises did not have an STP and the STP of seven others was either not functioning or the plant was found to not have been treating effluents properly, and samples have to be collected from the 21st high-rise society again due to technical issues. Officials said they will soon initiate the procedure to issue notices and impose environment compensation from the non-complying high rises.“Action against the violators has been initiated as per environmental norms, and environmental compensation is supposed to be imposed. For a society which does not have an STP, the fine is minimum Rs. 5,000 per day from the date of its occupancy. For those which have an STP but did not follow norms, a notice will be issued and compensation will be imposed post assessment,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida. He added that the penalty is imposed on non-complying high-rise societies irrespective of how much polluted effluents they had been releasing. “A number of high-rise societies switch off their STPs and swiftly discharge untreated sewer in drains in order to save on the expense of the treatment, as STPs are large machines and require investments for operations,” said Praveen Kumar. The pollution watchdog’s report finds that none of the two high rises inspected in Sector 76 had an STP. Of the five high rises inspected in Sector 78, only one was complying norms while others either did not have an STP or were not using it. Out of the five high-rises in Sector 75, only one was complying with norms, and five out of eight high rises in Sector 137 were complying with norms. “The UPPCB has sought from us details of those high-rises as in from when they got their occupancy certificates so that appropriate penalty could be imposed on them. According to our norms, all high rises are supposed to have independent STPs, though time-to-time we undertake inspections and find discrepancies, after which we take appropriate action,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty (health), Noida authority.The estimated sewage generation in Noida is around 210 million litres a day (MLD). According to officials, the city has the capacity to treat 230 MLD of sewage through its six STPs. However, untreated sewer from high-rises often reaches up to Yamuna and Hindon rivers through flood drains. According to environmentalists, untreated sewage making it to flood drains has an adverse effect on the local ecology. “The reason that the conditions of our rivers like Hindon and Yamuna is so bad is because millions of litres of untreated sewage flow through it. A recent UPPCB report even showed how even the groundwater of villages near Hindon river was contaminated. It affects the local ecology as well. The city authorities must make a system to ensure that none of the high-rise societies release excess water without treatment,” said Vikrant Tongad, Noida-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-noida-several-high-rises-running-without-stps-releasing-untreated-sewage-finds-uppcb/story-ganT6ZYN3DpEBBxiA9bwfI.html
02-09-2020||City||Ludhiana MC hikes property tax, owners to shell out to 7.5% of annual rent||The municipal corporation has enhanced the property rates for rentals, paying guest (PG) accommodations, hostels etc in Ludhiana to 7.5% of the annual rent received by the owners. Earlier, owners had to pay Rs 5 per yard for the property annually. The new rates have been approved by the local bodies department and these will be applicable from April 1, 2020. Residents can avail 10% rebate on the tax for the financial year 2020-21. As per MC officials, there are over 50,000 rental properties in the city, including residential rental properties, PGs and labour quarters. When contacted, property tax superintendent Vivek Verma said, “The property tax will now be collected on the basis of annual rent. If the owner of a 200-yard building is collecting an annual rent of Rs 1 lakh, then he will have to pay Rs 7,500 as tax. Until now, the tax for such a property was Rs 1,000. The revised rates would be applicable from April 1, 2020.” Residents oppose move Facing financial crisis amid the pandemic, residents are not happy with the MC’s decision to hike the tax. Damanjot Singh, a resident of Model Town area, said, “Middle class families are already struggling to make ends meet and now, the MC has increased the property tax. Even the tenants are struggling with the payments. This will just add to everyone’s troubles. The government should spare a thought for the common man before taking such decisions.” Resolution for increasing tax was passed in 2018 Until 2013, residents had to pay a house tax of 9% of the annual rent, however, after the introduction of property tax in 2013-14, the rate was reduced to 3%. In 2014-15, the rate was again revised and Rs 5 per yard was being charged from the rental residential properties. Later in 2018, the MC General House approved a resolution to increase the tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-hikes-property-tax-owners-to-shell-out-to-7-5-of-annual-rent/story-yNEv2xhMZRfontdpbR54LL.html
02-09-2020||City||PCTE students shine in university exams||As many as six final year students of bachelor of arts in travel and tourism management of PCTE Group of Institutes secured top positions in IK Gujral Punjab Technical University examinations.Sabitra Sharma bagged the first position with 9 SGPA and Jaskaran Kaur clinched the second position with 8.8 SGPA. Dorji Wangmo, Sandeep Singh, Shruti Sharma, and Tarunpreet Kaur shared the third position with 8.6 SGPA.Topper Sabitra Sharma said, “The three years spent in this college were the best days of my life. I was able to interact with people from different parts of the world and share great experiences. I would like to thank all my lecturers who guided me with their knowledge and skills.”Jaskaran Kaur, who bagged the second position, said “I’m feeling grateful to my teachers as they were right beside me all along. They’ve made me so excited and passionate about my career and my life. I’ve taken their advice to do everything humanly possible to make my mark in the world.”Manish Kumar, head of department, tourism and travel management, said, “It is a proud moment for the department as we have bagged several positions in the university. It’s the result of the students’ consistent hard work and dedication.”KNS Kang, director-general, PCTE, congratulated the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcte-students-shine-in-university-exams/story-O4GU6sb0YGXmzn0gqRuY0N.html
02-09-2020||City||318 Ludhiana cops infected in the line of duty till date||The five new Covid-19 cases in the Ludhiana police department have once again brought to fore the dangers that personnel face while discharging their duties as frontline warriors. Till date as many 318 cops have been infected in the line of duty, of which 247 have recovered, two succumbed and 69 are still fighting the disease, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said on Wednesday. “Over 100 the cops caught the infection while catching criminals, who later turned out to be Covid-19 positive. The other infected cops are those who were on crowd control duty,” revealed additional deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Rupinder Kaur Sra, who is the nodal officer for Covid-19. She further added that four of the cops who recovered from the virus went on to donate their plasma. “It is very heartening to see that cops, who caught the virus while performing their duties, fought the disease bravely and are now saving lives by donating their blood plasma. If more people come forward, then we will able to save many more lives,” the ADCP added. She said that cops who are currently undergoing treatment are being provided regular counseling. “Each one of them is provided virtual medical counseling by Dr Geeti of Mohandai Oswal Hospital,” Sra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/318-ludhiana-cops-infected-in-the-line-of-duty-till-date/story-goa31n2Ct57jrbabezBTdN.html
02-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Body of cab driver who went missing two days ago recovered from Masuri area||Ghaziabad: The police on Tuesday recovered the body of a 25-year-old cab driver from Masuri area, two days after he went missing. The police said that the face of the body was burnt, but he was identified with the help of clothes by his family who stays in Vijay Nagar. According to the police, the victim, Shivam Singh, had left for a drop to Bijnor district on August 30 and thereafter was in touch with his family over the phone till 8pm, after which he did not respond. The police added that he returned via Meerut and took the Delhi-Meerut Road on way to Masuri. “On that day he spoke to his family and also shared his pictures. His mobile was active till 8pm on the same night but later he did not respond to calls. Suspecting some foul play, his family started searching for the Swift Dzire car through its GPS location and found it around 11pm at Indergarhi near Masuri,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). The police said that on Tuesday afternoon, the body of the driver was found at an isolated place in Masuri. “The body was sent for post mortem. We are investigating the entire sequence of events leading to the incident. His family also told us that while they were speaking to the victim over the phone, they heard someone saying that they will murder him. Thereafter, calls were exchanged and the victim called his family normally,” Jadaun added. The police, on the basis of a complaint received from his family, had registered an FIR under IPC Section 364 (abduction or kidnapping in order to murder) at Masuri police station on August 31. The police said that they are investigating the case from all angles. The police said that it is suspected that the man was strangled as there were no other marks of any fatal injury to the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-body-of-cab-driver-who-went-missing-two-days-ago-recovered-from-masuri-area/story-OzcrFtjt46x2rpuMIAFICO.html
02-09-2020||City||Ludhiana sees 16 more deaths, 196 fresh cases||There seems to be no let-up in Covid-19 fatalities in the district as 16 more people succumbed to the virus on Wednesday, taking the toll to 442. While the first two days of August recorded 17 deaths, the number has almost doubled with 31 deaths in the first two days of September. The district also recorded 196 fresh cases, taking the cumulative count of cases to 10, 436. Of the 1, 579 cases are still active while 8, 608 persons have recovered. The deceased include two 48-year-old women from Prem Colony and Azad Nagar in Millar Gunj, an 82-year-old man from Punjab Mata Nagar, a 33-year-old man from Sector 32-A on Chandigarh Road, a 66-year-old man from Rani Jhansi Road, a 26-year-old man from Shimlapuri, a 65-year-old man from Jodhan, a 70-year- old man from Sector 32-A on Chandigarh Road, a 35-year-old man from Basti Jodhewal, a 74-year-old man from Vikas Nagar on Pakhowal Road, a 66-year-old man from Malakpur, a 66-year-old man from Samathi Road, Khanna, a 76-year-old man from Model Town, a 70-year-old man from Latala village, near Pakhowal, a 74-year-old man from New Shakti Nagar, a 65-year-old man from Pavittar Nagar. Councillor’s husband tests positiveWard number 23 councillor Sandeep Kumari’s husband and Congress leader Gaurav Bhatti tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday evening. Bhatti said that his father, Inderpal, has also tested positive while councillor Sandeep Kumari and his three-year-old daughter have tested negative. Bhatti and his father have mild symptoms and are in home isolation. Alert resident raises alarm: Gagan Malhotra, a resident of Mundian Khurd, alerted the administration after he saw two migrants, staying in labour quarters, sitting out in the open after they were put on home isolation after testing positive for the virus. Malhotra’s timely intervention was lauded as helped prevent further spread of the infection.Malhotra on the other hand lauded the cops for swift action. “The police department’s diligence can be gauged from the fact that Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal reacted to my call and within no time the cops were at the migrant quarters,” he said, adding that the migrants, along with their families, were taken to an isolation home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sees-16-more-deaths-196-fresh-cases/story-ggYGKIXqhZIYwOs6u6MVjM.html
02-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Symbolic protest held over poor condition of Jeevan Nagar road||Staging a symbolic protest against authorities over failure in repair of the Jeevan Nagar road which has been in a deplorable condition for long, the members of Azad Yuva Shakti Sangh begged for alms on Wednesday. The members rued that the protest was staged to wake the authorities from their deep slumber as accidents had been taking place owing to the pathetic condition of the road. The shopkeepers in the area have also been left as a harried lot as the dirt gets into their shops due to the movement of vehicles on the potholed road. Members said the issue had been raised several times in front of the authorities but no action had been taken yet. The road connects Chandigarh road with the Delhi highway and the condition of the road becomes worse during rainfall, they said. As per the information, MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and MLA Sanjay Talwar had inaugurated the construction work of the road around three years back, but the project had not been initiated at ground level. As the civic body was facing a shortage of funds, the project has ultimately been forwarded to Punjab Small Industries and Exports Corporation (PSIEC) recently. PSIEC chairman Gurpreet Gogi said, “As the MC failed to construct the road, the PSIEC has taken the responsibility to provide relief to the public. The PSIEC has already initiated a project to reconstruct the 26km long stretch of roads in the Focal Point area at Rs 40 crores. We have come up with an estimate of over Rs 8 crores for the construction of Jeevan Nagar road and are waiting for the final approval from the state government for taking up the project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-symbolic-protest-held-over-poor-condition-of-jeevan-nagar-road/story-AxuMeZuHRiJZ47lPRh2WYP.html
02-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad sero survey to start on September 4, 1,080 samples to be collected||The first sero survey in Ghaziabad that was supposed to start in the last week of August will now take place from September 4 to 6 and will collect about 1,080 samples from Ghaziabad’s 4.4 million residents. The survey is being conducted in 11 districts, including Ghaziabad, on the UP government‘s directions . The other districts are Kanpur City, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Agra, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Meerut, Moradabad, Lucknow and Baghpat. The activity will cover Covid-19 and viral diseases, hepatitis-B and hepatitis-C, simultaneously. “The training for the collection of samples is on for 10 teams that we have formed for the purpose. In all, 1080 samples will be taken up and no previous positive patient will be included. Persons willing to give samples will first be tested with rapid antigen kits. Once they are found negative, they will be able to give their samples,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “The samples will be sent to King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, for testing. People who give samples will have to give a declaration and should be aged between 18-59 years as per directions,” CMO added. A serological survey checks for an immune response against the coronavirus in the form of antibodies in the blood of a random sample of the population. It can help establish how far the disease had spread and how many people fought off the virus without showing symptoms. According to the recent Delhi survey results, almost 30% of the 15,000 people surveyed in the national capital had antibodies for Sars-Cov-2. Delhi has a population of about 19 million while Ghaziabad has a smaller population of officially estimated at 4.4 million. “There is no particular definition of how many samples will be taken up from a population in sero-surveys. It is based on complex formulae and also depends on capacity to test the samples. It is also a probability that another round of survey is taken up in future and more people can be tested,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). For Ghaziabad, the survey will be conducted in 45 wards, including 39 in urban areas with 12 residential wards falling in the jurisdiction of the municipal corporation. The 12 wards identified for the survey include localities such as Garima Garden (ward 64), Shalimar Garden Main (ward 37), DLF Colony (ward 10), Makanpur, near Indirapuram, (ward 57), Govindpuram (ward 30), Ghookhna (ward 13), Dundahera, near Crossings Republik, (ward 27), Nehru Nagar 2(ward 8), Patel Nagar (ward 19), Arthala (ward 38), Sudamapuri (ward 7) and Rahul Vihar (Siddharth Vihar) (ward 2). Overall, the survey will cover 12 wards in the municipal area, three wards in Nagar Panchayat of Dasna, five in Nagar Palika of Loni, seven in Muradnagar, six in Nagar Palika of Modinagar and three in Nagar Pnchayat of Niwari among others. Combined, the 45 different wards have an overall population of about 70,493. Overall, across the 11 districts, the officials have selected 495 wards with a combined population of 452,231 for the survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-sero-survey-to-start-on-september-4-1-080-samples-to-be-collected/story-mz6TIt9vZJqeabTjKnonIL.html
02-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Containment zone list not in public domain despite govt directions||Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad, the list of containment zones that is prepared by the district administration is still not in public domain. The residents have complained that due to lack of proper information on containment zones they find it difficult to know about the areas which should be avoided. The Uttar Pradesh government, in their three consecutive orders issued for Unlock 2, Unlock 3 and Unlock 4, has directed the respective district magistrates to put up containment zones’ list on the district’s official website and also send the same to the Union ministry of health and family welfare and the state’s health and home departments. According to the official records, on September 1, the district had 336 containment zones with 842 active cases under category 1 (having single positive case) and category 2 (having more than one positive cases) zones. However, the number of active cases in the district on September 1 stood at 1,421, as per the state control room figures. Notably, the containment zones are created as per defined norms which have been issued time to time by the government. “The list of containment zones in Ghaziabad is not in the public domain. We somehow used to get the list off and on during initial months when the number of zones was less. Now, with high number of cases, the number of zones is also on the rise. The working of the district administration is not transparent in this regard. It makes us think that whether the containment zones are managed properly or not,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ association. “We often read in newspapers that the district has a particular number of containment zones. But nothing is known about the areas in which these zones are present. Whether they are sealed properly or not is not known to citizens or the civil society,” he added. The neighbouring district of Gautam Budh Nagar, on the other hand, has been regular in updating the list of its containment zones. The official website of the district has a link -- gbnagar.nic.in/novel-corona-virus-covid-19/ -- where the list of containment zones are uploaded since July 1 and updated regularly. In Ghaziabad, in one-off tweet from the Twitter handle of the district magistrate, a list was last shared on June 18. “At present, on the ground the concept of containment zones hardly exists. The list is not in public domain for the use of residents to know which areas should be avoided. We have taken to social media and also contacted the respective incident commanders of the zones to provide us the list,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of the federation of association of apartment owners. When asked about the issue, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that he will hold a review meeting on Wednesday evening in this regard. Pandey said he will ensure that list of containment zones is put up in public domain. “It seems that there has been some laxity on part of some officials. I will hold a review meeting on Wednesday evening and will see to it that the list gets uploaded. A comprehensive review will be taken up during the meeting,” he added.According to the list accessed for September 1, the highest active cases, 147, are under the jurisdiction of Sihani Gate police station where 46 zones are active. The next on the list is the Indirapuram police station area which has 77 zones with 142 active cases. Likewise, the police station areas of Sahibabad, Kavi Nagar and Vijay Nagar have 18, 28 and 23 zones with 84, 101 and 90 active cases, respectively. The containment zones are created on the recommendation from the health department. Thereafter, the administration officials, called as incident commanders, are tasked to supervise the sealing and timely de-sealing of the zones. According to UP chief secretary RK Tiwari’s order on July 24, the category 1 zones were revised to have an area of 100 metres radius as against 250 metres earlier. The category 2 zones were also directed to have an area of 200 metres radius as against the previous area of 500 metres, along with an additional buffer zone of 250 metres outside the containment zone. At present, defining the buffer area is left to the district officials on the basis of local assessment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-containment-zone-list-not-in-public-domain-despite-govt-directions/story-XQY5GYbYoNhoHZLw1faNEP.html
02-09-2020||City||Two cold-blooded murders in a day send shockwaves across Ludhiana||A day after a broad daylight robbery outside a bank, two murders were reported from different parts of the city on Wednesday.In the first case, a 37-year-old man killed his wife with a pair of scissors. The victim has been identified as Aarti Devi, 32. The accused, Anand Kumar, 37, a tailor by profession, fled the scene after the crime. The incident came to light in the morning when the victim’s three children-- two daughters and a son-- saw their mother’s body in a pool of blood and raised the alarm. Soon, residents living in the locality gathered around the house and informed the Salem Tabri police about the incident. Salem Tabri station house officer Goldy Bedi said initial investigations reveal that the accused was an alcoholic and killed the wife under the influence of liquor. The kids have reportedly told the police that the couple used to have frequent fights and last night too, there was an altercation. “The murder appears to have taken place around 4am as the residents of the colony spotted the man escaping from the house around that time,” said the SHO Goldy Bedi. The accused seems to have gagged the victim’s face and then slashed her neck with a scissor, said SHO Bedi. The body was sent to the civil hospital for post-mortem and a manhunt launched for the accused. Amritsar man found murdered: The second murder took place at Meharban Area, where the body of a 62- year-old factory employee was found in a one-room accommodation. The victim has been identified as Baldev Singh, a resident of Jandiala Guru in Amritsar. He was working at a quilt manufacturing company, located a few metres away from his quarters. The incident came to light when the area residents spotted Baldev’s body in a pool of blood early in the morning. Soon, the husband of village sarpanch informed the police about the incident. According to additional SHO Harshpal Singh, the victim had suffered a fatal injury on his face, which resulted in heavy bleeding. “The body has been sent for post-mortem examination,” he added. The SHO further said that prima facie, there is nothing to suggest that robbery was the motive behind the murder. “However, we are probing the case from all angles and the killer will be arrested soon,” said Singh.The case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-cold-blooded-murders-in-a-day-send-shockwaves-across-ludhiana/story-6xCs1Dn00pjGGZGxqll1AP.html
02-09-2020||City||Recovered covid patients cross 30,000 mark in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded 15 deaths and 641 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the UT’s tally to 38,864. Of these, 29,568 cases are from Kashmir and 9,296 from Jammu.As many as 367 people tested positive in Kashmir on Wednesday, including 25 travellers; while 274 cases were reported from Jammu, of which 31 were travellers.Total 595 people were reported recovered and discharged from different hospitals taking the overall recovery count to 30,079. At present, there are 8,053 active cases in J&K. A total of 9,96,481 tests have been conducted in the UT so far.A government spokesperson said 92 people were discharged in Jammu division and 503 in Kashmir.Officials said that 15 more people have succumbed to the disease in the UT, 10 of who were from Kashmir and five from Jammu division. The number of total deaths have reached 732 - 657 in Kashmir and 75 in Jammu.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 131 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 56 and Ganderbal at 54. A total 167 cases was reported in Jammu district and 19 in Kathua.Srinagar is the worst affected district with 9,499 cases and 225 deaths so far, of which two were recorded on Wednesday. The active cases in district are now at 1,463 after 177 people recovered on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/recovered-covid-patients-cross-30-000-mark-in-j-k/story-ehhgrPC5AXs4K34KEMouYM.html
02-09-2020||City||PAU appoints Buttar as additional director(extension)||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has appointed Gurmeet Singh Buttar as the additional director of extension education (ADEE) and Makhan Singh Bhullar as head, department of agronomy, for a term of four years. The appointments were approved during a meeting of the board of management, PAU, held under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon. This is Buttar’s second term as the ADEE, PAU, as he has been working in the same capacity since January 2016. He had served as district extension specialist (agronomy) from 1988-89; assistant extension specialist (agronomy) from 1989 to 1992; assistant professor of agronomy from 1992 to 1996; agronomist (irrigation) from 1996 to 2005; senior agronomist (irrigation) from 2005-07; director, PAU’s regional station, Bathinda, from 2007-10; and head, department of agronomy, PAU, from 2010-15. Makhan Singh Bhullar has been in-charge of weed science section and principal investigator (PI) of AICRP-weed management at PAU since 2012. He has worked on the development of integrated weed management approaches for field and horticultural crops, and cropping systems in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-appoints-buttar-as-additional-director-extension/story-uibe1UtqaP5idSfd3C03xN.html
02-09-2020||City||Woman suffers injuries after falling into open manhole in Thane||A 26-year-old woman suffered injuries as she fell into an open manhole in Lokmanya Nagar after it broke on Wednesday morning. The repair work started on Wednesday morning and the road was blocked for traffic movement. Priti Singh, a resident of Dawale Nagar, has sustained injuries on her chest, right leg and both knees. She has been taken to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa. “The cover of an old manhole chamber collapsed on Wednesday morning, and we immediately initiated the repair work. However, the young woman fell into the manhole. Officials have met the hospital authorities and the woman. She has minor injuries,” said Ravindra Khadtale, city engineer, Thane Municipal Corporation. Singh was on her way to buy vegetables when she fell into the manhole while crossing the road. According to officials, Singh managed to come out of the manhole on her own and complained to the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-suffers-injuries-after-falling-into-open-manhole-in-thane/story-wKRklTNxyUhx9Vsbk7SniK.html
02-09-2020||City||161 more cases take Himachal’s Covid tally to 6,416||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 caseload has climbed to 6,416 with 161 more people testing positive on Wednesday, officials said.Forty-one cases have been reported in Kangra district, 36 in Solan, 23 in Hamirpur, 15 in Kinnaur, 13 in Shimla, 10 in Una, nine in Chamba, seven in Sirmaur, three in Bilaspur and two each in Kullu and Mandi.There are 1,613 active cases in state, while 4,713 people have recovered. The virus has claimed 41 lives so far.Kangra chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said that frontline covid warriors, including six health workers, police personnel and sanitation workers, are among the new cases.“Four health workers, posted at Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, have tested positive,” said Dr Gupta. He said that two sanitation workers of RPGMC have also contracted the virus.Five people have been tested positive in Lunj village of Shahpur sub-division. All of them had travel history from West Bengal and were institutionally quarantined.A 45-year-old army jawan was found infected in Nurpur area. Besides, two people have been tested positive in Dehra. One was found positive in Siholpuri village of Shahpur area with no travel history. Fifteen people were found positive in Kinnaur. Most of them are workers of Tidong power project. They had travelled from Malda district in West Bengal and reached Kinnaur on August 26. All of them were institutionally quarantined. With 1,492 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Sirmaur where 928 cases have been reported till date. Kangra has 926 cases, Hamirpur 598, Una 514, Chamba 441, Mandi 402, Shimla 365, Bilaspur 361, Kullu 285 and 96 cases in Kinnaur district. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state as it has only reported eight Covid-19 cases till date.Woman succumbs; death toll crosses 40The virus claimed one more life in Himachal, taking the tally to 41. A 57-year-old woman succumbed to the disease in Una district. Suffering from co-morbidities, the woman was tested positive after her death.Steep spike in AugustThe hill-state recorded a total of 3,552 in August month alone — a 138% jump compared to combined caseload from March to July. The state had recorded its first case on March 20. Till April 24, the tally was 40. A second wave in May took the count to 330. A total of 623 cases were added to the tally in June, while in July the number swelled by 1,611, taking the virus count to 2,564. This month, 300 cases have been reported in two days.Fatalities also witnessed a steep rise in the rainy season. Till July, 12 deaths were recorded in the state. The virus claimed a total of 24 lives in August. Five people died in two days of September, taking the death toll to 41.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/161-more-cases-take-himachal-s-covid-tally-to-6-416/story-uxlWWhBaijUj1CJ8Lka04K.html
02-09-2020||City||JEE Main Day 2: Ludhiana aspirants find chemistry numericals tricky||Out of total 497 students, 358 appeared for the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main on day two at the ION digital zone, near Sherpur Chowk on Wednesday. The examination was conducted by Tata Consultancy Services at nine exam centers in Punjab. The centre authorities took various precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Every candidate was given a new mask at the entrance gate and had to go through thermal scanning. The authorities ensured that social distancing was maintained. The exam was conducted in two shifts — morning and evening. Of the total 249 students, 205 appeared for the examination in the first shift which began at 9am and concluded at noon, while 153 students out of 248 turned up for the second shift which was held from 3pm to 6pm. The question paper consisted of 75 questions with three sections comprising 25 questions each. Out of the three sections (physics, chemistry, and mathematics), students found the chemistry numerical-based value questions confusing. ‘FOUND NUMERICAL BASED QUESTIONS CONFUSING’ Ajay Kumar, an 18-year-old student, said, “I found the numerical value-based questions a little confusing due to the mixing of concepts and data. Otherwise, the paper was easy and balanced. I attempted the paper in the morning shift and reached the centre at 8am. The centre authorities had taken various safety measures keeping in mind the Covid-19 outbreak.” Kanika Mehra, another student, said, “To improve my score, I have attempted the paper for the second time and found it quite similar to the one that I had attempted in January. I am confident that I will be able to sit for JEE advanced exam scheduled to be held this month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jee-main-day-2-ludhiana-aspirants-find-chemistry-numericals-tricky/story-AnVoRB4tQHvtcLgyDYqVnO.html
02-09-2020||City||Power companies must respond to all complaints, says Kalyan BJP MLA||Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Kalyan, Ganpat Gaikwad, who also owns a cable service, claimed that the Maharashtra State Electricity Corporation Limited (MSEDCL) has reduced his electricity bill by ₹2.88 lakh. He has asked the power company to give the same treatment to the common consumers who are also receiving exorbitant bills. In a statement issued by Gaikwad on the social media platform, he said, “During the lockdown, many consumers have received hefty bills. We had even protested against this. The bills of my cable service for August, which was ₹5.02 lakhs was reduced to ₹2.13 lakhs after we complained and MSEDCL officials visited my office. Many others are facing such issues,” said Gaikwad. He expressed that the MSEDCL should not differentiate between an MLA and the common consumers. Their complaints and demands should be equally addressed. When asked to MSEDCL, public relations officer, Vijay Dudhbhate said, “The deduction of ₹2.88 lakh from the electricity bill of company related to MLA Ganpat Gaikwad is for the month of November 2019, when their meter was changed as per the state’s norms. The extra usage charged during this time was reduced recently. The electricity bill provided to the company during the lockdown period is accurate according to their electricity usage and no discount is given on this electricity bill.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/power-companies-must-respond-to-all-complaints-says-kalyan-bjp-mla/story-YgQVgaXNvJOk7E804rWhCN.html
02-09-2020||City||Rice black-marketing case: 3 more accused arrested from Khalapur, Bhiwandi||The Navi Mumbai crime branch unit 2 and Panvel police jointly arrested three more accused on Wednesday involved in rice black-marketing racket from Khalapur and Bhiwandi. Police had arrested three persons the first week of August and had seized 380 metric tonnes of rice.The three arrested accused are identified as Navnath Rathod, 25, Sattar Sayyed, 25 and Krushna Pawar, 45. Rathod and Sayyed are from Karnataka, while Pawar is from Vijapur. Three more persons were detained earlier in the racket, though they have not been arrested yet. The accused illegally collected ration grain from Maharashtra, Karnataka and black marketed it to Africa. The grains were sold through e-auction conducted under the Food Corporation of India’s (FCI) Open Market Sales scheme. Till now around 32,827 metric tons of ration rice have been exported during the lockdown period. On August 1, the Navi Mumbai Police busted the rice black marketing racket where three persons illegally bought 110 tonnes (1.10 lakh kg) rice meant for the poor in the ration shops in Solapur. The accused had been exporting the rice to Dhaka, Qatar and Madagascar selling it at three times the price. Senior police inspector, Ajaykumar Landge, said, “After we detained the first three accused, they led us to two more companies situated in Khalapur and Bhiwandi involved in the racket. Our teams conducted raids and we seized 270 metric tons of grain worth ₹1.20 crore. Three persons were arrested from here and we have found that through E-auction system they have already sold almost 32,000 metric tons of grain to Africa. There are 18 more accused involved in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rice-black-marketing-case-3-more-accused-arrested-from-khalapur-bhiwandi/story-My4VJUyZ2r20UUDA8Vcb9N.html
02-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Aim for zero liquid discharge or attach dyeing units with CETPs to avoid action: PPCB chairman tells owners||With residents and elected representatives raising a hue and cry over dumping of untreated waste in the MC sewer lines by dyeing units, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has directed the owners of scattered units to shift to zero liquid discharge (ZLD) technique or attach their units with the common effluent treatment plants (CETP) being established in the city by December 31 to avoid action. As per the PPCB officials, there are around 20 scattered units, but the dyeing association members claim that there are around 50 such units in the city. While CETPs are being established for dyeing industry clusters at Tajpur road and Focal Point, the owners of scattered units have failed to get themselves attached to the project. The CETP for the Bahadurke road industry is already operational. Dumping of waste by scattered units is adding to the woes of the residents as the MC sewer lines are choked when excessive waste is dumped by the owners. Also, it adds to pollution in the Buddha Nullah. The matter was also raised in the meetings of the special task force constituted for cleaning the nullah.MLA (Ludhiana east) Sanjay Talwar said, “Residents of wards 7, 10, 12 and 15 are suffering a lot due to dumping of waste by the owners of dyeing and dairy units in the MC sewer lines. They dump excessive waste in the MC sewer lines, due to which the sewer lines get choked and sewer waste accumulates on the streets. The MC and PPCB officials are aware of the problem but still, no action has been taken against the units.” In mid-August, councillor of ward number 57, Manju Aggarwal had also submitted a complaint with the MC officials regarding the dumping of untreated waste in the sewer lines by dyeing units, after she saw untreated waste at Shingar Cinema disposal point PPCB chairman, Satwinder Marwaha said, “The 15mld CETP for Bahadurke dyeing industry has already made operational. The 40mld CETP for the Focal Point industry and 50mld plant for the Tajpur road industry would be made operational by December this year. The owners of scattered units have also been told to shift to ZLD technology, wherein no waste is dumped by the industry and treated waste is reused. If not, then they should get the units attached with CETPs, otherwise, strict action would be taken against them and their connections would be snapped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-aim-for-zero-liquid-discharge-or-attach-dyeing-units-with-cetps-to-avoid-action-ppcb-chairman-tells-owners/story-1booV4Z24iwZGeaewibrwL.html
02-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: PSPCL collects ₹120.28L fine in 650 cases of power theft in 2 weeks||In a bid to curb huge losses caused by power theft, teams of Central Zone of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), Ludhiana on Wednesday slapped a penalty of ₹120.28 lakh on the defaulting consumers.Adopting a zero-tolerance approach against power thefts in the city, the teams are conducting systematic checking in their respective areas. In the last 15 days, the teams have checked as many as 11,977 connections and detected 650 cases of power thefts, unauthorised use of electricity, and extension of load. The total fine collected by the teams amounted to ₹120.28 lakhs in 650 cases of power theft.This checking was conducted from August 17 till August 31 under a zero-tolerance drive started by the PSPCL under the directions of A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL and DPS Grewal, director, distribution.Chief engineer of Ludhiana central zone Varinder Pal Singh Saini said that of 650 cases were detected by the teams, of which 331 cases of power theft, 33 cases of unauthorised use of electricity and 286 cases of unauthorised load extension. The fine amounting to ₹98.69 lakhs, ₹4.31 lakhs and ₹17.27 lakhs was charged for the same respectively.He said that there are four circles in central zone — East, West, Suburban and Khanna. As many as 2,293 connections were checked in East circle during this drive, while 1,862 connections were checked in West and 4,664 and 3,158 connections were checked in Suburban and Khanna respectively.He added that apart from charging fine, FIRs have also been registered against consumers who were found stealing power.Saini said that the department wants to curb the power theft menace to provide uninterrupted supply to its consumers. “I appeal to the residents that they should help the department in controlling unscrupulous practices,” he said.Venu Prasad said that the motive behind the drive is to discourage consumers from stealing power and other illegal practices such as overloading and tampering with electricity meters. He said that the drive will be intensified and warned of stringent action against consumers found violating power consumption norms.He added that consumers can get their complaints registered on helpline number 1912. “If the line is busy, they can SMS at 1912 and their complaint will get automatically registered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-pspcl-collects-120-28l-fine-in-650-cases-of-power-theft-in-2-weeks/story-fWxR2JfwQl5ZHk2mJKi9YP.html
02-09-2020||City||Scholarship scam: AAP protests, demands Dharamsot’s resignation||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest against cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot over the alleged multi-crore SC scholarship scam outside the Mini Secretariat on Wednesday.The protesters seeking resignation of the minister and CBI inquiry into the matter burned the effigy of the minister outside the Mini Secretariat. Deputy leader of opposition in the Vidhan Sabha, MLA (Jagraon) Saravjit Kaur Manuke also participated in the protest and submitted a memorandum regarding the same at the deputy commissioner’s office.AAP leaders said that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is also involved in the scam, due to which Dharamsot has not resigned from the cabinet. The inquiry marked to the Punjab chief secretary (CS) by the CM is also a farce as the former will never move against its political bosses, said AAP leaders. AAP leaders, including Manuke, Ahbaab Grewal and Amandeep Mohi said, “The minister should resign from the cabinet as the additional chief secretary of his own department has indicted the leaders in the report. Dharamsot has embezzled around ₹64 crores, which were meant for Dalit students of the state. The AAP will continue its agitation against Dharamsot and state government until the minister resigns and a CBI inquiry is marked in the case.”AAP, YAD WORKERS BOOKEDSpeaking on the protest staged by AAP outside the secretariat, station house officer (SHO) of Division Number 5 police station, Inspector Kuldeep Singh said that an FIR has been registered against unidentified persons under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Division Number 8 police have lodged an FIR against unidentified Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leaders for protesting outside the Mini Secretariat on Wednesday. YAD had also staged a protest against the minister over the alleged SC scholarship scam.SHO Inspector Jarnail Singh said that the FIR was lodged under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scholarship-scam-aap-protests-demands-dharamsot-s-resignation/story-vWFhcZWSaUZJuXbLK2pPRI.html
02-09-2020||City||Jai Ram govt to build 10,000 houses for poor, homeless in Himachal||The Himachal government is going to construct 10,000 houses for the poor and homeless under various Centre and state-run schemes, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Wednesday.He was presiding over a meeting in Mandi to review the ongoing development projects in the district.The chief minister directed the officers to ensure time-bound completion of various developmental projects to avoid price escalation and ensure that the benefits reach those in need.Thakur said over 1,000 people were benefitted under the housing schemes in the district with financial assistance of ₹14 crore provided to them in over two years.He said as many as 1,04,869 people were being provided social security pension in Mandi district and a budget provision of ₹156 crore has been made this year. He said 31,530 new pension cases have been sanctioned in Mandi in the last three years.Thakur said since Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Hospital, Ner Chowk, has been designated as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, its workload has been shifted to Mandi zonal hospital.He directed the hospital authorities to admit emergency medical cases.Stating that the coronavirus pandemic has led the government to reconsider its priorities, the departments needed to re-fix their goals for time-bound completion of various developmental projects in the area. “More than ₹ 12,000 crore funds were lying with various departments, which need to be utilised for undertaking developmental works,” he said.Despite being the second-largest district population-wise, the Mandi administration has done exceptionally well in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, the CM said.Thakur also laid stress on the resumption of economic activities in the state now that various norms have been relaxed under Unlock 4.0.“Still, we all need to be more vigilant. Use of face masks and maintaining social distancing was important to check the spread of this virus,” he said.All the legislators from Mandi district were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-govt-to-build-10-000-houses-for-poor-homeless-in-himachal/story-Mvof2ISg1vuC8sTjvXbaxM.html
02-09-2020||City||Himachal slashes syllabus for classes 9 to 12 by 30%||The state education department on Wednesday decided to reduce the syllabus for classes 9 to 12 by 30%.“The decision has been taken on the recommendation of experts committee and in consultation with the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education chairman,” said education minister Govind Singh Thakur on the sidelines of a meeting with department officials.During the term and annual exams, questions will be asked from reduced syllabus, but the teachers will have to teach the full syllabus.The minister said the decision to cut the syllabus has been taken in view of the Covid-19 outbreak due to which schools in the state were closed for over five months. “A notification to this effect will be issued soon,” he said.“In the Covid-19 times, the department tried to continue education through TV and online mediums. However, students have been facing many problems like lack of connectivity and some even don’t have smart phones. So, the syllabus has been reduced on the lines of CBSE,” said Thakur.WINTER VACATION CANCELLEDHe said the government has also decided to cancel the school winter vacation. There will be no holidays on second Saturdays and even the gazette holidays will be reduced,” he said.This will help compensate for 55 to 60 academic days lost due to Covid pandemic, said Thakur.Annual exams for all schools will be held in March next year, while the practical examination will take place in the month of April.TEACHERS’ DAY EVENT POSTPONEDThe education minister informed that the Teachers’ Day programme slated for September 15 has been postponed due to national mourning on the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee.The event will now be held on October 5 on the occasion of World Teachers’ Day.Education secretary Rajiv Sharma, Himachal Pradesh School Education Board chairman Suresh Kumar Soni, board secretary Akshay Sood and elementary education director Shubh Karan Singh were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-slashes-syllabus-for-classes-9-to-12-by-30/story-mUiMpK6IHakau36LCWzkNK.html
02-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: School heads told to provide new uniforms to students of Classes 1 to 8 by October 26||Punjab Director-General School Education, Mohammad Tayyab on Wednesday directed principals of various government schools to provide new school uniforms to students of Classes 1 to 8 by October 26.The funds of ₹7.42 crore have been released to the district and the same has been transferred in the accounts of block primary education officers (BPEO) which will be further sent to the bank accounts of schools to purchase new uniforms.The heads have been asked to inform parents to provide the measurements of their wards.Each school will get ₹600 per student to purchase a uniform that includes a pair of shoes, socks, a belt, tie, shirt, trousers, skirt, sweater, and turban. The masks are to be made from the leftover fabric of the uniforms. Around 1.23 lakh students, of which 78,632 are girls, 39,792 are boys belonging to scheduled caste (SC) and 5,351 students belong to below poverty line (BPL) category, will get free uniforms.The school heads have stated that after receiving funds from the BPEOs they will place the order of uniforms and parents have been informed to provide the measurements of their ward. Previously, the school authorities received funds after November and within a month, they have to provide uniforms to students. But this year, funds have been released in September due to which the uniforms will be provided to students in time. Headteacher of Government Primary School, Haibowal Kalan, Shivani Sood said, “With the number of rising Covid-19 cases in the district, it is important to take precautionary measures and that’s why we are not asking parents to visit the school. Once the uniform is ready, all the items will be sent at the kids’ doorstep. In our school, there are 873 students studying in Class 1 to 5.”In the Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, there are over 1,200 students studying in Classes 1 to 8. The school authorities have decided to float tenders and will place the order at the earliest. School principal, Sanjeev Thapar, said, “We have received the funds and tenders will be floated so that we can get the new uniforms stitched for the students. Parents will be asked to inform the class teacher regarding the measurement and a new uniform will be provided to students by next month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-school-heads-told-to-provide-new-uniforms-to-students-of-classes-1-to-8-by-october-26/story-LuS90BO9Fat0RTmJDc0iEK.html
02-09-2020||City||Aspirants can now opt for HPPSC exams centres in Lahaul-Spiti & Kinnaur||In a relief to aspirants during the pandemic, Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) has decided to conduct the screening examination in all district headquarters, including Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti.HPPSC has directed all the candidates who have applied for the posts of executive officer/ secretary (executive state municipal services), assistant manager and tehsil welfare officer to choose their examination centres for Kinnaur at Reckong Peo and for Lahaul-Spiti at Keylong in addition to stations already notified through their respective user IDs on the commission’s portal.HPPSC secretary Ashutosh Garg said that for this purpose, a link will be activated to select examination centres, including the two in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti respectively, besides the other stations notified, within seven days from the date of issue of this press note and no other opportunity or request for change of examination centre will be considered by the commission.He added that exam centres will be allotted to the candidates as per their option, subject to availability and number of candidates opting for a particular station. HPPSC reserves the right to allot examination centres to candidates other than those opted by them.“Examination centres at Reckong Peo and Keylong will be established only if a sufficient number of candidates opt for these stations,” he added.The updation of new examination centres in the candidates’ OTRS will be done within three days after the last date of centre selection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aspirants-can-now-opt-for-hppsc-exams-centres-in-lahaul-spiti-kinnaur/story-e6d7DWTK2zYTbH6nwMkSzJ.html
02-09-2020||City||Ludhiana MC to form ward-level committees to spread awareness on Covid||After deputing Covid monitors, the municipal corporation (MC) would now constitute committees in every ward for spreading awareness among residents about precautions to be taken to thwart the spread of Covid-19.The committees led by councillors would also include members of NGOs, the staff of the district health department, religious leaders and some residents of the area. The committees would organise awareness programmes in their respective wards and motivate residents to undergo Covid-19 testing if they have any symptoms. The MC officials said that if required several committees can be formed for a particular ward, but the awareness drives would be conducted at large.MC secretary, Neeraj Jain said, “The decision to depute committee in every ward has been taken by deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma under Mission Fateh. We are working to form ward-wise committees. We also urge residents to stop believing in rumours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-to-form-ward-level-committees-to-spread-awareness-on-covid/story-tX00cOR1RYEekjZGAOGXOO.html
02-09-2020||City||MLA Talwar conducts meeting with GLADA officials to expedite development works||To expedite developmental works that were put to a halt due to the lockdown and monsoon, MLA (east) Sanjay Talwar conducted a meeting with the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) officials on Wednesday. The projects which were discussed during the meeting include the construction of roads in Sectors 32 and 39 on Chandigarh road, construction of community centres in wards 19, 17 and 21, construction of health clubs with facilities like gymnasiums, swimming pool, etc in wards 16 and 23.Talwar said, “The projects of constructing roads in Sectors 32 and 39 at a cost of ₹45 crores had already begun but it was put to halt due to the monsoon season. The projects would soon commence and tenders for the construction of community centres and health clubs in different wards of the east constituency would be floated. We are also working to develop new parks and renovate the old ones. Projects worth ₹100 crores would be taken up in the constituency in the near future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mla-talwar-conducts-meeting-with-glada-officials-to-expedite-development-works/story-JLzwL2HMrk0vkJzV4BaZLN.html
02-09-2020||City||Meet with FM Sitharaman: J&K businessmen seek comprehensive financial revival package||Businessmen from Jammu and Kashmir have sought a comprehensive financial package for the revival of industry in the UT, especially Kashmir division, which has been in doldrums for over a year.Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI) on Tuesday evening via video-conference highlighted the plight of businessmen here during a meeting with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The virtual meeting, which was also attended by businessmen from Jammu, lasted for an hour.The industry is under deep stress due to subsequent lockdowns after the revocation of Article 370 and Covid-19 pandemic. As per KCCI’s estimates, different business sectors have suffered losses worth ₹40,000 crore in the past year.KCCI president Shiekh Ashiq said the Union minister was very cordial in the conference and said the Centre was ready to help with the revival of business activities in J&K.“I reminded the finance minister of our meeting with her in March before the Covid-19 lockdown. At that time too, she had promised full help and support and gave us assurance. I am hopeful something good will take place this time.”Ashiq said Sitharaman told them she had joined the conference to listen to their problems. “We sought a soft package for revival of tourism sector. We also demanded assistance for uplifting the horticulture sector on the pattern of Himachal Pradesh where several schemes have been introduced for the same, besides handicraft and other sectors.”Recently, KCCI members had held a meeting with Lt governor Manoj Sinha who formed a working group to give suggestions for business revival.The KCCI president said many young men and women who had established fresh units in the last few years suffered huge losses. “They (young businessmen) were going to create opportunities for others, but now they are hunting jobs for themselves in different cities of the country and feel dejected.”He added that the Union finance minister has assured the business community of full support from the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/meet-with-fm-sitharaman-j-k-businessmen-seek-comprehensive-financial-revival-package/story-W6VKhIh7VFkUc5piqwNOkM.html
02-09-2020||City||High-density apple scheme: Plans afoot to boost fruit production in Kashmir||To boost fruit production, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has brought around 240 hectares of land under its high-density apple programme in the Valley.The UT administration is planning to get more growers inclined towards the high-density plantation and have also encouraged many private players to help fruit growers to set up such orchards across Kashmir.Currently, horticulture is one of the biggest trade in Kashmir with a volume of Rs 9000 to 1000 crores and more than 2.5 million people are directly or indirectly dependent on this trade.Recently, advisor to L-G K K Sharma said steps are afoot for ensuring that horticulture and related activities get a fillip by way of various government schemes and interventions so that the quantum of produce gets increased, contributing to the economy of Jammu and Kashmir.The advisor directed the officers to ensure that the high-density plantation scheme meant to boost apple production is implemented in a manner that maximum horticulturists get its benefit. “A mechanism should be formulated to make it broad-based by actively involving stakeholders and incorporating their views and suggestions as well,” he told the officers concerned.He asked them to cover all the feasible areas under the programme, including Jammu province, as it has a high potential for development of horticulture, especially apple.The horticulture department officials said all steps are being initiated to remove bottlenecks so that farmers are fully benefited by the innovative programme.They added that elite clonal rootstocks have been brought from the Netherlands to achieve self-sufficiency in plant production so that dependence on import is minimised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-density-apple-scheme-plans-afoot-to-boost-fruit-production-in-kashmir/story-W0ek55O4Cxfgk1roduCySK.html
02-09-2020||City||Punjab’s Covid fatality rate third worst in country||Chandigarh When case fatality rate (CFR) in most of the states is on a slide, bringing down the national average, it is showing an upward trend in Punjab and the state has jumped to third position, bypassing Delhi. In the latest analysis by state health department, Punjab’s CFR has increased to 2.7% as on August 30 which was 2.5% on August 20. In case of Delhi, the CFR has come down to 2.6% against the 2.7% it had just 10 days back. India’s overall CFR rate has also come down to 1.8%, reveals the department’s analysis. Notably, Delhi’s caseload is more than double that of Punjab as on August 30 with 52,536 Covid-19 cases and 1,404 fatalities. On this day, Delhi had 173,390 patients and 4,426 fatalities. For Punjab, August proved to be the grimmest month with 1,067 deaths and 37,873 fresh cases. The month’s CFR for the state stood at 2.8%. Now, only Maharashtra and Gujarat have worse CFR than Punjab’s with 3.1% and 3.2%, respectively. In July, Punjab surpassed Madhya Pradesh to reach the fourth spot in the country’s worst-hit states. Notably, in last 15 days, Maharashtra and Gujarat have improved their CFR, from 3.4% to 3.1% in and 3.5% to 3.2%, respectively. Deaths per million up Punjab also witnessed a jump in deaths per million which stood at 46.8 on August 30 as compared to 28. 3 as on August 16. In the same fortnight, India’s deaths per million increased from 27 to 35.9. State’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the biggest reason behind the surge in deaths is that people are not coming forward for testing and are only reporting at government hospitals when their condition worsens. “Now, the department even has given the option of home isolation for positive patients. Still, people are shying away from reporting to us,” said Bhaskar. The nodal officer claimed that it was only due to the sustained efforts that the contact tracing in Punjab has increased to 5 people per positive patient, which was 3-3.5 just two weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-covid-fatality-rate-third-worst-in-country/story-U5BCQ7eUSRi7Hgwrly4iaN.html
02-09-2020||City||SFI holds protest, demands promotion of HPU students||Students’ Federation of India (SFI) on Wednesday staged a protest against the against state government and Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) authorities here, demanding promotion of undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students.The SFI has accused the state government of profiteering during the Covid-19 pandemic instead of providing financial relief to the people and students. It said the government is hiking fees despite the high court’s order not to charge any additional fees other than tuition fees until the pandemic situation improves.During the protest, SFI state secretary Amit Thakur said the state government and university authorities are only completing formalities to conduct the examination as many students are being forced to walk to the examination centres as they have no transportation facilities.“The university has only set up 38 examination centres for the upcoming PG exams in which around 60,000 regular and private students are expected to appear, which means that around 1,600 students per examination centre will be accommodated. How can social distancing be maintained in such a situation?” he asked.SFI has warned of intensifying the movement if their demands are not fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sfi-holds-protest-demands-promotion-of-hpu-students/story-CQFCZidH8obLTfSQAD2vJN.html
02-09-2020||City||SC gives, nod, CET-B.Ed now on Sept 22||PATNAThe Supreme Court on Wednesday gave its nod to Bihar Governor’s proposal for holding combined entrance test (CET) for admission to B.Ed course on September 22 for the 2020-22 session. The secretariat of the Governor, who is also Chancellor of state universities, submitted its affidavit in the SC that all the vacancies in the B.Ed colleges of the state for 2020-2022 session would be filled through CET-B.Ed scheduled on September 22.“The apex court has given its nod for the scheduled test,” said Amit Pawan, counsel for Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), Darbhanga, which is the nodal university for conducting 2020 CET-B.Ed. The CET-B.Ed, which came into effect in 2018, was an initiative of the Chancellor office to regulate the mushrooming of private teachers’ training colleges in the state.Last week, the apex court had on Thursday asked the Governor to decide the mode of admission in B.Ed course across the state. Compared to the first year in 2018, the number of candidates registered and appearing in the examination dropped last year. This year, 1.22 lakh candidates filled up the form.Due to the lockdown and subsequent rise of Covid-19 infections, the entrance examinations had to be postponed thrice.Private B.Ed colleges had been demanding permission to admit students on the basis of marks this year and had written to the chancellor. They had also moved the SC for relief.According to sources in the LNMU, the entrance test would be held in one sitting across the state with increased number of exam centres to adhere to the social distancing norms.“We have sought reports from all the exam centres across the state and based on the feedback we will plan accordingly,” said a senior LNMU official.After the examination, the LNMU will have to work fast to ensure early publication of results and then counselling to ensure early start of the 2020-22 session, which has got already delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-gives-nod-cet-b-ed-now-on-sept-22/story-OroRmoSE8U8fHl8k11k6tL.html
02-09-2020||City||Resume talks, grant Tibet genuine autonomy: Exiled govt to China||If the Chinese government truly desires peace and stability, it must genuinely address the grievances of the Tibetan people, said Lobsang Sangay, Sikyong (president) of exiled government, here on Wednesday.He was addressing an event to mark the 60th anniversary of the birth of Tibetan democracy.On this day in 1960, the first elected representatives of the Tibetan parliament-in-exile took oaths and inaugurated the Tibetan democratic system.Based on the middle way approach, Sangay said, the Chinese government must resume dialogue with envoys of the Dalai Lama and grant genuine autonomy to Tibet.Sangay said recently, Xi Jinping, the general secretary of Communist Party of China in his address at the 7th Central Symposium on Tibet Work held in Beijing on August 28-29, stressed on ensuring national security and enduring peace and stability.“He called on for a vigorous pursuit of ideological and political education in schools at all levels to instill devotion for the motherland; stressed on stabilising Tibet in order to secure the borders and to ensure China’s security at large and; called on officials to ‘actively guide’ Tibetan Buddhism to adapt to the socialist society and ‘promote’ its sinicisation,” said the exiled leader.Evidently, such misguided repressive policies have only enhanced the plight of the Tibetan people leading 154 Tibetans to self-immolate. The Chinese government must acknowledge the failure of its policies in Tibet, he said.In 2019, Sangay said, the US State Department report on international religious freedom ranked People’s Republic of China (PRC) among the worst offenders.Earlier this year, five United Nations independent mandate holders called on the Chinese government to provide information about the whereabouts of the 11th Panchen Lama and to allow an independent monitor to visit him.“More and more nations around the world are waking up to the threats to global democracy posed by the PRC. In June this year, senior parliamentarians from eight countries including the US, Canada, UK, Germany and Australia announced the launch of the Inter-Parliamentary Alliance on China, a coalition that would seek a proactive approach to the challenges posed by China,” he said.Sangay also recalled spiritual leader the Dalai Lama’s contribution in building and strengthening Tibetan democratic system over the years.As we celebrate the trajectory of the young Tibetan democracy in exile, we recall our responsibility to our brothers and sisters in Tibet who live under a regime whose every action mocks the values and principles of democracy, the Sikyong said.“The task is now on our shoulders to protect and strengthen our robust democracy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/resume-talks-grant-tibet-genuine-autonomy-exiled-govt-to-china/story-W8CqwzGhptlMuzkUXWLKGL.html
02-09-2020||City||Ex-CM Manjhi ends suspense, joins NDA||PATNAAfter months of suspense, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi-led Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAM-S) on Wednesday announced to joini the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar, whose other constituents are BJP, JD (U) and the LJP.“We have forged an alliance with the Janata Dal (United) and have become a part of the NDA. There has been no discussion about seat sharing for the upcoming Assembly elections,” said party president Manjhi.“My party will work for the victory of each alliance candidate,” he said and clarified he had joined the NDA without any conditions. “I have very old relations with Nitish Kumar. How many seats we get to contest is a matter between JD (U) and HAM-S,” he said.HAM-S sources, however, said the party could contest on 10 assembly seats. An NDA source said JD (U) national president Nitish Kumar wanted Manjhi to contest against former assembly speaker Udai Narain Chowdhary of RJD, but the former CM showed his reluctance to contest assembly polls. “There is a possibility of Manjhi going to Rajya Sabha at an earliest opportunity,” said a HAM-S leader.Manjhi’s party had contested on 20 assembly seats in 2015 assembly polls and won one. JD(U) sources said that after the exit of Shyam Rajak from the party, Manjhi could be a face for Dalits, who account for 16% of Bihar’s total population of 10.41 crore as per the 2011 census.“Seat sharing is not at all an issue for us. The party decided to be with the development agenda of the NDA,” said HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan. Soon after announcing his party decision to ally with NDA, Manjhi attacked RJD and rued his decision to join the Grand Alliance. “I fell in Lalu Prasad’s trap and joined GA. RJD is full of corruption and neck deep into scams,” he said.Reminded that RJD had made his son MLC, Manjhi said, “He got the membership through merit. He is not a seventh pass but a MA, Ph.d.”Welcoming Manjhi’s decision to join the NDA, deputy Sushil Kumar Modi tweeted, “Manjhi’s leaving GA goes on to prove that a party run from jail cannot do justice to Dalits and backwards. Welcome Manjhi ji.”JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan said, “The NDA is going to benefit from his experience. It is a great setback for the GA.” LJP, however, did not react. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-cm-manjhi-ends-suspense-joins-nda/story-MySWhj8ikzSukpWfECfDrO.html
02-09-2020||City||Missing saroops: Row deepens as SGPC office note says 2016 fire damaged 80 birs||AMRITSAR The row over the missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib has deepened as an internal note of the SGPC office has surfaced that puts the number of the birs damaged in the 2016 fire at 80, not 14 as cited by the SGPC office-bearers before police, media and inquiry penal. Carrying signatures of former SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh, the note reads, “Total 80 saroops along with related items were damaged in fire and due to water used to douse the blaze. As these saroops were not worth parkash (installation), these were sent to Goindwal Sahib for cremation.”The saroops were damaged in a fire incident at the Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib-based SGPC publishing house on May 16, 2016. Dated February 20, 2020, the note is addressed to Roop Singh by Kanwaljit Singh, who was an assistant supervisor of the publishing house. Roop Singh resigned from the post on August 27 this year after the SGPC executive took action on the basis of an inquiry report.Kanwaljit is the man on whose statement, the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) uncovered the issue of missing saroops. He retired on May 31 this year. When he gave charge to his predecessor, 267 saroops were missing. The SGPC had accused him of using the 2016 fire incident to save his skin. He has also been indicted by the Akal Takht-appointed panel that probed the issue. A day after the PHRO accused it of hiding the matter and understating the damage to the saroops, the SGPC top functionaries on June 26 this year refuted the charges, terming the accusations as “misleading” and “condemnable”. In a press conference that day, SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, chief secretary (now former) Roop Singh, secretary Manjit Singh and additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhoora said 14-15 saroops were burnt and nine got damaged in the fire-control operation. PHRO writes to SGPC chief Attaching a copy of the office note’s, the PHRO on Wednesday wrote to the SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and the sub-committee set up to initiate legal action against those indicted in the inquiry panel. “Mehta and other SGPC functionaries lied about the damage to saroops. He was also a member of the sub-committee constituted in 2016 to probe the incident. For misleading the community, he must be disqualified as the SGPC member,” reads the letter signed by the PHRO investigator Sarbjit Singh Verka. Mehta said, “What we stated was based on office record. Actually, 80 was the total figure. Barring 14 saroops which were damaged heavily and sent for cremation, others carried minor damage and were repaired. The PHRO are playing into the hands of the anti-panthic forces and causing divisions among the Sikhs.” SGPC chief Longowal did not take a call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-saroops-row-deepens-as-sgpc-office-note-says-2016-fire-damaged-80-birs/story-ioTbVfN6ZH5B5YhZyYbarI.html
02-09-2020||City||No action against Jalandhar hospital found overcharging for covid-19 test||Jalandhar Even as Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has warned hospitals violating norms and rules related to the covid-19 pandemic of severe action, the state health department has not taken any action against Patel Hospital, Civil Lines, for overcharging a patient for the test to detect the virus on July 21. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, on August 6, had sent a report to the principal secretary (health) seeking action against the hospital.In his inquiry report, assistant commissioner (grievances) Randeep Gill found that hospital had charged Rs 5,500 for the test on July 21; the government has fixed maximum charges for the test, including taxes, at Rs 2,400. When contacted over phone, state principal secretary (health) Hussan Lal told HT, “We have written back to the Jalandhar DC last week that he is the competent authority to take action in this case, under the Epidemic and Disaster Management Act.”Thori rejected Lal’s claim and said, “I have not received any copy of any order to date. I had written to higher authorities, seeking action based on the report and after receiving the order, appropriate action will be taken against Patel Hospital.”The hospital wrongly charged Rs 3,100 extra from the complainant Rajeev Makol, a resident of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, towards the cost of PPE kits for safety of lab technicians and clinicians, violating state government orders, the DC’s report to the secretary says. The report also mentions that the complainant met medical superintendent of the hospital, Dr Swapan Sood, who justified the higher rate, saying that the hospital was a private facility conducting the test locally. Dr Sood also claimed that the test charges were Rs 2,400, and the remaining amount was towards the PPE kit and doctor charges of pharyngeal swabbing.The inquiry report, however, states, “The government order states that Rs 2,400 is inclusive of all expenses from tax to packaging, transportation, reporting and documentation. The money charged by the hospital for PPE kits has no ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-action-against-jalandhar-hospital-found-overcharging-for-covid-19-test/story-BTBElzZk6NPKhfGNxGPT8M.html
02-09-2020||Lucknow||AAP leader Sanjay Singh sparks controversy over role in caste survey||Hours after the Uttar Pradesh (UP) Police on Tuesday night registered a first information report (FIR) in Lucknow against unidentified people, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Rajya Sabha (RS) member Sanjay Singh owned up his involvement and sparked yet another row through a tweet.He accepted his involvement in a caste-based survey on the functioning of the Yogi Adityanath-led government in UP. He singled out the Thakur caste, which the chief minister belongs to.Earlier, the AAP MP had accused the UP government of being pro-Thakur.He targeted the UP government for being casteist and tweeted: “Murders of Brahmins and Dalits in UP are not a crime, but a survey whether the Yogi government is casteist is a crime.”He also had a word of advice for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled dispensation in the country’s most populous state. He suggested that the state government should not waste public money in conducting investigations and instead the police could get in touch with him about the caste-based survey.The FIR was lodged after many people received automated calls on their mobile phones, asking them to respond to a question whether the UP government has a pronounced pro-Thakur bias. The FIR was filed under section 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and also the Information Technology Act, 2000, for misuse of electronic communication, a police official said.Singh is facing probe in multiple FIRs lodged against him for accusing the UP government for favouring the Thakur caste. In August, nine FIRs were filed in various districts across the state following which the AAP lawmaker had written a letter to RS chairman and Vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu drawing his attention to the matter.Somen Barma, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Central, Lucknow, said the latest FIR stated that the automated calls were made to hundreds of people, asking them to respond to the question by pressing 1 or 2 on their mobile phone keyboard. He said the public was also asked two more questions related to castes favoured by various political parties when in power. A senior police official privy to the investigation said an electronic surveillance team collected call details of the mobile phone numbers used for the caste-based survey. He said the team was also probing the call generation points and the people behind the survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/aap-leader-sanjay-singh-sparks-controversy-over-role-in-caste-survey/story-mKzThbs7RWKcLL1qBHDilM.html
02-09-2020||City||UP: Info boards put up on trees to help ‘save’ them in Kaushambi||In order to promote afforestation, the forest department in Kaushambi, Uttar Pradesh, is putting up information boards on trees. The boards mention the tree’s variety, identifying one as a medicinal tree with healing properties, urging people to save the environment by protecting it. Special attention has been given to trees in densely populated areas of the city. Also read: Jewar airport: UP govt to revise farmers’ compensationThe forest department receives frequent complaints of illegal felling of trees. Besides forest mafia who illegally fell trees, people in urban areas also get trees outside their residences or in their home gardens chopped purely for personal reasons.While earlier the forest department launched a plantation drive across the district, currently it is focusing on the upkeep of existing trees which are under threat due to lack of care. The posters mention the specie of the tree and its medicinal properties. They carry slogans and messages, urging people to take care of trees and safeguard them. Hundreds of boards and posters have been put up on neem, peepal, aonla, sheesham and other trees in busy areas of the city, says divisional forest officer P K Sinha. “The drive will make the people aware about the importance of trees and their medicinal benefits. Focus has been laid on putting up posters and boards on trees which are in busy areas so that more people may be informed about preservation of trees and environment,” Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-info-boards-put-up-on-trees-to-help-save-them-in-kaushambi/story-q2sdBxQyzbsYr56BNEthnK.html
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana agricultural university announces exam dates for admission to PG, PhD courses||Chaudhary Charan Singh Agricultural University (CCSAU), Hisar, has announced the examination dates for admission to postgraduate and PhD courses. An official spokesperson of the university said that in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the examination will be held on September 6, 9, 12 and 16. He said that admission to the courses will be through online mode only. There will be no physical reporting this year. After checking documents uploaded by the candidates, if there is any deficiency, they will be informed on their mobile number and email id. If a candidate does not provide the information within the stipulated time, he/she will not be allotted the seat in the first counselling. The dates for the second counselling will be issued separately. The spokesperson said that there will be no change in the terms and conditions related to admission and reservation in the university brochure. He said all applicants should visit the university website admissions.hau.ac.in and hau.ac.in for the latest information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-agricultural-university-announces-exam-dates-for-admission-to-pg-phd-courses/story-C8LSPnTe1XWdZLFIwmY8JL.html
02-09-2020||Pune||Ambedkar enters Pandharpur temple, says CM assured him of opening religious places in eight days||Vanchit Bahujan Aaghadi (VBA) president Prakash Ambedkar was allowed to enter inside Vitthal temple at Pandharpur by the administration on Monday after he led a protest demanding the opening of temples across Maharashtra. Ambedkar later claimed that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has assured him of reopening all religious places in the next eight days. Earlier in the day, the VBA leader arrived at Pandharpur where he was stopped by police as a large number of supporters gathered. After two hours, the district administration allowed Ambedkar along with a select number of warkaris (pilgrims) to visit the temple. “I along with 15 others went inside Lord Vitthal temple. The CM has now assured me that the government will issue standard operating procedures for devotees and open temples in the next eight days. I welcome his decision,” Ambedkar told reporters after taking darshan. When Ambedkar arrived at the Shivaji square, a massive crowd accompanied him to enter the temple. As he began marching towards the temple with a select number of followers, police stopped him and asked him to wait for the administration’s response to the letter Ambedkar had handed over to the district collector. “I had given a letter to Solapur district collector for allowing us to enter the temple. The collector responded after talking to the government and allowed 15 persons to enter into the temple,” Ambedkar said. To prevent protesters from entering in the temple, the local administration at Pandharpur had put up checkpoints at entry and exit points to the temple town while barricading the roads leading to the Vitthal temple in view of Monday’s agitation by the Vanchit Bahujan Aaghadi (VBA). Several warkari organisations (pilgrims) have extended support to the VBA agitation that demands the opening of religious places across Maharashtra. According to Solapur superintendent of police, Manoj Patil, cases are being filed against all those who violated government order by crowding at one place during the pandemic. “The police have registered an FIR against Ambedkar and 1,000 others on Monday, they have been booked under IPC section 143 and 144, ” Patil said. Earlier on Sunday, police issued notices to VBA workers under section 149 of CrPC. To prevent anyone from entering into the temple town, the state transport bus service was also suspended in Pandharpur for a day. Since March 25, all places of worship across the state have been closed for devotees in view of the Covid pandemic. However, there is a growing chorus from various sectors for opening temples and other religious places. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday staged ghanta-nad (bell ringing) agitation across the state pressing for its demand to open temples||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ambedkar-enters-pandharpur-temple-says-cm-assured-him-of-opening-religious-places-in-eight-days/story-4KRLKQDVcBk05oKdlydZ5N.html
02-09-2020||Kolkata||No GST compensation to states an insufferable blow to the federalist polity: Mamata Banerjee||Depriving states of GST compensation is an “attempt to undermine federalism”, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday.Urging the prime minister not to belie the trust between the states and the Centre on the issue, Banerjee asked him “not to allow an insufferable blow to the federalist polity of the nation by depriving the states of the GST compensation”.“I am deeply anguished by the Goods and Services Tax (GST) imbroglio which tantamounts to a betrayal of the trust and moral responsibility of the Government of India towards the states, violating the very premise of federalism.“This is a travesty and an abrogation of the fundamental basis on which the states gave up 70 per cent of their taxing powers, including the entire VAT regime, to usher in the GST regime,” Banerjee said in the four-page letter.The chief minister added that the “agreed formula” for giving up taxing powers was the promise of full compensation of shortfall in GST collection for five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/depriving-states-of-gst-compensation-attempt-to-undermine-federalism-mamata-banerjee-tells-pm-modi/story-yD5eFOOTlVdbuVlTTUfPfI.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi government releases FAQs to aid doctors in Covid-19 management||To help doctors better manage patients with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the health ministry, along with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), has prepared a set of frequently asked questions (FAQs) to answer queries, such as whether hydroxychloroquine should be given to health care workers as prophylaxis or whether medicines to prevent clotting should be given to patients even after they are discharged. A set of 20 questions on the use of various therapies for Covid-19, such as the use of convalescent plasma, antiviral medication like Remdesivir and Favipiravir, and the deworming tablet Ivermectin has been uploaded to the health ministry website. The FAQs provide information on how to prevent sudden deaths in Covid-19 patients or when one has to be put on a ventilator. The FAQs can be accessed here. This is an extension of the e-ICU programme developed by AIIMS and the ministry where tele-consultations are held twice a week on Tuesdays and Fridays to help doctors from across the country manage Covid-19 patients. So far, 17 such sessions have been attended by doctors from 204 institutions across the country. The aim of the programme is to reduce Covid-19 mortality further. So far, India has reported 48 deaths per million population, less than half of the global average of 110 deaths per million population, according to data provided by the Union health ministry. The highest deaths per million population have been recorded by the UK with 611 deaths per million, followed by Brazil with 576 deaths per million population, and then the USA with 570 deaths. “We should expect more cases just because of the sheer size of our population. Even if 1% of the people get the infection, in terms of absolute numbers it will be a lot. However, the good things is that we have had fewer deaths due to the infection. Even if there is some under-reporting, deaths cannot really be hidden. And, this means that the situation is not very bad, people are silently getting the virus and recovering without even showing any symptom,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-releases-faqs-to-aid-doctors-in-covid-19-management/story-nSjeZmll9eSTVbBQi0jfCN.html
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||High court judge recuses from hearing plea of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini||A Punjab and Haryana high court judge on Wednesday recused from hearing the plea of former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini seeking either quashing or transfer of the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The plea was taken up by the bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh, which referred the matter to the high court chief justice. The judge has not recorded any reason for recusal but observed since the petitioner has sought an early date, the matter be immediately be put up before chief justice Ravi Shanker Jha for assigning it to another bench. The additional district and sessions judge of Mohali had on Tuesday dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of the former DGP. His lawyers are in the process of filing an appeal against that order also. Saini had approached the high court on August 19 when justice Manoj Bajaj raised questions with regard to the maintainability of the plea. The plea could not be taken up after that. Saini was booked in May this year in connection with the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (Citco). Multani, a resident of Mohali, had been picked up by the police after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh, in 1991. Punjab Police on August 28 had conducted raids at Saini’s Chandigarh house and other locations but he could not be found. However, hours later on the same day, the Mohali court had extended Saini’s interim bail till the final orders on his anticipatory bail plea, which was subsequently dismissed on September 1.Saini faces arrest as the court had on August 21 allowed Punjab Police to add a murder charge against him in this case after two former Chandigarh Police personnel, who were also co-accused in the case, turned approver.The police had claimed that Multani escaped from custody at Qadian in Gurdaspur district. Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Balwant Multani’s brother, Palwinder Singh, who is a resident of Jalandhar. Initially, the case was registered against them under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali. In his plea, Saini says the first information report (FIR) is the result of malafide act against him for launching probes against Congress leaders and their relatives to unearth scams due to which he had become an eyesore for political parties. He demanded that the FIR be quashed or probe be transferred to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-court-judge-recuses-from-hearing-plea-of-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini/story-Oo0DSb5LMkwakeKQ1cCd1I.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||In another letter to Uddhav Thackeray, Fadnavis questions Mumbai’s Covid testing strategy||Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis, on Wednesday sent yet another letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, asking him to increase the number of Covid-19 tests being carried out in Mumbai. The former chief minister has penned more than 10 such letters over the last five months, asking Thackeray to up the number of tests to get the real picture of the spread of infection in the metropolis. Fadnavis said that while the state has upped the number of tests done in the last month-- from July to August-- by 42 per cent, in Mumbai, the increase was only 14 per cent. “In July, 6,574 tests were carried out every day in Mumbai, which increased to 7,709 tests daily in August, an increase of only 14 percent. As a result of this, we see fewer cases being recorded in the city now. In Maharashtra, the tests were increased from 37,528 per day in July to 64,801 per day in August, which is a hike of 42 per cent,’’ stated the letter. The former chief minister pointed out that the state contributes to nearly 21 per cent of the new coronavirus cases in the country and around 38 per cent of the Covid-19 mortalities.The average case positivity rate in Maharashtra is 18.44 per cent and 13.64 per cent in Mumbai, higher than the national average of 8.57 per cent. Fadnavis, who recently returned from a tour of Western Maharashtra, also asked Thackeray to look into certain issues pertaining to the region including a lack of sufficient hospital beds in a district like Satara and poor implementation of the Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. Also Read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crosses 8-lakh mark, death toll nears 25k mark“In Satara, the rate of Covid-19 infection is 22 per cent and there aren’t enough hospital beds for the patients. The state had promised free medical treatment under MPJAY but hospitals are not getting paid as a result of which patients and their families have been burdened by hefty bills,’’ said Fadnavis.Also Read: Maharashtra launches ‘Mission Begin Again’ today with further relaxations“We are increasing our testing capacity in Mumbai by adding a significant number of antigen tests along with RT PCR tests. In Mumbai, we are witnessing a steady plateauing of new cases, though there may be a small spike as we add more relaxations to the lockdown. Our numbers are not low because we are testing less,’’ said a senior civic official, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-another-letter-to-uddhav-thackeray-fadnavis-questions-mumbai-s-covid-testing-strategy/story-8o7d4kcXVoxXWD11UqjPBL.html
02-09-2020||Lifestyle||Cafes in Delhi University’s North and South Campus face low footfall due to absence of university crowd||The cafes located in Hudson Lane, Satya Niketan and Majnu Ka Tila, the perfect escape for any Delhi University students wear a deserted look currently. With colleges shut, almost no visitors and less staff, the cafes are struggling to keep the business afloat.“The lockdown has impacted the hospitality sector the most and we are still facing the consequences of the pandemic,” says Tenzin Thardoe, director, AMA Cafe who agrees that the majority of the footfall at the cafe comprised of university crowd and without them around it has resulted in 50% fall in the footfall. Due to the decrease in the sales they’ve also started to deliver at home for the first time since the establishment of cafe in 2013. Eateries in Kamla Nagar, popular with college going students are also facing the problem of manpower. Harsh Sambher, founder, Momos Point says, “We were left with a small crew after the lockdown as our employees started travelling by Shramik trains back to their hometowns. It’s become a challenge to operate the it.”As many students too have shifted back to their hometowns, restaurateurs pin their hopes on them to return that will contribute in generating revenue. “The market is horrendous and it will pick up in the true sense when the students will return,” says Udai Khanijow, COO, Big Yellow Door Cafes. Khanijow also elaborates that student population is a big propellant in sustaining and growing the market health.Long waiting queues of college students are conspicuous by their absence since March. Shailly, founder, Sambookas believes that cafes are facing a difficult time during this period since their primary clientele is university crowd. She says, “We will remain affected till the university doesn’t open up. Our cafe has been a popular hangout zone with students and we hope to get the vibrance soon. We are all ready to serve scrumptious food to them.” Follow htcity for more updates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/cafes-in-delhi-university-s-north-and-south-campus-face-low-footfall-due-to-absence-of-university-crowd/story-BJLmEB7oFdEgCZjzs6OSzO.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||Building collapses in Mumbai’s Dongri, six rescued||Six people were rescued by the Mumbai fire brigade after a part of a ground plus four-storey building collapsed in south Mumbai’s Dongri area on Wednesday morning at around 7.28 am, according to the disaster management cell of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). No one was injured in the incident.According to BMC, the backside portion of the building, named Razzaq Chamber, collapsed at around 7.28 am following which, four fire engines and one JCB machine were rushed to the spot.The BMC officials added that the building was among the cessed buildings of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA). However, MHADA is yet to issue any comment on the claim.Cessed buildings are structures whose occupants pay a repair cess tax to MHADA. These buildings were constructed before 1969, with some of them being over a hundred years old. These are mostly tenanted properties with rents frozen under the Rent Control Act. There are 14,375 cessed buildings in the island city and their redevelopment has so far been sluggish. Also Read:4 storey redeveloped Palghar building collapses, lucky escape for residentsLast week, two people were killed and one person was injured after part of a ground-plus-two structure—another cessed building-- collapsed in the Nagpada area of Byculla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-people-rescued-as-part-of-building-collapses-in-mumbai-s-dongri/story-uzYDairbjDjxznX9zM0PDN.html
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amid border standoff, Chinese student is among record 114 foreign applicants seeking admission to Haryana university||Amid the tense Indo-China border standoff and the Covid-19 pandemic, a Chinese student is keen to pursue postgraduation in Hindi from Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak. He is among the record 114 foreign students seeking admission to different courses at the government-run university in Haryana for the 2020-21 academic session. Ajay Rajan, dean, centre of international academic affairs at MDU, says Guosong Zhao from China’s Henan province is among the students from 18 nations who have applied for admission this year. “We are eagerly awaiting this student’s admission. His decision to opt for India to pursue higher studies will motivate others, too,” he says. “Students from at least 10 countries have applied for the first time. We are surprised to see such a rise in the number of foreign applications amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” Rajan says.MDU is the only state university in Haryana attached to the central government’s Study in India portal. SUSHMA SWARAJ’S INITIATIVE HELPS MDU Saravjeet Singh Gill, deputy adviser of international relations, MDU, says the applications of 108 students were received through the central government’s Study in India portal and six through the Indian Council of Cultural Relations. “We had directly invited foreign students and the admission process began on August 31. It will continue till September 15,” he says. The university’s foreign students’ cell, which was launched from the 2013-14 session, was upgraded as the Centre for International Academic Affairs two years ago. The number of foreign students has seen a steady rise since April 2018 when former external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj’s decision to launch the portal was implemented. Only 19 students had taken admission at MDU in 2013, 12 in 2014, six in 2015, four in 2016, seven in 2017, and 40 in 2018, 62 in 2019 and 114 this year. Sunit Mukherjee, an assistant professor of journalism and mass communication who holds the charge of MDU’s public relations department, says the quality of education, good food, similar culture and low cost of living as compared to other universities are primary reasons behind the increase in the number of foreign students seeking admission. “We charge an academic fee of Rs 1.67 lakh from students belonging to the Saarc (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) nations and Rs 2.07 lakh from non-Saarc nationals besides a hostel fee of Rs 30,000 a year,” he says. MOST APPLICANTS FROM AFGHANISTAN All students have applied for on-campus postgraduate courses. Courses such as masters in business administration (MBA), MA (public administration), MA (political science) and postgraduate diploma in career guidance and counselling are popular among international students. According to the university’s international relations cell, of the 108 students who applied through the Study in India portal this time, 86 are men and 22 women. Fifty-six applicants are from Afghanistan, including 11 women students, seven each are from Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Tanzania, six from Ghana, and five are from Nigeria. Yasmin Saifi from Afghanistan, who is enrolled in MA (public administration) at MDU, said over phone that students from her country chose India as both the countries have similar culture. “We can speak Hindi and English easily. More students from Afghanistan are applying at MDU as this university has better infrastructure, good faculty, and a peaceful and safe environment. I’m waiting for the Government of India’s decision to resume classes so that I can return to MDU,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-border-standoff-chinese-student-keen-on-studying-hindi-among-record-114-foreign-applicants-for-admission-to-haryana-university/story-i2cSmgKezfa88k9AZHUXmN.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Huge traffic jams reported on eastern express highway||Huge traffic jams were reported on the eastern express highway (EEH) due to two incidents which took place during the morning peak hours between 9.30 to 10.30 am.According to Mumbai Police’s Vikhroli traffic division, a container which was coming from Jogeshwari to Vikhroli through Jogeshwari Vikhroli Link road (JVLR) broke down near Gandhi Nagar.The second incident was reported near Ghatkopar flyover on EEH, where a car hit two bikes at around 10.30 am. No one received any major injuries in this accident, said a traffic police officer.Kundalik Kaigude Inspector Vikhroli traffic division said the traffic police were removing the vehicles to smoother the traffic as soon as possible.According to the traffic police, there were a large number of vehicles on major roads due to easing of restrictions on movement of people including from one district to another. Heavy traffic was reported on the Sion-Panvel highway and parts of Andheri, Goregaon, Malad and Kurla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-huge-traffic-jams-reported-on-eastern-express-highway/story-WevClNteaOqnYtw3DMyNzH.html
02-09-2020||City||Goa CM Sawant tests positive for Covid-19, opts for home isolation||On Wednesday, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as the state’s Covid positivity rate doubled to 8.9% from 4.64% at the end of July. The number of Covid-19 cases in Goa has been rising steadily with the number of tests increasing marginally from 61,479 in July to 71,669 in August, despite the chief minister categorically stating several times that testing would be ramped up in the state.The total number of cases in Goa has risen to over 18,006, which means, that more than 1% of the state’s population has been infected with the virus, the highest for any state in the country.Of these, 11,505 or 64% of total cases were added in the month of August. Goa recorded a spike of 588 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, the highest for a single day so far.Sawant tweeted that he was asymptomatic and would remain in home isolation whilst continuing to work. “I wish to inform all that I have been detected COVID-19 positive. I am asymptomatic and hence have opted for home isolation. I shall continue to discharge my duties working from home. Those who have come in my close contact are advised to take the necessary precautions,” Sawant said in his tweet. Sawant had addressed the media as recently as Monday evening and had also chaired a meeting with health minister Vishwajit Rane, revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate and other officials to review the overall Covid-19 management in Goa that was held at his official residence in the state capital Panaji. The same day, he also chaired a meeting with the education secretary and directors of technical education and higher education as part of preparations to ensure that all necessary support is ready for the successful conduct of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) exams in Goa.The Chief Minister’s Office ordered home isolation for all staff and officials of the CMO, who had come in close contact with him. Before Sawant, the Union minister of state (independent charge) for AYUSH (alternative medicine) Shripad Naik, the MP representing North Goa. The Union minister tested positive on August 12 and has been hospitalised since. He has also been administered convalescent plasma therapy to help him battle the virus. Others who have tested positive include commissioner of NRI affairs and former BJP MP Narendra Sawaikar, BJP MLAs Nilkanth Halarnkar and Clafasio Dias, MGP MLA and former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar, NCP MLA and former chief minister Churchill Alemao and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goa-cm-sawant-tests-positive-for-covid-19-opts-for-home-isolation/story-AZWgV2KF0izqDmIc0diWAK.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||4-storey redeveloped Palghar building collapses, lucky escape for residents||Just nine days after a five-storey building in Raigad district of Maharashtra collapsed, killing 16 people and injuring nine others, a 25-year-old four-storey re-developed building named Safalya in Palghar’s Majithia Park collapsed around 0115 hrs on Wednesday. However, five families consisting of 22 members escaped unhurt.The Nalasopara building was redeveloped in 2009, but in 2018 major cracks had developed in a few parts of the structure, following which the Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) had declared the building dangerous and unfit for residents and issued evacuation notices to 20 odd flat owners. Around 15 families moved out, but five families consisting of 22 people, including men, women, children and senior citizens, decided to stay back in the building.An unidentified resident said they stayed back since they could not afford steep rents in other buildings and we were fighting a court case against Abhay Naik, the builder, for shoddy construction using bad quality cement and materials. He alleged that Naik had also made some illegal structures without an approval from the VVMC.A few of the residents had held a meeting in the building premises on the evening of Anant Chaturdashi (Tuesday) when they noticed a huge pile of soil near the main gate following which, the residents decided to lodge a complaint with the Vasai civic body on Wednesday.Also Read: Thane civic body to make a list of illegal structuresAt around 2315 hrs, while the residents were preparing to go to bed, they heard sounds of falling rubble. Upon inspection of the building they found out that a portion of the structure had fallen down and deeper cracks had emerged in the building.Panicked residents evacuated the flats and gathered inside the building compound when at around 0100 hrs, the entire building collapsed like a pack of cards, moments after a couple identified as Dayanand Deorukhkar and Seema came down from their fourth floor flat in a miraculous escape.Also Read: Bhiwandi civic body reviews dangerous structures after Mahad building collapseThe Vasai civic fire brigade services were at the spot to clear the debris and the disaster response team could be called for further help. The Nalla Sopara police were taking statements from the residents and the process of registering an FIR was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-storey-redeveloped-thane-building-collapses-lucky-escape-for-residents/story-PYyv4gQytUGBJRk7eHhrcM.html
02-09-2020||Patna||Patna airport will be able to handle 8 million passengers annually by March 2023||The work on the extension of Patna airport’s terminal building as part of plans to eventually increase its annual capacity to handle eight million passengers by March 2023 from around 4.5 million currently will be completed this month. The extension will increase the number of passenger check-in counters from 15 to 20, conveyor belts from two to three. It will create space for installing two additional hand baggage and scanning machines from existing three each, and women frisking booths from two to fourThe Airports Authority of India on Tuesday issued a statement saying the terminal building is being extended to decongest and for creating new infrastructure by March 2023 to equip the airport to handle eight million passengers.Patna airport director BCH Negi said the new area of 2,000 sq metres (approx) will significantly reduce waiting time in queues and improve passenger movement.The area of the current terminal building is 7,200 sq metres, which is inadequate in handling almost 4.5 million passengers per annum, as against the planned capacity of 500,000 passengers per annum.The work on the modernisation of the Jay Prakash Narayan International Airport was taken up last year to cater to the rising passenger traffic at a project cost of Rs 1216.90 crore. It is scheduled to be completed by March 2023.The project includes the construction of a new integrated terminal building with state-of-the-art facilities, a cargo complex, multi-level car parking, air traffic control-cum-technical building, airport fire station, new apron with 14 aircraft parking bays. It will also have five aerobridges for the first time.The modernisation will increase the airport area to 7,00,000 sq feet. The airport will have a separate departure (upper) and arrival (lower) levels. The departure level will be connected through a flyover to the airport’s entry gate. It will also be connected to the multi-level car parking.The integrated terminal building will have 52 check-in counters, an in-line baggage handling system, five conveyor belts for arriving passengers, lifts, escalators, and interiors depicting Bihar’s art and culture. It will have a commercial space of 62,000 sq feet for multi-brand retail shops and food and beverage outlets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patna-airport-will-be-able-to-handle-8-million-passengers-annually-by-march-2023/story-uCljNClizXFoZBd576kYlN.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s new parking policy implementation: 6 things you need to know||After a lull of nearly five months due to the coronavirus disease pandemic, the implementation of the Parking Management Area Plan (PMAP) is slowly kicking. The training of civic officials to effectively formulate and implement PMAPs has already begun.Here are six things you need to know about the parking policy and PMAPs.1.What is Delhi’s parking policy for?The parking reforms were notified on September 23, 2019 by the Delhi government as Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Places Rules, 2019, commonly known as parking policy. Under the policy, municipal agencies will make parking management area plans (PMAPs) and regularise haphazard parking in residential as well as market areas. It also recommends a dynamic pricing mechanism for parking in peak and non-peak hours.2.What is a PMAP?It is an area-specific solution to streamline vehicular parking in residential and commercial areas. Municipal agencies have been authorised to make parking management area plans with neighbourhood-specific solutions. The PMAP primarily aims at giving priority to pedestrians, cyclists, emergency vehicles and vending zones by improving availability of on-street and off-street parking in any area. In Delhi, these PMAPs are to be developed for almost the entire city by the three civic bodies — North, East and South Delhi Municipal Corporation.3.Dynamic Pricing Mechanism Dynamic pricing mechanism aims to motivate people to avoid roadside parking for long durations in market areas. It means that user will have to pay at least double for on-street parking for the first hour as much as off-street (multi-level, stack, cinema, mall) parking. On-street parking fees shall increase exponentially with every hour to discourage long duration. 4. The pilot projectAfter notification of the parking policy, three areas in south, east and north Delhi were chosen to be developed as model areas. These parking reforms were implemented in Lajpat Nagar-III in south Delhi, Krishna Nagar in east and Kamla Nagar in north Delhi on a pilot basis. Haphazard parking in these areas was regularised and at least one main market street was pedestrianised in Krishna Nagar and Kamla Nagar. However, Karol Bagh market was the first place where PMAP was first implemented in May 2019 even before the policy was approved. 5. Current status of the policyIn June this year, vehicular movement was allowed on pedestrianised stretches in Krishna Nagar, Karol Bagh and Kamla Nagar on traders’ demand due to the coronavirus pandemic. Now the Supreme Court has asked civic bodies to present a roll-out plan for the entire city. So the civic bodies have started training its engineers on the modalities of PMAPs and how to implement them in neighbourhoods as part of the new parking policy. Officials are being trained on how to make PMAPs for different localities in a way that they meet parking requirements.6. The way forwardNow after training the officials, the civic bodies will start consultations with the RWAs and market associations in a fortnight to draw parking management area plans. According to civic officials, the municipalities have to submit PMAPs for areas under their jurisdiction to the Supreme Court by the end of the year. Initially those residential areas would be picked which are located near busy markets and witness spillover of vehicles. Pedestrians facilities will witness a major push under the parking policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-new-parking-policy-implementation-6-things-you-need-to-know/story-s3yOSwgeCNHhUIHEs9fBzL.html
02-09-2020||City||Chant by Pranab Mukherjee to play at this Durga Puja pandal in Kolkata||A puja committee in Kolkata would be playing the recordings of Chandi Path, the 700 slokas about Goddess Durga’s destruction of the demons, which the former President, Pranab Mukherjee, used to chant while performing the Puja at his ancestral home every year. Mukherjee, who passed away on Monday, had developed a lung infection at the Army’s Research and Referral hospital in Delhi, where he was admitted for brain surgery. He had also tested positive for coronavirus.“He [Pranab Mukherjee] had almost memorised the entire Chandi as he used to chant it every day the first thing in the morning. So while performing the Durga Puja at his ancestral home he could chant it without referring to any scriptures,” said Rabi Chattoraj, who shares a very close and cordial relation with the Muherjee family. Chandi Path, the recitation of 700 powerful slokas of ‘Durga Saptashati’ from Markandeya Purana, is an ode to Goddess Durga. Organisers of the Arvind Setu Sarbajanin Durgotsav Samity said that this time they decided to pay tribute to Mukherjee and legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray. The puja committee is celebrating their 44th year. “The theme of our puja this year would be Satyajit Ray’s film Pather Panchali. Paying tribute to the former President, we would be playing the Chandi which Mukherjee used to chant. We are trying to procure the recordings and have already got in touch with a few persons,” said Mintu Patra, media coordinator of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chant-by-pranab-mukherjee-to-play-at-this-durga-puja-pandal-in-kolkata/story-ni1lsPdhCMc44ZWbWuzvHP.html
02-09-2020||Lucknow||Vindicated, Dr Kafeel urges UP government to restore his job, wants to ‘serve the nation’||Uttar Pradesh doctor Kafeel Khan has urged the state government to restore his job so that he can serve the nation as a doctor after he was released from Mathura jail late Tuesday night, eight months after he was arrested for making an alleged hate speech during an anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protest action at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) in December last year.Dr Kafeel, assistant lecturer at BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur, was suspended after he was accused of medical negligence in an August 2017 oxygen shortage tragedy case that resulted in deaths of 60 children. Kafeel spent about nine months in jail in connection with the case before he was granted bail on April 25, 2018 by the Allahabad high court, which observed that there was no proof of medical negligence against the doctor.Kafeel was, however, later arrested in the AMU hate speech case.‘I was kept in jail for no crime committed by me and was framed in a false, fictitious and baseless case. I was not even provided food and water for five days’ alleged Dr Kafeel Khan after coming out from jail on late Tuesday night. Former leader of Congress legislature party and former MLA from Mathura Pradeep Mathur and brother of Kafeel Khan were present at the time of his release from Mathura jail. Also Read: Kafeel Khan detained under NSA released from jail, says UP govt indulging in ‘Baal Hatth’Taking a dig at recent encounters of suspects in Uttar Pradesh, Dr Kafeel Khan thanked the STF (special task force) for not killing him in an encounter while bringing him from Mumbai, where he was arrested eight months ago. He also thanked the judiciary for ordering his release. Bench of justice Govind Mathur and justice Saumitra Dayal Singh at the Allahabad high court ruled that the administration was wrong in invoking National Security Act (NSA) against Dr Kafeel. The court order came after hearing a petition by Khan’s mother Nuzhat Parveen, who alleged that Dr Kafeel was targeted by the state administration.Watch: Allahabad HC orders release of Dr. Kafeel Khan, drops NSA charges: Key detailsEarlier this year, Kafeel was given a clean chit in two of the four charges in a departmental probe in his role in the 2018 tragedy. After being exonerated, Kafeel has been demanding revocation of his suspension and has filed a plea for the same in a court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/vindicated-dr-kafeel-urges-up-government-to-restore-his-job-wants-to-serve-the-nation/story-jkJYhVMYKsnp8gMraE9rYL.html
02-09-2020||Mumbai||Panje: Contrary to forest report, complainants unearth 66 hacked branches||Miffed with the forest department’s report which claimed that just 11 to 14 mangrove trees were hacked at Panje in Uran, Navi Mumbai, a local resident and an environmentalist have filed a follow-up complaint submitting photographic evidence of 66 hacked trees at the site.The mangrove cell has agreed to reinvestigate the site to confirm the allegation.Meanwhile, a member of the Bombay high court (HC)-appointed mangrove and wetland grievance redressal panel has asked all city-based environmentalists to approach the HC to file a contempt petition, as the committee had ‘failed’ to address several cases of mangrove destruction, including Panje.On Monday, a local resident and birder Parag Gharat, and environmentalist Aishwarya Sridhar wrote to the forest department opposing the mangrove cell’s submissions that investigated a section of the Panje wetland on Saturday.The duo were also among the complainants who highlighted the mangrove destruction at Panje last week by filing separate complaints on Wednesday and Friday. “We decided to visit the site during low tide on Monday for easier access to deeper patches that were not inundated and found 66 hacked mangrove tree branches at a small distance from each other. We have taken photos of each branch and can guide the forest department through the entire route of environmental violation,” Gharat said, adding, “The reason why the forest department found very little trees cut is because their inspection took place closer to high tide when most of the cut branches were underwater and could not be clearly seen.”Mangrove destruction was banned by the HC in September 2018 across Maharashtra. “This is clearly contempt of HC orders and an attempt to prove that this wetland has no mangroves so that the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ) can start land filling the area,” said Sridhar.Environmentalists, the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (Cidco), and private companies have been in a tussle for over two years now to protect Panje from proposed industrial and residential projects including the NMSEZ. The owner of the land is Cidco, Navi Mumbai’s planning agency, which has leased it out to private companies developing the NMSEZ.On Saturday itself, the forest department wrote to the Raigad district administration to act in the matter and told Cidco to respond to the environmental violation. HT had reported on Sunday that Cidco’s nodal officer (environment) said that mangroves had been hacked by unidentified persons for aquaculture purposes (tree branches to hold nets during high tide). “There is no such activity at Panje or in the vicinity for decades now,” countered Sridhar.Ashish Thakre, the deputy conservator of forest (Alibag) said, “We will be sending our team of forest officers to the site again during low tide to inspect and confirm the exact number of trees hacked. It is a serious violation and exact details need to be brought on record.”Stalin D, a member of the HC-appointed panel, responded to one of the complainants in the Panje mangrove destruction case on Sunday. His letter, which HT has reviewed, read, “As a member of the committee I apologise for the miserable failure on the ground to protect Panje. All directions given by the committee to Cidco, revenue department and local administration have been flouted time and again. Please consider filing a contempt petition in the Bombay HC at the earliest.” He told HT that the state’s coastal zone management authority, responsible for issuing permissions for building a seawall near Panje, had not attended a HC-committee meeting while local residents of Panje village had vested interests in actively pursuing wetland destruction. “I want to ensure citizens do not feel handicapped in such environment violations, and complainants need to know the facts. There is a need to highlight the lawlessness even after clear instructions have been passed by the HC,” said Stalin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/panje-contrary-to-forest-report-complainants-unearth-66-hacked-branches/story-KSKLwqIo7YdPRkagPZOcZK.html
02-09-2020||Dehradun||CBI books 6, including 4 cops, for framing Uttarakhand dhaba owner in drug trafficking case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)’s Uttarakhand unit has booked six people, including four police personnel, from the Udham Singh Nagar district police department and two special police officers (SPOs) for allegedly framing a dhaba owner and his employees in a drug trafficking case and criminal conspiracy, officials said.Also read: Two arrested by NCB for drug trafficking in Mumbai The case was registered against the six police personnel on August 28 after the Uttarakhand high court (HC) gave its order on August 19. The dhaba owner, Anil Sharma, had filed a criminal writ petition in the HC requesting the quashing of the case against him and taking action against the erring police personnel, said officials. PK Panigrahi, superintendent of police (SP), CBI, Uttarakhand, said, “We have booked six people in the case, including two SPOs, on August 28 on the directions of the HC.” The accused have been identified as sub-inspector (S-I) Prakash Tamta and constables Tribhuvan Singh, Chandan Singh and Harish Giri. SPOs Parvez Ahmad and Rajwant Singh have also been booked. “The accused have been booked for criminal conspiracy, disobedience of law by public servant, framing incorrect documents, fabrication of evidence, removing evidence and making false charges of offence under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A probe is in progress. However, the accused are yet to be arrested,” said Panigrahi. The case was registered after a preliminary probe found that the six police personnel was involved in an incident on July 28. They had visited the dhaba of petitioner Sharma and thrashed one of his employees for his alleged involvement in drug trafficking. However, the police personnel failed to find any contraband in the dhaba to support their accusation. Sharma was booked for drug trafficking under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, when he had tried to protest against the police high-handedness.Though 100 grams of cannabis was claimed to be found on Sharma, the charge proved to be false during the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/cbi-books-6-including-4-cops-for-framing-uttarakhand-dhaba-owner-in-drug-trafficking-case/story-p3Z8fuQTmsfbYjFPf9owTP.html
02-09-2020||Lucknow||IIT (BHU) alumni develop digital maternity guide||Ravi Teja and Mayur Dhurpate, the alumni of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) at Banaras Hindu University’s (BHU) class of 2017, are earning laurels for developing the iMumz application (app). The app was ranked second under the health category in the AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge that was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 4. IIT-BHU said 6,940 technology entrepreneurs and start-ups from India had participated in the competition. iMumz is a personalised lifestyle for pregnancy. It provides week-by-week pregnancy updates and baby care programme, including eating nutritional diet, stress-busting meditations, lilting music and baby-bonding exercises for a healthy child and a safe delivery. Teja and Dhurpate bade goodbye to their high-paying job offers and used their skills to build a platform that can enable deliver of healthy babies. They were helped by their mentor Rajesh Jagasia, a senior meditation coach and a trainer for chief experience officers (CXOs). They were also motivated by Dr Narendra Malhotra, a gynaecologist , and Dr Jaideep Malhotra, an obstetrician. So far, over 125 doctors have answered more than 20,000 questions of expecting mothers, as part of the iMumz’s daily interactive live sessions with medical practitioners. At present, the app is available in Hindi and English languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/iit-bhu-alumni-develop-digital-maternity-guide/story-GLGjOlqGzfgeeTBjgYmWPL.html
02-09-2020||Patna||Patna-New Delhi Special train runs at 130 km/h between Patna, DDU junction||The Patna-New Delhi AC Special (Rajdhani) Express train ran at a top speed of 130 kilometres per hour between Patna, Bihar to Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya junction in Uttar Pradesh on September 1.This is the first time a train on this section of the railway has run at more than 110 km per hour.The speed of the entire section had recently been raised to 130 from the existing 110 km/h speed.The Patna junction to Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya junction is a part of the important Howrah-New Delhi route.Trains between Pt Deen Dayal Upadhayaya junction to New Delhi already used to run at 130 km/h speed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patna-new-delhi-special-train-runs-at-130-km-h-between-patna-ddu-junction/story-46V3zxYjJtmUvobiOP9wGL.html
02-09-2020||Noida||Jewar Airport: UP govt to revise farmers’ compensation||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to review the rehabilitation and resettlement compensation to farmers whose land has been acquired for the Jewar international airport coming up in Gautam Budh Nagar.Special secretary, civil aviation, Surendra Singh, in an order dated August 25, has quoted the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 while asking the district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar to take an appropriate decision in accordance with the definition of ‘rural population’ given in the Uttar Pradesh Revenue Code 2006.BJP MLA Dhirendra Singh, who circulated the government order to mediapersons, said farmers would now be able to get a developed plot of up to 500 square metres as it would now include the area used to keep cattle, fodder machines etc.Singh said the farmers had been promised a developed plot , including the ‘ahata’ (used for cattle and fodder machines etc.). As the area of ‘ahata’ had not been taken into account earlier, they were accusing the government of betrayal, he said, adding the review of these orders would help them get their due.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/jewar-airport-up-govt-to-revise-farmers-compensation/story-O5nxWJhKNIV4tozRbW39oN.html
02-09-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow, Agra malls get licence to sell global liquor brands||The Uttar Pradesh government has cleared licences for prominent supermarkets and individuals to sell high end global brands from malls. Out of the 10 applications made to the excise department, the first four licences have been cleared for Agra and Lucknow. In Agra, a mall has already begun sale and in Lucknow, air-conditioned liquor vends are being readied for sales shortly. Also read: Punjab liquor contractors refuse to pay excise tax for August citing low sales“The six other applications _ two from Moradabad and one each from Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Varanasi and Gorakhpur _ are in different stages of clearance,” said additional chief secretary, excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy. Excise department officials feel that soon about 60 of the 66 malls that got the Cabinet nod in May, would have premium retail liquor vends. The annual fees for running such vends is Rs 12 lakh, lesser than what the government charges from standalone liquor vends. “There is no restriction on how many liquor vends can be opened in a mall...so the licence fee has been kept low,” the officer said. Tarun Taneja, a city-based businessman who applied for two licences but got one, said he was all set to open his liquor vend in a Lucknow mall. “It’s going to be an altogether new experience. We would cater to a new generation of mall goers, including women, who might otherwise hesitate to approach the conventional liquor vends,” Taneja said. He said there were many who prefer to gift wine and scotch, which they could now pick up from malls. “It will be an entirely different experience for connoisseurs as well as ones looking to gift imported wine on special occasions,” he said. Such vends are allowed only in malls, departmental stores, super markets or hybrid hyper-markets having a premises of at least 10,000 square feet. “Premium retail vends should have at least 500 square feet carpet area and be able to provide customers the facility to walk in the shop and select their brands from air conditioned shelves,” Bhoosreddy said. It’s not just about ambience; these premium retail vends would also help in bringing in the much required revenue. “Even now, despite sales (from roadside vends) having picked up slightly, we haven’t quite been able to overcome the losses due to Covid-19 induced lockdown. Post lockdown, the recovery has been slow. So even if marginally, the premium vends would help,” an excise inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-agra-malls-get-licence-to-sell-global-liquor-brands/story-YChRKKGeX5WHppt5EbbUzL.html
02-09-2020||Kolkata||Durga Puja committee in Kolkata to play late Pranab Mukherjee’s rendition of Chandi Path||In order to pay homage to former president Pranab Mukherjee who passed away recently a puja committee here has decided to play his rendition of ‘Chandi Path’ ( dedicated to Goddess Kali) during the entire period of Durga Puja.A member of the Aurobindo Setu puja committee told ANI that they had decided to dedicate this year’s Durga Puja celebrations to world-renowned filmmaker Satyajit Ray and his first movie Pather Panchali but then changed their plans after the demise of the former President.Durga Puja is a major festival celebrated in West Bengal and other parts of the country and is held in the last five days of Navaratri. This year, Durga Puja will be held between October 22-26.“Our Aurobindo Setu Committee had decided to dedicate this year’s Puja celebrations to Satyajit Ray, and his film Pather Panchali. But as the news of the former President’s death reached us we changed the plan a little,” Puja, the member said.“Both of them are Bengalis, and Pranab Mukherjee used to do a very good rendition of Chandi Path. We will dedicate the stage to him and play his rendition throughout the festival as a mark of respect to him,” she added.The former President’s funeral took place on September 1 with full military honours and he was cremated at the Lodhi Road crematorium.Mukherjee, who had tested positive for the coronavirus, died on Monday, weeks after his brain surgery. He was 84.The government and many states have announced seven-day official mourning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/durga-puja-committee-in-kolkata-to-play-late-pranab-mukherjee-s-rendition-of-chandi-path/story-qeiOd5xpgCfWdGZOBv5qjK.html
02-09-2020||Kolkata||Unlock 4:Restaurants in Bengal open bars after five months||Unlock 4 brought relief for the bibulous in West Bengal on Tuesday when restaurants opened their bars after five months, following an order from the state excise department. Managers at several popular bars and lounges said that although business was not overwhelming on the first night, many customers turned up with friends for a drink or two. Safety protocols were however in place with occupancy restricted to 50 per cent of the sitting capacity. There are more than 600 bars in the districts and around 350 in Kolkata. The state government allowed stand-alone liquor shops to reopen in May but imposed an additional 30% tax to raise money for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Since this led to a drop in retail sale and affected the state’s revenue, the government has planned to break up the tax into several slabs, excise officials said. “No customer is allowed to enter without a mask and hand sanitizer is provided by the management. Customers can take off their masks after taking their seats,” said a staff at Moulin Rouge, one of the oldest restaurants at Park Street, the Mecca for foodies in the state capital. Also Read: JEE Main 2020: Examinees brave rain and lack of transport to take tests in Bengal “There were more customers at Aqua, our poolside bar, than ‘Some Place Else’, the lounge. We have set up a giant screen at Aqua where popular movies are being screened,” said a spokesperson of the famous Park Hotel. On June 8, when Unlock 1 was enforced, eateries and restaurants reopened after more than two months. But as Kolkata’s restaurants prepared to adapt to the new normal, unanswered questions loomed large over the business because of social distancing norms and people’s concern for safety. Also Read: In Bengal, CSIR-CMERI scientists set up world’s largest ‘solar tree’ But what bothered restaurant owners the most was that restriction on serving alcohol in Unlock 1 would hit the business hardest. They said that around 50 per cent of revenue at most establishments came from the sale of beer and hard drinks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/unlock-4-restaurants-in-bengal-open-bars-after-five-months/story-Lq6aIDxeWvUsSK7jphTYZM.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi master plan 2041: All you need to know||The Delhi Development Authority will start public consultations for the preparation of Master Plan of Delhi-2041, a vision document for the city’s development in the next two decades, from Wednesday. The existing Master Plan of Delhi-2021, which came into effect on February 7, 2007, will be in force till the new plan is notified.The authorities have drawn out a calendar of activities for the next two months, seeking to engage the public and stakeholder groups, in the formulation of the Master Plan of Delhi (MPD) 2041, officials said, according to news agency PTI.“The public engagement strategy is being pursued rigorously. These meetings are scheduled to be conducted during the months of September and October with various stakeholders and citizen groups such as RWAs, market and trader associations, industry associations, informal sector, women, children and youth, professional bodies and associations etc,” the DDA said in a statement.Here’s all you need to know about Delhi master plan 2041:•The public consultations are planned to be held online, given the Covid-19 situation.•According to the DDA, the Master Plan shall be a strategic enabling plan. Sustainability, inclusivity and equity are the underlying core principles. The policies would majorly focus towards having quality living for the citizens of Delhi and establish its potential at global economic level and cultural powerhouse.•To begin the process of public engagement, an online meeting is planned on Wednesday with the RWAs of unauthorised colonies of Delhi, to understand their issues and discuss possible solutions for improving the quality of life of residents in these area.•The RWAs or groups can register themselves for the meeting by sending an e-mail to mpd2041@gmail.com. Subsequently a link to the meeting with the time slot and reference material will be shared via e-mail.•For enhancing public participation, the DDA has already launched an interactive microsite as the “Public Engagement Portal for MPD-2041”, which will share information on the preparation of MPD-2041 and will provide citizens the opportunity to share their feedback and opinions through visioning and perception surveys.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-master-plan-2041-all-you-need-to-know/story-OtfEayX0QNn9ch25X83XfP.html
02-09-2020||Arts||Onam 2020: Rangoli gets clicks online, neighbours get invite for feasts||“We used to get up in the morning and go to the nearby park and pick all types of beautiful flowers for making our flower rangoli on Onam. I miss doing that, this year,” says Chitra Madanan, a Delhi-based corporate. One of the many city residents who will be celebrating Onam this year, with precautions such as practising social distancing, Madanan says, “I will be making rangoli from the flowers delivered to our house. Me and my friends will share our final rangoli design, over WhatsApp, with each other to see who gets the most likes,” gleams Madanan. Onam (August 22 to September 2, 2020) celebration is almost synonymous with payasam, a milk and rice pudding that is prepared for guests who visit their relatives on the festival. Manmohan M, a DU student, who is spending this Onam at his PG, away from his family in Kerala, feels it’s difficult to even meet his relatives in the Capital. “I can’t believe that this year I won’t be able to enjoy the payasam that my aunt makes! Usually my friends who live in the same PG as me, accompany me to my aunt’s house in Vasant Kunj, to enjoy the Onam feast. This year, however, has put a dampener on our plans. So, we decided to try out making payasam on our own watching a YouTube link. Hopefully it doesn’t burn!”   Onam/pookalam special rangoli design 🌹💐 Follow @dipshri_art for more rangoli designs Video is available on YouTube link in bio If you recreate the design do tag us or DM #onam #onamfestival #onampookalam #onamrangoli #onamfestival #easyrangoli #flowerrangoli #flowerrangoli #flowerlovers #flowerdecor #flowerdecorations #flowerarrangement #flowerdesignA post shared by  Dipali Shrikant Deshmukh (@dipshri_art) on Aug 30, 2020 at 6:43am PDTDuring Onam celebrations, in the pre-pandemic times, a Malayali household would usually be packed with friends and family who were invited for lunch or dinner, to share a special Onam Sadhya (feast)! “Right now it’s not advisable to invite relatives over from different parts of the city at one’s place due to the pandemic, so I have sent out an invite to my neighbours for weekend lunch,” says Ijaya Nambiar, a Gurugrammer, who plans to celebrate Onam with as much fervour as she did last year. “Celebration means happiness. It doesn’t matter if the happiness is of a friend or a relative,” she adds.  Our table is set 🙏... and finally after over 5 months we all together at my parents home n on this very auspicious day of Onam... thank u mom @joycearora for this lovely spread 🤗🤗🤗 Onam Sadya..#avial #erissery #pulissery #kootucurry #olan #sambar #velarikkapachadi #muttaikosethoran #vazhakaimezhukkapurati #mattachoru #nei #sambaram #injipuli #narangaachar #pappadam #paladapayasam #adapradhamanA post shared by  Malaika Arora (@malaikaaroraofficial) on Aug 30, 2020 at 3:08am PDTSome denizens are planning to dress up in traditional attire and light lamps at home. “Our RWA has cancelled the annual celebration that we have for Onam. I’ll still don the traditional attire, light lamps and pray for the well being of everybody, especially those fighting Covid-19,” says Gouri R, a Delhi-based homemaker, adding, “We are all hoping that Onam ushers in a new beginning for everyone and the pandemic ends soon. May Onam bring us the much needed cure for the pandemic.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/onam-2020-rangoli-gets-clicks-online-neighbours-get-invite-for-feasts/story-LxcEHpPeVLaKxGQalikpUL.html
02-09-2020||City||CM’s objection to departmental inquiry inappropriate: Bir Devinder||Former deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh has termed the chief minister Amarinder Singh’s objection to the departmental inquiry, ordered by the Centre in the post-matric scholarship scheme scam, as misplaced and inappropriate. He said that rather than putting the matter on the back burner, the CM should have asked minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot to give a para-wise reply on the allegations leveled against him. “The doctrine of federalism does not guarantee a freehand to the states to embezzle scholarship funds meant for SC students, with impunity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-s-objection-to-departmental-inquiry-inappropriate-bir-devinder/story-BRaR7KjzjpSzH4HcnHmzHI.html
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Dharamsot denies scam in promotions in PSFDC||Punjab forest minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot on Tuesday denied allegations of a scam in promotions of the Punjab State Forest Development Corporation (PSFDC). In a statement here, Dharamsot said he did not order any promotions in the corporation. “The managing director (MD) is the competent authority to promote project officers and other subordinate staff and the MD was appointed at the level of the chief minister,” he said in a statement. The minister is also embroiled in another controversy related to embezzlement of funds in the social justice and empowerment department. He said the MD issued the orders for promotions and transfers of eligible officials to ensure the smooth functioning of the corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dharamsot-denies-scam-in-promotions-in-psfdc/story-ziW7ORkQScowfmz9qHmPuN.html
02-09-2020||City||SGPC condemns encroachment over gurdwaras in Pakistan||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday condemned the alleged encroachment attempts on gurdwaras in Pakistan and appealed to the Centre to take up the issue with the Pakistan government. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, in a statement, said, “We have come to know that Gurdwara Singh Sabha has been converted into a police station and the land of Gurdwara Killa Sahib has been usurped for tombs. Another Gurdwara related to Bhai Lalo Jee is being used for keeping livestock by a family. This is a clear attempt to destroy the gurdwaras in Pakistan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-condemns-encroachment-over-gurdwaras-in-pakistan/story-rCI3CCnWjNN857jgtZYChK.html
02-09-2020||Lifestyle||#VocalForLocal dogs: PM’s clarion call will help us, say animal rescuers and pet parents||When one looks for a pet, usually the preference is to bring home a dog who can be a companion. But, most often, the choice of breed for this furry friend is one that’s foreign. Dog rescuers have been trying since ages to alter the mindset of people, and make them show love to indie dogs as well, but have had to face hurdles all the way. In his recent Mann Ki Baat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing the nation, made a special mention asking people to adopt local/indie breeds of dogs. Animal rescuers and pet parents feel that this will certainly encourage people to look beyond pedigree. Indian breeds of dogs are majestic!Also highlighted the exemplary roles played by dogs in our security forces, police forces and during times of disasters. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/IzThnqRi5L“PM amasses a huge following, and his words will go a long way in helping indie breeds get adopted. But now things should change,” says Nidhi Mishra, co-founder Posh Foundation, which works for animal welfare and rehabilitation. Mishra says she gets requests for adoption every day, but adds that “50% people ask for puppies of foreign breeds; or a golden retriever. Hum counselling kar kar ke thak gaye hain (ki indie dogs ko adopt karke toh dekho)... In some localities such as Noida’s Sector 21, 80% of dogs on the streets are indie breeds, and the good thing is that they are all are taken care of; many got adopted by local families.” A Delhi-based marketing professional, Chitrangada, who adopted an indie, Royce, in 2017, says people should aim for adopting and not buy dogs. “The kind of ardent love and care Royce has brought in my life is beyond comparison. Indies live a life of constant strife, and once you adopt them, their gratitude is boundless. It’s this kind of bond which is specific to adopting dogs instead of buying them,” she adds.A Gurugram resident Umesh Yadav, who adopted two senior indies a few years ago, says buying dogs promotes forced breeding. “With local breeds and street dogs there are almost no chances of inbreeding, so their immune systems are much better and less prone to diseases. Their fur also suits the local climate, so they make better house pets than some international breeds that get adopted,” says Yadav, whereas Noida-based animal rescuer Pooja Bhat, who has been helping in the adoption of indie dogs, says, “It’s amazing to see youngsters getting involved in this cause. In the last two months, I’ve come across many girls and boys in the age bracket of 25 to 30 volunteering for this cause. With the PM’s statement now, I’m hopeful that more youngsters will help in promoting local dog breeds and stray animal welfare.” “People around the world helped us feed dogs during the lockdown and beyond,” says US-based Jessica Haltzman who runs the non-profit organisation Delhi the Street Dog Foundation that helps street indies to get adopted abroad. She herself adopted one street indie during one of her travels to India, and named it Delhi. “Indie breeds are as resilient and loyal as pedigree dogs. It’s time people realised Indian local breeds are as good as a dog of any other pedigree. Plus, adopting dogs is about love and care, instead of status symbol.” Author tweets @Bhagat_MallikaFollow more on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/vocalforlocal-dogs-pm-s-clarion-call-will-help-us-say-animal-rescuers-and-pet-parents/story-SLn9OVPq743rSbAdOJOyJL.html
02-09-2020||City||SAD slams govt for removing price cap on buprenorphine tablets||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday slammed the Congress government for doing away with the price cap on de-addiction medicine buprenorphine, stating that it would encourage corruption and would deal a serious blow to the de-addiction campaign in the state. The party also asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to reverse this order and call for an explanation from health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in the matter. “It is unfortunate that the health department has taken this decision after a senior IAS officer of the department who had blown the lid off the earlier buprenorphine tablet scam was shunted out,” former minister Janmeja Singh Sekhon said in a statement. He said the former health secretary had detected the alleged illegal diversion of about five crore tablets of buprenorphine worth Rs 200 crore by unauthorised persons outside the system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-slams-govt-for-removing-price-cap-on-buprenorphine-tablets/story-9B9Cpea6fV4dzm6zijy1GM.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||Man kills roommates after tiff over paying rent||Two men were stabbed to death by their third roommate in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar on Monday after an altercation over payment of rent.Police said the third man, who shared the room with the duo, had refused to pay rent because he had gone to his hometown in Amora, Uttar Pradesh, for four months during the lockdown. Police said the suspect was arrested from his hometown early on Tuesday.According to the police, a call was received at Khyala police station around 7.30pm stating that two men had been stabbed and were lying in their room in D block. The duo was identified as Mohammad Ajam, 45 and Amir Hasan, 46, both vegetable vendors. “A police team reached the spot found the two men lying in a pool of blood. They were shifted to a hospital where they were pronounced dead and the bodies sent for post-mortem examination. The duo had been stabbed multiple times. A case of murder was registered and a forensics team was called to inspect the scene of crime ,” said a senior police officer. The officer said the incident came to light after one of Amir’s friend called him but the call went unanswered. When he couldn’t reach Aamir despite multiple calls, he visited his room and found the door unlocked. When he entered, he found both Aamir and Aazam lying in a pool of blood and alerted the neighbours, who informed the police.“Locals told us that Sakir had left for his hometown four months ago and had returned a fortnight ago. After his return, Amir and Ajam asked him to pay rent for four months, to which Sakir refused. This led to an altercation,” the officer said.DCP (west) Deepak Purohit said teams were then sent to Saakir’s hometown and he was nabbed from there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-kills-roommates-after-tiff-over-paying-rent/story-aP5a2oxyrQXyPFtIb8fQ0K.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: New evening, with glimpses of old||The small room of Future Point Computer Horoscope is open for business. And so is Kakoo Kachori Wale, the snack shop beside it.The other establishments here are more makeshift in nature—stalls are set up under the trees or by the pedestrian walkways.In fact, it looks like a fair ground. It is late evening, the sky is dark, and since the place isn’t lit up generously with lamps, there lingers a sense of candle light atmosphere. The moving bodies of people look like silhouettes.And it’s shocking to see so many people collected together in these times of pandemic.But worry not. The feeling of dense crowd is an illusion, probably arising from the fact that one is hardly used to seeing people in large groups any more. Actually, this open plaza outside Hanuman Mandir in Connaught Place would be peopled with 10 times this number during the pre-corona era.Here, one can feel the attempts of the metropolis to find its footing after many many months of corona-driven hibernation.Old landmarks are back to functioning. Netaji chai stall is decked up with a wall of earthen cups, the stall owner is wearing a Gandhi cap, with his customers (masked, most of them) sitting in a semi-circle with their glasses of steaming hot adrak chai.Some distance away the person manning the Sri Banke Bihari litti chokha stall is trying to hand over a fresh plate of his littis to a customer having a heated conversation on her mobile phone.A mehendi walla is crying out to the passersby to dye their hands with henna.And the air is filled up with the hushed sounds of various people. Everyone seems to be talking in a low whisper, as if being loud might shatter this fragile normalcy.The raison d’être of the plaza, the Hanuman Mandir, is open to worshippers again. The sound of bells and prayers are streaming out from the temple and wafting across the place.Meanwhile, here and there one can spot the solitary people in various stages of emotional and material despair. Each of them silent, sheltered in their own private refuges. In the BC (before corona) days, many would depend on donations by devotees heading to the temple. Many would sleep at night in the plaza itself. How has the life altered for them during these trying months, one wonders.Suddenly, an elderly woman in white sari, who was so far sitting quietly on a bench, starts to shout. It is not clear what she is saying. Tattoo stall owners nearby look at her indulgently, without offering any word themselves, as if they were used to her rages.Not far away stands a multiplex. The wall beside the closed ticket window is decked with a poster of the yet-to-be-released James Bond film. It was originally supposed to be screened in April. It is called No Time to Die.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-new-evening-with-glimpses-of-old/story-A88dAbJiyA97Bu6cjDNDfL.html
02-09-2020||City||State of cities: Amritsar among country’s 10 filthiest big cities||AMRITSAR: Home to Golden Temple, Amritsar is one of the most visited places in the world but among the filthiest big cities in the country. The recent Swachh Survekshan rankings showed it slipped from 184th rank last year to 236th position in 2020. With a population of 13 lakh, the holy city is ranked ninth among the country’s 10 filthiest big cities in the annual survey under the Swachh Bharat Mission. The city was ranked 39th among 47 cities across the country with a population of more than 10 lakh. Amritsar was ranked 236th out of 429 cities this year, if we place the city in the more than one lakh population category, the pattern that was followed in previous surveys. In 2019, the city’s ranking was 184 out of 425 cities. The poor ranking in this survey was attributed to improper garbage collection and its disposal and delayed civic works. Amritsar managed to score 40% marks (2,459.31 points out of the total 6,000), in this survey and scored 1,046.27 points in citizens’ feedback, 838.72 points in direct observation, 373.32 points in service levels progress (SLP) and just 200 points in documentation. Each category was allotted 1,500 points. However, the city scored 48% (2,406/5,000 points) in the 2019 survey and 50% (2,039/4,000 points) in the 2018 survey, in the more than one lakh population category. The city is losing marks in SLP and direct observation, every year, while the citizen’s participation is improving gradually. PROBLEM AREAS Garbage collection and disposal: The city has no planned system of garbage collection and disposal. Door-to-door collection facility is not available in the walled city area around Golden Temple and comprises 11 of the 88 wards. Sewerage lines in the walled city are choked, resulting in overflowing waste. Garbage collection in other wards is also irregular. The city has failed in solid waste management as the concept of garbage segregation (separating wet and dry garbage) is not being followed. More than 15 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of legacy waste has been accumulated in the city’s Bhagtanwala dump near Golden Temple. The bio-remediation plant went non-operational soon after its installation. 400 tonnes of garbage is added to the site daily. Inadequate funds and infrastructure: Amritsar member of Parliament Gurjeet Singh Aujla says, “Though municipal corporation officials are trying to make the city better and using resources, they are unable to generate more funds. Due to inadequate funds, we don’t have machines and infrastructure.” Apathy of citizens: MC health officers Dr Yogesh Arora says of the required 26,000 people, 19,000 city residents downloaded the Swachh Survekshan mobile app. Only 1.69% of Amritsar’s population participated, while in Indore, the cleanest city in India, the percentage was 11.88. Lack of maintenance: Unkept green belts, dirty public toilets, unclean water bodies and piles of garbage are for all to see. The city is not plastic-free and the number of dustbins in commercial and public areas is inadequate. STALLED CIVIC PROJECTS *Bio-remediation plant at Bhagtanwala dump The project started in March 2019, aimed at recycling 15L MT of garbage but the project has been at halt since its inauguration. Cost: Rs 3 crore Status: Bio-remediation has started but at a slow pace. *Public toilets Most of the 225 public and community toilets built at 41 locations in the city don’t have water and sewerage connections. Cost: Rs 3 crore Status: Construction completed in March 2019 but lying locked and unused. *Biogas plant at Golden Temple Announced in March 2019, the biogas plant is yet to be set up at Golden Temple. Cost: Rs 2.5 crore Status: The MC is yet to get approvals from the Amritsar Development Authority. WHAT OFFICIALS SAY MC Commissioner Komal Mittal, who is also the chief executive officer of Amritsar Smart City Limited, says, “Amritsar lacked in processing and disposing garbage. We are focusing on this segment and have started composting wet waste at five places, including Bhagtanwala. Adequate budget allocation has been made with Rs 1.5 crore being paid every month for the collection and transportation of solid waste besides salaries to sanitation staff.” The city is in an advanced stage of tendering to get equipment worth Rs 8.5 crore for door-to-door garbage collection from the walled city. Few public toilets are awaiting power connection and water supply. All public toilets will be fully functional by September 15, Mittal says. Amritsar mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu says the MC is working to fix the water supply and sewer systems. To dispose the legacy waste, work has started for its bio-remediation and a solid waste plant will be set up at the dumping site. Additional deputy commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal says the administration has ensured sweeping and lifting of garbage near Golden Temple round the clock. Efforts are being made to follow National Green Tribunal guidelines. RESIDENTS’ TAKE Solid waste management a concern “Residents are not segregating waste and garbage is irregularly collected and disposed,” says Kulwant Singh, president of NGO Amritsar Vikas Manch. Focus on beautification than cleanliness: The authorities emphasise on beautification but they are not concerned about its cleanliness, says Naresh Johar, a city resident. Public participation a must: The government is not the only one to be blamed as people must cooperate to keep the city clean. They must start composting at home, says social worker Indu Arora. City lacks greenery: Green belts, gardens and parks are full of litter. Ram Bagh is in neglect. Stray animals in public spaces make it dirtier, says local resident Shivam Joshi. Staff mismanagement: “The city has the MC, Improvement Trust and Smart City project staff yet it lacks cleanliness and access to clean drinking water. Development projects are incomplete and councillors are not ensuring cleanliness in their wards,” says Sandhya Sikka, the MC leader of opposition. Legacy waste should be recycled: Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu had promised recycling of legacy waste. The project failed to take off and no political leader is working to shift the dump from the residential area though this was part of the election manifesto. “If Indore can recycle 13L MT legacy waste then why can’t Amritsar?” asks Sanjay Sharma, a city resident. CITY FACTSPopulation :13 lakh Annual budget for cleanliness related works : Rs 82 crore ODF Certification: Rectified ODF  SWACHH SURVEKSHAN RANKINGS 2020 39 (Out of 47 cities in more than 10 lakh population category) and 236 (out of 429 cities in one lakh plus population category) 2019 184 (Out of 425 cities in one lakh plus population category) 2018 208 (Out of 425 cities in one lakh plus population category) 2017 258 (434 cities participated) 2016 49 (only 73 cities participated) NEXT: JALANDHAR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-of-cities-amritsar-among-country-s-10-filthiest-big-cities/story-yFwx7TEdKAtdaJS1bEKMHP.html
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||STATE OF CITIES: Cleanliness, sanitation ‘dumped’ in Jalandhar||It’s the hub of the sports goods industry hub and one the most prominent cities of Punjab after Amritsar, but Jalandhar has had quite a flop show in Swachh Survekshan 2020, securing an all-India rank of 119 out of 382 cities with a population of up to 10 lakh.Jalandhar also scored a poor 50% in all parameters in the surveys of 2018, 2019 and 2020, chiefly because it lacks an effective garbage disposal system. City authorities, too, have failed to sanction any major development civic works in the last three to four years, say some municipal corporation officials on condition of anonymity.In the recent Swacch Survekshan, Jalandhar secured a 50% overall score (3,095 out of 6,000). This includes 988 out of 1,500 in citizens’ feedback; 1,138 points for direct observation (physical observation by the survey agency) out of 1,500; 374 points in service level progress (status of open defecation, garbage collection etc) out of 1,500 and 500 points in certification out 1,500.The city ranked 166 in 2019 with a score of 2,499 out of 5,000 in the survey, doing worse at rank 214 in 2018 with 2,002 points out of 4,000 among the category of cities with a population of more than one lakh.Problem areasWithout a solid waste management plant, nearly seven lakh tonnes of garbage has piled up at the Wariana dump, which receives 500 tonnes of waste every day.A Rs 70 crore bioremediation project planned by MC to treat waste through microorganisms and other methods has yet to take off.People’s participation is key too, says an MC official. “We need people to cooperate as we don’t get segregated waste from every household. The main areas of the city have been covered for door-to-door collection of waste, but segregation is not done.”About 80 wards and 11 villages of the Jalandhar Cantonment assembly constituency have been added to the MC – controlled zones, but the delimitation of the villages is yet to be done.At loggerheads over hiring staffCriticising officials for delaying important waste management initiatives, the Union of Sanitation and Cleanliness Employees in the MC, asks why more staff are not being hired on contract.The union and MC are at loggerheads over hiring contractual employees.Environment authorities have noticed the problems and the National Green Tribunal panel headed by Justice (retd) Jasbir Singh has directed Jalandhar authorities to come with a permanent solution to deal with the Wariana dump.Chandan Grewal, president of the union, says the city’s upkeep is a problem area because of acute shortage of staff, with just 1,700 to 1,800 employees including safai sewaks, garbage collection staff, on the rolls. Comparing it with other civic bodies, he says Ludhiana MC has a staff strength of 8,000 and Amritsar about 4,500 people.“The MC administration should be questioned about the (Swachh rankings). We have been demanding that sanitation or cleanliness staff be hired on a regular basis, even if it has to be on minimum wage, but we will not allow any contractor to earn a profit”, says Grewal.Denying any shortage of funds under the Swachh Bharat or Smart City missions, Jalandhar central MLA Rajinder Beri feels quick utilisation of funds on projects is required. “We need to develop a small garbage dump at every colony where waste can be disposed of at zero point,” he suggests.There has been leakage of funds, alleges a senior MC official, also on condition of anonymity. “It has to be checked and the money used for development,” he adds. Basic repair work not doneProminent roads in the city, especially near the Bus Stand and Nakodar Road, are in a bad state, with surfaces damaged and potholes in some spot. Tenders for the works are being processed, officials say.RESIDENTS’ TAKEUnion leaders don’t want dump moved: MC has been supervising the cleanliness staff and their work timings, says Surinder Saini, president, Jalandhar Welfare Society. He alleges that some leaders of the Union of Sanitation and Cleanliness Employees do not want the Wariana dump to be moved because of “personal politics.” The MC needs to sort out the matter quickly, he addsGarbage everywhere: “How can you expect good rankings in the survey when garbage is scattered on the roads everywhere,” says Nachhtar Singh, a retired government official. The MC should clear it to keep the city clean. Development of roads and other works should be completed on time, he says.Public participation must: Raman Dutt of the Indo-American Friends Society says public participation is important to guarantee the success of cleanliness and sanitation projects, similar to what Indore has done. Until the public does not understand its responsibilities, Dutt adds, no officer or government can bring about changes in the city.New development initiatives needed: Drastic steps have to be taken by the government and MC authorities for the overall development of the city, which is currently in very bad shape with each and every road damaged, says businessman Maninder Singh Tikka. A number of new initiatives are required for developing the city.WHAT OFFICIALS SAYDeputy commissioner, Ghanshyam Thori says the city has improved its rankings in Swachh Survekshan 2020, which is a matter of satisfaction. “To get into the top 100, I have asked MC authorities to work on the static compactor which will deal with garbage disposal of four or five wards. View cutters also have to be set up.”Mayor Jagdish Raja asks for people’s co-operation first to improve rankings in Swachh Survekshan and to keep the city clean as segregation of waste material is not being done. “We have been able to run the Nangal Shama area’s solid waste plant, because of which the Rama Mandi zone will stay clean,”he adds. On the lack of civic development, Raja says, “we have floated tenders of Rs 35 crore for the roads and Rs 45 crore for LED light project and have adequate funds for development.” Work on roads has been delayed due to the lockdown.Municipal corporation commissioner Karnesh Sharma says work is continuing on segregation of waste material in an organised manner and providing E-rickshaw to waste collectors. “We have also floated tender for the bioremediation plant to clear the Wariana Dump in the next three years. About 5,000 new saplings will be planted for greening the city.” Two sewage treatment plants (STP’s) of 50 and 15 MLD are also being installed, he adds.Institutional composting pits will be dug for disposal of wet waste in defence services campuses, big colonies, hotels or resorts to process the waste at zero point. On potholed and damaged roads, Sharma says the MC will continue repair work, “but we will build all the roads in the next three months.”CITY FACTSPopulation: Over 8 lakhAnnual budget for cleanliness related works: Rs40 croreODF certification - RectifiedWards: 81STATUS OF PENDING PROJECTS1. Solid waste management plant, bioremediation for Wariana dump: Rs 70 crore, in tendering process2. Building roads: Rs 35 crore. Tender completed, work yet to start.RANKINGS2020119 (out of 382 cities in the 1-10 lakh population category)2019166 (Out of 425 cities in 1 lakh and above population category)2018214 (Out of 425 cities in 1 lakh and above population category)NEXT: PATIALA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/state-of-cities-jalandharcleanliness-sanitation-dumped-in-jalandhar/story-X00YLqWoSEIxlvBCRgVuYO.html
02-09-2020||Indore||Ex-corporator in Indore among six booked under NSA, 22 others arrested for religious gathering||The Madhya Pradesh Police arrested 28 people including six under National Security Act for taking out a religious procession and organising a gathering in violation of prohibitory orders in Indore on Sunday. The six booked under NSA include an ex-corporator, police said on Monday.“Four FIRs were lodged with Khajrana police station against 16 people and several others in connection with their taking out a procession with Tazia in Muharram, later gathering and provoking members of a community through a video clip posted on social media in Khajrana area on Sunday in violation of sections 188, 269 and 270 of Indian Penal Code (IPC),” a police statement said.The administration had earlier shifted Khajrana police station in-charge Santosh Singh Yadav to police lines and issued show cause notice to the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) on the ground of dereliction of duty for not acting against people participating in the procession.“Action under National Security Act (NSA) was taken against ex-corporator Usman Patel, Ansar Ali, Mohd Ali, Ismail Patel and Shahzad Patel, all residents of different localities in Khajrana area and Farukh Ali. The other 22 accused were arrested and sent to judicial custody on Monday. Police have launched a manhunt to nab other accused who would be sent behind the bars at the earliest”, the Indore police statement said.The release warned, “Strict punitive action will continue to be taken to check the spread of global pandemic Covid-19 against those who violate the instructions issued by the government and the administration.” District collector Manish Singh said the administration had held a meeting with community leaders a few days ago where religious leaders and others had promised there will be no procession with tazia in Muharram. “But still there were violations of orders. In fact, there were lapses on both the sides. Had the police station in charge, SDM and city superintendent of police concerned been alert the situation would have been avoided,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-corporator-in-indore-among-six-booked-under-nsa-22-others-arrested-for-religious-gathering/story-me1XFrWMaJqGdOEOfdYGEM.html
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh fares worst among UTs in decline in road mishaps||Chandigarh fared the worst in terms of rate of decline in road accidents — both fatal and non-fatal—among all Union Territories between 2018 and 2019.This has been revealed in the Accidental Deaths and Suicides Report in India 2019 released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Tuesday. Recording 304 road accidents in 2019, Chandigarh saw a drop of just 4.1% as compared to 317 mishaps in 2018.All UTs collectively saw a drop of 13.3%, much higher than Chandigarh’s, though the national decline stood at only 1.6%.Chandigarh has also reported the highest increase (71.1%) in accidental deaths among all states and UTs. The figures stood at 242 and 414 in 2018 and 2019, respectively.Manoj Kumar Meena, officiating senior superintendent of police (SSP), traffic, said, “It is important to see the record over the past five years. Every year, the number of road accidents in Chandigarh goes down. It is an achievement to continue this decelerating trend. More efforts are needed to make sure this continues.”DRIVER FEEDBACK SYSTEMS TO BE EXPANDEDMeena said police had recently built a divider with barricades in Sector 25 (West) to better manage traffic there, and were looking to expand the driver feedback system. “Ever since the driver feedback system was installed in December 2019, some of the most dangerous roads of the city reported no fatal accidents, which is an encouraging news,” he said.According to data provided by traffic police, 28 people have died in road accidents this year as compared to 64 till the end of August last year. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic) Kewal Krishan said, “There were fewer fatal accidents this year due to the two-month lockdown. We want to keep such deaths under 75 this year.”Navdeep Asija, member of the state road safety committee, said: “Right now, the city needs to make infrastructure changes to reduce the number of accidents. Cycle tracks make cyclists safer, but junctions are still dangerous. Traffic calming devices like table tops are the need of the hour.”Kamal Soi, member of National Road Safety Council, said: “Any reduction is good. Police enforcement on Chandigarh roads is bearing results and the authorities need out-of-the-box solutions to further reduce the number of accident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-fares-worst-among-uts-in-decline-in-road-mishaps/story-dNfywQ4HxhTEv5ffM2Kn8M.html
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab liquor contractors refuse to pay excise tax for August citing low sales||As a mark of protest against the Punjab government’s orders to close liquor vends by 6:30pm on all weekdays, the contractors decided to not deposit the excise tax for the month of August. The vend owners say that their sales peak in the evening hours but due to early closure, they were missing out on crucial sales. “We are also losing a lot of business due to the complete shutdown on weekends, so much so that we may not even be able to meet the sale targets,” said an office-bearer of the vend owners association.Monday was the last date for depositing the excise duty, which, as per reports, many contractors have not deposited. Going by the annual revenue target of Rs 5,200 crore from liquor sales, the state government has missed the monthly installment of Rs. 430 crore. “The vend owners had decided to stage a symbolic shut down of vends on Tuesday and hand over the keys to the deputy commissioners but we called back the protest, hoping that the government would come to our rescue,” said Anil Mahajan, a contractor from Hoshiarpur. Rajwinder Singh Kahlon, who owns stakes in liquor in Jalandhar, said that due to the early shutting of vends, there is a dip in business and break even can’t be reached. Giving an example, he said that within the municipal limits of Jalandhar city, the average tax to be paid by vend owners comes to around Rs 92 lakh a day but due to poor sales, the total business has come down to Rs 60-65 lakh, which earlier was double. “Now how do we pay taxes? The government should come to our rescue,” he suggested, while demanding that there was a need to extend the closure timings till at least 10 pm for sales targets to be met. He added the situation is likely to remain the same in September and October too and business owners would be the worst sufferers. In May, the liquor contractors had refused to open vends, demanding changes in the excise policy to accommodate their concerns. Only 10% of the total of 5,800 vends in the state had reopened since the relaxations were brought in.The traders then demanded compensation for the period during which vends remained closed owing to the lockdown. The state government then agreed to their demand and gave relaxation for 36 days, between March 22 to May 6, when vends were shut. “The government needs to again work a solution,” demanded a liquor contractor from Mohali who doesn’t want to be named. Finance commissioner (taxation) A Venuprasad, however, refused to accept that sales were down. Ruling out any scope for compensation, he said that the fiscal indicators reveal that liquor contractors are making good sales. “At least during the past two months, they recorded a good sale,” he said, adding that as per laws, the contractors had to deposit the excise fee and other taxes applicable on sale of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-liquor-contractors-refuse-to-pay-excise-tax-for-august-citing-low-sales/story-KKkcDvoH9bg5zjgpfRezTI.html
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Multi-level parking needed in busy markets, suggests Chandigarh advisory panel||Multi-level parking is needed at busy locations and markets of the city to help manage the daily traffic. This was decided in the meeting of UT administrator’s advisory council constituted for traffic management on Tuesday.As per committee chairman Rajesh Kalia, a multi-level parking will help manage traffic better. “Like malls have parking spaces on multiple levels in basements, the same should be done at the busy markets of the city. When cars are parked properly, pavements can be freed up for pedestrians. This will also increase their safety on the road,” the former mayor said.Kalia added that it was important to light up cycle tracks in the city and get them repaired. “Auto drivers without fare meters should be heavily fined so that passengers are charged reasonably,” he proposed, stating that the committee members agreed they should meet at least once a month so action-taken reports are reviewed.It was also decided to construct traffic police booths with toilet facility at major chowks/ intersections. Speaking on this, DSP Kewal Krishan said, “It is tough for traffic cops on duty, especially women constables, and such facilities are badly needed. We have suggested that first they be made at Picaddily Chowk, Matka Chowk and Tribune Chowk, and then rolled out for other intersections.”Two council members, former Confederation of Indian Industry chairman Dinesh Dua and Radheyshyam Garg, pledged to install such facilities at some of these intersections from their own pocket.Manoj Kumar Meena, who is currently officiating as senior superintendent of police (traffic), acted as member secretary to the committee and shared data about accidents in the city. “Driver feedback systems have proven to be of great help and have reduced fatal accidents at some of the busiest patches to zero, where they have been installed,” he informed.All deputy superintendents of the traffic police were also present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/multi-level-parking-needed-in-busy-markets-suggests-chandigarh-advisory-panel/story-GlLhz17mDd5WuCPh5DyTsI.html
02-09-2020||City||AAP, splinter Akali group uncertain over contesting Mohali MC elections||Even though the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD, Badal)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alliance as well as the Congress party have pulled up their sleeves for the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections in Mohali, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and a splinter Akali group floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa are still uncertain.The elections, date undecided, will be held in 50 wards with an estimated 2.36 lakh voter base. The former councillors of both Congress and SAD-BJP have already started circulating their achievements in the past five years on social media.President of AAP Punjab and member of parliament (MP) Bhagwant Mann said, “We are yet to take a decision on contesting elections and a meeting in this regard will be held in a few days. We are not even sure when the state government will hold the said elections, but we are in the process of strengthening our organisation at the district level.” Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, who floated the splinter Akali group in July, said, “We will be holding a meeting with the party workers before taking any decision on contesting the MC elections. We will not allow any party to sail smoothly.”Meanwhile, local MLA and cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Congress was ready for the MC elections. “The people of Mohali have seen development in the past few years and we are hopeful of winning the elections with a clean majority.”The civic body is elected for a period of five years. The last five-year term ended on April 26 this year. The MC House constituted 14 Congress seats; 23 SAD-BJP seats; the Azad group ,which was led by former mayor Kulwant Singh, won 10 seats; and two seats were won by independent councillors.In the 2015 elections, 27 councillors including 10 from the Azad group, 14 from Congress and two independent councillors had elected Kulwant Singh as the mayor, but later in August 2017, Kulwant joined SAD.Of 2.36 lakh people voting, 25,000 belong to the Scheduled Caste (SC) category; five seats have been reserved for the SC candidates, two for women (SC), three for backward classes and two for women from the backward classes. There are 43 general category seats, of which 23 are reserved for women and 20 for men.Mohali delimitation meeting heldThe meeting of the delimitation board was held on Tuesday at Local Government Bodies in Sector 35, Chandigarh. The Board asked the Mohali MC commissioner to bring the drawing of the new areas balancing the population in the next meeting, which is scheduled on September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-splinter-akali-group-uncertain-over-contesting-mohali-mc-elections/story-1BH4qGyNkYDiRLzRCxFtfM.html
02-09-2020||City||To protect Rafale from bird-hits, Ambala admn told to clean up litter near IAF base||Almost a month after five Rafale jets landed at the Indian Air Force (IAF) Station here, the urban local bodies director has written to the district administration to reduce the presence of garbage around the air base.The garbage leads to “high concentration of birds” in the 10-km zone which has the potential to cause “very serious damage to the aircraft”, the letter says.This has come after Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, the director general (inspection and safety) of the IAF, wrote to Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora, apprising her of the issue and demanding civil administration support on solid waste management near the air force base.The letter mentions that three meetings have taken place between the IAF officials and the municipal corporation on reducing the garbage around the station, and “to protect the fighter aircraft”, the administration should “implement solid waste management scheme to curb the activity of large birds like black kites in the aerodrome zone of 10-km around Ambala airfield”.“This would involve institution of littering penalty, improvement in garbage collection and setting up of a solid waste management plant...and control of pigeon breeding,” the letter reads.Acknowledging the letter, deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said the orders will be implemented.It is pertinent to mention here that earlier last year, a bird had collided mid-air with an aircraft, after which extra fuel tanks were dropped in an Ambala village. However, no injury was reported.The order also gathers importance as the Rafale fighter jets that landed on July 29 are expected to be formally inducted on September 10 in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-protect-rafale-from-bird-hits-ambala-admn-told-to-clean-up-litter-near-iaf-base/story-mJtHkDPya2GhZdc222HlwL.html
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER plans infectious disease hospital at Sarangpur||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is planning to build a 200-bed infectious diseases hospital on the newly acquired land in Sarangpur here.Officials at the institute who are working on the project said several pandemics had time and again stressed the healthcare system, and there was a need to have a separate facility to manage patients suffering from contagious diseases.The hospital is expected to have a high-level isolation unit which will be equipped to deal with infectious disease outbreaks.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said such facilities do not exist in many hospitals, especially in resource-limited settings. “If we have learnt anything from Covid-19 it is to have a hospital which is always prepared for such emergencies. There are special requirements for such hospitals such as maintaining negative pressure in the buildings, which is generally not the case, and a trained workforce,” Dr Ram said.He added that the institute had expressed their desire to the central government and had received a positive response. “We have started working on the project and we will take it through various high-level bodies of the institute.”The PGIMER had converted a general building into an infectious disease hospital after the UT administration had requested for the same. The Nehru Hospital Extension Block that was prepared to deal with the pandemic has now treated close to 900 Covid-19 patients from across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-plans-infectious-disease-hospital-at-sarangpur/story-HMsKwz9TMaBilcMKz3FOhN.html
02-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Doctor falls from eighth floor of his apartment, dies||A 39-year-old doctor working with a private hospital died after falling from the eighth floor of his apartment in sector 47 on Tuesday morning. Police have recovered a note, purportedly written by the distressed victim, that held no one was responsible for incident. Police said a few minutes before his death, he had spoken to his wife over the phone. A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “After the call, his wife, who was in Noida, informed the Gurugram police control room at about 3.30am, following which a police team rushed to the spot. By the time the police reached his house, he was found dead.” Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sadar, said, “We have informed his family and they are on their way to Gurugram. Any further probe will be initiated after the family’s statement is recorded.” Police said his body has been kept in the mortuary and the post-mortem would be conducted after his family reaches Gurugram. Gurugram does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-doctor-falls-from-eighth-floor-of-his-apartment-dies/story-FL6F6BZrJxADt71qGKb5vM.html
02-09-2020||Gurugram||Active Covid-19 cases in Gurugram more than 1,000||With 196 new Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, the tally of infected persons in the district has reached 12,113. Out of these, at least 1048 are active cases, while 10,932 have recovered from the illness. The death toll stands at 133. It is after a month that active cases in the city have breached the 1,000-mark. On July 29, the district reported 1,091 active cases, which gradually decreased to 650 on the first week of August. In the last one-week, more than 100 new cases have been reported every day. However, health officials said that the total positivity rate of the district is 6.73% and the fatality rate is under control.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), “Though the active cases are increasing, the mortality rate is at least 1.13%, which shows Covid-19 situation is under control. Gurugram, till now, has reported 133 deaths, out of which 93 were with co-morbidities and 40 without co-morbidity. It is a matter of concern if the mortality rate is more than 2%. To prevent death rate from increasing, all symptomatic positive patients are being admitted to hospitals, while only asymptomatic are being home-isolated.” The district health bulletin data shows that by June 16, active cases climbed to 1,722 with total case load of 3,682. The daily positivity rate of almost 67% raised the active numbers further to 1,820 while the total cases reached a mark of 4,512 by June-end. In July, however, the decline was visible as the daily growth rate of cases came down from 12.6% to 1.7%. The number of active cases was around 1,091 on July 29, which came down to 991 by July 30, further to 883 on August 2 and finally to 757 on August 4. However, it started increasing in the last two weeks of August with almost 600-800 new cases reported per week. Confirming the rise in infection, the health department officials said that Gurugram’s daily growth of Covid-19 cases is also fluctuating between 0.87% (August 7) to 1.1 % on (August 27) and 0.98% on Tuesday, indicating the Covid-19 cases are climbing up. In July, the daily growth rate of the cases was 1.4%. Officials said that since cases increasing across the country, Gurugram is no different. “The health department has been conducting almost 2000 tests per day. But citizens will have to take extra care by using masks, maintaining social distance and not moving out unnecessarily unless required. Some people are also violating home isolation norms, which should be prevented,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/active-covid-19-cases-in-gurugram-more-than-1-000/story-4DDFKUmJWmr8O25niDwbxJ.html
02-09-2020||Chandigarh||Day 1 of JEE Main: Exam centres allotted too far, say candidates in Chandigarh||Even as the first day of Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main rolled off smoothly at five venues in Chandigarh and Mohali on Tuesday, candidates complained of the examination centres being too far from their homes.This, despite the Centre claiming that it had created extra centres for conducting the examination.The entrance test was held for candidates seeking admission in bachelor of planning and architecture programmes, while BTech aspirants will sit for JEE Main from Wednesday onwards.Barjinder Singh from Gurdaspur, Punjab, wrote his exam in the second shift, however, he had arrived as early as 10am and waited outside his centre in Industrial Area Phase 1 till it was time for the exam. “I had to travel over four hours from my hometown to reach the exam centre in Chandigarh, so I thought it prudent to come early, even if required waiting for long hours. I didn’t want to risk getting late for my exam, as the centre was allotted quite far,” he said.Avneet Kaur, a candidate who appeared in the first shift of the exam, said she drove all the way up to Chandigarh from Rai Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh to take the test. “I had opted for a centre near my residence, but it was allotted in Chandigarh.” She had reached here with her brother and father and on Monday so she could appear for her exam on Tuesday morning.The central government had said they would make arrangements for students to reach the centres for their JEE exams, however, no such provisions were seen in Chandigarh.Members of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) were seen assisting the students reach their respective centres. NSUI leader Manoj Lubana said they had arranged for the stay of four students who weren’t from the Tricity for Tuesday’s exam. “Two students each from Himachal Pradesh and Punjab stayed with us overnight.” The NSUI also provided students with water and masks outside the exam centres.Previously, NSUI had been protesting against the government for holding the JEE examination.EXAM DUBBED EASYStudents who sat for the architecture exam on Tuesday confirmed that the exam was easy and was going to be a high-scoring one. Gaurav Mishra, a student from Dhakoli, said the mathematics portion was especially easy and he was hopeful to nail the entrance exam.Ishan Chopra from Chandigarh also said the exam had easy questions and was of appropriate length. He finished the exam 15 minutes early, so he had enough time to revise. Manshika Bhardwaj from Chandigarh said though the exam was easy, her first attempt at JEE Main in January had been better.Around 70-80 students were present for each shift of the exam and said social distancing and hygiene as mentioned by the National Testing Agency in their advisory were followed at the centres. Police were present outside the centres to maintain the orders.The examination will continue till September 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-1-of-jee-main-exam-centres-allotted-too-far-say-candidates-in-chandigarh/story-KFwor6peETxKxrJUfTI3fO.html
02-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Social media feed helps cops keep eye on parties||The police have formed six teams consisting of four officials each to keep a close watch on people posting online advertisements for organising group parties at farmhouses in Gurugram, thereby violating social distancing norms, said the police. The teams have been given workstations to monitor social media posts and have been asked to become members of such groups online to get more details. Most of the organisers are advertising for group parties in the Aravalis, Sohna and Kadarpur areas despite a ban on public gatherings due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the police said. The move comes in the wake of a raid that was conducted on the night of August 9 on Gurugram-Faridabad Road, after the police found screen shots of WhatsApp and Facebook pages regarding the details of a group party. Police commissioner KK Rao said that they have created a database of the areas that have been identified by the police teams and are tracking mobile numbers and pages on social media to know the dates of the upcoming parties. “We have received details of 16 such parties, which have been planned by party organisers later this week, and we have identified the locations. If anyone is caught partying in groups, strict action will be taken against them and their videos will be shared on police pages and social media platforms,” he said. As per government guidelines on Unlock 4.0, a maximum of 100 people can attend a gathering only from September 21. The health department last week said during a press conference that the number of Covid-19 cases started increasing after people started organising public or private gatherings in the city. Health officials said that contact tracing in many of the newly detected Covid-19 cases showed that the entire families were turning out to be positive after attending a social function or a private gathering.The police said the organisers also serve liquor which is ordered online through social media pages from where they get hefty discounts. However, such liquor is illegal in nature. The excise officials had written to the police in April that many people are delivering liquor at the doorstep and are supplying liquor to parties without any permits and licences. Aruna Singh, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (East), said that the state government has not allowed online selling of liquor. No vendor or shopkeeper is allowed to promote their business online or deliver liquor at doorstep. “People should not fall for any of such advertisements on the social media as many people have already been duped by scammers,” she said. The police have received 112 complaints of online selling of liquor in the last four months. The cyber police station teams are conducting investigation and have already arrested four people in two cases. Around 200 cases have been registered during the lockdown between March 25 and August 10 for illegal production, transportation and sale of liquor, and 98 people have been arrested so far. The police have asked people to provide tip-offs on group parties being organised or illicit liquor trade on police control room number -100. They can also share details on the WhatsApp number of the local station house officer (SHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-social-media-feed-helps-cops-keep-eye-on-parties/story-me9NO1tfGAdYIQMhbfhuFI.html
02-09-2020||Gurugram||IMD predicts moderate rainfall for Gurugram this week||The city might witness another spell of light to moderate rainfall, starting Thursday, said IMD officials on Tuesday. According to IMD officials, moderate rainfall on Thursday and a light rain on Friday and Saturday can be expected across Delhi and NCR. “There is a possibility of moderate rain across Delhi-NCR on Thursday. Light to very light rain can be expected on Friday and Saturday respectively,” said an IMD official. As per the weekly forecast, cloudy sky with thundershowers and lighting are expected on Wednesday. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was recorded at 24.5 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature stood at 34.5 degrees Celsius — a marginal drop from Monday’s 33 degrees Celsius. Gurugram’s maximum temperature is expected to stay around 34 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, as per IMD’s weekly forecast. The minimum temperature is expected to rise by three degrees and touch 27 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, as per the forecast. Air quality in the city remained ‘good’ for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, recording 50 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was a fall from the previous day’s recording of 35 in the same category. The average daily concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5, the city’s most prominent pollutant, on Tuesday was 36.25 µg/m³, as per the HSPCB’s official air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘satisfactory’ category on Wednesday. August saw several ‘good’ air quality days. The improvement in air quality in August was attributed largely to an increase in wind speed and rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/imd-predicts-moderate-rainfall-for-gurugram-this-week/story-st9Ihv21qtT4nE6lSX5rnK.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||On Day One of JEE (Main), special arrangements at exam centres; candidates say social distancing kept||Staggered entry and exits; temperature checks; face masks and hand sanitisers at the ready; contact-less frisking; and seats placed at a distance of five to six metres from each other -- the country’s most competitive test for engineering aspirants, the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE), started on Tuesday with a host of arrangements, the likes of which were never seen before.The JEE is conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) to carry out admissions to various undergraduate engineering and architecture courses in institutes across the country. Around 858,000 aspirants are expected to appear for JEE (Main) between Tuesday and Sunday. “JEE was conducted smoothly all over the country (on Tuesday). I would like to thank all the state governments and officials of the NTA for the smooth conduct of the examination,” Amit Khare, secretary, higher education. The National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) -- the entrance exam for medical courses-- will be held on September 13.Candidates were given different time slots to report at the examination centres to avoid crowding. Immediately on entering the centres, candidates were asked to dispose of their face masks and were provided with new ones.Puneet Kaushal,18, a resident of Haryana’s Rewari district, appeared for the Bachelors of Architecture (BArch) exam at a centre in Vivek Vivar. He had travelled to Delhi on Sunday on a Haryana roadways bus. “After giving me a new mask, they checked my temperature and asked me to sanitise my hands. Then they checked my admit card using a barcode reading machine, to avoid contact, and told me the room number to which I had to report,” he said.“I was again made to sanitise my hands before entering the room. An official checked our admit cards but without touching them. We were made to sit on alternate seats and keep our masks on. It was a very different experience. After we finished the test, we were asked to leave the room one by one and were made to sanitise our hands before leaving the premises,” he said. Kaushal will appear in the BTech entrance exam on Wednesday.On Tuesday, only tests for BArch and Bachelor of Planning courses were conducted. A vast majority of JEE candidates will appear for exams from Wednesday onwards when BTech tests will take place. Candidates said it will be a real challenge to maintain social distancing from Wednesday when a majority of students will take the exam. Avyaya Sharma, 18, whose examination centre was in Rohini on Tuesday, said, “The social distancing norms were followed at the centre but when we came out after the test, there was a rush. The rush will be more on Wednesday when a large number of students appear for the BTech exam. Today, several students assigned to my examination room were absent.”Despite all the protocols being in place on Tuesday, students said they were apprehensive about their safety. Manvi Vats, 17, a resident of Naraina, said, “Everything went well but there was still some apprehension in our minds. The anxiety of the exam and the prevailing (Covid-19) situation made everything different. I just want to reach home as soon as possible and sanitise myself. I have another exam on Wednesday and after that, I will isolate myself for at least a week.”While the majority of students reached centres in private vehicles, some also took cabs and autos since the Delhi Metro is still not open. Shruti Mehra, 18, booked a cab to travel to her examination centre from her home at INA. “I was a little worried about taking a cab but I had no other option. The Metro is not functional and it’s unsafe to take a bus,” she said.Many parents were seen outside the examination centres wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Anshu Kakkar, whose daughter was appearing for the exam at a centre in Noida’s Sector 62, said, “Even though there is fear about the safety and security of our children, I am glad that the exams are happening finally. My daughter was under tremendous stress due to the delay.”The Supreme Court had earlier rejected the plea to postpone the entrance examinations. Six Ministers of opposition-ruled states approached the Supreme Court on Friday against its order of allowing NEET and JEE Main 2020 exams despite the increasing Covid-19 cases in the country. The plea has been filled by the ministers from West Bengal (Moloy Ghatak), Jharkhand (Rameshwar Oraon), Rajasthan (Raghu Sharma), Chhattisgarh (Amarjeet Bhagat), Punjab (B S Sidhu) and Maharashtra (Uday Ravindra Sawant).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/on-day-one-of-jee-main-special-arrangements-at-exam-centres-candidates-say-social-distancing-kept/story-MpHACagypHjPiP6N5TnR2K.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||As Delhi begins sero study, cases hit 59-day high||Delhi reported 2,312 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday — the highest in 59 days — according to the Delhi government. This is the second time in a week that the number of new cases has breached the 2,000-mark in the city. The rise in cases came on a day when the city conducted 24,198 daily tests — the second-highest tests ever recorded since August 8, when the city tested 24,592 samples. The number of cases had declined for a day in between due to fewer tests — just over 14,000 — being conducted on Sunday. On an average, Delhi conducted at least 20,691 tests per day, in the last seven days.Along with the rising number of cases, the positivity rate – the percentage of people who test positive for the virus of those overall who have been tested – has also been increasing over the last two weeks. Delhi has recorded a seven-day average positivity rate of 8.9%, with a one-day high of 9.9% on August 30, when 2,024 new cases had been recorded. The lowest daily positivity rate — 5.1% — was recorded on August 7. “The number of cases is on the rise across India. And, if we keep testing more people, chances are we will find more cases. With how densely populated we are and the sheer volume of our population, the absolute numbers are going to be huge. But what is encouraging is that our CFR (case fatality ratio) is close to 2%,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital. Delhi recorded 18 new deaths due to the infection on Monday, taking the total fatalities in the city to 4,462. This puts Delhi’s case fatality ratio – fraction of people who die among those who test positive — at 2.52%. Delhi’s CFR has been on a decline since June third week, when it peaked at 4.11% after the government reconciled its data adding 437 deaths in a single day. It remains higher than the national average of 1.8%. The Delhi government has started collecting blood samples for the third round of serological surveillance on Tuesday with samples of about 17,000 people collected from 272 wards in the city in over five days. The sero survey will help the government estimate the prevalence of antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and determine the spread of the disease. “Unlike the last two sero-surveys, in which we ensured that samples were collected from all 11 revenue districts, this time we shall ensure that samples are collected from all 272 municipal wards in the city,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. For each municipal ward, the sample size would depend on its area, population density and existing Covid-19 caseload, among other factors, said senior health officials. The health minister said that samples from all wards will be collected between September 1 and 7 and the results will likely be shared in another 10 days. “There are several models that have estimated that the transmission of Covid-19 will slow down when about 40 to 60% of the population has had exposure. We might get to see whether Delhi has reached close to 40% in the sero-surveillance and if so the number of new cases might start coming down soon,” said Amit Singh, associate professor at the Centre for Infectious Diseases in Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. The third survey will also ensure an adequate mix of people living in rural and urban areas and in recognised and unrecognised colonies. “The decision to collect samples ward-wise has resulted in more clarity on where the samples will be picked up from. We have been asked to ensure an adequate mix of population from rural and urban areas, and from recognised and unrecognised colonies. Also, we have to collect 25% samples from 1-17 years of age, 50% from those between the ages of 18-49, and 25% from those over the age of 50, just like the previous survey” said a senior official from south-west district. The district has to collect a total of 1,600 samples. The official said samples would not be collected from those who were covered under the two previous surveys. (With inputs from Abhishek Dey)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-delhi-begins-sero-study-cases-hit-59-day-high/story-B3F7m2oTG5wifc7aZqDxOJ.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||MCD engineers get crash courses in new parking plans||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has started training its officials, mostly engineers, on the modalities of parking management area plans (PMAP) and how to implement them in neighbourhoods as part of the new parking policy. Under the programme, officials are being trained how to make PMAPs for different localities in a way that they meet parking requirement of those neighbourhoods.To deal with the issue of chaotic and illegal parking on roads, the Delhi government had notified the Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Places Rules, 2019, on September 23 last year. Under the policy, municipal agencies have to make parking management plans with neighbourhood-specific solutions. The plan primarily aims at giving priority to pedestrians, cyclists, emergency vehicles and vending zones by improving availability of on-street and off-street parking in any area.According to SDMC officials, south civic body engineers will be trained on Friday while that of their north counterparts is over. Officials from east Delhi will undergo training next week.The SDMC is the nodal agency to impart the training and is helping other civic bodies in implementing the parking policy guidelines. Civic officials said the move to develop area-specific parking management plans was on hold due to Covid-19 pandemic but now they are slowly reviving the initiative.“We have now started training our engineers and other required staff to impart specific training in connection with the formulation and implementation of PMAPs. We are also training engineers of other civic bodies,” Prem Shankar Jha, deputy commissioner, remunerative project cell at SDMC, said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director-research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment said this training was part of a preparatory exercise to submit a roll-out plan before the Supreme Court for areas beyond pilot projects. “The Supreme Court, a few weeks ago, had asked civic agencies to go beyond pilot projects and give a complete roll-out plan for the city. For this, civic bodies will have to form PMAPs in large numbers and for that, they need to develop capacity within their institutions. Hence training sessions have been started,” Roychowdhury said.Lajpat Nagar-III in South Delhi, Krishna Nagar in east and Kamla Nagar in North Delhi were three localities where these rules were implemented on a pilot basis.Roychowdhury said the authorities earlier used to opt for site-specific solutions but now parking issues will have to be regularised across the city by formulating parking management plans. She said parking had always been a problem in residential colonies near markets. “Area-specific parking plans will ensure there is no spill-over from market areas and the parking space in colonies is used mainly by residents. However, the plans will also suggest a shared parking facility, which means that if a residential area is close to the market, residents can use the market parking at night,” she said.The policy also recommended that parking be allowed only in demarcated areas in residential colonies and vehicles on footpaths will be towed away. On residential streets, a lane must be earmarked for unhindered movement of emergency vehicles such as ambulances, fire tenders police vehicles, etc.Similarly, for market areas, the policy recommends dynamic pricing mechanisms such as peak and non-peak fees and an exponential increase per hour to discourage on-street parking for a long duration .In June this year, vehicular movement was allowed on pedestrianised stretches in Krishna Nagar, Karol Bagh and Kamla Nagar on traders’ demand due to the coronavirus pandemic.BS Vohra, president of East Delhi United RWA Front said, “In Krishna Nagar, people who come to shop park their vehicles in our colonies leaving no parking space for residents. The parking management plan was only implemented in the market areas while residential areas were left out. The authorities need to seriously implement the recommendations of parking policy. Half-hearted implementation will only lead to chaos.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcd-engineers-get-crash-courses-in-new-parking-plans/story-6ySLFbR7LOPjgyEyHos9xI.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||AAP protests BJP’s ‘failure’ to keep Delhi clean||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday staged demonstrations in all 70 assembly constituencies, protesting against the alleged failure of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations (MCDs) to keep Delhi clean, a claim the civic bodies rejected.In the central government’s 2020 cleanliness survey – the results were shared last month – the south Delhi municipal corporation was ranked 31st while the north civic body stood 43rd. The east Delhi corporation ranked 46th, the second spot from the bottom of the list.Hundreds of AAP workers joined Tuesday’s protest, gathering at 250 different spots with hoardings and banners, in adherence to social distancing norms and government guidelines, the party said in a statement.“The cleanliness survey exposes the BJP’s failure of 15 years as Delhi has been found to be the dirtiest city. The BJP-ruled municipal corporation has not only tarnished the image of PM Narendra Modi but also insulted the people of Delhi with their failure. Everywhere, people say Delhi is the dirtiest city and there are three garbage mountains, and the reason behind these is the BJP. We demand that BJP should step down. And the people of Delhi should now give AAP a chance,” said Durgesh Pathak, the AAP’s in charge of MCD affairs.The BJP rules the three municipal corporations in Delhi. The next municipal elections are likely to be held in 2022.The BJP hit back at AAP, terming Pathak’s claims as “frivolous”.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “For the past two days, Durgesh Pathak has been making frivolous claims regarding running the civic bodies better than the BJP with the existing budget. He seems unaware the MCDs are in a cash crisis because the Delhi government fails to ensure timely payment of the money it owes to the civic bodies.” “As far as their claims on lack of cleanliness are concerned, people of Delhi are proud of their municipal sanitation workers who have kept Delhi clean and safe, even risking their lives during the pandemic. By repeatedly saying that city is filthy, the Aam Aadmi Party is insulting the hard work of our city’s sanitation workers,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-protests-bjp-s-failure-to-keep-delhi-clean/story-QX7tNmVVG8WjVf3uRLrTDK.html
02-09-2020||City||August accounted for 78.6% of total fatalities in Ludhiana||With 323 deaths, August accounted for 78.6% of the total Covid-19 fatalities in Ludhiana. From 88 deaths between March 29 and July 31 (64 days), the Covid toll rose to 411 by the end of August – a spike of 21 times.Men comprised 54.7% (225) of the August fatalities, while the age worst affected was those aged above 60. The virus claimed the lives of as many as 90 men and 38 women in this age group. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga attributed the higher deaths among males to the stronger immune system of females. “Women’s immunity has generally more resistance to the virus,” he said. On six occasions, the district reported 10 deaths in a single day and 15 casualties thrice. On August 29 and 31, Ludhiana witnessed record 17 and 18 Covid fatalities, while six days saw nine deaths. Besides 323 deaths, the cases also surged massively from 3,246 on July 31 to 10,222 on August 31 – a rise of 31 times.The fatality rate spiralled majorly only after the curfew restrictions were lifted on June 8. Before June 8, 11 people had died since March 29 (70 days).March had recorded one death, followed by three in April and five in May. As the borders reopened and curfew restrictions were eased in June, allowing public to venture out and businesses to reopen, the Covid positive cases shot up and fatalities rose to 12 in a month. The situation worsened in July that saw 67 deaths.Dr Bagga said lockdown was not the absolute remedy and the best preventions against Covid-19 were social distancing, washing hands and wearing mask in public.“Residents should rush to the hospital and get tested if they notice any symptoms or come in contact with a positive person. Early detection is vital. Several residents are just consulting their family doctors and taking medicine by hidings their symptoms,” Dr Bagga said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/august-accounted-for-78-6-of-total-fatalities-in-ludhiana/story-aA9bkEYKlxt1yzpZu9Vw1K.html
02-09-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal writes to PM Modi, asks for ‘viable’ GST borrowing option||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to consider a “viable” alternative to the two borrowing options provided to the states by the Union government on August 27 to meet the Goods and Services Taxes (GST) revenue shortfall, which, according to the CM, would “put an extremely onerous burden on the states”.The chief minister’s office (CMO) issued a statement on Tuesday in which it mentioned the letter written to the PM on the same day. In the letter, in which Kejriwal suggested that the GST Council should consider authorising the Centre to borrow on its behalf – for the purpose of compensating states – and extend the period of collection of cess beyond 2022.The Union finance ministry declined to comment on the matter.The GST law assures states a 14% increase in their annual revenue for five years from July 1, 2017, and also guarantee them that their revenue shortfall, if any, will be made good through the compensation cess levied on luxury products and sin goods such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal, and tobacco products.While the GST cess and revenue collections have plunged since April 2020 because of a 68-day hard nationwide lockdown that led to almost halting all business activities, the problem of states not getting the dues promised to them goes back to October 2019. However, in July 2020, the Central government released more than Rs 1.65 lakh crore as GST compensation due to states for the financial year 2019-20.On August 27, at the 41st meeting of the GST Council, the Union finance ministry offered the states two options to plug a shortfall in their revenue, estimated at Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the financial year that ends in March 2021.In the first option, states can borrow Rs 97,000 crore at reasonable interest rates from a special window that will be opened in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Both the principal and the interest payments under this option will come from cess collections. Under the second option, the states can borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore, but will have to bear the interest cost. The Centre has defined losses arising from the implementation of GST at Rs 97,000 crore and the balance as losses arising from an Act of God (Covid-19).“Following a deliberation on the options given by the central government to the states at the GST Council meet, CM Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday wrote a letter to the Prime Minister stating that the two options that are given by the Union ministry of finance, which require the states to borrow loans and then meet the repayment liabilities will put an onerous burden on the states. Appealing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider a legally viable option to tide over the Covid-19 economic crisis, the chief minister said that the GST Council should consider authorizing the Centre to borrow on its behalf and extend the period of collection of cess beyond 2022,” said the statement issued by the Delhi CMO.“Terming the GST reform as the landmark reform in the indirect tax structure of India, the chief minister in the letter stated that the assurance of the GST compensation to states to meet the shortfall in GST collections is one of the pillars on which the entire GST edifice rests,” the statement added.“To create an artificial distinction between loss occurring due to the implementation of the GST and those occurring due to Covid-19 pandemic goes against the very spirit of the Compensation Act (2017) and will lead to a creation of a trust deficit between the Centre and the states, wherein in future, the states will be hesitant in coming together to achieve more such larger common national goals, as was done through the implementation of GST,” the letter added.Jayati Ghosh, professor of economics in Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, said that states have a legit point in this case. “The central government owes money to states- money that was promised to them to make them agree to the GST system in the first place. Now they are being told the Centre will not repay and they must borrow on their own… It is a clear contract violation. Also, since the central government can borrow money on much easier terms and at lower interest rates, it makes much more sense for the Centre to borrow in order to pay the states their GST dues.”She further said, “States are in bad fiscal shape. They gave up their revenue raising powers with the implementation of the GST in return of assurances of compensation from the central government. Now the pandemic has made things much worse. Most states got hardly financial assistance from the central government and had to take on the entire financial burden of covid management — from healthcare to providing food and shelter to those in need. Revenues have dropped and most states are now finding it difficult to pay salaries. How can they take the burden of more loans at this juncture? How will they eventually repay?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-writes-to-pm-modi-asks-for-viable-gst-borrowing-option/story-Rxa7N1QAIugXaSPQUruJgN.html
02-09-2020||City||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid count goes past 500 for 1st time||The number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 500 mark for the first time in the tricity, with 546 people testing positive for the virus while nine others succumbing to it on Tuesday. While Panchkula, too, recorded its steepest surge with 179 cases, Chandigarh and Mohali reported 204 and 163 infections, respectively.The tricity had recorded the previous biggest spike on August 29 with 467 cases, when Chandigarh has seen the record surge of 262. The total number of infections has now risen to 10, 892, of which 3,740 (34%) are active. The death toll stands at 165.204 +ve in ChandigarhChandigarh’s Covid tally rose to 4,550 with 204 cases on Tuesday, while one death took the toll to 57. The deceased was a 76-year-old man from Ram Darbar, who suffered from hypertension, coronary artery disease, diabetes, and chronic kidney disease as well. Meanwhile, a 24-year-old man from Hallomajra, who was hospitalised on August 25 and tested positive after death has been added to the infection tally but not to the toll. “Other details are awaited, “ the UT health department said. As many as 1,939 cases remain active in the city, while 2,551 patients have been cured so far.Meanwhile, the UT administration on Tuesday remove strict perimeter control from three micro-containment zones in Sectors 15, 40 and 56.5 more die in MohaliFive more people lost their life to coronavirus while 163 others, including a revenue official from Zirakpur, tested positive in Mohali on Tuesday, taking the tally of infections and death toll in the district to 3,933 and 85, respectively.All those who died had comorbidities, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. They include an 89-year-old man from Gharuan and a 41-year-old man from Sector 68, who were suffering from hypertension. A 65-year-old man from Lalru who was suffering from heart disease also succumbed besides a Kharar woman, aged 51, who had diabetes, and a 65-year-old woman from Phase 1, who had both diabetes and hypertension.Meanwhile, Zirakpur naib tehsildar Varinderpal Dhoot has tested positive for Covid-19 and advised home quarantine. “We will take samples of his family members on Wednesday,” said Dr Singh. Among the fresh cases, 72 are from Mohali city, 36 from Gharuan, 19 from Dhakoli, 18 from Kharar and the remaining are spread across the district. The number of those cured has reached 2,139, with 86 more being discharged on Tuesday. The active case count stands at 1,709. Steepest surge in P’kulaThree more deaths took the Covid toll to 23 in Panchkula district on Tuesday. The district also reported 179 fresh cases, seven more than the previous highest single-day spike of 172 on August 26.Those who died have been identified as a 64-year-old man from Sector 20, 54-year-old man from Sector 19 and 66-year-old woman from Pinjore.The total number of infections has climbed to 2,409, of which 922 are active. While 1,464 people have been cured, reports of 176 are awaited and 45 positive persons are being traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-count-goes-past-500-for-1st-time/story-Hu7Bmo9qAc1TtrKTjeYRtK.html
02-09-2020||City||Covid+ Ludhiana boy beats deadly complication after 14 days on ventilator||A 10-year-old Covid-positive boy has recovered after battling a rare complication associated with the disease and remaining on ventilator support for 14 days.The child was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) with complaints of fever, breathing difficulties and low blood pressure. After being found positive for Covid-19, he was diagnosed with multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), a rare condition where different organs can become inflamed, including the heart, lungs, kidneys, brain, skin and eyes. During the course of treatment, the patient developed respiratory failure, and needed ventilator support and medicines to maintain the blood pressure. But, with timely intervention, he was able to recover and discharged in a stable condition.Dr Siddharth Bhargava, associate professor at the hospital’s department of paediatrics, said MIS-C can become rapidly fatal if not recognised and treated in time.Many children may initially develop abdominal symptoms like diarrhoea, stomachache, vomiting, fatigue, blood-shot eyes, rashes, and later emergency warning signs such as trouble breathing, chest pain, followed by low blood pressure and heart failure. Dr Rajesh Mahajan, professor in the medicine department, said there should be no delay in diagnosis of other symptoms in children with Covid-19.The child’s parents thanked the doctors for his recovery and taking good care of him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-ludhiana-boy-beats-deadly-complication-after-14-days-on-ventilator/story-6gRLJ2XbUQULr7DtOQ5bsK.html
02-09-2020||City||75-year-old Ludhiana man robbed of ₹2.8 lakh at gunpoint at bank||A 75-year-old man was robbed of Rs 2.8 lakh in cash at gunpoint at IndusInd bank on Gill road on Tuesday morning. When the bank’s guard rushed to his rescue, the robbers threatened him also.The victim, Kuljit Singh, 75, of Jamalpur Colony, told the police that he worked at a bearing and oil store and had come to the bank to deposit cash in his firm’s account.As he was about to enter the bank around 11.30am, two men suddenly snatched his bag containing the cash, causing him to fall on the stairs. Hearing his cries for help, security guard Baghel Singh rushed to his aid, but was threatened by the robbers at gunpoint to steer clear. In no time, the duo fled with their accomplice waiting on a motorcycle nearby.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO at Division Number 6 police station, said according to Kuljit’s employer he has been working for at the firm for decades, and used to handle the work of depositing and withdrawing cash from the bank.The SHO said they had registered a case of robbery and initiated investigation to trace the accused, who seemed to have been tailing the victim.Police are scanning footage of CCTVs cameras installed in the area for clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/75-year-old-ludhiana-man-robbed-of-2-8-lakh-at-gunpoint-at-bank/story-m2p9s4rfnTbdKOK83UIYmM.html
02-09-2020||Pune||Covid-19 lockdown cost Maharashtra state Rs 16 crore per day in stamp duty||The Inspector General of Registrations and Controller of Stamps Office has reported a significant drop in documents registration and earnings due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, thereof.The Pune District Conveyancing Association claimed that due to the lockdown, the state was losing revenues estimated to be worth Rs 16 crore daily by way of stamp duty. Besides, it was losing Rs 2 crore which comes through registration, the organisation pointed out.According to data released by the Inspector General of Registrations (IGR) the office recorded a registration of four lakh-plus (4,13,843) documents from April to August 2020, as compared to 12 lakh-plus (12,95,062) registrations during the same period in 2019.Earning stood at Rs 2,067 crore as compared to Rs 9,382 crore last year during the same period.The categories of documents registered are conveyance, agreements, gift, mortgage deeds and power of attorney documents. The official data shows that there has been a nearly 70 per cent dip in property registrations and revenue earnings for the IGR department during the last six months.The top five articles registered comprised conveyance, leave and license (e-registration), mortgage, gift, power of attorney and other categories.Suhas Merchant, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), Pune chapter, “The property market faced business losses in the last six months, but I see the demand rising from here on. Because of the stamp duty concession, smaller flats are in demand.”“We see to it that developers complete the project on time. If there are complaints of buyers, we ensure that they are solved. The effects of restarting of the property market are likely to be seen from next month,” he said.“With more new schemes we are confident that the property market will rebound. Money has slowly started flowing in the property market and there are a lot of inquiries for small-sized flats. It will take more than a month for things to settle down,” he said.The Pune District Conveyancing Association (PDCA) in April had urged the IGR office to resume property registration after undertaking necessary precautions like wearing safety gear and maintaining the district collector specified safety guidelines.Balasaheb Thorat, state revenue minister, had ordered the reopening of all the IGR offices in the state post-May 17 and ordered that proper social distancing norms and safety guidelines were followed.Pune, Mumbai, Thane and Nagpur IGR offices witness a maximum number of property registrations and the IGR department is the maximum revenue generator for the state.Meanwhile, the state government has also stayed the ready reckoner review rate for six months taking into account the deteriorating Covid-19 situation and rise of Covid patients in the state. The RR rates are published as part of state policy on March 31 every year.Thorat has said that it would be practically not possible to review and assess the ready reckoner rates and the situation improves in the state of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-lockdown-cost-state-rs-16-crore-per-day-in-stamp-duty/story-JH0kSAaSwZVJeswjUegB7H.html
02-09-2020||Kolkata||Rainwater enters residential areas in West Bengal’s Siliguri, streets flooded||Incidents of water logging were reported in several residential areas in West Bengal’s Siliguri during the early hours of Tuesday following heavy downpour in the metropolitan city. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), West Bengal is likely to receive more rainfall in the next 72 hours. Several streets in Siliguri were flooded with knee-deep water which caused problems for those trying to reach their workplaces on Tuesday morning. The IMD added that heavy to heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at isolated places in states such as Assam, Meghalaya and Sikkim. Also read: Landslide, floods from monsoon rains kill at least 41 in India, NepalEarlier, the weather department pointed out that rainfall would gradually reduce over flood-affected areas and start picking up over northern plains, northeastern states and several parts of southern peninsulaMeanwhile, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha have reported flooding over the past few days. Several parts of Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat were inundated due to overflowing of the Narmada River and water released from Hirakud Dam caused flooding in several districts of Odisha over the weekend.A minimum of 24 people lost their lives in Madhya Pradesh and Odisha while thousands were displaced as torrential rains were reported in other regions of the country. Rainfall has been 25 per cent more than normal rate in August, which the IMD has described as the highest in the month in more than four decades. The previous highest in August was recorded in 1983, when rain was 23.8% more than the normal.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/rainwater-enters-residential-areas-in-west-bengal-s-siliguri-streets-flooded/story-G7EWksssIsX5tO6s51JDpI.html
02-09-2020||Jaipur||Pranab Mukherjee demise: Rajasthan govt declares one-day state holiday||The Rajasthan government has declared a one-day holiday on Tuesday, as a mark of respect to former President of India Pranab Mukherjee. The state government offices across the desert state are closed on Tuesday. Mukherjee (84), who was one of the country’s most admired political leaders and the 13th President of India, passed away on Monday evening. He breathed his last 22 days after he was admitted to the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) in the national capital following an emergency operation for a clot in the brain from which he never recovered.The Congress unit in Rajasthan has also postponed its ongoing division-wise feedback programme until September 8 owing to Mukherjee’s death. Also Read: Pranab Mukherjee: The vice-captain who went on to be referee“The division-wise feedback programme Samvad has been postponed because of the announcement of seven-day state mourning following the demise of Mukherjee. Now, on September 8, Samvad will be held in the Jaipur division meet and the next day it will be Ajmer’s turn,” tweeted Govind Singh Dotasara, president of the state Congress unit. Ajay Maken, general secretary, All India Congress Committee (AICC); along with Dotasara; and Vivek Bansal, secretary, AICC; are among those, who are holding one-on-one meetings with leaders and party workers under the Samvad initiative. Also Read: Pranab da, Bharat’s bipartisan RatnaOn Monday, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot condoled the demise of Mukherjee and tweeted, “Deeply saddened at his demise. The nation has lost a great leader, thinker and statesman. His entire life was dedicated to service of the nation. My heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and supporters. May his soul rest in peace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/pranab-mukherjee-demise-rajasthan-govt-declares-one-day-state-holiday/story-2dHdurCWkqP8XYFu8Js2fK.html
02-09-2020||Patna||Nitish busy launching schemes with eye on rural Bihar as poll announcement nears||With the date for announcement of assembly election drawing closer, Bihar chief minister is a busy man, inaugurating new development schemes, launching completed ones and making on-the-spot visits to review progress of ongoing flagship schemes at great speed.In the last three weeks alone, Kumar has inaugurated or launched schemes and projects worth Rs 60,000-crore involving departments of rural development, power, water resources, education, environment, road and the flagship ‘seven resolves’ to present his government’s development-face before the elections. The schemes cover the length and breadth of the state. Many of these schemes were in the pipeline for long, viz upgrading schools in 3,304 panchayats of the state up to class 9 to ensure presence of a secondary school in every panchayat, so that girls do not drop out after primary schooling due to lack of avenues. With Bihar achieving gender parity at the secondary level, the government has used it to silence the critics in the Opposition, which have been consistently claiming that the state had slipped on the front of education.The CM has already announced that after having ensured electricity connection to every village, his next target is to bring water to every farm, should the people give him another chance to serve on the basis of what his government has done to realise the dream of inclusive development.Also Read: BJP chief Nadda preps for Bihar assembly polls, asks MPs to reach out to votersBihar is an agrarian state with over 80% living in rural areas dependent on agriculture for livelihood. Kumar has also been asking to take the development message to the masses, especially the new generation voters, who might not be aware of “how far and from where the state has marched”, in an apparent bid to counter the Opposition narrative aimed to capitalise on any possible anti-incumbency against him.Last week, Kumar made another developmental promise to the people of the state—road connectivity linking every village to the nearby national and state highways.“In my next innings, I will provide good connectivity to every village,” he added.Also Read: Take voter base into account, avoid faulty tickets, says Rashtriya Janata Dal to alliesThe focus of Nitish government has clearly been on rural areas and small towns, which is where most of his schemes and projects are located.The projects inaugurated or launched this month include schemes worth Rs 15,192 crore by the rural works department, Rs 4,855 crore related to electricity department, Rs 180 crore worth projects by dairy and animal husbandry department, Rs 5,024 crore worth road and bridge projects, Rs 1,725 crore by the building construction department, Rs 1469 crore by the water resource department, Rs 628 crore by the minor water resources department and inauguration of two arms of flyover in Patna and the building of the Bihar Agriculture University (Sabour).At all the functions, Kumar does not forget reminding people that they should not lose sight of the development done by his government at the time of elections, “as his government’s sole objective has been to reduce the urban-rural divide by taking development to the remotest corners of the state, which the people have seen with electricity reaching every part of the state to end the need for lantern (RJD election symbol) and the smooth connectivity provided from all the districts to the state capital”.Also Read: Bihar increases salaries of teachers, librarians by 15% from April next yearOn Friday, he inaugurated projects involving piped-drinking water and pucca lanes and drainage systems in rural areas across the state, worth Rs 33,716 crore. These were part of the Bihar government’s ‘seven resolves’, a set of seven promises made during the 2015 election to ensure basic amenities to every household. He has also emphasised the need to complete the first phase of the coveted Ganga Water Lift Scheme (GWLS) for the supply of clean drinking water in towns of Gaya, Bodhgaya and Rajgir.WRD minister Sanjay Jha said though the completion of the project involving Rs 2,800 crore would stretch up to mid 2021 due to the lockdown, it would solve a perennial problem and conceiving it was, in itself, a big task.“Bihar’s development journey since 2005 is not about drawing any contrast with the previous regime prior to 2005. That is meaningless. It is what the people have experienced over the years to see change in their life in the remotest corners of the state and now rightfully have aspirations for more. Earlier, they could not even aspire,” said Bihar public relations minister and JD-U spokesman Neeraj Kumar.He added that Nitish Kumar was brought to power by people’s yearning for development.“This is what has brought Nitish Kumar people’s trust and this will again show the mirror to the opposition, which is harping on an empty rhetoric,” Neeraj Kumar added.Congress MLC Premchandra Mishra, however, said that Nitish Kumar seemed to be in an unusual hurry.“If he has really done so much for development, how has so much remained to be done? He seems to be in a hurry to get his name inscribed on stones when election announcement is round the corner and Bihar is battling the twin scourge of Covid-19 pandemic and the floods. Besides, he also wants to send the message that he is working for development, as his model is under question and the people know a lot more with their experience,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-busy-launching-schemes-with-eye-on-rural-bihar-as-poll-announcement-nears/story-xDgkMAmVIX7eOBvuaMjxsL.html
02-09-2020||Patna||JP Nadda to chair meeting of Bihar BJP MPs, senior leaders to finalise assembly poll strategy||Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda will chair a meeting of all the party MPs from Bihar and senior party leaders on Saturday (today) to finalise its poll strategy for the upcoming state assembly elections.According to sources, all the BJP MPs from Bihar including union ministers Ravishankar Prasad, Giriraj Singh, RK Singh, Nityanand Rai and Ashwini Choubey are likely to attend the meeting at the party office to discuss preparations for Bihar elections.“BJP chief wants to know the ground reality ahead of the election and will discuss the seat-sharing to know the views of the MPs for the upcoming polls. The meeting with MPs is considered to be very important as their feedback will also be used in seat-sharing for National Democratic Alliance (NDA),” sources said.The sources further said that Nadda will start his Bihar tour if lockdown is lifted in the state.National General Secretary Bhupender Yadav was appointed as party’s state in-charge in December last year.Earlier on August 23, Nadda addressed Bihar BJP State working committee via video conferencing and said that BJP, and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) will fight elections together under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and win the upcoming Assembly elections in Bihar.“BJP, JDU, and LJP will fight elections together and win. We have to add value not only to BJP but to our alliance partners also,” Nadda had said addressing Bihar BJP State Karyasamiti via video conferencing.The party, aiming to retain power in the state, has asked former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis to go visit the election-bound state. Earlier, Fadnavis said that he will be visiting Bihar to help the party in the upcoming Assembly elections in the state.”BJP usually sends its leaders to various states to help the party in elections and accordingly I will be going to Bihar, whatever party instructs I will do it,” he said.On the impact of Sushant Singh Rajput death case on elections, Fadnavis said, “I do not find any relevance of it anywhere with the actor’s death case.”Bihar has 243 Assembly constituencies and elections in the state are due in October-November as the tenure of the current Assembly is scheduled to end on November 29.The Election Commission has not yet taken a final call on poll dates in Bihar due to coronavirus pandemic and has sought suggestions from political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/jp-nadda-to-chair-meeting-of-bihar-bjp-mps-senior-leaders-to-finalise-assembly-poll-strategy/story-x5kPvtBQhGuADK3OsEoRLK.html
02-09-2020||Patna||NDA to have a common manifesto for Bihar polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has indicated that there would not be a separate manifesto released by the party for the upcoming Bihar polls, which are slated to be held in October–November, following its assertion that the party would go the election under the leadership of the incumbent chief minister Nitish Kumar.The BJP is an ally of Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in the Bihar government, under the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Centre.Also read: BJP banks on development, Nitish to win Bihar pollsAccording to people aware of the details there will be a common election manifesto released by the allies, the BJP, the JD (U) and the LJP.A senior party leader aware of the developments said the party has made it clear that there are no differences of opinion among the allies and that the elections would be fought together under the leadership of Kumar. “So, a question of separate manifestoes does not arise,” the leader said.Responding to LJP president Chirag Paswan’s demand for a common minimum programme (CMP), the leader said it was “not on the agenda as of now”.In an interview to HT last week, Paswan had not only criticised the JD(U) for not fulfilling the promises that were made to the people of Bihar, but had also stressed that going forward, if the allies are to contest polls together and seek a second term in office, it would have to take on board suggestions of his party that would be part of his vision document. Paswan had also said that he would release the vision document within 24 hours of the Election Commission of India (ECI) announcing the poll schedule.The BJP leader quoted above said these issues would be sorted once all the allies hold talks. He also ruled out that there is a possibility of the LJP walking away from the NDA ahead of the elections. After Paswan‘s frequent outbursts against the ruling alliance in the state and criticism of CM Kumar, the BJP leadership has been unequivocal in projecting a united front.Addressing the state unit of the party on Sunday, BJP president JP Nadda said the party workers at every booth have the responsibility of ensuring the victory of party candidates as well as those of its allies in the poll-bound state.He also said that whenever the BJP, the LJP and the JD (U) have come together to contest, they have swept the polls in Bihar.On the issue of distribution of tickets, while the LJP has suggested that the exercise be conducted taking into account the performance of the parties in last year’s parliamentary elections, functionaries in both the BJP and the JD(U) suggested that winnability of a candidate would be the overarching consideration.A JD (U) leader from Bihar said that in the last assembly election the LJP had won only two of the 42 seats that it had contested and the party is not in a position to bargain for more.The BJP leader quoted above said discussions on seat and ticket distribution are yet to begin and the concerns of all the allies would be considered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nda-to-have-a-common-manifesto-for-bihar-polls/story-cWkXh4xs3crEsdsuJWp5KI.html
02-09-2020||World||With Gulf states openly moving closer to India, Pakistan’s house of cards may be failing||Amid an increasingly polarised Muslim world, Pakistan’s strategy to maintain diplomatic ties with countries in the Middle East is no longer working.In a break from the past where the Gulf countries balanced their relations with Pakistan and India, they are now seen moving towards New Delhi and distancing from Islamabad, according to a report in the Al Jazeera.Pakistan, on the other hand, is seen moving closer to Turkey and Malaysia - two countries that Saudi Arabia sees as challengers to its stronghold within the Muslim world, according to foreign policy analysts Abdul Basit and Dr Zahid Shahab Ahmed writing in the Al Jazeera.The relationship between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, went haywire last month when Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi openly rebuked the kingdom for its lack of support for Islamabad’s interests on the Kashmir issue.During a television talk-show, the Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmud Qureshi made a statement that irked the Saudi “big brother”, where he said that Pakistan would be “compelled” to “call a meeting of the Islamic countries that are ready to stand with us on the issue of Kashmir.”In Basit and Shahab Ahmed’s article, the remark by Pakistani Foreign Minister was not taken well by Riyadh and was seen as a veiled threat to concoct a new side against the Saudi-dominated Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC).In retaliation, the kingdom was quick to request the sudden repayment of a billion-dollar loan extended to Pakistan in November 2018, which was renegotiated just six months ago. Besides this, it also refused to renew a deferred oil payments scheme that was part of the same loan which was given to Islamabad when the country was trying to avoid a possible sovereign default.After Riyadh raised the bar, Pakistan was forced on a back foot. Thereafter, Qureshi, trying to save face, refuted reports that ties have strained between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia in the past few weeks. “The kingdom has neither asked Islamabad to return its loan nor has it suspended oil supply to Pakistan,” Qureshi was quoted as saying by The News International.As a result of Qureshi’s backtracking, Pakistani journalists slammed the Foreign Minister saying it contradicted the comments he made earlier.Soon after, Pakistan went into damage-control mode and had to send Pakistan’s Chief of Army Staff General Qamar Javed Bajwa to Riyadh. However, the visit turned out be futile as the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (MBS) did not meet Bajwa, and they were left to meet with Saudi Deputy Defence Minister Khalid bin Salman bin Abdulaziz.According to the Al Jazeera report, “the latest diplomatic spat between Saudi Arabia and Pakistan should be seen in the broader context of recent strategic realignments in the Middle East and the Muslim world.”“For some time, Pakistan has been struggling to keep to its traditional policy of maintaining neutral relations with rival Muslim powers. While Islamabad is concerned about the deepening strategic and economic cooperation between its arch-rival India and a group of Arab states led by Saudi Arabia, Riyadh is equally frustrated by Pakistan’s overtures towards Muslim-majority states it views as hostile, such as Turkey, Malaysia and Qatar,” it said.The Gulf countries are now visibly seen moving towards India and distancing from Pakistan. The tides are turning in India’s favour. One such example is MBS’s February 2019 visit of South Asia.During his tour, the Saudi Crown Prince made the unprecedented move of visiting India directly after Pakistan. After signing agreements worth USD 20 billion with Pakistan, MBS said he expects Riyadh’s investments in India “to exceed USD 100 billion in the coming two years”.Saudi Arabia is not the only one. After India’s August 2019 move to revoke article 370, Pakistan called Arab states to raise their voices. However, its Gulf partners including Saudi Arabia failed to put a front against India. Riyadh even told India that it understands “India’s approach and actions in Jammu and Kashmir”.Amid the strategic readjustment in the Middle East, political analysts say that relations between Saudi Arabia and Pakistan is bound to get bumpy as it appears that the former will continue to move closer to New Delhi. Islamabad, on the other hand, will have to retain its partnerships with several countries in the Middle East and return to Saudi Arabia’s sphere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-s-house-of-cards-may-be-failing-with-gulf-states-openly-moving-closer-to-india/story-KvLT5z3BU1mPfIX4vZb37J.html
02-09-2020||World||Germany adopts Indo-Pacific policy, foreign minister Heiko Maas warns of ‘latent conflicts’||Germany on Wednesday adopted a policy for the Indo-Pacific centred round greater security and economic cooperation, with foreign minister Heiko Maas saying latent conflicts in the region “would have global repercussions were they to erupt”. The policy guidelines, with the theme “Germany-Europe-Asia: Shaping the 21st century together”, were adopted by the cabinet since the shifting geopolitical power structures in the Indo-Pacific have direct impacts on Germany, the foreign ministry said in a statement. The economies of Europe and the Indo-Pacific are closely connected through global supply chains, while major trading routes pass through the Indian Ocean, the South China Sea and the Pacific. “If conflicts in the region adversely affect security and stability there, this has repercussions for Germany, too,” the statement said. Speaking on the adoption of the policy guidelines, Maas said: “The Himalayas and the Malacca Strait may seem a long way away. But our prosperity and our geopolitical influence in the coming decades will depend not least on how we work together with the countries of the Indo-Pacific region.” Without naming any country, Maas added: “We are watching with concern the arms race in the region, as well as latent conflicts which would have global repercussions were they to erupt.” His remarks come against the backdrop of China’s aggressive actions in the region, including the months-long border standoff with India and deployment of military assets in the South China Sea. The German foreign ministry noted that the Indo-Pacific wasn’t clearly delineated in geographical terms and was defined variously by different actors. For Germany, the Indo-Pacific is the “entire region characterised by the Indian Ocean and the Pacific”, it said. It also noted that more than half the world’s population lives in countries around the Indian Ocean and the Pacific, and recent decades have witnessed the rapid growth of countries such as Vietnam, China and India, with the region accounting for almost 40% of global GDP. “There are many fields in which Germany wants to work more intensively with the countries of the region, be it to strengthen the rule of law and human rights or to enhance exchange in the cultural, educational and scientific spheres. The security-policy sector plays a special role in this context,” the foreign ministry said. Economic relations too are being expanded through EU free trade agreements with additional countries in the Indo-Pacific and the aim must be to “avoid unilateral dependencies by diversifying partnerships”, it said. Maas further said, “We are sending a clear message today: The Indo-Pacific region is a priority of German foreign policy...Our aim is to strengthen our relations with this important region and to expand our cooperation in the areas of multilateralism, climate change mitigation, human rights, rules-based free trade, connectivity, the digital transformation and, in particular, security policy.” Germany wants to help shape the order in the Indo-Pacific so that it is “based on rules and international cooperation, not on the law of the strong”, he said. “Stability in the region is of vital importance to us in economic terms, too: we are a trading nation, and as such our prosperity depends directly on freedom of trade and of shipping routes, many of which pass through the Indo-Pacific region,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-adopts-indo-pacific-policy-foreign-minister-heiko-maas-warns-of-latent-conflicts/story-sPQHC8aoqadrOHvtmA84hI.html
02-09-2020||World||US President Trump defends police, slams protests as ‘domestic terror’||President Donald Trump on Tuesday offered a stout defence of law enforcement officers during a controversial tour of Kenosha in Wisconsin, the newest flashpoint in anti-racism unrest, and further sharpened his attack on violence accompanying protests calling them acts of “domestic terror”.“These are not acts of peaceful protest, but really domestic terror,” President Trump said at a roundtable with officials and lawmakers after a tour of areas damaged in the violence that erupted a week ago after Jacob Blake, a black man, was shot repeatedly in the back by a white police officer. Two protestors were killed days later allegedly by a 17-year-old man.The President was accompanied by top federal law enforcement officials such as Attorney General William Barr and Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf, and local sheriff and officials. But not by the state governor and mayor, who had urged Trump to stay away.“We cherish our law enforcement,” the US president said, offering his administration’s full backing to police officers and federal agents, who have come under criticism for using excessive force. He acknowledged there were some “bad apples” among them, who, he said, seemingly downplaying their actions, have erred under pressure.The President has used the word “choke” for them. “You have people that choke,” he said, adding, “They’re under tremendous pressure.” They will be “taken care of” but the rest of them had his support. And he will never allow them to be de-funded as anti-racism activists have demanded.Trump has shaped his re-election plank around law-and-order, and has tried to tie the violence accompanying anti-racism protests to Democrats and their presidential nominee Joe Biden. He has used phrases like “left wing politicians” and “radical left Democrats” for the protestors and their supporters to argue there will be more of this lawlessness and chaos if Biden was elected president.Biden has countered by holding Trump responsible for the unrest, as a “toxic presence”. But the Democrat has also sought to distance himself from the violence by condemning it in clear terms to blunt Trump’s attacks, and his campaign has planned a major ad blitz to further amplify that message.In a potentially damaging development for the Trump re-election campaign, first lady, Melania Trump, is reported to have used private email accounts and messaging services for official communication. Winston Wolkoff, a former close friend and senior adviser, told The Washington Post, “Melania and I both didn’t use White House emails”.While the use of private email accounts is allowed under presidential records laws, Trump and Republicans had attacked Hillary Clinton in 2016 for using a private email account as secretary of state.And, Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker and the top Democrat in the country, came under fire for allegedly violating social distancing norms in place for the Covid-19 epidemic, during a visit to a salon. She had her mask around the neck, in a surveillance footage that aired on some channels.“Speaker Pelosi has pushed policies that would keep our economy closed and our small businesses shut down. But for herself?” Senate Republicans, the twitter handle of the senate Republicans caucus, wrote in a post. “A salon visit whenever she pleases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-trump-defends-police-slams-protests-as-domestic-terror/story-S6yaozvSXbeRYQ00nHNaEM.html
02-09-2020||World||Hoping for peaceful resolution of India-China border dispute, says US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo||The United States hopes for a peaceful resolution to the border dispute between India and China, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Wednesday. “More missile tests were done in China last year than all western nations combined. If you’re going to be serious, you’ve to use those in a way that is consistent with how nations undertake obligation under nuclear proliferation treaties,” Pompeo said while addressing a press conference at the State Department.The US Secretary of State further said that China had a patter of ‘bullying’ its neighbours and this pattern was evident in the developments happening in the South China Sea.“From the Taiwan Strait to the Himalayas and beyond, the Chinese Communist Party is engaged in a clear and intensifying pattern of bullying its neighbours. It is also evident in the South China Sea,” Pompeo said.Pompeo also said that Washington was calling on China to engage in talks with the Dalai Lama, the spiritual leader of Tibethan Buddhism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hoping-for-peaceful-resolution-of-india-china-border-dispute-says-us-secretary-of-state-mike-pompeo/story-QMGUON5jTJMPsf1CL7QOWN.html
02-09-2020||World||Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok found in Russia’s Navalny: Germany||The German government says tests performed on samples taken from Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny showed the presence of the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok.Navalny, a politician and corruption investigator who is one of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s fiercest critics, fell ill on a flight back to Moscow from Siberia on Aug 20 and was taken to a hospital in the Siberian city of Omsk after the plane made an emergency landing.He was later transferred to Berlin’s Charite hospital, where doctors last week said there were indications that he had been poisoned.Chancellor Angela Merkel’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said in a statement Wednesday that testing by a special German military laboratory had shown proof of “a chemical nerve agent from the Novichok group.”Novichok, a Soviet-era nerve agent, was used to poison former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Britain. It is a cholinesterase inhibitor, part of the class of substances that doctors at the Charite initially identied in Navalny.Seibert said the German government will inform its partners in the European Union and NATO about the test results. He said that it will consult with its partenrs in light of the Russian response “on an appropriate joint response.”Navalny’s allies in Russia have insisted he was deliberately poisoned by the country’s authorities, accusations that the Kremlin rejected as “empty noise.”The Russian doctors who treated Navalny in Siberia have repeatedly contested the German hospital’s conclusion, saying they had ruled out poisoning as a diagnosis and that their tests for poisonous substances came back negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/soviet-era-nerve-agent-novichok-found-in-russia-s-navalny-germany/story-5fzRnM7m3GQdJ6e6o5VqSP.html
02-09-2020||World||Covid-19 plunges Australia into first recession in nearly 30 years||Australia tumbled into its first recession for almost three decades with its pandemic-crippled economy shrinking a record seven percent in the second quarter, official data shows.With vast swathes of the domestic and global economy shut down to contain the deadly disease, business activity suffered a catastrophic drop -- despite authorities providing billions of dollars in support -- not even witnessed during the global financial crisis.“Today’s national accounts confirm the devastating impact on the Australian economy from COVID-19,” said Treasurer Josh Frydenberg.“Our record run of 28 consecutive years of economic growth has now officially come to an end. The cause: a once-in-a-century pandemic,” he said.The economy contracted seven percent in April-June from the previous three months, in line with government forecasts, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said. That followed a 0.3 percent dip. A recession is defined as two consecutive quarters of contraction. Gross domestic product dropped 6.3 percent year-on-year.“The June quarter saw a significant contraction in household spending on services as households altered their behaviour and restrictions were put in place to contain the spread of the coronavirus,” said ABS head of national accounts Michael Smedes.Hours worked fell almost 10 percent while cash payments of social benefits rose more than 40 percent, both records, while imports and exports were also down.The country was already reeling from a prolonged drought and massive bushfires that rattled the economy before the disease struck.The government has stumped up tens of billions of dollars to fight the economic fallout from the pandemic and Frydenberg said the contraction would have been far worse without such support, which included payments to employers to avoid laying off staff.“Today’s devastating numbers confirm what every Australian knows: that COVID-19 has wreaked havoc on our economy and our lives like nothing we have ever experienced before. But there is hope and there is a road out,” Frydenberg said.Australia has confirmed almost 26,000 cases of the disease and 663 deaths, in a population of 25 million, and had successfully contained it in most of the country by July.But an outbreak in Melbourne and its surrounds since then forced a new lockdown of five million people in the country’s second largest city, dragging on the recovery.Borders between Australia’s states and territories also remain closed to most travel to avoid further outbreaks, hampering tourism and other key sectors.Authorities expect national unemployment to peak at 9.3 percent in December and the budget deficit to blow out to almost a tenth of GDP by mid-2021.Still, Frydenberg insisted Australia has been more successful than most in handling the crisis.“This gives us confidence that as a nation we are better placed than most other nations, and that by containing the virus we can chart a pathway to economic recovery and we can leave the worst of the economic crisis in the June quarter behind us,” he said.“But the road ahead will be long. The road ahead will be hard. The road ahead will be bumpy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-plunges-australia-into-first-recession-in-nearly-30-years/story-KsfNPsfmRd3JM1FYlE07rO.html
02-09-2020||World||Nikki Haley says China took ‘naive’ US for a ride, calls India real friend||China has taken a “naive” US and its leaders for a ride over the past several decades, according to former top Indian-American diplomat Nikki Haley, who said the Trump administration through its robust Indo-Pacific strategy is now learning who its real friends are.Speaking at the third India-US Leadership Summit organised virtually by the US India Strategic and Partnership Forum (USISPF), former US ambassador to the UN Haley on Tuesday said Americans know that Indians are not a threat to them and as such, it is time for Indians to share their success story.The US has been pushing for a greater role for India in the strategic Indo-Pacific which is seen by many countries as an effort to contain China’s growing clout in the region.“Let’s acknowledge how China did it. China was very strategic. This was very planned out and America was very naive. The thought leaders in America thought that if we were nice to China, if we open doors to China, it would become more like the West, that China would become more democratic,” Haley said. Responding to a question from Mastercard CEO and president Ajay Banga, she said this was from both sides of the aisle -- Republican and Democrat leaders, all of whom thought that if the US was nice to China, there would be an alliance.What the United States has to understand that the Chinese want to be communist and that they are not going to change, the 48-year-old former diplomat said.“Through this Indo-Pacific strategy, going forward America is learning who its real friends are. When you learn that, yes, it’s India. But now Indians need to go and show more of who they are,” she said.Explaining, she said that when people come across Indian businesses or an Indian professor or a doctor, they see the warmth, intelligence and genuine side of them, and they want to know more. “What we have to do is not be shy. But really get out there and brag about ourselves. Now is the time for Indians to be proud, be okay talking about those accomplishments and be okay talking about their successes and let chil9dren talk about their accomplishments. That’s really important going forward because...we have to make sure that we take to the next level,” said Haley, whose parents emigrated from Amritsar in Punjab. “Americans are not threatened by Indians and realise that Indians make our country better,” she said. Haley is considered a top contender for the Republican ticket to the US presidential race in 2024. Responding to a question, Haley asserted that the Indo-Pacific Strategy of the Trump administration has been a real game changer for India-US relationship. “When this administration took on the Indo-Pacific strategy, it was a real game changer for a lot of reasons. I had often thought that the US seemed to ally a little bit more with Pakistan and a little bit less with India,” she said. “It just makes sense that the US and India are natural allies. We have the same values...,” she said, adding that President Donald Trump very much saw that as well. “The Indo-Pacific strategy was one acknowledging something that should have been there all along, which is that the US and India should be natural allies,” Haley said. The Indo Pacific strategy, the former diplomat said, also acknowledged that the US and India face the same threat from China. “So it was a way of saying we’re going to start looking at things differently. We’ve seen that play out with the alliance that we see with the United States, India, Australia and Japan (a reference to the Quad group of countries). We are continuing to see that strengthen,” she said. From the military standpoint, the US and India have done well, Haley said, noting that the two countries still have some work to do on trade. “I’m hoping that we can break down some of those barriers that India has with tariffs on the United States. We will get there as well too,” she said optimistically. “This has been groundbreaking for a number of reasons. We have to continue to build on that because as we look at mutual threats that we have, whether it’s with China or what India has seen with Pakistan and going forward, I think it’s all the more reason why we should find other ways to be strengthened and work together,” Haley said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nikki-haley-says-china-took-naive-us-for-a-ride-calls-india-real-friend/story-Y7lGl1mIlI0JukYPk5FVsM.html
02-09-2020||World||Protests erupt in China’s Inner Mongolia over Beijing’s language politics in schools||Rare protests have been reported from the ethnic Mongolian region in northern China over the imposition of the Mandarin in schools, which locals and rights groups say could lead to the wiping out of local language, identity, and culture.The change in curriculum in schools in Inner Mongolia, which was enacted this week, means that three core subjects – politics, history, language, and literature – will now be taught in Mandarin, and not in Mongolian anymore.The vast mineral-rich province shares borders with Mongolia and Russia.Rights groups say the move to change the medium of instruction in schools in Inner Mongolia mirrors what Beijing has done in Tibet and Xinjiang where, after local languages were replaced, the focus now is to sinicise even Tibetans and Islam – assimilate, even subsume, local ethnic communities within the majority Han population.HT has reached out to the Chinese foreign ministry for a comment on the protests.“Almost every Mongolian in Inner Mongolia is opposed to the revised curriculum,” a 32-year-old herder from the Xilingol League area surnamed Hu told AFP news agency on Tuesday, warning that Mongolian children were losing fluency in their mother tongue.“In a few decades, a minority language will be on the verge of extinction.”Reports said schools were boycotted, and parents staged protests against the move.The head of the New York-based Southern Mongolian Human Rights Information Centre, Enghebatu Togochog, told HT that locals fear the Mongolian language will be wiped out because of this decision.“What is happening in Southern Mongolia (Inner Mongolia) now as we speak is a region-wide civil disobedience resistance movement that is taking place against the Chinese Central government’s attempt to wipe out Mongolian language, culture and identity once and for all,” Togochog told HT over email.Togochog spoke of “cultural genocide” being carried out in the region, home to the majority of over 5 million ethnic Mongolians.“The new wave of cultural genocide came under the name of ‘Secondary Bilingual Education’, and the goal of this policy is to completely replace all Mongolian-medium education with Chinese one across Southern Mongolia starting September 1, this year,” Togochog said.Christopher P Atwood, a professor in the Department of East Asian Languages and Civilizations at the University of Pennsylvania, where he teaches the history of Mongolia and the Inner Asian borderlands of China, explains the policy in the academic journal “Made in China”.“The plan is to begin transitioning to the state-compiled textbooks for ‘language and literature’, ‘morality and law (politics)’, and ‘history’ classes. The key point is that these classes will be taught in the national common language—Mandarin Chinese. This policy will be formally implemented from the beginning of school, this 1 September, starting with ‘language and literature’ in first and seventh grade,” Atwood wrote in the journal, which is brought out by the Australian Centre on China in the World and the Australian National University.Next year, it will be extended to morality and law and then to history in 2022.“So, from 2022, if all goes according to plan, all students in Inner Mongolia will be taking all three of these classes solely in Chinese, on the basis of the Chinese state-compiled textbooks. Previously, in many schools in Inner Mongolia, all of these subjects were taught in Mongolian through high school,” Atwood added.According to the AFP, the Inner Mongolia Education Bureau claimed in a Monday social media post that the number of Mongolian-language teaching hours remained unchanged.According to Atwood, that’s not true.“But the policy documents envision the new subjects being given greater prominence in the curriculum and taught at lower levels. At the same time, there is also a promise of no increase in school hours. Thus, the share of the class hours for the ‘local classes’ per week is being reduced in order to increase the class hours for the ‘national classes’, which cannot but reduce the hours conducted in Mongolian,” he wrote.Mongolians also held a protest in the Mongolian capital, Ulaanbaatar, on Monday against the move to Mandarin-only lessons in the neighbouring Chinese region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protests-erupt-in-china-s-inner-mongolia-over-beijing-s-language-politics-in-schools/story-2EQ3ga2WKPdlvgaHt9KuZP.html
02-09-2020||World||Uighur issue resonates in US presidential polls, China’s ‘Iron Brother’ Pakistan silent||China’s treatment of Uighur minorities has been widely criticised across the world, and many international bodies have demanded action against the Chinese government.Last week, Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee for US presidential election, called the Chinese action a genocide. His campaign said the Biden stands strongly against it in strongest terms.Biden also took the opportunity to lash out at his Reublican rival by questioning President Donald Trump what action his administration is planning to take.Though Trump has criticised Beijing for the coronavirus crisis, and often called the Sars-CoV-2 “China virus”, he has also sought a trade pact. What he got was a mini trade deal last year, and the ties have since soured. So, Biden hose to score a political point in race to White House.China has been widely condemned for setting up complexes in remote Xinjiang region (where Uighurs mostly live) that it describes as “vocational training centres” to stamp out extremism and give people new skills. The United Nations says at least 1 million ethnic Uighurs and other Muslims have been detained.Pakistan, which calls China its “Iron Brother” has so far remained silent on the issue.In July this year, the Uighur Turks and other Muslim communities in China also protested Beijing’s action against the community. They asked asked the United Nations and other international organisations to put pressure on Beijing and investigate the “acts of genocide” perpetrated against the Uighurs.Campaign for Uighurs, which works for the community and keeps highlighting their status in China, released a report titled ‘Genocide in East Turkistan’ in which it listed instances where the Chinese government persecuted the embers of the minority community.The report said that despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the Chinese government continues its oppression and persecution of Uighur Turks and other Muslim communities for its own political and economic interests.“The Chinese government sent 1.1 million Han Chinese cadres to East Turkistan to control the daily life of Uighurs. Their job is to stay in Uighur homes, share the same bed with them if necessary and to control all aspects of their daily lives,” the report claimed.In order to disrupt the Uighur family structure, the Beijing administration offers the Han Chinese money, jobs and free homes for these arranged marriages, it further claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uighur-issue-resonates-in-us-presidential-polls-china-s-iron-brother-pakistan-silent/story-VzSBO32jMy0Rsyn8Jkyy5H.html
02-09-2020||World||Nancy Pelosi takes heat over visit to California hair salon during Covid-19||House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is getting heat over a solo hair salon visit in San Francisco at a time when California businesses are limited by concern over coronavirus.But Pelosi’s spokesman said she was complying with the rules as presented to her by eSalon.“This business offered for the Speaker to come in on Monday and told her they were allowed by the city to have one customer at a time in the business,” said spokesman Drew Hammill in a statement. “The Speaker complied with the rules as presented to her by this establishment.”Footage aired by Fox News Channel shows Pelosi, her mask around her neck rather than on her face, walking through the establishment. A stylist follows her, wearing a mask.The salon owner said she rents chairs to stylists, one of whom let her know in advance that Pelosi wanted a wash and a blow dry. Outdoor haircuts are allowed in California, but indoor salons have not reopened. The owner said she considered the service “a slap in the face” to business owners who have been forced to close.Conservatives pounced, casting Pelosi as a hypocrite.“Speaker Pelosi has pushed policies that would keep our economy closed and our small businesses shut down. But for herself?” Senate Republicans tweeted. “A salon visit whenever she pleases.”Pelosi says Republicans could help create the conditions to safely reopen if they would only “listen to the scientists.”“Republicans are rejecting the funding needed for testing and tracing to crush the virus and safely reopen schools and the economy,” she wrote in a letter Friday to her Democratic colleagues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-takes-heat-over-visit-to-california-hair-salon-during-covid-19/story-s0x1pEgDXSZQImNx1s6o7O.html
02-09-2020||World||Ed Markey wins Massachusetts democratic primary, defeating Joe Kennedy||Senator Ed Markey of Massachusetts defeated Representative Joe Kennedy in the state’s hotly contested Democratic Senate primary, besting the scion of a political dynasty by galvanizing the party’s progressive wing.It’s a come-from-behind win for Markey, who is all but certain of a second full term in the November election in the solidly blue state. He trailed Kennedy after the 39-year-old grandson of Robert F. Kennedy announced his challenge in the fall of 2019; some had expected him to simply retire. But he campaigned aggressively as a liberal insurgent, out-raised his opponent and won a raft of endorsements, including from outspoken progressive Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.The results make Kennedy, who trailed in polls in the days leading up to the Bay State primary, the first member of his storied family to lose a political race in Massachusetts. Polls showed Kennedy had stronger support among minority and working-class voters, but struggled to win over wealthier, educated white voters and younger liberals.In another race pitting a Pelosi-backed candidate against a contender supported by Ocasio-Cortez, House Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal defeated Holyoke Mayor Alex Morse. Neal will run for re-election in November in the solidly Democratic 1st Congressional District in the central and western portion of the state with no Republican opponent.Pelosi had put her clout behind Neal to help him fend off a 31-year-old progressive challenger who was seeking to replicate the success of three other insurgents who ousted incumbent Democrats in earlier primaries this year.Neal, 71, first elected to Congress in 1988, took the lesson from those earlier contests and campaigned hard to keep his seat. In addition to the backing of Pelosi and other influential Democratic Party leaders, he had an unusual cross-party endorsement from the state’s popular Republican governor, Charlie Baker.The Senate contest divided Democratic leaders in the Massachusetts and in Washington. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi endorsed Kennedy, while Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer backed Markey. Markey’s co-sponsorship of the Green New Deal with Representative Ocasio-Cortez was central to her decision to support him.The drive by Markey, 74, to run as an insurgent was a remarkable choice for a lawmaker who had served in the House from 1976 to 2013 before he ran for the Senate seat vacated by John Kerry when Kerry was confirmed as President Barack Obama’s secretary of state. Kennedy, wasn’t even born when Markey first ran for Congress.Markey’s victory comes after candidates backed by progressive groups ousted three Democratic incumbents in this year’s primaries: Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Eliot Engel in New York, Representative William Lacy Clay of Missouri and Representative Dan Lipinski of Illinois.Massachusetts voters had a choice between two candidates with liberal voting records. Markey and Kennedy agree on many policies, including the Green New Deal to combat greenhouse-gas emissions, a single-payer health care system and overhauling policing practices in the U.S. In August debates, they argued more about outside spending in the race and the increasingly bitter tone of the contest.Markey called Kennedy at one debate “a progressive in name only.”In his advertising, Kennedy accused Markey of forgetting about the working-class residents of his home town of Malden and focusing more Washington than Massachusetts. One recent spot featured footage of late President John F. Kennedy and his grandfather, the former attorney general. He said that he has the fight for racial justice “in his blood.”Kennedy’s political future is now uncertain as he faces his congressional exit. The Boston Herald reported earlier this week he didn’t plan to run as a write-in candidate for his House seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ed-markey-wins-massachusetts-democratic-primary-defeating-joe-kennedy/story-cQpUX6TvzUyIXoChj3QzSM.html
02-09-2020||World||Trump administration sending rapid Covid tests to states, CDC bars evictions||The Trump administration will send most of its newly purchased 150 million rapid Covid-19 tests to U.S. states for schools and critical services, a White House official said on Tuesday, as New York City pushed back reopening classrooms in a deal with union leaders.The moves came as The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Tuesday issued a sweeping order temporarily halting landlords across the nation from evicting millions of tenants in what it said was an effort to reduce the spread of coronavirus.The order covers all 43 million US residential renters as long as they meet income eligibility requirements, although an administration official said the government does not expect an “overwhelming” use of the program.The daily number of infections has been in decline across most of the United States in recent weeks, with 36,263 reported on Monday, less than half of the mid-July peak, according to a Reuters tally.Exceptions include Midwest states such as South Dakota, where hundreds of thousands of motorcycle riders gathered for a rally in August, and Iowa.A total of more than 183,000 people have died so far from complications of Covid-19, including 32,647 in New York and nearly 16,000 in New Jersey, the U.S. states with the highest death tolls.In announcing that the “overwhelming majority” of 150 rapid antigen tests purchased from Abbot Laboratories would be sent to state governors, U.S. Health and Human Services Assistant Secretary Admiral Brett Giror said top priorities included day care centers and first respondersThe portable tests can deliver results within 15 minutes and will sell for $5. They require no additional equipment, and can use a less invasive nasal swab than traditional lab tests.President Donald Trump has pushed for schools across the country to reopen classrooms, but many districts have ordered students to stay home and learn online.Among them are Los Angeles and San Diego Counties, the second and third-largest school districts in the nation respectively.In New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio said an agreement had been reached with reluctant teachers union leaders to reopen school buildings to students on September 21 as part of his plan for a mix of in-class and remote learning.“What we’ve agreed to is to make sure that the health measures are in place, to make sure there is time for the appropriate preparation for our educators,” de Blasio said at a news briefing.Earlier this week New Jersey and California eased some restrictions imposed in the face of the pandemic, allowing restaurants to begin limited indoor dining.New York City’s mayor has ruled out allowing restaurants to serve diners indoors anytime soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-sending-rapid-covid-tests-to-states-cdc-bars-evictions/story-GNHhNTNjv0mgBLURfclIkM.html
02-09-2020||World||Wildfire leaves California’s oldest park too hazardous for visitors||The lightning-sparked wildfire that ravaged Big Basin Redwoods State Park, California’s oldest state park, has left it too dangerous for visitors, officials said Tuesday during a tour of the burned area by Governor Gavin Newsom.Numerous blazes that grew together near Santa Cruz and razed the visitor center, lodge and nature museum also charred redwood, fir and oak trees, leaving many weakened or dead and likely to fall, parks district Superintendent Chris Spohrer said, according to a pool report provided to news organizations.It will take a year or more to find and remove all of the trees that pose a danger of falling, Spohrer said.“If this is not a gut punch, then you’re truly not conscious as a human being,” Newsom, a Democrat, said after the tour of the park established in 1902.One tree still smoldered as Newsom and two massive ancient redwoods, dubbed the Mother and Father of the forest.Another tree, famous for having an opening in its massive trunk large enough for an automobile, suffered moderate to extensive damage during the fire but remains standing. Newsom walked inside, expressing awe at its apparent survival.The fires in the Santa Cruz Mountains where the park is located broke out August 17 after an hours-long lightning storm that grew into one of more than two dozen major conflagrations that destroyed homes and forced nearly 200,000 people to evacuate in different parts of California.Nearly 14,00 lightning strikes, mostly in central and northern California, have ignited hundreds of individual fires since Aug. 15. Those fires have collectively charred more than 1.48 million acres - a landscape larger than the state of Delaware, according to CalFire.Seven fatalities have been confirmed, and nearly 2,500 homes and other structures have been reduced to ruin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wildfire-leaves-california-s-oldest-park-too-hazardous-for-visitors/story-Ovu157NfyifF6J1Ysv2M3N.html
02-09-2020||World||Trump administration plans expanded use of personal data||The Trump administration announced plans Tuesday to expand the collection of personal “biometric” information by the agency in charge of immigration enforcement, raising concerns about civil liberties and data protection.In a statement, the Department of Homeland Security said it would soon issue a formal proposal for a new regulation for expanding “the authorities and methods” for collecting biometrics, which are physical characteristics such as fingerprints used to identify individuals.US Customs and Border Protection, a component of DHS, already collects biometric data, including iris scans, from people captured trying to enter the country without legal authority.DHS said in a written statement that the new rule would authorize new techniques, including voice and facial recognition to verify people’s identity.The agency did not release the proposed regulation or provide details. BuzzFeed News, which obtained a draft of the policy, reported earlier Tuesday that it included a provision for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is also a component of DHS, to collect biometric data from non-citizens legally working and living in the U.S. or seeking to do so.It would also require U.S. citizens sponsoring relatives to come to the country to provide biometric data, including in some cases their DNA, if it was needed to verify someone’s identity.“This is a remarkable expansion of surveillance, especially the idea that immigrants could be called in at any point to give these biometrics,” said Sarah Pierce, an analyst with the Migration Policy Institute.It typically takes several months for a new regulation to take effect after a public comment period. This measure is likely to prompt legal challenges, as have most immigration measures introduced under President Donald Trump.Acting Deputy DHS Secretary Ken Cuccinelli characterized the new regulation in a written statement as a way to improve the verification of people’s identities and modernize operations.“Leveraging readily available technology to verify the identity of an individual we are screening is responsible governing,” Cuccinelli said. “The collection of biometric information also guards against identity theft and thwarts fraudsters who are not who they claim to be.”DHS is charged with enforcing the strict immigration enforcement policies that have been a hallmark of the Trump administration. But the agency is also in charge Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is responsible for enabling people to legally live and work in the United States.A lawyer with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy rights watchdog, said there’s no justification for expanding biometric data collection, and no clear rules for how long the information can be retained, how it can be used, and whether it can be shared with foreign governments or other agencies.“There doesn’t really seem to be any indication that this will help with combating fraud or anything like that,” said EFF staff attorney Saira Hussain. “Rather, it’s about making it so the government can engage in dragnet surveillance of immigrant communities by being able to access some of their most unique and sensitive biometric information.”There are also concerns about protecting the data. CBP said last year that photos of travelers and their license plates at a border crossing were compromised in a cyber attack on a government contractor.“The more data you collect and the more sensitive it is the more that opens up the government to potential data breaches,” Hussain said.Andrea Flores, deputy director of policy for the American Civil Liberties Union, said the new policy would be an invasion of privacy rights and is a part of a broader administration effort to curtail all immigration.“They really are trying to shut down legal immigration by creating new barriers, in this case asking people to turn over their most personal information and discouraging people from coming forward and using our legal immigration pathways.” said Flores, a policy analyst at DHS in the Obama administration. “It’s saying that immigrants are suspect and not welcome here, and if you’re related to an immigrant we’re also concerned about your presence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-plans-expanded-use-of-personal-data/story-qVw0901B5xOOy4FWDNjmlN.html
02-09-2020||World||UN summit to discuss post-pandemic global governance||Niger, the current president of the UN Security Council, said Tuesday it will organize a September 24 videoconference between heads of state to discuss the future of global governance following the coronavirus pandemic.The summit will debate “post-Covid-19 global governance in relation to the maintenance of international peace and security,” Niger’s UN Ambassador Abdou Abarry told journalists while presenting the Council’s program for the month.The session will take place during the annual UN General Assembly gathering of world leaders, which will take place this year mainly by videoconference due to the pandemic.“This will be an opportunity for our leaders to have political discussions on the need to adapt the current international system embodied by the United Nations and the Security Council in order to effectively face traditional threats to security such as conflicts, but also new threats such as organized crime and pandemics,” Abarry said.Niger’s President Mahamadou Issoufou will chair the summit, with participation by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and African Union chairman Moussa Faki Mahamat, Abarry said.When asked about the attendance of US President Donald Trump, who often opposes multilateralism and cooperation with international organizations, the ambassador said “we expect the participation of all heads of state and they will all receive an invitation from the president of Niger.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-summit-to-discuss-post-pandemic-global-governance/story-UgJBu5tPMIkIkws9G3nIHN.html
02-09-2020||World||Gun pulled at protest prompts county to institute curfew||A Florida county instituted a curfew Tuesday, several days after a man pulled a gun at a protest against police violence, officials said.Leon County Commission Chairman Bryan Desloge signed an order declaring a local state of emergency that includes a curfew from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. starting Wednesday and lasting for a week.The proclamation cites Tallahassee protests that have turned violent, specifically a Saturday confrontation where a man pulled a gun on protesters.The Tallahassee Police Department said in a statement that the incident occurred during a protest downtown. Police said a white man began “documenting the protest” and then was pushed from behind. A fight ensued, police said, and the man was knocked to the ground. The man got up and pulled a gun, police said. Officers took the man into custody and dispersed the crowd.No charges were filed, and no injuries were reported. Police said the man with the gun “was lawfully carrying a concealed weapon as a license holder.”The demonstration was organized by the Tallahassee Community Action Committee in response to the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisconsin, which has sparked protests across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gun-pulled-at-protest-prompts-county-to-institute-curfew/story-0cHbJFNce19vRfFRjykwCN.html
02-09-2020||World||China pushing to double nuclear warhead arsenal: Pentagon||The Chinese military is pressing to double its 200-plus nuclear warheads within a decade with the ability to launch them aboard ballistic missiles by land, sea and air, the Pentagon said in a report Tuesday.Aside from aiming for technological parity with the United States, the People’s Liberation Army is also focused on conducting joint operations, to be able to deter or defeat any US effort to intervene on Taiwan’s behalf, the report said. It said that PLA has already matched or surpassed the US military in several areas, including shipbuilding, land-based ballistic and cruise missiles, and air defense systems.And in its first public estimate of China’s nuclear capacity, the annual report said the country has warheads numbering “in the low 200s” in its nuclear stockpile, fewer than the 300 or more estimated by independent analysts.The report says that number is expected to double over 10 years. China can already launch nuclear weapons by ballistic missile from land and sea, and is developing the capacity to do develop an air-launched ballistic missile as well, the report said. “It is likely that Beijing will seek to develop a military by mid-century that is equal to -- or in some cases superior to -- the US military, or that of any other great power that the PRC views as a threat,” the report said.If China achieves that goal and the United States fails to address it, the report said, it “will have serious implications for US national interests and the security of the international rules-based order.”A Pentagon official said that although China remains far behind the United States in terms of nuclear warheads, the acceleration shows Beijing moving from its traditional “minimum deterrence posture” to full-fledged competition.“Combined with a near-complete lack of transparency regarding their strategic intent and the perceived need for a much larger, more diverse nuclear force, these developments pose a significant concern for the United States,” said Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Chad Sbragia. He said the military expansion is part of China’s overall strategy for a sweeping modernization and to establish itself as a leading global power by 2049.China has made clear it sees the United States as seeking to maintain military supremacy globally, and says Washington, with military bases on the western Pacific rim and a potent naval presence throughout the region, is the source of tensions in Asia.The report noted that China already has the world’s largest navy, with 350 ships and submarines, compared to 293 for the US Navy.The Pentagon has highlighted that deficit as it seeks to expand its fleet to 355 vessels.The report also highlights China’s advantage, unrestricted by arms agreements that the US and Russia have, in ground-launched ballistic missiles.However, the United States leads in submarine-launched and air-launched ballistic missiles; China is still working to develop the latter.The report described China as determined to project its power eastward into the Pacific beyond Taiwan, and to pressure the United States out of the region.The report said that as China seeks to bring Washington-ally Taiwan under its control, Beijing is seeking the ability to win a possible war with the US over the island.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-pushing-to-double-nuclear-warhead-arsenal-pentagon/story-w6D5feL6H1rObqXFPjNs3H.html
02-09-2020||World||US says it won’t join global effort to find Covid-19 vaccine||The Trump administration said Tuesday that it will not work with an international cooperative effort to develop and distribute a Covid-19 vaccine because it does not want to be constrained by multilateral groups like the World Health Organization.The decision to go it alone, first reported by The Washington Post, follows the White House’s decision in early July to pull the United States out of the WHO. Trump claims the WHO is in need of reform and is heavily influenced by China.Some nations have worked directly to secure supplies of vaccine, but others are pooling efforts to ensure success against a disease that has no geographical boundaries. More than 150 countries are setting up the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access Facility, or COVAX.That cooperative effort, linked with the WHO, would allow nations to take advantage of a portfolio of potential vaccines to ensure their citizens are quickly covered by whichever ones are deemed effective. The WHO says even governments making deals with individual vaccine makers would benefit from joining COVAX because it would provide backup vaccines in case the ones being made through bilateral deals with manufacturers aren’t successful.“The United States will continue to engage our international partners to ensure we defeat this virus, but we will not be constrained by multilateral organizations influenced by the corrupt World Health Organization and China,” said White House spokesman Judd Deere. “This president will spare no expense to ensure that any new vaccine maintains our own Food and Drug Administration’s gold standard for safety and efficacy, is thoroughly tested and saves lives.”Rep. Ami Bera, D-Calif., said the administration’s decision was shortsighted and will hamper the battle to end the pandemic.“Joining COVAX is a simple measure to guarantee U.S. access to a vaccine — no matter who develops it first,” tweeted Bera, a medical doctor. “This go-it-alone approach leaves America at risk of not getting a vaccine.”The administration’s decision, paired with the U.S. withdrawal from the WHO, means the U.S. is abdicating America’s global leadership in fighting pandemics, according to Tom Hart, North America director at The ONE Campaign, an advocacy organization co-founded by Bono of the rock band U2.“Not only does this move put the lives of millions around the world at risk, it could completely isolate Americans from an effective vaccine against Covid-19,” Hart said.A handful of the dozens of experimental Covid-19 vaccines in human testing have reached the last and biggest hurdle — looking for the needed proof that they really work.AstraZeneca announced Monday its vaccine candidate has entered the final testing stage in the U.S. The Cambridge, England-based company said the study will involve up to 30,000 adults from various racial, ethnic and geographic groups.Two other vaccine candidates began final testing this summer in tens of thousands of people in the U.S. One was created by the National Institutes of Health and manufactured by Moderna Inc., and the other developed by Pfizer Inc. and Germany’s BioNTech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-it-won-t-join-global-effort-to-find-covid-19-vaccine/story-8CCuwXyBM5uEeq6IOdzIjP.html
02-09-2020||World||Donald Trump spins baseless tale of ‘thugs’ flying to protests||President Donald Trump is recycling a baseless conspiracy theory to claim that recent protests have been orchestrated by powerful people in “dark shadows” intent on undermining his reelection prospects.The claims first took root on Facebook and Twitter earlier this year after racial justice protests swelled across the country following the deaths of Black Americans in police custody. Thousands of social media users shared posts suggesting a covert network was coordinating the protests and rioters were descending on communities across the country.Trump appeared to amplify those unfounded conspiracy theories in an interview with Fox News host Laura Ingraham that aired Monday night, suggesting that protests in Washington during the Republican National Convention were orchestrated by unspecified forces.“We had somebody get on a plane from a certain city this weekend. And in the plane, it was almost completely loaded with thugs wearing these dark uniforms, black uniforms with gear and this and that,” said Trump, adding that the matter is under investigation.When asked by reporters Tuesday for additional details on his assertion, Trump said someone else witnessed the activity and he would have to check to see if that person was willing to speak with news media.The president has a history of elevating online conspiracy theories from his powerful podium, sometimes amplifying Twitter posts to his 85.6 million followers or dropping references to debunked claims in interviews and appearances. As the November election approaches, he’s been particularly focused on the unproven notion that widespread protests against racist policing are being coordinated and driven by shadowy forces intent on defeating him.Trump is picking up on unproven conspiracy theories that began spreading earlier this year during protests for racial justice. One of the first public Facebook posts suggesting a similar conspiracy theory appears to have been made in May when Idaho resident Russell D. Wade wrote on Facebook that a plane was transporting protesters from Seattle to Boise, Idaho.“Be ready for attacks downtown and residential areas,” Wade wrote in a post that has been shared more than 3,500 times. Wade, who lost a bid for local sheriff earlier this year, urged his followers to arm themselves. A social media message sent to Wade on Tuesday was not immediately returned.Local police departments from Sioux Falls, South Dakota, to Payette County, Idaho, were forced to knock down similar social media rumors in June that “busloads” of rioters were coming to town. Other social media posts claimed that throngs of “antifa,” a term for leftist militants, were plotting to violently disrupt cities and towns.In Michigan, a limousine businessman had to refute online rumors that his buses were purchased by liberal financier George Soros to coordinate protests after Facebook users manipulated images of his white charter buses to show the words “Soros Riot Dance Squad” emblazoned on the sides.In Facebook and Twitter posts earlier this summer, Trump also blamed antifa for violence that broke out during racial justice protests. But an Associated Press analysis of court records, employment histories and social media posts for 217 people arrested in Minneapolis and the District of Columbia, cities at the center of the protests earlier this year, found evidence that only a few of those arrested indicated they were involved in left-leaning activities. A few others expressed support for the political right and Trump himself.Trump’s allies have ramped up their efforts to push similar uncorroborated theories over the past week.During the Republican National Convention, his personal attorney Rudy Giuliani claimed that “Black Lives Matter and antifa sprang into action” and “hijacked” peaceful protests. Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky called on the FBI to investigate protests outside of the RNC in Washington last week, describing it as “an organized interstate racket.”“They need to be arrested, questioned,” said Paul, who had to be escorted to his hotel during the final night of the convention. “The bills need to be subpoenaed by a judge to say, who paid for your bill? How did you get here on a plane, and staying in a fancy hotel, and yet you’re acting like a criminal?”The messaging from the president and his GOP supporters is aimed at building up fear among voters in hopes of driving them to cast a ballot in the president’s favor this fall, said Jennifer Mercieca, a professor at Texas A&M University who studies what she calls Trump’s “rhetorical genius.”“Everything is on the line, you have to be sure to vote,” Mercieca said in summing up the message. “They’re out to get you and destroy the American way of life. They’re already here … just a short plane ride away. They’re scary, they wear black.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-spins-baseless-tale-of-thugs-flying-to-protests/story-GpPAKLgM1UbqaJCVMemcLM.html
02-09-2020||World||Third coronavirus vaccine AstraZeneca reaches major hurdle: Final US testing||A handful of the dozens of experimental Covid-19 vaccines in human testing have reached the last and biggest hurdle — looking for the needed proof that they really work as a US advisory panel suggested Tuesday a way to ration the first limited doses once a vaccine wins approval.AstraZeneca announced Monday its vaccine candidate has entered the final testing stage in the US The Cambridge, England-based company said the study will involve up to 30,000 adults from various racial, ethnic and geographic groups.Two other vaccine candidates began final testing this summer in tens of thousands of people in the US One was created by the National Institutes of Health and manufactured by Moderna Inc., and the other developed by Pfizer Inc. and Germany’s BioNTech.“To have just one vaccine enter the final stage of trials eight months after discovering a virus would be a remarkable achievement; to have three at that point with more on the way is extraordinary,” Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar said in a statement.NIH Director Francis Collins tweeted that his agency “is supporting several vaccine trials since more than one may be needed. We have all hands on deck.”AstraZeneca said development of the vaccine, known as AZD1222, is moving ahead globally with late-stage trials in the U.K., Brazil and South Africa. Further trials are planned in Japan and Russia. The potential vaccine was invented by the University of Oxford and an associated company, Vaccitech.Meanwhile, a US advisory panel released a draft plan Tuesday for how to ration the first doses of vaccine. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine proposed giving the first vaccine doses — initial supplies are expected to be limited to up to 15 million people — to high-risk health care workers and first responders.Next, older residents of nursing homes and other crowded facilities and people of all ages with health conditions that put them at significant danger would be given priority. In following waves of vaccination, teachers, other school staff, workers in essential industries, and people living in homeless shelters, group homes, prisons and other facilities would get the shots.Healthy children, young adults and everyone else would not get the first vaccinations, but would be able to get them once supplies increase.The panel of experts described “a moral imperative” to lessen the heavy disease burden of Covid-19 on Blacks, Hispanics, Native Americans and Alaska Natives, and suggested state and local authorities could target vulnerable neighborhoods using data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.The National Academies will solicit public comments on the plan through Friday.There’s a good reason so many Covid-19 vaccines are in development.“The first vaccines that come out are probably not going to be the best vaccines,” Dr. Nicole Lurie, who helped lead pandemic planning under the Obama administration, said at a University of Minnesota vaccine symposium.There’s no guarantee that any of the leading candidates will pan out — and the bar is higher than for Covid-19 treatments, because these vaccines will be given to healthy people. Final testing, experts stress, must be in large numbers of people to know if they’re safe enough for mass vaccinations.They’re made in a wide variety of ways, each with pros and cons. One problem: Most of the leading candidates are being tested with two doses, which lengthens the time required to get an answer — and, if one works, to fully vaccinate people.Another: They’re all shots. Vaccine experts are closely watching development of some nasal-spray alternatives that just might begin the first step of human testing later this year — late to the race, but possibly advantageous against a virus that sneaks into the airways.For now, here’s a scorecard of vaccines that already have begun or are getting close to final-stage tests:GENETIC CODE VACCINESThe Moderna and Pfizer candidates began Phase 3 testing in late July.Neither uses the actual coronavirus. Instead, they’re made with the genetic code for the aptly named “spike” protein that coats the surface of the coronavirus. Inject the vaccine containing that code, called mRNA, and the body’s cells will make some harmless spike protein — just enough for the immune system to respond, priming it to react if it later encounters the real virus.These mRNA vaccines are easier and faster to make than traditional vaccines, but it’s a new and unproven technology.TROJAN HORSE VACCINESBritain’s Oxford University and AstraZeneca are making what scientists call a “viral vector” vaccine but a good analogy is the Trojan horse. The shots are made with a harmless virus — a cold virus that normally infects chimpanzees — that carries the spike protein’s genetic material into the body. Once again, the body produces some spike protein and primes the immune system, but it, too, is a fairly new technology.Two possible competitors are made with different human cold viruses.Shots made by Johnson & Johnson began initial human studies in late July. The company plans to begin Phase 3 testing in September in as many as 60,000 people in the US and elsewhere.China’s government authorized emergency use of CanSino Biologics’ adenovirus shots in the military ahead of any final testing.‘KILLED’ VACCINESMaking vaccines by growing a disease-causing virus and then killing it is a tried-and-true approach — it’s the way Jonas Salk’s famed polio shots were made. China has three so-called “inactivated” vaccine candidates against Covid-19 made this way.Sinovac has final studies of its candidate underway in Brazil and Indonesia. Competitor SinoPharm has announced plans for final testing in some other countries.Safely brewing and then killing the virus takes longer than newer technologies. But inactivated vaccines give the body a sneak peek at the germ itself rather than just that single spike protein.PROTEIN VACCINESNovavax makes “protein subunit” vaccines, growing harmless copies of the coronavirus spike protein in the laboratory and packaging them into virus-sized nanoparticles.There are protein-based vaccines against other diseases, so it’s not as novel a technology as some of its competitors. But it only recently finished its first-step study; the US government’s Operation Warp Speed aims for advanced testing later in the fall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/third-coronavirus-vaccine-astrazeneca-reaches-major-hurdle-final-us-testing/story-QRmEleVT7p0jZVvkgaTfMI.html
02-09-2020||World||Brazil’s economy contracted record 9.7 per cent in second quarter||Brazil’s economy contracted a record 9.7% in the second quarter from the previous three-month period amid the coronavirus pandemic, the national statistics institute reported Tuesday.It was the second consecutive quarter of a decline in the country’s gross domestic product, which is widely considered to be a recession.The decrease in the April-June period was the largest quarterly drop since 1996. However, some economists and the president of the Central Bank of Brazil speculated weeks ago that the fall could be greater, even up to 11%.“The good part of the news is that although the fall is very large, it allows us to see possibilities of a rebound in the next quarter,” said Gilberto Braga, an economist and professor at Ibmec, a private Brazilian research university.Braga said trends indicate Brazil could see growth of around 0.5% in the third quarter.Brazil has confirmed more than 3.9 million coronavirus infections, with 121,000 deaths. President Jair Bolsonaro has consistently argued that the economic impact of lockdowns and other measures during the pandemic would be more damaging for Brazil than Covid-19 itself.Financial institutions surveyed by the Central Bank of Brazil projected Monday that the economy would have a 5.28% contraction for all of 2020. That is a more favorable outlook than a month earlier, when they forecast a drop of 6.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-s-economy-contracted-record-9-7-per-cent-in-second-quarter/story-8LKJPey3eDbyasrB0cJijL.html
02-09-2020||World||Mike Pence told ‘to be on standby’ for Donald Trump’s hospital visit: Book||A new book is reviving questions about President Donald Trump’s unscheduled visit to Walter Reed military hospital last fall with the revelation that “word went out” for Vice President Mike Pence to stand by to temporarily assume presidential powers if Trump had to receive anesthesia for a medical procedure.The White House has said the president’s November 2019 visit, which raised questions at the time about Trump’s health, was part of his routine annual physical, and that the president wanted to get a head start on what typically is an hours-long, head-to-toe exam because he’d be busy this year with campaigning.A president’s routine medical checkup typically is announced ahead of time.The White House provided no other details at the time. His White House doctor said in a statement Tuesday the president “remains healthy” and “fit to execute the duties of the Presidency.” Pence’s office declined comment.Trump visited Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, about two months after the Democratic-controlled House impeached him over his conduct toward Ukraine.“In reporting for this book, I learned that in the hours leading up to Trump’s trip to the hospital, word went out in the West Wing for the vice president to be on standby to take over the powers of the presidency temporarily if Trump had to undergo a procedure that would have required him to be anesthetized,” Michael Schmidt writes in “Donald Trump v. the United States: Inside the Struggle To Stop A President.”“Pence never assumed the powers of the presidency, and the reason for Trump’s trip to the doctor remains a mystery,” Schmidt says in the book. Schmidt is a New York Times and Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter.Trump responded Tuesday on Twitter to Schmidt’s reporting and other speculation about his health, and later had his White House doctor attest to health.“It never ends! Now they are trying to say that your favorite President, me, went to Walter Reed Medical Center, having suffered a series of mini-strokes. Never happened to THIS candidate - FAKE NEWS,” Trump tweeted.Trump appeared to be responding to Clinton White House veteran Joe Lockhart, who tweeted Monday about Trump, asking: “Did @realDonaldTrump have a stroke which he is hiding from the American public?”Dr. Sean Conley, Trump’s White House doctor, followed up with a statement in which he said Trump has not experienced or been evaluated for a stroke, a mini-stroke or any acute cardiovascular emergency.“The president remains healthy and I have no concerns about his ability to maintain the rigorous schedule ahead of him,” said Conley, who flew with Trump to Wisconsin on Tuesday. “As stated in my last report, I expect him to remain fit to execute the duties of the presidency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pence-told-to-be-on-standby-for-donald-trump-s-hospital-visit-book/story-sLSPFM6Q3Uz2L2bRtKWkbI.html
02-09-2020||World||Facebook sends world a warning with threat to Australian news||Facebook Inc. has flashed a warning to global regulators by taking a hardball stance against Australia’s plan to force it to pay media companies for stories.The Australian government has drafted legislation to force the US tech giant and Google to compensate publishers for the value their stories generate for the platforms. Facebook lobbed a grenade on Tuesday seeking to hollow out the proposed law. If it passes, the company will block Australians and publishers from sharing news on Facebook and Instagram, an unprecedented step.The scene is now set for an acrimonious battle after the Australian government said it won’t buckle to “coercion or heavy-handed threats.” The standoff has turned one of Facebook’s most distant markets, with a population of 25 million, into a test case as watchdogs around the world turn their own power against digital behemoths.“This is a microcosm for other markets and what may happen as Facebook defends its turf,” said Dan Ives, an analyst at Wedbush Securities in New York. The company has come out “throwing punches,” he said.Traditional media companies have long complained their content is being exploited by digital platforms without due compensation. The Australian government has said it’s trying to level the playing field as once-dominant publishers lose advertising revenue to Google and Facebook. In May, for example, Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. announced plans to cut jobs and close or stop printing more than 100 local and regional newspapers in Australia.The draft Australian law, which needs approval in parliament, calls for an arbitration panel to decide how much Facebook and Alphabet Inc.’s Google must pay publishers if the two sides can’t agree.‘Line in the Sand’By pushing back in Australia, Facebook is telling other European regulators what to expect in disputes over the platform’s use of news, said Rob Nicholls, an associate professor at the business school of the University of New South Wales in Sydney. At the very least, Facebook wants to force a change in the legislation, or even delay its introduction, he said.“If you draw a line in the sand here, you’ve effectively provided that benchmark for negotiations,” Nicholls said.The chairman of Australia’s competition watchdog, Rod Sims, said in an interview in July that he knows of several counterparts overseas who are considering taking similar steps to Australia’s. Facebook’s explosive intervention follows recent gains by publishers in Europe against digital platforms.In April, France’s antitrust regulator ordered Google to pay media companies to display snippets of articles. Last October, Facebook introduced a separate news section, paying some publishers whose stories are featured. Last week, the company said it plans to expand the news section to other markets globally.Facebook said in a blog post Monday that Australia’s legislation is based on the flawed assumption that it benefits most from its relationship with publishers. “The reverse is true,” Facebook said. Google also opposes the law, saying in an open letter it would “put the free services you use at risk in Australia.”Nine Entertainment Co., publisher of the Sydney Morning Herald, called Facebook’s response to the proposed law “strange.”“It is a demonstration of Facebook’s use of its monopoly power while failing to recognize the importance of reliable news content to balance the fake news that proliferates on their platform,” Nine said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-sends-world-a-warning-with-threat-to-australian-news/story-07oLvey5NRTnueRfQzx17K.html
02-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi reports over 2,500 new cases,19 deaths in last 24 hours||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi reached 1,79,569 after it recorded more than 2,500 cases in the last 24 hours. The death toll increased to 4,481 after 19 fresh fatalities, according to the daily health bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs many as 1,858 patients were recovered and discharged from hospitals, taking the cumulative number to 1,58,586. There are 16,502 active cases in the city as of Wednesday.So far authorities have tested 16,36,518 samples for Covid-19, the bulleting stated. Delhi’s test per million stands at 86,132. While the recovery rate stands at 88.31 per cent.Delhi has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 infections for the past few days, triggering fear of the second wave.Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday directed officials to significantly augment the city’s testing capacity by taking measures like ‘testing on demand’, testing at the national capital’s border points and at major construction sites to check the spread of Covid-19.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-reports-over-2-500-new-cases-19-deaths-in-last-24-hours/story-72y1cMw2j7uqgiwZK6O6oO.html
02-09-2020||India||Cabinet appointments panel approves restructuring of Railway Board, names first CEO||The appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC) on Wednesday formally approved the restructuring of the Railway Board and approved the appointment of VK Yadav, the current chairman of the Railway Board as its first CEO.In December 2019, the Union Cabinet in a major move to reform the 150-year-old railway board of the Indian Railways approved the restructuring of the apex body of the Indian Railways by trimming its strength to half, and unifying its eight railways services into a central service called the Indian Railway Management Service.While Yadav has been appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Pradeep Kumar has been appointed Member, Infrastructure, PC Sharma has been appointed Member, Traction and Rolling Stock, PS Mishra has been made Member, Operations and Business Development. Manjula Rangarajan has been appointed Member, Finance.With this rearrangement, three apex level posts -- Member (Staff), Member (Engineering) and Member (Materials Management) in Railway Board have been surrendered and the post of Member (Rolling Stock) has been utilised for creation of the post of Director General (HR) in apex grade as per the Cabinet Decision, the ACC said.Indian Railways will now have only a five member railway board; who will act as “Chief Executive Officer (CEO)” along with four members responsible for Infrastructure, Operations & Business Development, Rolling Stock and Finance respectively.The Railway Board is the apex body of the Indian Railways which reports to the Parliament via the ministry of railways. It will now consist of four members and a chairperson. At present, the railway board includes eight members; member (rolling stock), member (traction), member (traffic), member (engineering), member (staff), member (material management), members (signal & telecom) and financial commissioner.According to the new structure, the Chairman shall be the cadre controlling officer responsible for Human Resources (HR) with assistance from a Director General level officer. Three apex level posts shall be surrendered from Railway Board, and all the remaining posts of the Railway Board shall be open to all officers regardless of the service to which they belonged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-appointments-panel-approves-restructuring-of-railway-board-names-first-ceo/story-8h1TUAvLewJEavpWze83hN.html
02-09-2020||India||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reaches Russia for SCO meet||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday arrived here on a three-day visit to Russia to attend a crucial meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and hold talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu on further boosting bilateral defence cooperation.The defence ministers of all eight SCO member nations are expected to deliberate on regional security challenges like terrorism and extremism and ways to deal with them collectively here on Friday, officials said.The meeting is taking place under the shadow of a fierce border row between India and China, both members of the influential bloc.The SCO comprises eight member states -- India, Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.Chinese Defence Minister Gen Wei Fenghe and Pakistan’s Pervez Khattak are expected to attend the SCO meeting. Asked about the possibility of a bilateral meeting between Singh and Wei on the sidelines of the SCO event, officials said there is no such plan.Before departure, Singh in a tweet said that issues of mutual interest will figure in his talks with Shoigu.“India and Russia are privileged Strategic Partners. Looking forward to further this partnership during my visit,” he said.In his meeting with Shoigu, Singh will press for expediting supply of a number of weapons systems, ammunition and spares to India by Russia under contracts which were concluded earlier, officials said.In the talks, both sides are expected to officially finalise a long-pending proposal to produce AK 203 rifles in India.The officials said Singh is also likely to request the Russian side to ensure the timely delivery of the S-400 missile defence systems to India. The delivery of the first batch of S-400 surface-to-air missile systems to India is scheduled by the end of 2021.It is Singh’s second visit to Moscow since June. He had represented India at the Victory Day Parade in Moscow on June 24 that commemorated the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany in the Second World War.The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations which accounts for almost 44 per cent of the world population stretching from the Arctic Ocean to the Indian Ocean and from the Pacific Ocean to the Baltic Sea.The aim of the SCO is to maintain peace, stability and security of the region. India became a member of the SCO in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-reaches-russia-for-sco-meet/story-DQHK6zhbvNpRLau7PI37AP.html
02-09-2020||India||India ranks 48th in global innovation index||India has joined the group of top 50 countries in the global innovation index for the first time, moving up four places to the 48th rank and keeping the top position among the nations in central and southern Asia. According to the Global Innovation Index (GII) list, 2020 released jointly by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), Cornell University and INSEAD Business School on Wednesday, the rankings show stability at the top but a gradual “eastward shift in the locus of innovation” as Asian economies like China, India, the Philippines and Vietnam have advanced considerably in the innovation ranking over the years. Switzerland, Sweden, the US, the UK and the Netherlands lead the innovation ranking, and the top 10 positions are dominated by high-income countries, WIPO said in a statement. About India, the statement said it has become the third most innovative lower middle-income economy in the world, thanks to newly available indicators and improvements in various areas of the GII. India ranks in the top 15 in indicators such as ICT (Information and Communication Technology) services exports, government online services, graduates in science and engineering, and R&D-intensive global companies. “Thanks to universities such as the Indian Institute of Technology in Bombay and Delhi and the Indian Institute of Science in Bengaluru, and its top scientific publications, India is the lower middle-income economy with the highest innovation quality,” it said. A total of 131 countries were analysed under the GII before arriving at the rankings. The metrics include institutions, human capital and research, infrastructure, market sophistication and business sophistication, knowledge and technology outputs and creative outputs. Meanwhile, an official statement said WIPO had also accepted India as one of the leading innovation achievers of 2019 in the central and southern Asian region, as it has shown a consistent improvement in its innovation ranking for the last five years.  “The consistent improvement in the global innovation index rankings is owing to the immense knowledge capital, the vibrant startup ecosystem, and the amazing work done by the public & private research organization,” the statement said.  It further said bodies like the Department of Science and Technology, Department of Biotechnology and Department of Space have played a pivotal role in enriching the national innovation ecosystem. The statement noted that NITI Aayog has been working tirelessly to ensure optimisation of national efforts in this direction by bringing policy-led innovation in different areas such as electric vehicles, biotechnology, nanotechnology, space and alternative energy sources.The India Innovation Index, which was released last year by NITI Aayog, has been widely accepted as a major step in the direction of decentralisation of innovation across all states of the country, it said.  “The call for Aatma Nirbhar Bharat by the Prime Minister could only be realized if India punches above its weight class and compete with global superpowers in developing scientific interventions. It is time that India brings a paradigm shift and aims to be in the top 25 countries in the next global innovation index rankings,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ranks-48th-in-global-innovation-index/story-Xabmv7sZV88djyRvwcCLrJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Focus on ‘Made in India’ now, says IT minister after govt bans 118 apps||India on Wednesday banned more than 100 mobile application, mostly Chinese, in the country. Speaking at a virtual forum, Information and technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad cited security and surveillance issues behind the reason for banning those apps. He also said that India is focussing on “Made In India” apps now, news agency PTI reported.“Today we have also banned 118 more apps which were a problem for your security, surveillance...data,” Prasad said at the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum.India is a country which sees the highest number of mobile application downloads and now the government has started focussing on ‘Made in India’ apps, news agency PTI reported the minister as saying.After banning 59 mobiles applications earlier this year, the ministry of information and technology banned 118 mobile applications on Wednesday, including the hugely popular mobile gaming app PUBG. Also Read | IT ministry bans 118 more Chinese apps including PUBG: Here is the full listThe apps were banned citing concerns regarding data security after fresh tensions between India and China in the border area in eastern Ladakh.The banned mobile applications are prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity, defence of India and public order, the ministry said in an official statement.The banned apps include Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading and Tencent Weiyun, besides PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite, the statement read. According to some reports, there are nearly 33 million active PUBG players in India, making it one of the most popular apps downloaded in the country. PUBG reportedly clocks 13 million users per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-made-in-india-now-says-it-minister-after-govt-bans-118-apps/story-tFTE2CQsWtUae4fSxmvYiP.html
02-09-2020||India||Shiv Sena’s former chief in Madhya Pradesh shot dead, wife and daughter injured||A former president of the Madhya Pradesh unit of the Shiv Sena was shot dead while his wife and daughter were injured in an attack in their house in Indore by unidentified persons in the early hours of Wednesday, police said. “The deceased Ramesh Sahu, 70, who was a dhaba owner, his wife Geeta Sahu, 65, and daughter Jaya Sahu, 42, were asleep in their house adjacent to the dhaba at Tejaji Nagar locality when three assailants entered the house around 2 am on Wednesday and shot at Ramesh Sahu with a country made pistol. He was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said RNS Bhadoriya, inspector of police, Tejaji Nagar police station. Geeta Sahu told the police that she heard some noise and opened the door to see three persons with their faces covered and armed with a pistol, sharp-edged weapons and sticks. They pushed her aside, entered the house and snatched her gold chain. They started looting ornaments and cash. When she resisted they attacked her and her daughters with sticks. They demanded that they be handed over all ornaments and cash. The three men then entered the room where Ramesh Sahu was asleep after which there was the sound of gunfire. The assailants then left the house. “When my daughter and I entered the room we found my husband with bullet injury in his throat. With the help of driver and others working at the dhaba we rushed to MY Hospital where doctors declared him dead,” Geeta Sahu told the police.Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Indore Harinarayanchari Mishra said, “Though it appears to be a case of loot and murder, we are investigating matter on other angles too as the deceased faced about one and a half dozen FIRs lodged with different police stations, related to property disputes. The accused are yet to be identified.” Mahesh Sharma, district unit president of Shiv Sena in Indore, said, “Ramesh Sahu was state president of Shiv Sena for about a decade from 1991 to 2000. Then he was a member of the party’s national executive for 4 years but later he was not active as a member of the party. We demand a high-level inquiry into the murder and immediate arrest of the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-s-former-chief-in-madhya-pradesh-shot-dead-wife-and-daughter-injured/story-nexcgPJYJTe5Ntj3D9uKiJ.html
02-09-2020||India||PUBG Mobile App Ban: Controversies surrounding the game||The Centre on Wednesday banned 118 more Chinese mobile apps as they were “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity and defence of India”. PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, popularly known as PUBG, was one of them.In 2019, discussion around the controversial game resulted in several states expressing their concern about the side effects of the game. It was called ‘addictive’, ‘harmful’, and ‘distracting’. Here are a few controversies surrounding PUBG:• PUBG was banned temporarily in Rajkot and Ahmedabad as it was a distraction from studies for the children. • Punjab-based lawyer HC Arora, in January 2020, filed a PIL seeking a ban on the app. He compared the app to drugs and described it as ‘addictive’. “Children are losing interest in studies have become addicted to the game. The parents of such children are helpless. In case they insist the children to stop playing it, they become aggressive,” the PIL had argued.• In the same month, the Jammu and Kashmir Students Association sought a ban on the app due to poor board examination results. • A fitness trainer in Jammu and Kashmir was reported to have started hitting himself while playing the game. He had to be admitted to a hospital after the self destructive act. • Schools in Bengaluru warned parents about the ill-effects of playing the game for hours at a stretch after cases of addiction were reported to the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pubg-mobile-app-ban-controversies-surrounding-the-chinese-app/story-SjLhIsFXNmQUblkrjIXjzL.html
02-09-2020||India||Foreign secretary Shringla recalls Pranab Mukherjee’s contributions to foreign policy||Former president Pranab Mukherjee played an instrumental role in articulating and realising several of India’s foreign policy priorities, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has said in a condolence message to the late leader’s family. Mukherjee, who died on August 31 at the age of 84, had two stints as external affairs minister during 1995-96 and 2006-09. He took a keen interest in issues related to the neighbourhood and played a key role in shaping foreign policy as a member of several previous governments. In a message sent to Mukherjee’s daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee, Shringla said the former president’s contributions and achievements in the service of India need no recounting. “He had a tremendous influence on the entire gamut of governance. As external affairs minister, he was instrumental in articulating and realising several of our foreign policy priorities. The Indian Foreign Service was greatly enriched by his stellar leadership and instinctive understanding of international affairs,” he said. Shringla also recalled his personal association with Mukherjee and the benefit of his guidance and advice. “I had the privilege of working under his guidance while he headed different high offices in the government of India. I also benefited from his insights and advice on Bangladesh as the joint secretary in the ministry of external affairs and later as high commissioner there,” said Shringla, who was India’s envoy to Dhaka during 2016-19. “I fondly recall his 2018 visit to Bangladesh on which you accompanied him,” he added. Expressing great sadness at the passing of Mukherjee, Shringla extended condolences on behalf of the external affairs ministry to the former president’s family. “With the passing of Shri Mukherjee, we have lost a great statesman and an inspirational figure in our public life. We pray for his soul to rest in peace,” he said. Tributes have poured in from all over the country and across the world for Mukherjee. One of his key achievements as external affairs minister was the signing of the civil nuclear agreement with the US in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-shringla-recalls-pranab-mukherjee-s-contributions-to-foreign-policy/story-mJXafVbTyZGHfOdzaGY23N.html
02-09-2020||India||India bans PUBG, 117 other mobile apps: All you need to know||In its third such move, the government on Wednesday banned 118 more mobile apps, including the massively-popular game PUBG, over information that these were being used for activities ‘prejudicial to the sovereignty of India, defence of India and security of state and public order’.Today’s move follows an earlier ban announced on 59 and 47 mobile apps in June and July respectively.Here’s all you need to know about the Centre’s ban on these 118 apps:(1.) The Ministry of Information and Technology invoked its powers under Section 69 A of the IT Act, with relevant provisions of the IT Rules 2009 to ban the apps, adding that it had received complaints from various sources with regard to the misuse of the apps.(2.) The ministry in its order further said that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had also sent an exhaustive recommendation for blocking these ‘malicious’ apps. It further said that there are also concerns raised by public representatives, as well as a strong public demand to act against the apps.(3.) PUBG, which stands for Player Unknown’s Battlegrounds, is an online multi-player game developed and published by PUBG Corporation, which is a subsidiary of South Korean video game company Bluehole.(4.) It is massively popular in India, where it has over 50 million (5 crore) downloads and 33 million (3.3 crore) active users.Also read: PUBG loses battle for India, among 118 Chinese mobile apps banned by Centre(5.) The move comes in the backdrop of the ongoing India-China tensions in the mountainous area of Ladakh. The two countries have been engaged in a military standoff in the region since the first week of May.(6.) On June 29, amid vociferous demand across India to take action against China in the wake of the June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed in action, the government announced a ban on 59 Chinese apps, including popular video-sharing app TikTok.(7.) A month later, on July 28, the government banned 47 more apps, taking the total number of apps banned to 106. With today’s announcement, a total of 224 mobile apps have been banned since June.(8.) In its order today, the government also called its decision a targeted move to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace. The move, it further said, will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users.(9.) The ban will apply on both mobile and non-mobile internet-enabled devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bans-pubg-117-other-mobile-apps-all-you-need-to-know/story-XWDPnSwTgHT6aS2hkLCu3I.html
02-09-2020||India||Another 6-8 weeks needed to douse Baghjan gas well fire, says Assam minister||It might take another six to eight weeks to douse the fire at a natural gas well in Assam’s Baghjan, industry minister Chandra Mohan Patowary told the state assembly on Wednesday. The well operated by Oil India Limited (OIL) in Tinsukia district of Assam, which had a blow out on May 27, caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters. Though the well was capped last month, the fire continues to blaze. Replying to a zero hour notice by Congress’ Durga Bhumij, Patowary said efforts are on to bring a team of experts from Canada to ‘kill the well’ with help of snubbing technology. “Experts from Canada are coming to Baghjan in a chartered aircraft carrying equipment to kill the well with snubbing technology. It could take another 6 to 8 weeks to complete the operation,” Patowary told the assembly. Snubbing is a process to install or remove tubular (types of pipes used in gas and oil wells) from a well while the well remains pressurized (alive). This technique is used when it is not possible or desired to kill a well using a mud-sludge called ‘kill fluid’, a technique which was tried unsuccessfully earlier. Patowary said 12 families whose houses were completely burnt by the fire will be given Rs 24 lakhs each. Another nearly 1,484 families living near the well have been provided Rs 30,000 each and 1,197 families living a bit far away will be given Rs 25,000 each. A sum of Rs 10 lakh would be given to 57 families affected by the fire and 561 families who had partial impact would be given Rs 2.5 lakh each according to a relief and rehabilitation plan prepared by the district administration. On August 17, foreign experts engaged by OIL were able to cap the well by placing a blow out preventer (BOP) stack over the wellhead. But the problem surfaced two days later when attempts were made to douse the fire by ‘killing the well’. The operation was suspended on August 19 following rupture of a casing valve. The setback has forced the experts to plug all technical glitches before making another attempt to douse the fire. OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika had said last week that with the first attempt to douse the fire failing, other options like cutting the entire damaged portion of the casing pipes and replacing with new ones or to digging up a relief well, which is used to intercept and kill a blow out well are being looked into. “Since we have already placed the BOP, we are also considering producing gas from the well partially. If we are able to do that, then the killing operation will be slightly easier because the pressure of the gas will be reduced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-6-8-weeks-needed-to-douse-baghjan-gas-well-fire-says-assam-minister/story-bo7Noj5gr799muTwdWzKzM.html
02-09-2020||India||Civil aviation ministry raises domestic flight operations to 60%||The civil aviation ministry on Wednesday announced increasing the limited domestic flight operations from 45% to 60%. “After the review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-a-viz passenger demands for air travel in terms of purpose specified in the initial order (01/2020) dated 21.05.2020, condition laid down....is modified as under: 45% capacity may be read as 60% capacity. This order shall take effect from the date of issue of this order. The other terms and conditions shall remain the same,” the ministry said in an order. Jitender Bhargava, former executive director of Air India said the decision was in line with a growth in the number of passengers.“It is a good move considering that there is steady growth in the average number of passengers lying on domestic sectors. Hence, to ensure that the growing demand of the passengers is met this increase appears to be a part of well thought of strategy,” he said.Civil aviation minister Hardeeo Singh Puri highlighted the rising number of domestic flights over the past few months.“Touching new heights! 1121 domestic flights carried 1,20,725 passengers in a single day on 1st September 2020, Day 101 of recommencement of domestic operations. It began with 30,550 passengers on 418 flights on 25 May 2020,” he tweeted.The government had resumed domestic flight operations on May 25, two months after the national lockdown was announced to stop the spread of Covid-19. The operations were announced to begin in calibrated manner with a 30% capacity to ensure social distancing was followed. While this step enabled stranded people to return home, the number of passengers opting for air travel remained low till mid July. The government had, however, increased the limited flights to 45% by June end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-aviation-ministry-raises-domestic-flight-operations-to-60/story-zu4HNxw0qADFG3aKHOTo3H.html
02-09-2020||India||Mission Karmayogi aims to prepare civil servants for future: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday hailed the “Mission Karmayogi”, a skill-building programme for country’s civil servants, saying that it will radically improve the government’s human resource management practices.“National Program for Civil Services Capacity Building approved in today’s cabinet will radically improve the Human Resource management practices in the Government. It will use scale and state of the art infrastructure to augment the capacity of Civil Servants,” PM Modi said in a tweet. #MissionKarmayogi - National Program for Civil Services Capacity Building approved in today’s cabinet will radically improve the Human Resource management practices in the Government. It will use scale & state of the art infrastructure to augment the capacity of Civil Servants. pic.twitter.com/RNl3uDS7ILHe also said that the program aims to prepare civil servants for the future.“The iGOT platform will enable the transition to a role-based HR management and continuous learning. Mission Karmayogi aims to prepare Civil Servants for the future by making them more creative, constructive and innovative through transparency and technology,” PM Modi also said. The iGOT platform will enable the transition to a role-based HR management & continuous learning. Mission Karmayogi aims to prepare Civil Servants for the future by making them more creative, constructive & innovative through transparency and technology. #CivilService4NewIndia pic.twitter.com/NxGBcAxUGoDubbed as the “biggest Human Resources Development reform in the government”, the Union cabinet approved “Mission Karmayogi” initiative. Under the program, an integrated government online training platform, iGOTKarmayogi, will be set up for the mission.The initiative is aimed at capacity building of government employees to make them more “creative, proactive, profession and technology-enabled”, the government said.At the top will be an HR council, chaired by the prime minister, and consisting of select Union ministers and chief ministers. It will also have eminent thought leaders (noted academics, and global leaders) and civil services leadership.The schemes will be accessible for all, from section officers to secretaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mission-karmayogi-aims-to-prepare-civil-servants-for-future-pm-modi/story-F7eDWrsyoCG0gNg8U56ncM.html
02-09-2020||India||Telangana migrant stranded in the UAE, reunited with family after 16 years||It was an emotional reunion for 47-year old Neela Yellaiah, a migrant worker from Telangana with his wife and daughter at Hyderabad’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Tuesday after being stranded in the UAE for 16 years.Yellaiah, who lost his passport and was suffering partial memory loss all these years, returned to Hyderabad from Dubai in an Air India flight in the early hours of Tuesday. He was received by E Chittibabu, special officer of NRI cell in the Telangana government and his family members. “His wife Rajavva broke into tears on seeing her husband after 16 years. His daughter Sunanda, who was a breastfeeding baby when he went to Dubai in 2004, was also emotional on seeing her father for the first time,” Mandha Bheem Reddy, president of Telangana Gulf Migrants’ Forum, who coordinated the entire process of bringing Yellaiah back to India, told Hindustan Times. Though it was mandatory for Yellaiah to be in institutional quarantine for a week as per the Covid-19 protocol, the Telangana government permitted him to be taken straightaway to his native village Chinthamanpalli in Domakonda block of Kamareddy district in view of his physical weakness and memory loss. He will have to be in home quarantine for two weeks. Bheem Reddy said Yellaiah went to the United Arab Emirates in 2004 to work as a labourer in a construction company on a temporary visa. However, he was forced to quit the company for some reasons. He lived in Dubai and Sharjah for the last 16 years doing odd jobs. “During this period, he suffered ill-health. He lost his passport and. He was stuck there because did not have a passport. Having come under severe mental and physical strain, he also lost his memory partially,” Reddy said. Apparently, Yellaiah lost touch with his wife and other family members, who had no clue about his whereabouts. In the last 16 years, he might have spoken to his wife four or five times and according to his wife, there had been no word from him in the last 10 years. Rajavva, who started working as an agriculture labourer on daily wages, brought up her daughter Sunanda. “A couple of years ago, she even got her daughter married and Sunanada now has a one-year-old son,” Reddy said. Recently, Rupesh Mehta, a volunteer from the ‘Jain Seva Mission’ (JSM), a social service organization in the Gulf countries, noticed Yellaiah’s condition while distributing provisions for Indian migrants in Sharjah. “On coming to know about Yellaiah’s plight, Mehta arranged an Emergency Certificate (Temporary Passport) from the Indian Consulate in Dubai for him. But it was not so easy, as there were no details of his old passport,” he said. Rajavva, with the support of Gulf Migrants’ Forum, made a request with the Hyderabad Passport Office, which searched its data base and found the passport details of Yellaiah. The same details were shared to the Consulate General of India (CGI), Dubai which made it easier to issue temporary passport. “Jitender Singh Negi and Harjeet Singh, Labour Consuls at CGI, Dubai, helped him in getting the passport. The consulate also provided a free air ticket from Dubai to Hyderabad,” Reddy said. According to UAE immigration regulations, those whose visa expires and residing illegally have to pay an overstay fine of 25 UAE Dirhams (Rs 500) per day. This carries a hefty fine of 1.46 Lakh Dirhams (Rs 29 lakhs) for 16 years. “Thanks to the efforts of Rupesh Mehta and Indian Consulate, the Dubai immigration officials waived this fine and gave him exit permit,” Reddy said. He appealed to the state and central governments to provide rehabilitation for Yellaiah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-migrant-stranded-in-the-uae-reunited-with-family-after-16-years/story-TC88PDqSmK4Iy300Jq4H8L.html
02-09-2020||India||Foreign and defence ministers of India, Australia, Indonesia to meet amid concerns over China||India, Australia and Indonesia are set to hold two virtual meetings of their foreign and defence ministers to bolster regional cooperation and maritime security in the Indo-Pacific region, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. The meetings will be held against the backdrop of China’s increasingly aggressive actions across the region, ranging from the border standoff with India to territorial claims in the South China Sea backed by the concentration of military assets. The meetings have been in the works for some time and the video conference of the foreign ministers – S Jaishankar, Marise Payne of Australia and Retno Marsudi of Indonesia – is expected later this month, and will be followed by the meeting of defence ministers, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. “This is a fast moving trilateral with the defence and foreign ministers expected to meet over the next couple of months. All three countries have a shared interest in an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific,” one of the people said. The foreign ministers will focus on working collaboratively to strengthen regional institutions such as the East Asia Summit (EAS), which includes Asean states and their dialogue partners, and the 22-member Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA), the people said. The defence ministers will focus on maritime security cooperation at their subsequent meeting, the people added. Officials working on the initiative have coined the term “minilateral” to describe the coming together of the three countries. “With the world’s biggest democracy, India, Asia’s oldest democracy, Australia, and the largest Muslim-majority democracy in the form of Indonesia, we think this could be one of the region’s most important minilaterals,” said the person cited above. The final schedules for the meetings are yet to be locked down but Indonesian foreign minister Marsudi tweeted last week she had discussed the upcoming trilateral meet with her Australian counterpart Payne during a phone call on August 26. Indonesian defence minister Prabowo Subianto’s visit to New Delhi in late July provided an opportunity for the two sides to discuss expansion of security cooperation and China’s activities in the region, the people said. Subianto was one of the rare foreign leaders to visit India amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The possible sale of the BrahMos cruise missile to Indonesia had figured in talks. A statement issued by India’s defence ministry said both ministers agreed to take defence ties to the “next level of deliverables”. Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell, while delivering a speech at India’s National Defence College in April, had said the three countries should identify new ways in which they can collaborate to be the “best possible custodians of the Indian Ocean”. Rear Admiral (retired) Sudarshan Shrikhande, a strategy affairs expert who focuses on the Indo-Pacific, described the planned meetings as a good development, especially in view of growing concerns about China. “An increasing number of nations globally, but even more so across the Indo-Pacific are seriously concerned about China’s claims, belligerence and arm-twisting while recognising the potential of its powerful military,” he said. “A coming together of Australia, Indonesia and India could be a key contributor to stability, freedom of the commons and mutual understanding and respect,” Shrikhande said, adding the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad will have greater heft if it expands regional security cooperation to involve Indonesia, Vietnam and the Philippines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-and-defence-ministers-of-india-australia-indonesia-to-meet-amid-concerns-over-china/story-uEAcjcKPKFgKIrrShPCCrJ.html
02-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kashmiri couple, techie from Hyderabad among 5 charged by NIA for ISKP links and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kashmiri couple, techie from Hyderabad among 5 charged by NIA for ISKP linksThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against five operatives of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), including a Kashmiri couple - Jahanzaib Sami and Hina Bashir Beigh for allegedly conspiring to utilize the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests to instigate Muslims against the Indian government and planning to indulge in arson to provoke riots. Read more.Hoping for peaceful resolution of India-China border dispute, says US Secretary of State Mike PompeoThe United States hopes for a peaceful resolution to the border dispute between India and China, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Wednesday. “More missile tests were done in China last year than all western nations combined. If you’re going to be serious, you’ve to use those in a way that is consistent with how nations undertake obligation under nuclear proliferation treaties,” Pompeo said while addressing a press conference at the State Department. Read more.India bans 118 more mobile apps including PUBGIndia on Wednesday banned more than 100 mobile applications including the hugely popular mobile gaming app PUBG, after banning 59 Chinese apps in the first round earlier this year. The apps were banned citing concerns of data security after fresh tensions between India and China in the border area in eastern Ladakh. Read more.Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer says sister got SSR a prescription for anxiety medication, legallySlamming ‘malicious’ campaigns by certain TV channels to project actor Sushant Singh Rajput as mentally unstable, his father’s lawyer Vikas Singh has said that the family was not aware of any such psychological issues. Vikas Singh addressed leaked chat messages that seemed to suggest that the family was aware of Sushant’s alleged depression, and even took it upon themselves to find medication for him. Read more.Metros to resume from 7 September but won’t stop at overcrowded stationsMetro trains will resume services in a graded manner and metros having more than one line should open different lines starting from September 7 onwards in a staggered manner so that all corridors become operational by September 12, according to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued on Wednesday for restarting Metro services under the Unlock 4 guidelines. Read more.East Bengal finally get an investor, all set to play ISL 7With help from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, East Bengal landed an investor thereby removing the biggest hurdle in the 100-year-old club’s path to play in the Indian Super League (ISL), India’s top football league. ISL is expected to start in November behind closed-doors in Goa. Read more.Watch: Ram Temple map approved by Ayodhya Development AuthorityA major step has been taken in the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The Ayodhya Development Authority has approved the map of the proposed Ram Temple. The Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra had submitted the layout of the Ram temple to Ayodhya Development Authority for approval. Watch video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kashmiri-couple-techie-from-hyderabad-among-5-charged-by-nia-for-iskp-links-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wIS1XqyMRqJMo97Ybfi8SP.html
02-09-2020||India||Pak national living in Vrindavan for 16 years held for rape of minor from Ukraine||A Pakistani national was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raping a minor girl from Ukraine in Mathura’s Vrindavan town, the police said.The girl lives with her father in an apartment in Vrindavan, which the accused, also a resident of Vrindavan, used to visit frequently. “The father of the girl lodged an FIR at Vrindavan Kotwali on Tuesday blaming Anand Kumar, 24, a Pakistani national, for raping his 14-year-old daughter on the night of August 31 when he was away,” said Avdesh Pratap Singh, officiating in-charge of Kotwali, Vrindavan. The accused was arrested on Wednesday and will be presented before a court in Mathura. The medical examination of the survivor has been conducted, said Singh.The police officer said the accused was from Karachi in Pakistan and has been living in Vrindavan on a tourist visa for the past 16 years. “The mother and brother of the accused also live with him in Vrindavan,” said Singh.The father of the survivor who is from Ukraine has been living in Vrindavan for the past five years as a Lord Krishna devotee. His wife lives separately in Vrindavan.“The case has been registered under section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code. As the victim is minor, section ¾ of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has also been included,” the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-national-living-in-vrindavan-for-16-years-held-for-rape-of-minor-from-ukraine/story-53jXdCFx8PAJRRkkgfkF1M.html
02-09-2020||India||Jagan govt withdraws subsidy to Discoms, to directly transfer power bill amount to farmers||In a major change in free agriculture power supply policy, the Andhra Pradesh government has decided to withdraw subsidy to power distribution companies towards agriculture power supply every year. Instead, the government will pay money directly to farmers for the power consumed by them in their fields and they, in turn, could pay the power bills to the Discoms. An order to this effect (GO Ms No. 22) was issued by state energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikanth on Tuesday. The free power supply to agriculture was introduced in combined Andhra Pradesh during the regime of late Y S Rajasekhar Reddy. Until now, farmers have been enjoying unlimited free power supply there was no measure of how much power they are consuming. The state government has been bearing this loss being incurred by Discoms by extending free power supply to farmers in the form of power subsidy every year. According to Srikanth, there are 17.55 lakh agriculture power connections in Andhra Pradesh consuming an average of 12,232 million units of power as per the 2020-21 estimates. The government has been incurring an expenditure of nearly Rs 8,354 crore every year for supplying this power to farmers free of cost. This amount is being paid to Discoms in the form of power subsidy. According to the latest decision, the government will not pay this subsidy amount to Discoms with effect from the next financial year 2021-22. Instead, it will credit the amount for the power bill directly into the account of farmers in the beginning of the month so that they, in turn, would pay the bill for the Discoms. “Like in the past, the farmers will not have to pay a single rupee for the power they consume for their agriculture operations. This will help the farmers know how much subsidy they are getting from the government every month and they will get a right to demand quality power supply from discoms,” Srikanth said. However, there is a condition. The farmers will have to install meters for their agricultural power connections, so that they know how much power they consume every month and the Discoms would be able to bill for the power consumed. Srikanth said decision to introduce direct benefit transfer (DBT) for agriculture power consumers was taken in view of the condition imposed by the Centre as part of performance-linked reforms under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan in order to avail of additional borrowing. The government said it would open fresh bank accounts for farmers to credit the power subsidy directly every month. It proposed to constitute committees at village, block, division, Discom and state-levels for the smooth implementation of the new policy. These committees, besides creating awareness and redressing grievances, will also be responsible to conduct enrolment for new connections. The opposition parties strongly resisted the government’s decision to do away with power subsidy to Discoms and introduce direct benefit transfer to farmers. Telugu Desam Party legislator Anagani Satyaprasad alleged that the state government was trying to shift the burden of power subsidy to farmers. “Why should it transfer the money to farmers and ask them to pay the bills to Discoms again? The government can anyway pay the Discoms directly,” he said. He wondered when the government was not in a position to pay salaries to the employees on time, how it would pay the farmers towards power bills. He also opposed the installation of meters for agriculture power connections. CPI state secretary K Ramakrishna also demanded that the government withdraw the new agriculture power policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-govt-withdraws-subsidy-to-discoms-to-directly-transfer-power-bill-amount-to-farmers/story-hfn4LO18EBKaMPA5q78reK.html
02-09-2020||India||After killing of DYFI activists, 140 Kerala Congress offices vandalised in 2 days||After the murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists, Kerala has been witnessing a series of violent incidents in the last two days. State Congress president Mullappally Ramachandran said at least 140 party offices and memorials were vandalised and he asked the CPI (M) leadership to restrain its workers.Former Youth Congress state general secretary and PCC member G Leena and her minor son received minor injuries after an alleged group of CPI (M) workers attacked her house on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram in the early hours of Wednesday. Later, former chief minister Oommen Chandy and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala visited her house.Tension gripped many parts of the state after the murder of two DFYI activists, Midhilaj (30) and Mohammad Haq (28), on Sunday. While the Congress disowned the murder saying it was part of a gang rivalry between two groups the ruling CPI (M) insisted that it was a political murder. But later the Congress released CCTV visuals which showed the deceased also carried lethal weapons and resisted the attack which continued for 15 minutes.“The state is witnessing government-sponsored violence. Police remain, mute spectators, while CPI (M) workers target Congress offices. More than 140 party offices were vandalized,” said PCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran. He reiterated the youngsters were killed in a gang rivalry and the CPI(M) conveniently put the blame on the party to distract attention from the gold smuggling case and other ‘corrupt’ deals. He said at least two dozen party workers were injured in the attack and even busts of Mahatma Gandhi and other Congress leaders were vandalised.However, the CPI (M) said it was a well-planned and executed murder and many leaders including Attingal MP Adoor Prakash knew about it. “Adoor Prakash has a role in the double murder. We have information that some assailants called him after the murder,” said state Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-killing-of-dyfi-activists-140-kerala-congress-offices-vandalized-in-2-days/story-4hcY1q0ukdfhq2k7lO46AK.html
02-09-2020||India||Malicious campaign by channels to defame Sushant’s family, benefit Rhea: Lawyer||Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer Vikas Singh Wednesday said a malicious campaign was being run by few channels to defame his family and benefit actress Rhea Chakraborty, who has been accused of abetting the actor’s suicide.The senior advocate told the media that Sushant’s three sisters -- Priyanka, Mitu and Rani -- told him that they are extremely pained by the negative and false campaign related to his mental health which has been started by some news channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malicious-campaign-by-few-channels-to-defame-sushant-s-family-benefit-rhea-lawyer/story-A6bZ2Nan1BYxtQN63CM9RN.html
02-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput was cut off from family, they were unable to help him with his problems: Lawyer||Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput was cut off from his family and therefore despite wanting to help him with his problems, they were not able to assist him, advocate Varun Singh, briefing lawyer of the family, said on Wednesday.“It has never been our case that the family was unaware. We have always said that there seemed to be a lot of problem and for which we (family) wanted to eventually rescue Sushant at an opportune time,” Singh told ANI here.He said a look at the FIR in the case clears what the case has been made out.“Because he (Sushant) was cut off, the family was unable to assist him and help him tide over the problem, which is why unfortunately things have happened the way they have,” Singh said.“To dispel rumours and bring some clarity about the family’s stance and their case, Mr Vikas Singh (lawyer of Sushant’s father) will address media today,” he added.Speaking about the recently registered drug case registered in the matter, Singh said that the family’s FIR has nothing to do with the drug angle.“The credible investigative agency has taken note of the fact that these situations had occurred and there is something worthwhile to investigate. However, we as complainants have not really stressed up or made that a basis for our case,” he said.When asked about the questioning of Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the lawyer said he cannot reveal the information as it is a matter of investigation. He also said that he cannot release what his three sisters discussed with their lawyers when they came to meet them today, without their consent.It was also recently reported that Sushant’s sister Priyanka knew about his mental health condition.This comes as the CBI, Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are probing the death case, money laundering angle and drugs angle in the matter respectively.The case had come to light after the dead body of Sushant Singh Rajput was found at his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Police had, at the moment, said that it prima facia appeared to be a case of suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-was-cut-off-from-family-they-were-unable-to-help-him-with-his-problems-says-lawyer/story-uvOZhJuW4Ur0XzRwc9X1GM.html
02-09-2020||India||NDA gets a boost in poll-bound Bihar as Jitan Manjhi’s party joins it||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar will now be a coalition of four parties after former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM-S on Wednesday announced that the party is joining the NDA. The other members of the NDA are the BJP, JD (U) and the LJP. “We have forged an alliance with Janata Dal (United) and have become a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). There has been no discussion about seat-sharing in the next Bihar Assembly elections,” said Manjhi who is also the party president.The former chief minister and one of the prominent Dalit face of Bihar made it clear that he has joined as an alliance partner and there was no merger of the HAM-S with JD (U). “My party will work for the victory of each alliance candidate,” he said and clarified that he has joined the NDA without any terms and conditions. “I have very old relations with Nitish Kumar. How many seats we will get, it is a matter between the JD (U) and HAM-S,” he said. HAM-S sources claim the party might contest on 10 assembly seats. An NDA source said that JD (U) national president Nitish Kumar wanted Manjhi to contest against former assembly speaker Udai Narain Chowdhary of RJD but he had shown his reluctance to fight the elections. “There is a possibility of Manjhi going to Rajya Sabha at the earliest opportunity,” said a HAM-S leader. Manjhi’s party had contested 20 assembly seats in 2015 assembly polls and won only one. The JD (U) sources said that Manjhi could be a Dalit face of the party after the exit of Shyam Rajak. Manjhi has a big following in the Maha Dalit and Dalit communities, which form 16% of Bihar’s population of 104.1 million as per the 2011 census. “Seat-sharing is not at all an issue for us. The party decided to be with the development agenda of the NDA,” said HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan. Soon after announcing his party’s decision to ally with NDA, Manjhi criticized the RJD and rued his decision to join the Grand Alliance. “I fell in the trap of Lalu Prasad and that is why I joined GA. RJD is full of corruption and neck deep into scams,” said Manjhi. Countering the RJD allegations that the party made his son MLC, Manjhi countered, “He got the membership through merit. He is not a seventh pass but a MA, Ph.d.” Welcoming Manjhi’s decision to join the NDA, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi tweeted, “Manjhi’s leaving GA goes on to prove that a party run from jail cannot do justice to Dalits and Backwards. Welcome Manjhi ji.” The JD (U) also welcomed the move. “The NDA is going to benefit from his experience. It is a great setback for the GA,” said JD (U) spokesperson, Rajeev Ranjan. The LJP did not react to the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-gets-a-boost-in-poll-bound-bihar-as-jitan-manjhi-s-party-joins-it/story-xRQKPuRqD8aQh3xptAABnM.html
02-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Metro services to remain shut in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided not to resume metro operations in the state during September. The order comes as the Centre allowed resumption of metro services across the country in Unlock 4 guidelines.As per the order by state government, Mumbai Line-1 and Maharashtra Metro operations shall commence from October or “as the state government may decide further.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the latest ease of restrictions, the Central government allowed metro trains to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner, while political, social and religious gatherings of up to 100 people will be permitted from September 21.In Maharashtra, restriction on inter-district movement of persons and goods has been lifted and e-pass will not be required for undertaking such a journey from September 2.At the same time, the government said the general lockdown in the state will continue till September 30 as part of efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19.The Covid-19 caseload in Maharashtra surpassed 8 lakh on Tuesday as the infection continued to spread in the state. Maharashtra is among the worst-affected state from the Covid-19 in the country.The number of total confirmed cases stood at 8,08,306, according to the figures published on Tuesday by the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-metro-services-to-remain-shut-in-maharashtra/story-VrAwfOiOpsT5I7yDfgZlsL.html
02-09-2020||India||Kashmiri couple, techie from Hyderabad among 5 charged by NIA for ISKP links||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against five operatives of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), including a Kashmiri couple - Jahanzaib Sami and Hina Bashir Beigh for allegedly conspiring to utilize the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests to instigate Muslims against the Indian government and planning to indulge in arson to provoke riots. The agency said the couple was conspiring to create unrest during anti-CAA protests by coining seditious slogans and making graffiti at public places and highlighting the same on social and international media. The couple, along with others, had also conducted reconnaissance at prominent places in Maharashtra frequented by foreigners and attempted to make an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) for carrying out mass killings, the agency said in a statement. Jahanzaib Sami (36) and his wife Hina Bashir Beigh (39), both from Srinagar, were the first ones to be arrested in the case in March this year by Delhi Police’s Special Cell from Okhla after which the probe was handed over to the NIA. Hyderabad-based Abdullah Basith, a key ISIS handler in India, and two others from Pune - Sadiya Anwar Shaikh (20) and Nabeel Siddick Khatri (27) were subsequently taken into custody by the central agency. NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang said in a statement – “Investigation has revealed that Jahanzaib, a B.Tech from Ferozpur, Punjab, got radicalised and inclined towards ISIS/ISKP by reading about it on the internet. He established contact with ISIS handler Huzaifa-al-Bakistani and latter’s father-in-law viz. Abu Usman-Al-Kashmiri (Head of Indian affairs of ISKP) in 2017 on a secure messaging platform.” “Huzaifa-al-Bakistani further introduced him to Abdullah Basith, another ISIS operative, who is already in judicial custody in Tihar jail in connection with another NIA case (ISIS Abu Dhabi Module 2018 case),” Narang said. “Hina Bashir, who had her higher education from Pune, also got radicalized since 2014-15 by reading ISIS-related content on social media. Jahanzaib and Hina got married in 2017 as both supported the ideology of ISIS,” she added. The agency said Jahanzaib, Hina Bashir, Abdullah Basith and Ms Sadiya were continuously in contact with ISIS operatives based in Khorasan and Syria. “On receiving instructions from ISKP Head viz. Abu Usman-Al-Kashmiri, accused Jahanzaib and Abdullah Basith prepared a magazine titled ‘Voice of Hind’ inciting Muslims against non-Muslims and exhorting them to rise against the government of India and join ISIS. The magazine eulogises ISIS/ISKP terrorists including Huzaifa-al-Bakistani who was killed in July 2019 in a drone strike in Afghanistan and denigrates the Indian constitution and democratic system,” Narang said. “Jahanzaib, Hina Bashir, Abdullah Basith and Sadiya were conspiring to utilize the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests to instigate Muslims against the Indian Government by coining seditious slogans and making graffiti at public places and highlighting the same on social and international media. They were also provoking some gullible youth to participate in anti-CAA protests actively. In case these protests failed to provoke the Muslims, they were planning for arsoning of government buildings and public property so that riots could happen and they could exploit the sentiments of Muslims,” she added. “Jahanzaib, Hina, Basith and Nabeel Siddick tried to make an improvised IED and were planning to carry out mass-killings in crowded places to further the activities of ISIS/ISKP in India. Reconnaissance was got conducted by them of certain sensitive locations in Maharashtra which are frequented by foreigners,” agency said. The agency last month arrested another person - Abdur Rehman alias Dr Brave from Bengaluru in the case, who was in contact with Jahanzaib as part of the conspiracy to promote the activities of ISIS/ISKP and had also visited ISIS medical camp in Syria in 2014. He will be chargesheeted later. M S Khan, Kashmiri couple’s lawyer, said – “The agency is making a mountain out of a molehill. There is no evidence in the case. It’s all a bundle of lies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmiri-couple-techie-from-hyderabad-among-5-charged-by-nia-for-iskp-links/story-CUv4ELPnwlcFGam0lwYbpO.html
02-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh sees highest single-day spike of 1,884 Covid-19 cases||Chhattisgarh’s highest single-day spike of 1,884 fresh cases on Tuesday took the state’s Covid-19 tally to 33,387 while 10 more casualties took the death toll to 287, the health department said.The state currently has 15,163 active cases of Covid-19 while 17,567 people have recovered, a health department official said.Chhattisgarh has added over 23,500 cases of Covid-19 and 232 deaths in the last one month alone. Raipur district has the highest number of Covid-19 cases with 11,787. The district has also seen 150 deaths till now. Raipur district recorded 660 new cases on Tuesday, followed by Durg district (226) and Rajnandgaon district (149), tally, he said. Other districts where fresh cases were detected are Bilaspur (103), Raigarh (103), Janjgir-Champa (68), Koriya (52), Balodabazar (39), Dantewada (37), Balod (34), Bijapur (34), Korba (26), Surguja (26), Dhamtari (25), Bemetara (20) and Mungeli (20), the official said. Among the 10 fatalities, three patients were from Raipur, two from Bilaspur, one each from Jashpur, Jangri- Champa, Balrampur, Sukma, Durg.Meanwhile, two cabinet ministers are on home isolation while a senior IAS officer tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel is also in home isolation since Monday after one of his PSOs (Personal Security Officer) and OSDs (Officer on Special Duty) tested positive for Covid-19. The two ministers who are in home isolation are home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu and agriculture and parliamentary affairs minister Ravindra Choubey. “Being the parliamentary affairs minister, I have to meet everyone and hence as a precaution, I will be in home isolation for eight days,” Choubey wrote on Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-1-884-covid-19-cases/story-nyrSPZIJvFbWwlWQkZS4KL.html
02-09-2020||India||Delhi Metro to operate between 7am-11am and 4pm-8pm in first phase, normal services from Sept 12||In the first phase, Delhi Metro services will operate in two shifts, said Mangu Singh, Managing Director of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation.“The trains will run from 7am to 11am and 4pm to 8pm, and normal operations from Sept 12,” he said.“In phase 1, on 7th Sept, we are planning to start Yellow Line from Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre. In phase 2, on 9th Sept we will start three more lines, Blue Line, Pink Line & Gurgaon Line,” he added.The government on Wednesday released standard operating procedures (SOPs) for resuming the metro services under Unlock 4.0. “Daily hours of operations may be staggered initially, which needs to be increased gradually with resumption of full revenue service by 12th September, 2020. Frequency of trains to be regulated to avoid passenger crowding at stations and in trains,” the guidelines read.While Delhi, Noida, Chennai, Kochi, Bangalore, Mumbai Line-1, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Maha Metro (Nagpur) Kolkata, Gujarat and UP Metro (Lucknow) have prepared their SOPs, Government of Maharashtra has decided not to resume operation of metro during September, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-metro-to-operate-between-7am-11-am-and-4pm-8-pm-in-first-phase-normal-operations-from-sept-12/story-GroAAhcjFCEduH7cZ4Y8wI.html
02-09-2020||India||Metros to resume from Sept 7 but won’t stop at overcrowded stations||Metro trains will resume services in a graded manner and metros having more than one line should open different lines starting from September 7 onwards in a staggered manner so that all corridors become operational by September 12, according to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued on Wednesday for restarting Metro services under the Unlock 4 guidelines.The guidelines issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs state stations coming under containment zones will remain closed.“Daily hours of operations may be staggered initially, which needs to be increased gradually with resumption of full revenue service by September 12, 2020. Frequency of trains to be regulated to avoid passenger crowding at stations and in trains,” the SOP said.The government of Maharashtra has decided not to resume operation of the metro during September, 2020. “Hence, Mumbai Line-1 and Maharashtra Metro operations shall commence from October, 2020 or as state Government may decide further,” union housing minister Hardeep Puri said in a press conference. Based on the guidelines issued by the Centre the metro corporations of Delhi, Noida, Chennai, Kochi, Bangalore, Mumbai Line-1, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Maha Metro (Nagpur), Kolkata, Gujarat and UP Metro (Lucknow) have prepared their SOP, the ministry said.The SOP has been finalised following discussions with the managing directors of 15 Metro rail corporations on Tuesday. The Union home ministry has cleared the guidelines.The home ministry had allowed Metro services in a graded manner from September 7 under its Unlock 4 plan issued on Saturday.According to the SOP, metro authorities will ensure there are suitable markings at stations and inside trains. It will be mandatory for passengers and staffers to wear a mask at all times. Those who come without a mask will have to buy one at the station.Officials said the metro authorities had also been told that the trains should not stop at stations where passengers do not maintain social distancing norms.“There will be marking across stations for maintaining social distancing and even inside the trains on the seats. Passengers must ensure that they adhere to it, we are monitoring each and every location through video cameras through central control rooms and if at any station these norms are violated or crowding takes place the instructions are that metro trains will not stop at those stations. We have even added this in the SOP,” housing affairs secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said.Puri said the government may have to review the arrangements if resumption of services leads to crowding at stations where passengers are found violating social distancing norms.“Emphasis has to be on review and caution. We are very clear in our minds that this opening up in a graded and calibrated manner will need to be reviewed. If we find that the resumption of operations is not resulting in social distancing either at the metro stations or if there is crowding or trains are getting congested…we might have no option but to review all these arrangements. So I am appealing through the media to all the consumers that while we welcome the resumption of metro services, a decision which was been taken after very careful and deep consideration, the buzz word is ‘caution’ and ‘care’…resumption of economic activity is imperative but it has to be done in a careful and calibrated manner,” Puri said. Only asymptomatic persons to be allowed to travel after thermal screening at entry into the stations. “Symptomatic persons should be advised to go to nearby Covid Care Centre/Hospital for testing/medical attention. Use of Aarogya Setu App will be encouraged,” the SOP said.The guidelines said that the use of Smart Cards and cashless/online transactions will be encouraged but tokens can also be used with proper sanitization.“Adequate dwell time at stations will be provided to enable smooth boarding and deboarding ensuring social distancing. Metro rail corporations may also resort to skipping of stations to ensure proper social distancing,” Puri said.Provision of sanitizers will be made at entry into the stations for use by passengers. Passengers will be advised to travel with minimum luggage and avoid carrying metallic items for easy and quick scanning, the SOP noted.“Operation of Heating, Ventilation and Air-Conditioning (HVAC) system as per the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) & Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE) guidelines. Intake of fresh air in the air-conditioning system to be increased to the extent possible,” the SOP said.Metro rail corporations will maintain close liaison with state police and local administration for regulating crowds outside stations and to deal with contingencies, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-sop-for-metro-rails-to-resume-operations-from-sep-7/story-feL2rDCahgc7N0fBYj0D5I.html
02-09-2020||India||Woman e-rickshaw driver ferries Covid-19 patients free of cost in Bengal’s Siliguri||At a time when news of ambulance drivers refusing to carry Covid-19 patients and charging exorbitant rates from families are common, a 48-year-old woman e-rickshaw driver in north Bengal has been braving all odds and ferrying such patients to hospitals for free.Munmun Sarkar, the first woman e-rickshaw driver of Siliguri in Darjeeling district, who now heads the association of women e-rickshaw drivers in the town. She is lovingly called ‘Muniya Didi’ by all. “Initially when I started ferrying Covid-19 patients, even the local councillor asked me to stop while neighbours tried to ostracize me and my family. But I was determined and my family members supported me throughout. They were ready to face the consequences,” she said. Sarkar started driving the e-rickshaw, popularly known as Toto, almost six and half years ago. She also delivers food and other relief materials to those in need. Her family members including her husband Ananda Sarkar, son Subhankar who works in the State Bank of India, daughter Suparna Poddar have been a support throughout. “I was ready to face all consequences to support the work of my wife even if that meant staying out on the roads,” said Ananda Sarkar, her husband. A resident of Shaktigarh area, Munmun who could not pass class 12, was always into social service and wanted to empower women folks. That’s why she started driving an e-rickshaw and set an example for other women. There are now 118 women Toto drivers in Siliguri town. Stating that money was never an attraction for her, she said that when the pandemic started, she stopped ferrying normal passengers and started carrying only Covid-19 patients to hospitals and those who have been released from hospitals back to their homes. “Till date I have carried a few hundred Covid-19 patients. So far only one has died,” she said. Her work has won her accolades and she has been felicitated by many organistions including Siliguri Journalists’ Club. “Munmun didi has done an exemplary work, fearlessly attending Covid-19 patients at a time when most others fear to go near such patients,” said Anirban Roy a dental surgeon who is the first plasma donor of North Bengal and a nodal person of Covid Care Network – a voluntary organization. She always puts on PPE and the driver’s seat of her Toto is covered with a plastic sheet. But Sarkar said that she never bought any PPE. “I never bought any PPE. Various organisations gift them to me to provide me support. I just make sure that I regularly sanitise the vehicle. That cuts deep into my pocket,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-e-rickshaw-driver-ferries-covid-19-patients-free-of-cost-in-bengal-s-siliguri/story-TQRfdHwN437c8m7ndobExL.html
02-09-2020||India||10 newborn babies being assessed for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand after nurse tests positive||Ten newborn babies are being tested for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand after a nurse tested positive for the virus at the government women’s hospital in Haridwar district, hospital authorities said Wednesday. The babies who were admitted in the Sick New Born Care Unit (SNCU) have been shifted out of it and the unit has been shut. All other medical staff members are also being tested for Covid-19. “Samples of all the ten babies have been taken while the child specialist and other medical staff personnel are also being tested,” chief medical superintendent of the hospital Dr Rajesh Gupta said.He also said that additional preventive and safety measures are being taken in the SNCU as well as the entire hospital premises. An employee at the district hospital has also tested positive for Covid-19 following which the entire facility has been sanitised. The forest division office in Chidiyapur range of Haridwar forest division has also been sealed till September 4 as a precautionary measure following reports of a forest range officer testing positive for Covid-19. All those employees who came to close contact with the forest range officer have been put under home quarantine. The range officer had arrived at Bilkeshwar based Haridwar forest division office for official work on August 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-newborn-babies-being-assessed-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-after-nurse-tests-positive/story-F5t9xWvQHvbUzPYfUXZBsO.html
02-09-2020||India||India bans 118 more mobile apps including PUBG||India on Wednesday banned more than 100 mobile applications including the hugely popular mobile gaming app PUBG, after banning 59 Chinese apps in the first round earlier this year. The apps were banned citing concerns of data security after fresh tensions between India and China in the border area in eastern Ladakh.A total of 118 apps have been banned by the ministry of information and technology, according to an official statement. The banned mobile applications are prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity, defence of India and public order, the ministry said. WATCH | Explained: India bans PUBG, 117 more Chinese apps amid fresh border tussleThe banned apps include Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading and Tencent Weiyun, besides PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite, the statement read. According to some reports, there are nearly 33 million active PUBG players in India, making it one of the most popular apps downloaded in the country. PUBG reportedly clocks 13 million users per day. The ministry of electronics and information technology received several complaints from various sources, including reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on the Android and iOS platforms. The complaints alleged stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which possibly had locations outside India. Also Read | IT ministry bans 118 more Chinese apps including PUBG: Here is the full list“The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” the statement said.The Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre, under the Ministry of Home Affairs also sent a recommendation for blocking these controversial apps. In the public domain too, there has been a strong demand for some time to take strict action against mobile applications that harm India’s sovereignty as well as the privacy of citizens.The move will also safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. The decision is a targeted one meant to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace, the statement said.Earlier in June, the Centre had banned 59, mostly Chinese, mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser and WeChat, citing concerns that these are ‘prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-118-more-mobile-apps-including-pubg/story-BJqtksETjNxMLJbBLrodPP.html
02-09-2020||India||Bar president Dushyant Dave alleges he was not allowed to speak at Justice Mishra’s farewell||President of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), Dushyant Dave wrote a strongly-worded letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on Wednesday, condemning the treatment meted out to him during the ceremonial farewell of Justice Arun Mishra of the Supreme Court.Dave alleged that though he was invited by the Supreme Court to attend the event through video conference and had logged in using the web link sent by the registry, his microphone was deliberately muted by the registry officials preventing him from giving his speech.It is customary for the president of the SCBA, the representative body of lawyers practicing before the Supreme Court, to deliver a speech during the farewell of Supreme Court judges.“I wish to place on record my strong disappointment and condemnation at what happened today in the Supreme Court of India during the farewell to Justice Arun Mishra. The entire episode leaves much to be desired on the part of this great institution. The whole attempt was to prevent me from addressing on behalf of the SCBA and its Executive Committee, after having been invited and the invitation having been accepted. This was clearly an affront to the Bar and to me personally,” Dave said in his letter.When a Supreme Court judge retires, the retiring judge sits along with the CJI on his/ her last working day and Bar leaders including the Attorney General, SCBA President and senior lawyers gather to bid farewell.A separate elaborate farewell function is also organized by the SCBA in the Supreme Court lawns. After Covid-19 broke out and physical functioning of the court ceased, the SCBA had been organising its farewell functions through video conference. Justice Mishra had, however, declined to participate in SCBA’s farewell citing Covid-19 and stating that his conscience does not permit him to participate in a farewell function at a time when the world is reeling under the effects of the pandemic.The ceremonial bench was thus the only opportunity for Bar leaders to bid farewell to Justice Mishra.Dave, in his letter to the CJI, stated that he had received a link from the concerned registrar at 10.06 am to join the ceremonial Bench of the CJI at 12.30 pm where Justice Mishra was to bid farewell.Dave had joined the conference at around 12.20 pm before the bench assembled and was seen engaging in casual conversations with the Attorney General (AG) KK Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who were also present to wish Justice Mishra on the occasion of his retirement.Dave alleged that after the bench assembled and heard all cases, it invited AG KK Venugopal and Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association President, Shivaji Jadhav to speak but Dave got disconnected frequently.“I persisted and rejoined each time. I saw and heard Shri Jadhav fully and at the end of his address again I was not requested to speak though Shri Jadhav acknowledged my presence in his address. After that Your Lordship spoke which I saw and heard and then invited Justice Mishra to speak. At that stage, realising the game plan I exited in the larger interests of the dignity of the Bar and myself,” the letter said.Dave also said that he contacted Secretary General Sanjeev Kalgaonkar demanding why he was being muted but did not get any response on time.“Only at 1.02 pm, he responded saying he is instructing Registrar to look into it, by which time it was too late and so I messaged him informing that I had exited,” Dave said.Dave has been a vocal critic of the Supreme Court in recent years and has engaged in heated exchanges with Justice Arun Mishra on more than one occasion. The most recent of such instances was when he was appearing on behalf of advocate Prashant Bhushan in the contempt case initiated against Bhushan for his tweets criticizing the court and CJI Bobde.What was Dave proposing to say during farewell?Dave in his letter to the CJI also stated that he might have been prevented from speaking due to the fear on the part of the bench that he might say something unpleasant. He went on to highlight what he was proposing to say at the farewell.“Let me tell you exactly what I was to say which I had written down: On behalf of the SCBA, the EC and myself, I wish you, Justice Mishra, happiness and bliss in the remainder of your long life which by all accounts will be as fruitful and rewarding as it has been. May I pray to Lord Mahabaleshwar to bless you with strength to introspect and stir up your conscience,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bar-president-dushyant-dave-alleges-he-was-not-allowed-to-speak-at-justice-mishra-s-farewell/story-Qv3NPfcCHUdOqWkWl5jFdP.html
02-09-2020||India||Scribe dies of Covid-19 at Pune facility after allegedly waiting for ambulance||A journalist with a Marathi news channel succumbed to Covid-19 at Pune’s Jumbo facility early Wednesday morning after the family allegedly had to spend much time trying to find an ambulance.Pandurang Raykar, 42, was working with TV9 Marathi and was brought to the jumbo facility in Pune from Ahmednagar where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19.Following the incident, the Pune Union of Working Journalists (PUWJ) has demanded the inquiry into Raykar’s death. Health minister Rajesh Tope has assured a detailed probe into the incident. “What happened was tragic and I have sought a report from Pune divisional commissioner. As part of government, we will try and help Raykar’s family in every possible way,” Tope told reporters in Mumbai. According to family members, Raykar was admitted to a newly set up jumbo facility at the College of Engineering on Tuesday where his health deteriorated in the absence of ventilator support. After struggling to get a bed at a private hospital, when family and friends were ready to shift him, they were not able to get a cardiac ambulance despite trying for a few hours, Raykar’s sister Akshara Shendge said. “The government claimed to have spent crores of rupees but my brother did not get an ambulance,” said Shendge. One ambulance that was made available did not have oxygen support and another one had a non-functional ventilator, the family alleged.The jumbo facility which became operational in August, has 600 oxygenated and 200 ICU beds. “It is clear negligence on part of administration that the jumbo facility did not have a cardiac ambulance to transfer any patient. PUWJ has written the letter to the chief minister, deputy chief minister, health minister and all the top bureaucrats and demanded an inquiry in Raykar’s death and initiate necessary action against those responsible,” said PUWJ president Prasad Kulkarni. Raykar’s family members said he had been ill since August 20. His first Covid-19 test came negative on August 27 though he again complained about discomfort and underwent another test which came positive. Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital sent an ambulance at 5 am morning but the jumbo hospital announced that Raykar had passed away. Raykar’s sister also blamed authorities for mismanagement in the jumbo facility. She claimed that despite sending medicines and tiffin, he did not receive because even the hospital administration was not able to identify his bed. Reacting to the journalist’s death local legislator Siddharth Shirole of the BJP said, “The 800-bed centre does not have adequate medical staff, and there are complaints that patients and their relatives are being mistreated here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scribe-dies-of-covid-19-at-pune-facility-after-allegedly-waiting-for-ambulance/story-BLHjSZOvyGgDVlFpvbOOcN.html
02-09-2020||India||Govt stops physical printing of diaries, calendars and coffee table books||The Union government on Wednesday asked all ministries and departments to stop printing wall calendars, desktop calendars, diaries and greeting cards in their physical forms in a bid to encourage usage of digital format.There would be no activity towards printing of wall calendars, desktop calendars, diaries and other such materials for use in the coming year by any ministry, department, public sector companies, state-run banks and all other organs of the government, the finance ministry said in a statement.Also read: Don’t collect levy charges on electronic payments, says finance ministry“All such activity shall go digital and online,” it said. The department of expenditure, an arm of the Union finance ministry, issued an order on Wednesday emphasising that the decision has come into force with immediate effect.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his governance model have always seen technology as an enabler. “Integrating technology into our work is in line with his (PM’s) vision,” it said.“There is to be a concerted effort towards incorporating innovative methods in such matters. Using technological innovations for planning, scheduling and forecasting is well known to be economical, efficient and effective,” it added.The order also banned publication of coffee table books in physical form to encourage appropriate use of e-books, it said.“Innovative digital and online solutions which will achieve the same result as physical calendars or diaries are to be prioritised and to be put into practice,” it said. Government officials and executives working in public sector companies said the decision would stop the practice of distributing diaries and calendars by government departments, public sector banks and state-run companies before the beginning of every new calendar year.The department of expenditure said the decision has been taken as “the world is increasingly moving towards adopting digital force multipliers for productivity and given the fact that using technological innovations for planning, scheduling and forecasting is known to be economical, efficient and effective”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-stops-physical-printing-of-diaries-calendars-and-coffee-table-books/story-m6FQnYJNEJSY8aYHI6PNvN.html
02-09-2020||India||No OPD admissions in AIIMS for 2 weeks to cater to ‘seriously ill’ Covid-19 patients||All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Delhi has decided to stop Outpatient Department (OPD) admissions for two weeks in view of the need to optimise usage of available inpatient beds for hospitalisation of seriously ill Covid-19 patients. A review of this suspension will be done after two weeks, a circular issued by the hospital read.Emergency patients who require inpatient hospitalisation in general wards or patients who are advised hospitalisation to private wards owing to emergency/semi emergency condition will be admitted, the circular read.EHS patients will continue to be hospitalised as clinically warranted.The OPD services had resumed on June 25 after the hospital on March 24 had closed all its non-emergency departments, including surgical departments and specialty clinics, stopped seeing all new and follow up patients, and left only its emergency open for non-Covid 19 patients. “It will be the prerogative of the departments to call patients directly or screen them through tele-consultation before giving a physical appointment…,” AIIMS had said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-opd-admissions-in-aiims-for-2-weeks-to-cater-to-seriously-ill-covid-19-patients/story-SPL4btlaac3CtSPVdAq5QP.html
02-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: With hundreds of Oximeter centres, AAP gets ‘closer’ to people in Bihar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.With hundreds of Oximeter centres, AAP gets ‘closer’ to people in BiharNot a big player in Bihar politics, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has adopted a unique way of drawing peoples’ attention in the state. In the midst of Covid-19 pandemic and scourge of flood in nearly half the state, out of box thinking is what is driving the political parties in Bihar to connect with the masses in the interiors, where online connectivity may not be easily possible. Read moreCabinet approves Karmayogi scheme for government officials, Javadekar calls it biggest HRD reformThe union Cabinet on Wednesday approved Mission Karmayogi, a skill building programme, for its civil servants, which it said will help them in the future. Read moreWorld champion PV Sindhu pulls out of Uber Cup in DenmarkWorld Champion PV Sindhu has decided to skip the Uber Cup, in Aarhus, Denmark starting from Oct 3-11. The prestigious Thomas and Uber Cup Finals is supposed to restart international badminton after a gap of six months. Read moreXiaomi India launches Redmi 9A, prices start from ₹6,799Xiaomi has announced the latest Redmi 9A as a part of their Redmi A series of smartphones today. The Redmi A series are a part of Xiaomi’s budget offerings that aim to get users the best of the specs without having to splurge. Read moreVolkswagen opens bookings for Polo and Vento BS6 with auto transmissionVolkswagen India on Wednesday announced the start of bookings for BS6 Polo and Vento’s automatic variants. While the former has been priced at ₹9.67 lakh, the later is priced at ₹12.99 lakh (all prices are ex showroom and are introductory). Read moreHina Khan’s rainbow-hued eye make-up game is perfect for masked fashion amid Covid-19Hina Khan’s fashion game has got to be the strongest when it comes to telly actors. From her choice of clothing to her unique styling, be it her hairdos or her make-up, the Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai fame starlet is constantly experimenting and setting new fashion goals. Read moreAmid tiff with China, Rajnath Singh heads to Russia for SCO meet: Key detailsAmid tension with China at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is headed to Russia for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-with-hundreds-of-oximeter-centres-aap-gets-closer-to-people-in-bihar-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NjIfOvE8tOgp79h3Vn5qiP.html
02-09-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling: NIA probe shows Rabins Hameed ran racket in UAE||Rabins Hameed, a Dubai-based businessman, allegedly ran a racket that is now believed to have been involved in the smuggling of 30 kg of gold, which was recovered at the Thiruvananthapuram airport in July, people familiar with the investigations into the matter said. The gold was being smuggled in baggage addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.Hameed’s name surfaced during a National Investigation Agency team’s visit to Dubai last month in connection with the probe into the case. He allegedly used different couriers to smuggle gold to India, the people added. Also read: Customs grilling Kerala CM’s former IT fellow in gold smuggling caseFazil Fareed, another Dubai-based accused in the case, was earlier believed to have masterminded the smuggling. The NIA team’s probe revealed Fareed was just another courier for Hameed. The two are under the custody of UAE authorities.“Rabins Hameed is a businessman based in Dubai, who used different modus operandi to smuggle gold to India. He contacted Fareed for the last consignment of 30 kg gold, which was intercepted in diplomatic baggage on July 5. He used other methods as well which we are verifying,” said an NIA official, who did not wish to be named.NIA raided Hameed’s house in Kerala’s Ernakulam in August and recovered hard disks and other incriminating material. The people cited above said Hameed coordinated the smuggling from the UAE, while another arrested accused Ramees K T, who is from Kerala’s Perinthalmanna, allegedly ran the racket in Kerala. They added efforts were being made to have both Hameed and Fareed deported from the UAE.A second NIA official said another team of the agency will visit Dubai again to complete formalities regarding the deportation.Two more suspects, Sidhiqul Akbar and Ahammed Kutty, are also based in Dubai but they have not been arrested yet. NIA has obtained non-bailable warrants against all the accused“We believe there are suspects linked to gold smuggling scam in other countries as well who need to be identified to unearth the whole terror conspiracy,” said the second officer on condition of anonymity.NIA has so far arraigned 25 people in the case and arrested 20 of them.The agency has said the accused persons “conspired to damage the monetary stability of India by destabilising the economy by smuggling a large quantity of gold from abroad and it is suspected that they had used these proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means”.The Enforcement Directorate is also conducting a money-laundering probe related to the smuggling.The UAE embassy in July said an investigation was launched after the recovery and added “the culprits who not only committed a major crime but also sought to tarnish the reputation of the UAE mission in India will not be spared”. It said they remain committed to cooperating with Indian authorities in getting to the root of the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-nia-probe-shows-rabins-hameed-ran-racket-in-uae/story-AZwfOERlrJ2WAgA9YdmpZL.html
02-09-2020||India||Hindi, Kashmiri and Dogri to become official languages of J&K||The Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved the Jammu and Kashmir Languages Bill 2020 which will make five languages—Urdu, Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri and English—the officials language of the region.Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, flanked by Union minister Jitendra Singh, told reporters about the decision at a cabinet briefing.“We have decided to introduce the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill 2020 in Parliament, under which five languages—Urdu, Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri and English—will become official languages. This has been done based on demand by the people,” said Javadekar.The I&B minister said more details of the bill would emerge once it is brought to the parliament.Union minister Singh thanked the Prime Minister for the step.“I want to thank the Prime Minister for giving his consent for the inclusion of Dogri, Hindi and Kashmiri in addition to the other two existing languages as official languages for the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Suffice to say that it is not only a fulfilment of a long-pending public demand of the region but also in keeping with the spirit of equality which was ushered after August 5, 2019,” said Singh.The Centre, on August 5, had announced the nullification of Article 370 of the Constitution that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindi-kashmiri-and-dogri-to-become-official-languages-of-j-k/story-kT28MomKQE7Kysvq7hXiYI.html
02-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 fatality rate slides to 1.76 percent, one of the lowest globally: Health ministry||India has been reporting one of the lowest Covid-19 fatality rates in the world with the figure further declining to 1.76 per cent as on date against a global average of 3.3 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday.It also said that Covid-19 deaths per million population in India is one of the lowest in the world.“While the global average is 110 deaths per million population, India is reporting 48 deaths per million population. The comparative figure for Brazil and the UK is 12 and 13 times higher, respectively,” the ministry highlighted.India’s Covid-19 tally of cases galloped past 37 lakh on Wednesday with 78,357 new instances of the disease reported in a day, while the number of recoveries crossed 29 lakh pushing the recovery rate to 76.98 per cent, the Union health ministry data showed.The death toll climbed to 66,333 with 1,045 more fatalities reported in 24 hours. India has so far reported 37,69,523 cases of the viral disease, according to the data updated at 8 am.As part of the Covid-19 management and response policy, the Centre’s sharp focus has been not only on containing the coronavirus-related fatality, but also to reduce deaths by providing quality clinical care to the critical and severe patients, it said.Collaborative efforts of the Centre, states and union territories have resulted in strengthening of the health facilities across the country, the ministry said.As many as 1,578 dedicated Covid hospitals are providing quality medical care. The Central government has also issued the standard of care guidelines incorporated in the Clinical Treatment Protocol.The AIIMS, New Delhi, has been conducting e-ICU sessions to build the capacities of the ICU doctors in clinical management of critical patients towards reducing the fatality. Knowledge and domain experts have been holding tele- or video-consultation sessions twice every week from July 8 for the doctors manning ICUs in state hospitals.Till date, 17 tele-sessions have been held and 204 institutions have participated in them, the ministry said.To further build the ICU, clinical management capacities of doctors for treatment of critical patients, AIIMS, New Delhi, in collaboration with the Health Ministry, has developed frequently answered questions (FAQs).One of these clarifies that Remdesivir and tocilizumab are experimental therapies and should not be used as empirical therapy for suspected cases. They should be used only in proven Covid-19 patients, where clinically indicated, the ministry said, underlining that there is no evidence to support the use of these two drugs in asymptomatic patients with comorbidities.In one of the answers, the ministry said, Tocilizumab is an experimental therapy, has a limited role, and should be used only in patients with cytokine syndrome after ruling out active infections.As for the role of Favipiravir, the ministry said studies have used this drug mainly in mild or asymptomatic Covid-19 cases, claiming to prevent progression, whereas the majority of this cohort recover with just supportive care and monitoring and usually require no specific therapy.Evidence is weak for the use of Favipiravir and is currently not recommended in national guidelines, it said.According to the FAQs, depression is a common finding in patients with Covid which may be because of a number of reasons including staying in isolation, anxiety related to disease, social stigma, among others. Such patients need empathy and psychological counselling preferably by a trained healthcare worker like a psychologist / psychiatrist, it said.The ministry said that sudden deaths have been reported both at presentation to emergency department as well as in hospital. Reasons that have been proposed include a sudden cardiac event/ACS, preceding silent hypoxia that went unnoticed or due to a thrombotic complication such as pulmonary thromboembolism.  “Patients with risk factors to develop severe Covid-19 or with prior comorbid conditions such as CAD or chronic lung disease should be strictly monitored for their saturation. They should not be allowed to move unattended. Anticoagulant should be used on all at-risk patients who do not have any risk factors of bleeding,” the ministry elaborated.As far as the role of plasma therapy is concerned, the FAQs said that convalescent plasma collected from ABO matched donors with high neutralizing titers can be given to patients at risk of developing severe Covid in early stages of the disease. However, it should also be considered an experimental therapy and should be used with caution, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-fatality-rate-slides-to-1-76-percent-one-of-the-lowest-globally-health-ministry/story-8WgWBW9J8lwsFNopkvEvJL.html
02-09-2020||India||Effective governance priority as cabinet launches Karmayogi scheme||The Union cabinet on Wednesday launched a capacity building scheme, Mission Karmayogi, to help streamline the training and competency building of civil servants. At the apex of the scheme will be the Prime Minister’s HR Council that will comprise select Union ministers, chief ministers, international leaders and civil servants. The Council will determine the “right person for the right role” and decide assignments accordingly. It is a major transition for the bureaucracy, as civil servants’ training will now become a “continuous process”. A dashboard will also monitor and audit the capacity building scheme, and a report will be submitted annually to ascertain its success. The Department of Personnel and Training under secretary C Chandramouli has been working on the scheme for a nearly a year now. The capacity building resources will be available to all civil servants, from section officers to secretaries. Two separate ways to engage with the scheme have also been developed. The guided path will provide the necessary resources for a civil servant to adapt to the role that they occupy. Officials had earlier told Hindustan Times that at once an officer shifts to a new division, they will provided with the prerequisite wherewithal to effectively perform their functions. “A deputy secretary who takes charge as director, will be given a detailed manual on the functions of the new job,” a DoPT official had said on the condition of anonymity. “There will also be an evaluation at the end. This will help select civil servants, whose interests and aptitude align, for the right roles.” Although not the only determining factor, the official said that doing well in the capacity building programme will go a long way in furthering job growth and opportunities for bureaucrats. The officials will also be provided with the interest path, wherein they can the subjects and areas of interest that want to pursue. A Capacity building commission, with a view to ensure a uniform approach in managing and regulating the ecosystem, will also be set up to assist the PM’s HR council. “Mission Karmayogi aims to prepare the Indian Civil Servant for the future by making him more creative, constructive, imaginative, innovative, proactive, professional, progressive, energetic, enabling, transparent and technology-enabled. Empowered with specific role-competencies, the civil servant will be able to ensure efficient service delivery of the highest quality standards,” the DoPT said in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/effective-governance-priority-as-cabinet-launches-karmayogi-scheme/story-iYdy0FSgvdeSEPqBn33jOP.html
02-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM goes into self-isolation for second time after OSD tests Covid-19 positive||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has gone into three-day self-isolation from Tuesday after his officer on special duty (OSD) tested Covid-19 positive. This is the second time he has self-isolated himself within a week, said Madan Kaushik, a state Cabinet minister and Uttarakhand government spokesman. “Rawat has isolated himself at this residence after his OSD tested positive for Covid-19. The chief minister, however, has tested negative, but taking precautions he will be in isolation for another three days.”He said due to the self-isolation, a cabinet meeting scheduled on Wednesday has been cancelled and is now likely to take place next week. Earlier on August 26, Rawat had gone into self-isolation after three of his staffers tested positive for Covid-19. “As a precaution, all the staffers and security officers deployed at CM residence were tested for Covid-19. I along with my family members also took the test and with the grace of God tested negative,” he tweeted last week. “However, as a precautionary measure I will be going into self-isolation and will carry the works related to public and administration through phone and virtual platforms.”On June 1, Rawat and two of his cabinet ministers quarantined themselves after their colleague Satpal Maharaj tested positive for Covid-19. Rawat tested negative five days later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-goes-into-self-isolation-for-second-time-after-osd-tests-covid-19-positive/story-OOtWgAecsFg4gUamQcDdYI.html
02-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand: Tigress kills cow in Corbett buffer zone||Kankati, a tigress, killed a cow in the buffer zone of Uttarakhand’s Corbett National Park (CNP) on the bank of the Kosi river on Sunday afternoon. The animal has been staying in the area with its three cubs for the past few months.Also read: Wildlife dept begins ‘individual monitoring’ of tigers in MHTRThe tigress signalled its cubs to hide behind a bush and then pounced on a herd of cattle that locals had left behind for grazing. The herd of cattle went into a tizzy after Kankati hunted down a cow and killed it instantly.However, the tigress failed to take the kill away, as alert locals raised an alarm. Soon, Kankati escaped into the tall grassland with its cubs. Locals came back at the dead of night and took the dead cow away.Kankati has been on the prowl in the area for the past few months and has killed at least eight cows to date, locals added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-tigress-kills-cow-in-corbett-buffer-zone/story-m6VmAXY1nkq4O3V7mpTfAI.html
02-09-2020||India||Doctor in Assam allegedly pours hot water on 12-yr-old domestic help||Police in Dibrugarh district of upper Assam have lodged a case against a doctor for allegedly pouring hot water on the family’s 12-year-old domestic help. According to a member of the district child welfare committee, the incident took place on the night of August 27 when the minor, who had been employed as a domestic help for over a year, was sleeping on the floor late last month. The minor was working at the residence of Dr. Siddhi Prasad Deori, a Dibrugarh-based doctor and his wife Mitali Konwar, principal of Moran College. “Based on information about a domestic help being employed at the house, a team of district child welfare committee accompanied by members of Childline rescued the minor on August 29,” said Sudipta Ghosh Biswas, member of Dibrugarh child welfare committee on Wednesday. “The minor, who was traumatized, told us that the doctor poured hot water on him while he was sleeping on the floor of the couple’s bedroom. There were injury marks on the child’s hands, cheek etc. A medical examination has been conducted and he is at present in our care,” she added. According to Biswas, the child told them that he used to do domestic chores, wash vehicles etc. and was frequently beaten with a cane. On August 31, the child welfare committee has filed a police case against the doctor who is yet to be arrested. “We have already registered a case and will take strict action. No one will be spared. I am yet to get the complete details. We are in the process of collecting evidence, medical reports etc. Action will be taken within 24 hours,” said newly appointed Dibrugarh superintendent of police Prateek Thube, who joined duty on Tuesday. “The doctor is in his mid 60s and is yet to be questioned as his family is claiming that he is a cancer patient. We are verifying that. He will be questioned and action initiated soon,” he added. Though some local reports said that the accused is associated with Assam Medical College Hospital (AMCH), Dibrugarh, superintendent of the hospital Dr. Indra Nath Sutia told HT that Dr. Deori is not associated with the organisation in any manner. Dr. Deori was in the news in 2006 when he was suspended from the post of store in-charge of AMCH as he was running a private nursing home in violation of government rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-in-assam-allegedly-pours-hot-water-on-12-yr-old-domestic-help/story-ddzca8UVj0y6MnVH9ZannJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Bombay HC allows Parsis to pray for their dead on Farvardin Roj with restrictions||In a limited relief to members of the Bombay Parsi Panchayat (BPP), the Bombay high court has permitted them to hold prayer meetings at the Doongerwadi Tower of Silence at Kemps Corner on September 3 from 7 am to 4.30 pm on the occasion of Farvardin Roj.The court has said that only six persons, not below the age of 10 years and not above the age of 65 years, would be permitted at a time to be present in each of the five prayer pavilions in the premises along with two priests.The court also said that in the case of a violation of SOPs laid down by the centre and the guidelines issued by the state government with regards to Covid, the petitioner trustee would be personally held liable for contempt and punishment.A division bench of justice R D Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition filed by Viraf Mehta, a trustee of the BPP, was informed by advocate Prakash Shah that after the meeting with the principal secretary home and secretary disaster management department, as directed by the court on Monday, they had filed an additional affidavit with a modified itinerary for September 3. Shah submitted that around 200 members of the community would reach Doongerwadi and the trustees would ensure that all Coved-related protocols were followed. On Farvardin Roj, Parsis offer prayers for the souls of their departed loved ones. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh and advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni had submitted that since congregation of people was not allowed, hence BPP should ensure that all the 200 members do not reach the venue at the same time. Also Read: Maharashtra launches ‘Mission Begin Again’ today with further relaxationsShah and Mehta have accordingly assured the court that the members would come only at the appointed time given to them and would leave after praying for half an hour. They also submitted that not more than six members would be present along with two priests in each of the five pavilions in the expansive property; hence there was no question of a congregation. Also Read: Courts can’t relax the terms of Insurance policy: National consumers’ bodyAfter hearing the submissions, the court accepted the undertaking of BPP and directed the state to make arrangements for smooth flow of traffic outside the venue and also said that Mehta would be held personally liable for violations of the undertakings given to the court.The court also reiterated that BPP should ensure that members below the age of 10 years and above the age of 65 years were not allowed. The court disposed of the petition stating that it was allowing the community considering the peculiar facts of the case and hence it should not be treated as a precedent and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-allows-parsis-to-pray-for-their-dead-on-farvardin-roj-with-restrictions/story-6vbtBs9COkRshccT224MBO.html
02-09-2020||India||India conducts a million Covid-19 tests for second straight day||India conducted one million tests for Covid-19 in a single day for the second consecutive day for the first time with 1.01 million tests being done till Tuesday midnight, data from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) shows. With the increase in the number of tests, the number of cases is also on the rise with India recording 78,622 cases on Tuesday, according to HT dashboard data. “If you plot the number of tests that are done and the number of cases reported, it is almost the same. The more you test, the higher number of cases you will detect. India is a densely populated country and just the sheer number of our population means that we will record a high number of cases,” said Amit Singh, associate professor at Centre for Infectious Disease at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Data released by the Union health ministry on Wednesday shows over half of all the deaths due to Covid-19 in India were people above the age of 60 years, even as they accounted for only 12% of the total cases.The number of deaths was disproportionately high among those between the ages of 45 and 60 years as well. Even as the age group accounted for only 26% of all the cases, they accounted for 36% of the country’s total death toll. The highest number of infections – 40% of the total cases – was reported among those in the age group of 26 to 44 years. This age group, however, accounted for only 11% of the total deaths. Deaths were also low among children and young adults, with both age groups accounting for only 1% of the deaths each. Eight per cent of the total cases were recorded in those below the age of 17 years and 14% among those between the ages of 18 to 25, the data released by the health ministry shows. India recorded over 1,000 deaths in a day on Tuesday, according to HT dashboard data. A total of 1,028 deaths were reported taking the country’s total Covid-19 toll to 66,451. This puts India’s case fatality ratio – fraction of deaths among those who test positive -- at 1.76%, much lower than the global average of 3.3%. “Cases can only be controlled if people take the responsibility, if they follow safety measures such as donning a mask in public, maintaining social distancing, and practicing good hand hygiene. The government cannot ensure this,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducts-a-million-covid-19-tests-for-second-straight-day/story-vQkiueSFRw8gb1po6HMkAM.html
02-09-2020||India||5 returning from birthday party killed in car-lorry collision in Telangana||Five people who were returning from a birthday party were killed when the car they were travelling in collided head-on with a truck in Telangana’s Warangal district in the early hours of Wednesday, the police said. The deceased were identified as Mekala Rajesh, Mekala Praveen, Medi Pavan, Rohit and Rahim - all in the age group of 22 to 25 years. The incident happened at Oorugonda village of Damera block at around after 2 pm. According to Parkal assistant commissioner of police P Srinivas, the deceased had celebrated the birthday party of one of them, Medi Pavan, in Warangal town, where they had allegedly consumed liquor. “At around 1.45 am, they started off in a Maruti Ciaz car (registration no. TS03 EQ 1414) to Mulug town on National Highway No. 163 to drop one of the friends. As they reached the outskirts of Oorugonda village, they tried to overtake a vehicle and rammed a sand-laden rally coming in from the opposite direction,” the ACP said. All five died on the spot and the car was a mangled mess due to the impact. The lorry driver escaped from the scene soon after the accident. On receiving the information, the ACP, along with inspectors of Shayampet, Atmakur and Damera rushed to the spot and shifted the bodies to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Warangal for post mortem. The police traced the addresses of the five victims based on an ID card of Pavan lying in the car. “Investigation is on,” ACP Srinivas said. 3 Pawan Kalyan Fans Electrocuted in Andhra Pradesh In a separate accident, three fans of Tollywood actor-turned-politician Pawan Kalyan were electrocuted and four others were injured while erecting a flex cut-out of the actor at Shantipuram area in Chittoor town of Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday night. According to the Chittoor police, the victims came in touch with live electric wire while putting up banners and flex cut-outs of Pawan Kalyan as part of the latter’s birthday celebrations being held on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Somasekhar (30), his brother Rajendra (32) and their friend Arunachalam (28). Four others, who were also at the spot received minor injuries and they were admitted to the local government hospital for treatment, the police said. The police registered a case under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code for death due to electrocution and are investigating the case. Expressing deep anguish over the accident, Pawan Kalyan said it was unfortunate that three of his fans had to face such a tragic death. He assured that he would stand by the bereaved families and provide them all necessary assistance. Sri Venkateshwara Creations, a production house which is making a film “Vakeel Saab” with Pawan Kalyan, announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the bereaved families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-returning-from-birthday-party-killed-in-car-lorry-collision-in-telangana/story-Gjog5uoRW6cQfpqSxWH6SI.html
02-09-2020||India||Rajnath leaves for Russia for SCO meet, has no plans to meet Chinese minister||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday left for Russia on a three-day visit to attend a crucial meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and hold talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu on further boosting bilateral defence cooperation.The defence ministers of all eight SCO member nations are expected to deliberate on regional security challenges like terrorism and extremism and ways to deal with them “collectively” in Moscow on Friday, officials said.The meeting is taking place under the shadow of a fierce border row between India and China, both members of the influential bloc.Chinese Defence Minister Gen Wei Fenghe and Pakistan’s Pervez Khattak are expected to attend the SCO meeting. Asked about the possibility of a bilateral meeting between Singh and Wei on the sidelines of the SCO event, officials said there is no such plan.Also read: Chushul aggression is part of China’s plan. It wants to provoke India | Analysis“Heading to Moscow. During this visit, I shall be attending the combined meeting of Defence Ministers of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) & CIS members in commemoration of the 75th Anniversary of victory in the World War II,” Singh tweeted.He said issues of mutual interest will figure in his talks with Shoigu.“India and Russia are privileged Strategic Partners. Looking forward to further this partnership during my visit,” Singh said, In his meeting with Shoigu, Singh will press for expediting supply of a number of weapons systems, ammunition and spares to India by Russia under contracts which were concluded earlier, officials said.In the talks, both sides are expected to officially finalise a long-pending proposal to produce AK 203 rifles in India.Officials said Singh is also likely to request the Russian side to ensure timely delivery of the S-400 missile defence systems to India.The delivery of the first batch of S-400 surface-to-air missile systems to India is scheduled by the end of 2021.In October 2018, India had signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding a warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions Singh will depart for India from Moscow on the evening of September 5, they said.The SCO defence ministers’ meeting is taking place in the wake of fresh tension between India and China following the Chinese army’s unsuccessful attempts to change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh.The two sides held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks to end the border standoff which began on May 5. The fresh attempts by China to change the status quo in the Pangong lake area escalated the tension further.On Saturday, India announced withdrawal from a multilateral war game in Russia this month after it emerged that Chinese and Pakistani troops will also be part of it. However, officially it was announced that India is not joining it due to the COVID-19 pandemic.It is Singh’s second visit to Moscow since June. He had represented India at the Victory Day Parade in Moscow on June 24 that commemorated the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany in the Second World War.Russia has also invited External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to attend the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting on September 10.The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations which accounts for almost 44 per cent of the world population stretching from the Arctic Ocean to the Indian Ocean and from the Pacific Ocean to the Baltic Sea.The aim of the SCO is to maintain peace, stability and security of the region. India became a member of SCO in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-leaves-for-russia-for-sco-meet-has-no-plans-to-meet-chinese-minister/story-Rn7iVKdCHd8Z27iVwVRtHM.html
02-09-2020||India||Cabinet approves Karmayogi scheme for government officials, Javadekar calls it biggest HRD reform||The union Cabinet on Wednesday approved Mission Karmayogi, a skill building programme, for its civil servants, which it said will help them in the future.“This is the biggest Human Resources Development reform in the government,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar said at a press briefing on the Cabinet’s decisions.At the top will be an HR council, chaired by the prime minister, and consisting of select Union ministers and chief ministers. It will also have eminent thought leaders (noted academics, and global leaders) and civil services leadership.“This scheme is based on the government’s vision on how a civil servant should be. A civil servant of today, in order to meet the challenges of the world, will have to be imaginative and innovative, proactive and polite, professional and progressive, energetic and enabling, transparent and tech enabled, and constructive and creative,” said C Chandramouli, Secretary, Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). He was also addressing the press conference along with Javadekar.He added that Mission Karmayogi focuses on individual (civil servants) and institutional capacity building.The schemes will be accessible for all, from section officers to secretaries.It will have two paths, self driven, where the official can choose field of interest, and guided, where official will be provided with the wherewithal to perform their jobs effectively.The Union Cabinet also approved three memorandums of understanding, Javadekar said. These include MoUs between textile ministry and Japan for quality evaluation method, between mining ministry and Finland, and between ministry of new and renewable energy and Denmark||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-karmayogi-scheme-for-government-officials-javadekar-calls-it-biggest-hrd-reform/story-eZ145H66hsiwJGBWHfXY1M.html
02-09-2020||India||In Jammu and Kashmir, rapid antigen tests proving to be a game changer||The introduction of rapid antigen test (RAT) in Jammu and Kashmir, particularly for testing incoming air and road passengers and for contact-tracing in containment zones, is proving to be a game changer in disease containment efforts in the Union Territory.The RAT gives results within 15 minutes as against the RT-PCR, which normally takes at-least one to two days, creating difficulties both for the travellers and the administration due to the provision of mandatory quarantine for incoming passengers till their test results come out.Since its introduction in Kashmir some eight days ago, the authorities have conducted some 87,334 RAT tests in comparison to 3, 61,770 RT-PCR tests conducted till September 01. Many of these rapid tests have been conducted on air and road travellers since it takes less time to give a result.“Normally we are doing the antigen tests on 4,500 to 5,000 people daily, of which, around 1,200 are done at the airport. Others include land-travelers who are tested by our teams at various points on Srinagar-Jammu Highway, besides, there are people getting tested in containment zones and brick kilns,” said Dr Qazi Haroon, an officer on special duty with the health department to assist the government’s corona mitigation efforts in Kashmir division.Jammu and Kashmir was among the first places in the country to make testing of incoming passengers mandatory, which was done using RT-PCR technique. In Jammu division, Haroon’s counterpart, Dr A D S Manhas said that the RAT has been introduced in all the districts.“Daily, we are conducting 6,000-7,000 antigen tests. Sometimes it goes up to 8,000. Similarly, 700-800 tests are conducted daily on air passengers,” Manhas said.“It takes only 15 minutes for the results to appear and this has been a game changer owing to its speed,” he said.Haroon said that the Antigen test has made the process easy and simple. “On Tuesday, we had 20 incoming flights including four international flights. With RT-PCR tests, we would have to quarantine them all and wait for their test results, which would take 3-4 days. Now, it takes 1.5 hours. Those who are negative are allowed to move immediately while those found positive are quarantined,” he said. Haroon said that the authorities at the helm were earlier reluctant to introduce the rapid tests. “We had a lot of backlog for RT-PCR. It took time for the people at the helm to understand RAT’s efficacy. Now, it is everywhere,” he said.He said it was also helping in contact tracing in red zones.“Within 15 minutes you can know the positive or negative status of say 500 people, allowing a medical officer to immediately trace out the infected and stop them from spreading it further,” he said. However, aware of the low-sensitivity drawback associated with rapid testing, Dr Haroon said the RT-PCR test is mandatorily used for those who are discharged from hospitals.Prominent pulmonologist and head, chest medicine, government medical college, Srinagar, Dr Naveed Nazir Shah said that though RAT sensitivity was low as compared to RT-PCR, it was a good option for testing a large population.“If we compare it with RT-PCR, its sensitivity is low but specificity is better. That means that if the test is positive, then the patient is indeed positive. But if the test is negative and the patient is showing symptoms, then the test has to be repeated using RT-PCR,” he said.“However, for a large population, the rapidity of the Antigen test is a good thing,” Shah added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-jammu-and-kashmir-rapid-antigen-tests-proving-to-be-a-game-changer/story-mVhCq34MpjDLXtXt2dPamK.html
02-09-2020||India||PM Modi, Amit Shah pay tribute to social reformer Sree Narayana Guru on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah paid their tributes to spiritual leader and social reformer Sree Narayana Guru on his 164th birth anniversary on Wednesday. The PM called him a “farsighted visionary” whose ideals give strength to many across India.The leader’s life and works epitomised the “perfect blend of spirituality and social reform”, he tweeted.“I bow to the venerable Sree Narayana Guru on his Jayanti. His life and works epitomised the perfect blend of spirituality and social reform. He emphasised on education and empowerment of women. He was a farsighted visionary whose ideals give strength to many across India,” PM Modi’s tweet read.Amit Shah called the departed spiritual leader a “strong advocate of equality and brotherhood”.“Tributes to venerable Swami Sree Narayana Guru ji on his Jayanti. As a social reformer, spiritual leader and strong advocate of equality & brotherhood, he played an instrumental role in setting up the foundations for social reform in Kerala against discrimination and injustice,” Shah tweeted.Sree Narayana Guru was born in 1864 in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram. He led a reform movement against the injustice in the caste-ridden society of Kerala in order to promote spiritual enlightenment and social equality. He laid great emphasis on the idea of ‘one caste, one religion and one god.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-amit-shah-pay-tribute-to-social-reformer-sree-narayana-guru-on-birth-anniversary/story-8mkmwP8JPyGgoFiWqvXjJI.html
02-09-2020||India||Rape violates fundamental right under Article 21, rules Gauhati HC||The Gauhati high court (HC) has termed rape as a violation of the victim’s fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution while upholding conviction by a trial court in an 11-year-old case.Also read: 9-year-old found dead in Patna; rape suspectedIn an order passed on Monday (August 31), Justice Rumi Kumari Phukan held that the statement of the rape survivor could be accepted as the true version of the crime, if supported by other evidence on record. “The courts are sensitised that rape is a violation of victim’s fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution and a rape survivor is placed on a higher pedestal than an injured witness,” the court stated in its order. The rape survivor (20) was sexually assaulted by the accused in a bathroom of a swimming pool in Digboi town in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district on the night of November 26, 2009. The incident had occurred, when the rape survivor was returning from her workplace. She worked on a daily wage basis at a hospital in Digboi.A case was lodged and the accused, Nasir Uddin Ali, was nabbed a day after the incident. Ali was held guilty by a trial court and was sentenced to nine years of rigorous imprisonment. Filing an appeal in HC against the verdict, Ali’s counsel argued that the rape survivor had changed her statement during trial and the conviction by the trial court on the basis of her sole testimony is in poor legal light.Appearing on behalf of the state, the counsel for the rape survivor argued against the appeal.The prosecutrix argued that her statement could not be discarded as evidence, as because her medical examination was not conclusive. It was also established that the accused was present at the place, where the crime was committed, she added. “The rape survivor has withstood the lengthy cross-examination without any vital contradiction to raise suspicion,” the HC order stated.“The evidence of the prosecutrix in the given facts and circumstances give no room for any doubt and her evidence is akin to the ‘sterling witness’ ”, it added. The HC upheld the trial court’s conviction under Section 376 (punishment for sexual assault) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), but commuted Ali’s sentence from nine years to seven.The convict’s sentence was commuted, as he has five children and has been lodged in jail from the day he was convicted on July 12, 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-violates-fundamental-right-under-article-21-rules-gauhati-hc/story-CY7pIej2spHfuNPPsZ6MCJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Missing minor girl’s mutilated body recovered in Jamshedpur; stepfather detained||The body of a minor girl (5), who was reported missing since Monday, was recovered from a bush on the bank of the Subarnarekha river under the jurisdiction of Sonari police station in Jharkhand’s Jamshedpur town on Wednesday.Also read: Minor drugged, gang-raped, forced into prostitution in VaranasiThe young girl’s mutilated body, including a severed hand and without any clothes, carried several injury marks of purported cigarette burns, the police said. Her mother had lodged a complaint with the police on Monday, alleging that her daughter might have been raped before being killed.“A mutilated body of a five-year-old girl has been recovered by Sonari police station authorities from the Subarnarekha river bank near Marine Drive on Wednesday morning. We are interrogating her stepfather, who has been detained. She was last seen with him three days ago. Prima facie, abrasion marks on her neck indicate that strangulation may have caused her death. The body has been sent for a post-mortem examination. The autopsy will conclusively ascertain whether she was raped before her murder,” said Dr M Tamil Vanan, senior superintendent of police (SSP), East Singhbhum district. Police said the girl’s stepfather was picked up after preliminary investigation found that she was last seen with him three days ago. “He had a dispute with the girl’s mother over her custody. We are confident of cracking the case and the perpetrator will be arrested soon,” the SSP added. The victim’s maternal uncle Santosh Kumar said the girl and her mother had been staying with him. “I had gone out for work, when she went missing on Monday. Her mother had filed the complaint on the same day. The body belongs to my niece,” he said. This was the second case of a minor girl being murdered and dumped in a secluded place with her body parts cut off in Jharkhand’s Kolhan administrative division. Earlier on August 28, the beheaded body of another minor girl (15) was recovered from Jharkhand’s Seraikela-Kharsawan district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-minor-girl-s-mutilated-body-recovered-in-jamshedpur-stepfather-detained/story-ia45NrgmfpHefvyeI5O9dL.html
02-09-2020||India||Full moon day slows flood water release, Odisha villages fight waterlogging||The flood situation in Odisha continued to remain grim as thousands of villages in Jajpur, Kendrapara and Khurda continued to remain waterlogged as the tidal waves in Bay of Bengal due to full moon day kept repelling the floodwaters from entering the sea.Engineer-in-chief of water resources department Jyotirmaya Rath said water level in major rivers was not coming down due to high tidal conditions. “As today is a full moon day the discharge of floodwater from Mahanadi river system and Brahmani river into the Bay of Bengal has not been fast and swift. As the sea is unsteady due to the natural impact of the full moon, the steady discharge of river water into the sea will begin only by Thursday. It will take another three to four days for the situation to improve,” Rath said.The flood has affected at least 1.4 million people across 20 districts of the state, but the districts of Jajpur, Kendrapara and Khurda have been the worst hit.So far, 22 people in the state have died due to the flood. A total of 3256 villages under 896 gram panchayats in 112 blocks were hit due to the massive flood resulting in the wake of incessant rainfall due to back to back low pressures in the Bay of Bengal.In Jajpur and Kendrapara districts, several villages continued to remain dark as electricity substations were submerged in floodwater. Jajpur district, which was fighting the rage of Baitarani river and its tributaries for the last few days, is gradually getting back to normalcy. However, 13 out of the 29 flood affected panchayats are still fighting to stay afloat in this terrible flood situation.Villagers whose houses were washed away by floodwaters have been forced to stay in temporary huts on river embankments. With handpumps and ponds contaminated by flood water, villagers have little drinking water. As many don’t have an LPG connection, villagers are finding it difficult to arrange dry firewood to cook their food.“If the initial flood was bad, the waterlogging has made it worse. We have to wade in deep water to defecate in some dry place as latrines are waterlogged. We are scared of snakebites at night,” said farmer Ajay Nayak of Bari block in Jajpur district. In Bari block a woman bitten by a snake was carried through the flooded village roads in a large aluminium vessel to the hospital.In Kendrapara district, the anger over government apathy in reaching out to the flood-affected people boiled over when angry villagers heckled BJD MP Anubhav Mohanty over his alleged negligence in visiting the people of his constituency. Mohanty, who was on a visit to flood-ravaged Alapua village under Pattamundai block of the district on Monday, was gheraoed by locals over alleged negligence on part of the actor-turned-MP citing that he is seldom seen in the worst-hit areas.Villagers in Kendrapara said they never expected the flood to linger for so long and are now wary of an outbreak of waterborne diseases. “While we somehow manage in the daytime, the nights are unbearable due to lack of electricity. We have to either burn candles or lamps to get by,” said a villager in the Rajkanika block of Kendrapara. Kendrapara district emergency officer Sambit Satpathy said 2.6 lakh people in this district have been affected by the flood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-moon-day-slows-flood-water-release-odisha-villages-fight-waterlogging/story-m93Z1pJS1LpLJUbsfIo2YK.html
02-09-2020||India||Bhopal homeopath arrested for illegal termination of minor rape survivor’s pregnancy||The Madhya Pradesh police have arrested a homoeopath in Bhopal for allegedly terminating a 14-year-old girl’s pregnancy illegally in 2018 at the behest of a vernacular daily’s owner, who is accused of raping and sexually harassing minor girls, an investigator said on Wednesday.Also read:Rape accused stripped, thrashed in Madhya PradeshHemant Mittal, 48, the homoeopath, was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act and the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act after his arrest on Tuesday night.The alleged abortion came to light after the owner of the vernacular daily, Pyare Mian, 68, was arrested on July 17 days after five minor girls were spotted in an intoxicated state in Bhopal. During counselling, the girls alleged Mian, who had been allegedly abusing them for years, had invited them to a party and allegedly raped one of them. Four minor girls from Bhopal and Indore later registered a rape and sexual harassment case against Mian.Inspector Anil Bajpai said Mittal runs a hospital and Mian paid him Rs20,000 for the illegal abortion. “The girl, who is now 16, lodged a complaint...against Pyare Mian on July 16 that he and his friend, Ubez Khan, raped her three times. Mian had taken the girl to Srinagar, where she came to know about her three-month pregnancy.” He added Mian got the girl’s pregnancy confirmed at a hospital in Indore after returning from Srinagar and sought to terminate it. Bajpai said the doctors he approached for abortion refused to do so, citing the girl’s age and its illegality without the due process.“Mian asked his assistant...to look for a doctor in Bhopal to abort the foetus. ...[the assistant] took the girl to the hospital of Mittal for abortion and Mittal aborted the foetus,” said Bajpai. He added police were interrogating Mittal and further investigation was on.The district administration was planning to get the hospital sealed for illegal medical practices.“Mittal had also conducted sonography of the girl before conducting the abortion,” said deputy inspector general Irshad Wali.Police said Mian’s assistant, Sweety Vishwakarma, would allegedly lure girls from underprivileged families to Mian in the name of getting jobs, then invite them to parties and sexually abuse them after offering them liquor.Activist Sarika Sinha said under POCSO Act, a doctor in such cases is required to report pregnancy to police, chief medical and health officer of the district concerned. “Mittal should have informed the authorities,” said Sinha. “MTP Act allows only registered and qualified doctors to terminate pregnancy resulting from rape. As he [Mittal] is a homeopath and does not have qualification to terminate pregnancy, so he has violated MTP Act too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-homeopath-arrested-for-illegal-termination-of-minor-rape-survivor-s-pregnancy/story-UrUD0kWgOK4jgQA417QTMO.html
02-09-2020||India||500 experts write to environment ministry, seek withdrawal of draft EIA||Five hundred scientists, researchers, and academics from India’s leading institutions like Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) wrote an open letter to the Union environment ministry on Wednesday urging it to withdraw the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, saying it is likely to seriously threaten the country’s ecological and environmental security.Also read: Chhattisgarh CM raises objection over draft EIA notification, writes to union environment ministerThe ministry has received around 1.7 million letters and emails with suggestions, comments, and objections to the draft. The draft was released on March 23 as part of the process to overhaul environmental regulations for infrastructure projects. Environmental groups have opposed it citing its contentious clauses. The clauses include the one pertaining to the regularisation of projects, which violated the EIA Notification, 2006, by starting constructions before environmental clearance or by expanding their capacity. The draft also proposes a shortening of the time for public hearings, which offer people affected by projects the opportunity to understand them and give their consent for them.“Overall, we have come to the conclusion that the Draft Notification, in its current form, is likely to seriously threaten our country’s ecological and environmental security. The Draft Notification neither adheres to the fundamental objectives of its parent legislation, the Environment (Protection) Act, 1983 nor does it align with our country’s commitments under various international agreements and conventions,” the letter said. HT has seen a copy of the letterThe letter highlighted flaws in the draft saying it legitimises ex post facto environmental clearances and thereby encourages industries, with no prior clearance, to commence operations. It added the draft reclassifies many potentially ecosystem-damaging and even some highly polluting Red Category industries as ‘ B2’ category thereby exempting them from public consultation and scoping. The letter said the draft allows only project proponents and government authorities to officially report cognisance of violations.Sayan Banerjee, a PhD scholar at Bengaluru’s National Institute of Advanced Studies, said some of them in different institutes like the Indian Institute of Science (Bengaluru) are concerned with this draft notification. “We compared the EIA Notification, 2006, and draft EIA Notification, 2020, and found several discrepancies and issues. We reached out to other institutions like IITs, ATREE [Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment], IISER [Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research], etc and also discussed with faculty members in various institutes. Before releasing our open letter, we also discussed and shared our thoughts with various policy scholars that is how we put this together,” said Banerjee, one of the signatories of the letter.Environment ministry officials did not respond to HT’s queries on the open letter.Union environment ministry secretary RP Gupta, in an interview to HT last month, said the ministry has set up a committee to assess all the comments and objections to the draft. He added the panel will compile and come up with a summary of issues raised.The letter said the existing EIA Notification, 2006, has been deemed insufficient in meeting its stated aims. It added flouting of environmental safeguards by non-compliant and unmonitored industries and practices often leads to environmental disasters like the Vizag gas leak and the Baghjan oil well blowout in Assam.Eleven people were killed in the gas leak at Visakhapatnam’s LG Polymers chemical plant on May 7. The oil well in Assam caught fire on June 9 days after the blowout, or an uncontrolled release of gas or oil. The blowout triggered fears about environmental damage to nearby Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the ecologically-sensitive Maguri Motapung wetland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-experts-write-to-environment-ministry-seek-withdrawal-of-draft-eia/story-ew6WWTOxuFiwoQUtFShsiI.html
02-09-2020||India||Delhi high court refuses to stay streaming of Gunjan Saxena movie||The Delhi high court (HC) on Wednesday refused to grant a stay on the telecast of the movie Gunjan Saxena—The Kargil Girl on Netflix, an over-the-top (OTT) streaming media service, after the Ministry of Defence (MoD) and the Indian Air Force (IAF) had moved the court to stop it from being aired.Justice Rajiv Sakdher told additional solicitor-general (ASG) Sanjay Jain that the MoD has moved the court very late and an interim injunction on the telecast of the movie cannot be granted, as it has already been released. The court sought the response of Dharma Productions, who has produced the film, and Netflix on the plea and posted the matter for the next hearing on September 18.The MoD’s plea stated that the makers of the film had represented to the IAF that the movie was based on the life of Gunjan Saxena, an IAF officer, and wanted the force’s assistance for an authentic portrayal of the facts. The plea alleged that the makers kept the IAF in the dark about the intent of the movie, which was a negative portrayal of the air force based on misleading and manipulative facts. It cited that the makers also avoided entering into a formal agreement, or a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), with the IAF. The plea argued that the pact was a prerequisite under the 2013 guidelines and the “in-principle” approval accorded to the makers of the film was at all times subject to the execution of the said MoU.The plea stated that the makers had assured that they would proceed with the release of the film after a formal approval is obtained from the IAF. However, all of a sudden, one of the makers informed the IAF that they had completed the filming of the movie, except for the section on the passing out parade, it said. One of the makers had also sought the permission of the IAF to film the “December 2019 passing out parade at the air force academy”, the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-refuses-to-stay-streaming-of-gunjan-saxena-movie/story-4paneCcC0vF3J1BQ0o8s3L.html
02-09-2020||India||Courts can’t relax the terms of Insurance policy: National consumers’ body||Observing that courts cannot alter the terms of an insurance policy, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) last week struck down an order of the Maharashtra State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission directing an insurance company to pay the claim amount of Rs 55.19 lakh to a diamond trader from Surat.“A consumer forum or any court for that matter, does not have power to relax the warranty clause or any terms and conditions of an insurance policy,” said NCDRC bench of presiding member Prem Narain and member C Vishwanath, after finding that the state commission had tried to bypass the warranty clause in the policy drawn by Surat based diamond trader, M/s. Dharmanandan Diamonds Private Limited.The firm had on June 10, 2002, handed over 418 carat polished diamonds worth Rs 78.62 lakh to one of its commission agents, Arjanbhai Mangukia, who was supposed to show the diamonds to some prospective clients in Mumbai. Arjanbhai then came to Mumbai along with the diamonds.On the next day, he, however, was found murdered at his rental premises in Mumbai, and since police did not find the diamonds with him, the firm lodged a claim of Rs. 78.62 lakh with its insurer, New India Assurance Company Ltd.The insurance company appointed a surveyor to assess the loss, which came to be assessed at Rs 55.19 lakh. The company, however, repudiated the claim on the ground of breach of the warranty clause - the polished diamonds were not secured in a standard safe, as required under the terms of the policy. There was no standard safe at the rental premises of the firm’s commission agent.The firm then filed a consumer complaint with the state commission, which allowed the complaint on October 30, 2015, and directed the insurance company to pay the firm--the loss assessed by its surveyor--- Rs 55.19 lakh. Also Read: Panje: Contrary to forest report, complainants unearth 66 hacked branchesBoth the diamond trader and the insurance company had challenged the order before NCDRC. While the insurance company was aggrieved by the order of payment, the firm sought full amount of claim, Rs 78.62 lakh, instead of Rs 55.19 lakh awarded by the state commission.NCDRC upheld the stand of the insurance company that in view of the breach of terms of the policy, the claim was rightly repudiated and no amount was payable to the firm.Also Read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crosses 8-lakh mark, death toll nears 25k markIt seems that the State commission has agreed with the assertion of the complainant that the condition of the warranty was impractical and could not be observed as main work of the commission agent was to show the diamonds to prospective buyers and therefore, it was not possible to keep the diamonds in standard safe all the time, said NCDRC.It said the argument did not hold good in the case, as the diamonds were given to the commission agent at Surat, from where the precious stones were brought to Mumbai, where the agent was to stay for the whole week. Clearly, when the diamonds were to be kept at a residence, they were required to be kept under locked safe of standard make as per the warranty condition of the policy, but there was no safe at Mumbai premises of the deceased agent, it added.“We are of the considered opinion that the warranty mentioned in the policy has been breached and therefore, the insurance claim is not payable,” it concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-can-t-relax-the-terms-of-insurance-policy-national-consumers-body/story-Ei2xQRM6Ec0vO1pvj3kyXI.html
02-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: CBI calls Rhea Chakraborty’s father for second round of questioning and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Showdown likely as Parliament’s IT panel meets over WSJ report on FacebookA showdown is on the cards at the meeting where MPs will hear allegations made by The Wall Street Journal in recent reports against Facebook. Read more ‘Hundreds of accounts banned’: Trinamool complains to FacebookAlleging that hundreds of Facebook and WhatsApp accounts of Trinamool party supporters were banned online, the party has written to the social media giant urging “immediate action”. Read more Sushant Singh Rajput death: CBI calls Rhea Chakraborty’s father for another round of questioningThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, called Rhea Chakraborty’s father for the second round of questioning on Wednesday. Read more ‘You should have come sooner’: Delhi HC refuses to stay streaming of Netflix movie ‘Gunjan Saxena’The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to stay at this stage streaming of Netflix movie ‘Gunjan Saxena - The Kargil Girl’, on the Centre’s plea that it depicts the Indian Air Force (IAF) in bad light. Read more Amitabh Bachchan’s granddaughter Navya Naveli Nanda opens up about struggle with anxiety, seeking therapyAmitabh Bachchan’s granddaughter Navya Naveli Nanda has talked about her struggle with anxiety and seeking therapy for it in a new video shared by her health organisation. In the video, she talked about realising the need for therapy and how it helped her. Read more Manushi Chhillar starts social media campaign to raise awareness about nutritionormer Miss World and actor Manushi Chhillar took to Instagram to start a social media campaign aimed at raising awareness about eating right and also shared her journey with health and nutrition. Read more Maruti sets up radar, camera project at key Delhi points for better road safetyMaruti Suzuki on Wednesday announced that it has completed setting up of radar and camera projects at three high-density traffic junctions across Delhi to help traffic cops better manage vehicular movement. Read more ‘Birds pose threat to Rafale jets’: IAF writes to Chief Secretary over issueMonths after the first batch of Rafale jets landed at the Ambala airbase, Indian Air Force has raised a concern about the security of Rafale jets. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cbi-calls-rhea-chakraborty-s-father-for-second-round-of-questioning-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yGyDSGxIgSUoiBHqZioumL.html
02-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: CBI calls Rhea Chakraborty’s father for another round of questioning||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, called Rhea Chakraborty’s father for the second round of questioning on Wednesday. Chakraborty’s father Indrajeet reached the DRDO guest house in Mumbai’s Kalina where the CBI team is stationed around 10:25 am this morning. Chakraborty, her brother and mother have not been summoned on Wednesday so far, an official said.Indrajeet and Chakraborty’s mother Sandhya were grilled by the central agency for about nine hours on Tuesday.The investigation agency has so far interrogated Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh, house help Keshav Bachner, roommate and creative director Siddharth Pithani, his former business manager Shruti Modi and house manager Samuel Miranda.The 34-year-old actor was found dead at his Bandra apartment on June 14 following which the Mumbai police had registered a case of accidental death and recorded statements of nearly three dozen people.Rajput’s father KK Singh the filed an FIR in Patna accusing Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting Rajput’s alleged suicide and misappropriating his money that led to a war of words between Maharashtra and Bihar Police. The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of the FIR lodged in Patna to the central agency.Apart from CBI, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are also probing the case from the money laundering and drugs-related angles respectively. The NCB made its first arrest in the case on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-cbi-calls-rhea-chakraborty-s-father-for-another-round-of-questioning/story-ashmcLollnCHdnVmjTrZDL.html
02-09-2020||India||‘Hundreds of accounts banned’: Trinamool complains to Facebook||Alleging that hundreds of Facebook and WhatsApp accounts of Trinamool party supporters were banned online, the party has written to the social media giant urging “immediate action”. Spotlighting that the banning of accounts comes months ahead of the election in the state, the Trinamool said it points to a link between “Facebook and the BJP”.“I want to bring to your attention the removal of hundreds of Trinamool Congress supporters’ pages and accounts on both Facebook and WhatsApp for ‘community standards violations’. In the run up to the pre-announced foundation day event of the Trinamool Chhatra Parishad (TMCP), the students’ wing of All India Trinamool Congress, on August 28, numerous Facebook and WhatsApp accounts were banned,” wrote Derek O’ Brien, TMC’s Rajya Sabha leader, in a letter to Facebook on August 31.The MP, in his letter, also attached a list of the blocked accounts and numbers and urged Facebook to take immediate action and remedial measures. In another letter to the company, O’Brien alleged that the development before the polls suggested a link between the ruling party at the Centre and the BJP. “With the election in the Indian state of West Bengal just months away, your company’s recent blocking of Facebook pages and accounts in Bengal also points to link between Facebook and the BJP. There is enough material now in the public domain, including internal memos of senior Facebook management, to substantiate the bias,” O’Brien wrote in the second letter.  On September 1, Union minister Ravi Shankhar Prasad also shot off a letter to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, raising the issue of free speech, accusing it of being the “latest tool” used by vested interests to create “internal divisions and social disturbances”. This comes days after senior TMC lawmaker Mahua Moitra raised questions over hate posts. The Wall Street Journal had reported that Facebook did not apply its hate speech rules to some BJP leaders. The BJP and the Congress too had engaged in a war of words over the issue.Earlier, the Congress wrote to Facebook, accusing its India team of “interfering” with the country’s electoral democracy and demanded an inquiry. The Congress and the CPI(M) had even demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee into the charges against Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-of-accounts-banned-trinamool-complains-to-facebook/story-6ZAjKpvKrFll5uksAH7J6H.html
02-09-2020||India||Jammu’s Dugg-Dugge Brahmins living in inhumane conditions, await domicile certificates||Brought to Jammu and Kashmir from Rajasthan about 170 years ago during the reign of Maharaja Gulab Singh, Dugg-Dugge Brahmins not only continue to live under inhumane conditions but have not been issued domicile certificates as yet. Dugg-Dugge classification is for the Brahmins who accept Shani Daan. Their scattered population lives in Ramban and other parts of the Jammu region. Though Valmiki and Gurkha communities were among the first to be issued domicile certificates by the BJP leaders following the revocation of Article 370 and 35-A last year, the Dugg-Dugge Brahmins are yet to get them. Till now, the administration had been dragging its feet claiming the community, which had never been issued Permanent Resident’s Certificates (PRCs), had no land records and ration cards to stake a claim on domicile certificates. The impoverished community of 27 families, consisting of 136 members, has been living at Maitra in Ramban district. “Our forefathers came here 170 years ago. We vote here in assembly and parliamentary elections but we were never issued PRCs because we had no land here. Now, we are being denied domicile certificates,” said Ambri Devi, a member of the small community. In 1953, Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, the then Prime Minister of J&K had allotted a piece of land at Phelti Maitra in Ramban to nine families of the community. Also Read: 12.5 lakh domicile certificates issued are to apply for jobs: J&K administrationAnother woman Satya Devi said that in 2012, the government issued them ration cards but they were cancelled in 2015-16. This impoverished and miniscule community accepts alms, mustard oil and other donations in kind on Saturdays as “Shani Daan” and many among them worked as roadside palmists and astrologers as well. According to the community elders, their forefathers were reportedly invited by Raja Gulab Singh from Rajasthan to accept “Shani Daan” and work as priests for performing “Shani Dev Pooja” as none of the Hindu priests during that period accepted “Shani Daan”. The community lives in squalor in shanties without drinking water and toilet facilities but they do have electricity connections. It has been named Bakshi Nagar after GM Bakshi. Also Read: IPS Charu Sinha to become first woman head of CRPF’s Srinagar sectorAmong the entire community in Ramban, only two boys are matriculates and one girl is studying in eighth class. 22 year old Vinod Sharma, one of the matriculates, said he couldn’t continue studies due to poverty and now works as a plumber. “We vote in assembly and parliamentary elections and do have Aadhar card, electricity connections. The administration has now assured us to issue domicile certificates,” he said. When contacted, Tehsildar, Ramban, Rafiq Ahmad said, “I have asked them to give whatever documents they have with them. There are 27 families comprising 150 people. We will go to their locality to give them on the spot domicile certificates. Patwari will be requisitioned to the locality for his report”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-s-dugg-dugge-brahmins-living-in-inhumane-conditions-await-domicile-certificates/story-0oR3eN3wPoB7ZPAs66M7YJ.html
02-09-2020||India||‘You should have come sooner’: Delhi HC refuses to stay streaming of Netflix movie ‘Gunjan Saxena - The Kargil Girl||The Delhi High Court refused to stay the streaming of Netflix movie ‘Gunjan Saxena - The Kargil Girl’ on Wednesday. Justice Rajiv Shakdher refused to pass an interim injunction order at this stage and stated that the plea should have been filed sooner as the film has already been released. The court has sought responses from Dharma Production and Netflix on the plea and posted the matter for further hearing on September 18.Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, representing the Centre, argued that the movie has dented the image of the Indian Air Force as it showed that the force is gender biased, which is not correct.The court was hearing a plea by the ministry of defence that alleged the movie the makers of the film sought the assistance of IAF in making the film on the actual life of an Air Force officer but kept the IAF in dark about the real intent of the movie i.e. to “show them in negative light based on misleading and manipulative facts.”The court said it was of the view that former flight lieutenant Gunjan Saxena should also be made a party to the suit and issued notice to her, seeking her response. The movie was released on Over The Top (OTT) platform on August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-to-stay-streaming-of-netflix-movie-gunjan-saxena-the-kargil-girl/story-um1smG8Xr9IcdfUMj02oMK.html
02-09-2020||India||Showdown likely as Parliament’s IT panel meets over WSJ report on Facebook||A showdown is on the cards on Wednesday at the meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology chaired by Congress’s Shashi Tharoor, where Members of Parliament (MPs) will hear allegations made by Rupert Murdoch-owned publication The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) in recent reports against the social media company, Facebook.California’s Menlo Park-headquartered Facebook overlooked hate speeches posted by leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and other right-wing groups, as it would have hurt the company’s business interests in India, its biggest market, the WSJ report had alleged in its first report in August. The House panel has 30 members, out of which at least 15 belong to BJP and its allies, who are a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The Congress has three members, while other regional parties such as the Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Telangana Rashtriya Samity (TRS), Shiv Sena, Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) and Communist Party of India (Marxist) are represented by an MP each.Also Watch l RS Prasad writes to Facebook; alleges political bias, slams ‘selective leaks’ Most opposition parties such as the DMK, the TRS, the TMC and the CPI(M) have backed Tharoor’s bid to seek an explanation from Facebook about the WSJ reports. However, BJP MPs such as Nishikant Dubey have contended that Snehlata Shrivastava, the secretary-general of the 17th Lok Sabha, is only empowered to summon a witness. The panel’s meeting on Tuesday was cut short in honour of late President Pranab Mukherjee, whose last rites were performed following his demise the previous day. The panel was slated to hear from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) and officials about internet shutdowns, especially in the union territory of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K).According to members of the panel, who did not wish to be named, both the BJP and the Congress are poised to corner Facebook about its policy decisions.A BJP MP said that Union Minister for Electronics and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad’s letter had set the tone for the BJP’s attack on Facebook. On Tuesday, Prasad had attacked Facebook for its biases against right-wing groups and demanded a probe into the conduct of an employee of the social media company for making alleged uncharitable remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “So many people on Facebook are associated with the Congress. We intend to take that matter up in the meeting,” said an MP, requesting anonymity. A second MP from the opposition camp asserted that they would push for the removal of Ankhi Das, the public policy director for Facebook for India, South and Central Asia. Das has been at the centre of the raging controversy ever since the first WSJ report was published that had questioned her pro-BJP actions. She had allegedly opposed applying hate-speech rules to T Raja Singh, the lone BJP lawmaker in the Telangana assembly, despite his provocative and incendiary Facebook posts had repeatedly targeted the Muslims, the report had said. According to a new report in the WSJ published on late Sunday evening, Das had also praised PM Modi as the “strongman”, who had broken the Congress’s socialist hold in the country. Though the comment was made in a Facebook group designed for its India employees, it was open to a global audience. The Congress and CPI (M) have demanded a criminal investigation into Facebook’s actions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/showdown-likely-as-parliament-s-it-panel-meets-over-wsj-report-on-facebook/story-wvvNtSyuy55vppVM92M0gI.html
02-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: CPI leader calls no Question Hour move ‘unjust’ in letter to Rajya Sabha chairman||Ahead of the beginning of Parliament monsoon session, the Communist Party of India’s (CPI) Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam has written a letter to House chairman Venkaiah Naidu, over dropping of the Question Hour.“Given that the duration of time of Parliamentary sittings is the same as it has always been, suspension of Question hour and Private Members business is unjust and must be reinstated immediately,” Viswam has said in his letter.“Question Hour and Zero Hour are integral to the democratic functioning of Parliament and have never been done away with in the history of independent India. By introducing these changes, the government has effectively ensured that its accountability to Parliament and to the people is done away with,” he further said.Also Read: No weekend break for MPs during monsoon sessionIn a notification issued on Tuesday, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said that there will be no question hour and private members’ business during the monsoon session of Parliament in the wake of ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Those who attend the session would be required to follow the necessary coronavirus protocols, including getting tested for Covid-19 within 72 hours, it further said.The monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled to begin from September 14 and conclude on October 1.On its part, the government has reached out to the Opposition, explaining its decision to not include the Question Hour in the list of business, people familiar with the development said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh spoke on the government’s behalf to Opposition leaders, like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress and Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress.Also Read: New protocol for Parliament’s upcoming monsoon sessionCongress leader Chowdhury later said that Singh informed him about the modalities involved him in holding the session of Parliament at a time when the coronavirus pandemic has gripped the country. Ahead of the beginning of the session, both the House of Parliament have made elaborate security arrangements and put in place Covid-19 protocols, and that would require the presence of a large number of officials in Parliament to brief ministers, Singh said according to Chowdhury.Singh assured him that the government will try to accommodate the Opposition’s demand for the Zero Hour to continue so that members can raise urgent matters .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspension-of-question-hour-unjust-cpi-leader-writes-to-rajya-sabha-chairman/story-zqiX0WaTvxiBxboCEvTAHK.html
02-09-2020||India||No weekend break for MPs during monsoon session, House to function on Sat, Sun too||In the upcoming monsoon session, the Parliament will function on Saturdays and Sundays as well, meaning the MPs will get no weekend break, according to an internal circular accessed by Hindustan Times on Wednesday. The session that usually begins in July was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and will be held between September 14 and October 1.While Parliament has earlier seen special sessions on Saturday, this would be the first time that a routine session will see lawmakers working on both Saturdays, and for the first time, on Sundays, as well. Doorstep Covid-19 tests, the freedom to deliver a speech in the House while seated, options to undergo real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test at their constituency before heading to Delhi, and one-way movement in the Central Hall and key corridors -- these are some of the new measures for Lok Sabha MPs in the upcoming monsoon session, following Speaker Om Birla’s meeting with health sector experts last week. Also read: New protocol for parliament’s upcoming monsoon sessionThe Rajya Sabha too, is likely to follow the same schedule. On the first day, the Lok Sabha will start at 9am and continue till 1pm. After a gap of two hours, the Rajya Sabha will start at 3pm and continue till pm. However, for the next 17 days or the remaining part of the session, the Rajya Sabha will meet in the morning and the Lok Sabha in the afternoon schedule. This has been done to efficiently transact business between the two Houses as bills need to be cleared by the other House after one house gives its approval. HT was the first to report that the monsoon session would see daily shifts to ensure that lawmakers spent the minimum required time in Delhi amid the Covid-19 pandemic. It has also been decided to do away with the Question Hour- the one hour slot for lawmakers to pose questions to different ministries, and private members’ bills to keep the maximum time for legislative business and discussion on key issues. While the government needs to clear 11 ordinances—including the key ones on agriculture and banking—the Opposition wants to raise the India-China border tension, economic situation and alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic by the government. Last week, Lok Sabha Speaker met union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, ICMR chief Dr. Balaram Bhargava and DRDO and Delhi government officials on Friday for a brainstorming session where he was quick to approve some new ideas, a top functionary aware of the proceedings at the meeting said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-weekend-break-for-mps-during-monsoon-session-parliament-to-function-on-saturdays-and-sundays-too/story-szWl212khsBRj4ez5ioy7I.html
02-09-2020||India||Rajasthan: ‘Khap’ forces man, woman to bathe in front of hundreds in Sikar||A man and a woman belonging to the Sansi community from Rajasthan’s Sikar district were allegedly made to bathe in front of hundreds of people by a khap panchayat -- a community organisation representing a clan or a group -- on August 21 as atonement for their purported sins.Also read: Delhi man bludgeoned to death in front of wife in property disputeThe khap members made the man and the woman, who are related to each other as nephew and aunt, cough up Rs31,000 and Rs22,000, respectively, following which they were accepted back into the social fold. However, the Sikar district police authorities said the charges against the khap members are yet to be proven, even though nine people have been booked for the offence and a probe is in progress.“The charges are yet to be proved. However, the probe is in progress. We are recording the statements of the villagers, where the incident took place. We are also trying to obtain the videos or pictures of the incident that were taken by the villagers on their mobile phones,” said Gagandeep Singla, superintendent of police (SP), Sikar.The matter came to light after members of the Sansi community, a nomadic tribe that traces its origin to Bhati Rajputs from erstwhile Rajputana in the medieval era, submitted a memorandum to the Sikar district police administration on Tuesday.The memorandum narrated the incident and sought action against the accused. It alleged that an objectionable video of the man and the woman was circulated among the locals following which members of the khap panchayat from four districts in the desert state took law into their own hands.Though hundreds were purportedly present as the man and the woman ‘atoned for their sins’ on August 21, not a single person spoke out against the alleged heinous punishment. The crowd watched the spectacle in silence and many curious onlookers also filmed the incident on their mobile phones and some others also took pictures of the alleged punishment meted out by the members of the khap panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-khap-forces-man-woman-to-bathe-in-front-of-hundreds-in-sikar/story-wN4kSqejtOpGNehTYAZtaK.html
02-09-2020||India||Airlines pitch in amid Covid: IndiGo flies plasma, SpiceJet launches portable ventilator support||Low-cost airline IndiGo on Tuesday flew two bags of blood plasma a person in Bengaluru donated after recovering from Covid-19 for convalescent plasma therapy for a critical 60-year-old woman infected by the disease in Srinagar. The plasma was delivered in over eight hours via Delhi to a hospital in Srinagar, around 3,000 km away, in the first such delivery in the country across two cities during the pandemic.IndiGo officials said the airline is only the second in the world to have transported plasma like this successfully.“The creation of the first air corridor in India to transport blood plasma can have a huge positive impact on the treatment of Covid-19 patients through plasma therapy,” said IndiGo‘s chief executive officer Ronojoy Dutta.Also read: Goa CM Pramod Sawant tests positive for Covid-19Bengaluru’s HCG Cancer Hospital associate dean, Dr Vishal Rao, said plasma therapy is one of the promising lines of Covid-19 treatment. “The creation of a successful air corridor opens up new possibilities for the treatment of patients with Covid-19 with plasma from anywhere in the country. We would like to thank Captain Rahul Srivastava, IndiGo CarGo team and BIAL [Bangalore International Airport] in helping us save lives by making this possible.”The therapy has long been used to treat diseases and involves taking antibody-rich plasma from patients, who have recovered from Covid-19, and giving it to those with severe infection for fester recovery from the disease.SpiceJet, another low-cost airline, has separately launched a portable ventilation device SpiceOxy for patients with mild to moderate breathing issues. It has also introduced a fingertip pulse oximeter that can measure blood oxygen levels. Airline officials said the light weight device can be used at home, in an ambulance, on in hilly terrain.SpiceJet’s chairman and managing director Ajay Singh said: “I am sure these non-invasive, portable ventilators will greatly help patients with breathing issues and other chronic problems, and can be easily used at home and taken along during travel.”SpiceJet Technic, a subsidiary of SpiceJet, has designed SpiceOXY to provide non-invasive ventilator support to treat adult and paediatric patients with obstructive sleep apnea or respiratory insufficiency. The device can be used for maintaining oxygen levels and ventilation in patients. It can be of help for symptomatic Covid-19 patients with mild to moderate breathing symptoms to maintain oxygen saturation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airlines-pitch-in-amid-covid-indigo-flies-plasma-spicejet-launches-portable-ventilator-support/story-ucqRwLb5mcq3jdCCZJhMhL.html
02-09-2020||India||‘Not a penalty’: All you need to know about govt’s latest performance review order||The central government last week issued a notification tweaking the rules of performance review to weed out inefficient and corrupt officials from the system. The notification, issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), asked all departments and ministries to maintain a register of officers attaining 50/55 years of age or completing 30 years of service.The notification said that the government has taken this decision in “public interest” to ask officials with “doubtful integrity” and “ineffectiveness” to take early retirement.Here are some of the steps taken by the government in its latest order:• The notification states that the register is to be scrutinised at the beginning of every quarter by a senior officer in the ministry/department/cadre who will undertake a review of the same to decide on pre-mature retirement or retention of an officer.• The employees’ performance review is conducted under the Fundamental Rule (FR) 56 (J) and 56 (I), and also under Rule 48 (1) (b) of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972, that gives “absolute right” to the appropriate authority to retire a government servant, “if it is necessary to do so in public interest”.• The performance review will be done in January to March, for July to September of the same year. Similarly in April to June, the review will be done for October to December of the same year. July to September, will be reviewed from January to March of the next year and October to December quarter performances will be done from April to June of the next year.• No government servant should ordinarily be retired on ground of ineffectiveness, if, in any event, he would be retiring on superannuation within a period of one year from the date of consideration of his case, reads the criteria mentioned in the order.• However, in case where there is a sudden and steep fall in the competence, efficiency or effectiveness of a government servant, it would be open to review such a case also for premature retirement, it said. The entire service record, in addition to the Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR), of a government servant should be considered at the time of review, the order said.• “It is clarified that premature retirement of government servants under these rules is not a penalty. It is distinct from ‘compulsory retirement’, which is one of prescribed penalties under Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965,” the order said.• The DoPT has also mentioned composition of a review committee and broad criteria to be followed by it while conducting assessment of the employees’ performance. For Group A officers, the review Committee shall be headed by the Secretary of the concerned CCA. Where there are boards (like CBDT, CBEC, Railway Board, etc), the chairman will head the review committee. For Group B officers, an additional secretary/joint secretary-level officer shall head the review committee.• In the case of non-gazetted employees, an officer of the level of joint secretary will head the committee. However, in case the appointing authority is lower in rank than a joint secretary, then an officer of the level of director/deputy secretary will be the head. In the case of non-gazetted employees in other than centralised cadres, head of department/head of the organisation shall decide the composition of the review committee.• The government order also said that there is no bar on to review any such case again where it had decided earlier to retain the officer.• Instructions have been issued from time to time for undertaking periodic review of performance of government servants with a view to ascertain whether they should be retained in service or retired prematurely, the ministry said.The latest order has been issued in order to bring in better clarity to the existing instructions and enable uniform implementation, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-penalty-all-you-need-to-know-about-govt-s-latest-performance-review-order/story-n44fvrWg87k0hdb7WXVTmK.html
02-09-2020||India||India reeling under Modi-made disasters: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday stepped up his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the steepest decline in the GDP since independence, Chinese transgressions in Ladakh, rising unemployment and job losses, GST dues to states and a significant increase in Covid-19 cases across the country. “India is reeling under Modi-made disasters: 1. Historic GDP reduction -23.9% 2. Highest Unemployment in 45 yrs 3. 12 Crs job loss 4. Centre not paying states their GST dues 5. Globally highest COVID-19 daily cases and deaths 6. External aggression at our borders,” he tweeted. India’s GDP shrank by the steepest percentage ever—23.9%—in the April-June period as the coronavirus pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown battered an already slowing economy, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSP). Gandhi has been attacking the government over the present state of economy, alleging that its “ruining” started with demonetisation, which was followed by a series of “erroneous” policies of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre. Also watch: ‘How Modi govt destroyed Indian economy’: Rahul Gandhi’s new video series trailerOn Tuesday, former finance minister P Chidambaram had said the GDP estimates should be a matter of “surprise and shame” to the government that was seeing ‘green shoots’ on several days during the first quarter and did nothing to cushion the fall by taking suitable fiscal and welfare measures. “But we know that the Modi government has no shame and will not acknowledge its mistakes. All these had been anticipated,” Chidambaram had said, addressing a joint virtual press conference with party colleague Supriya Shrinate after the provisional estimates of GDP were released for the quarter April-June 2020. Gandhi, on Monday, released the first part of his series of videos on the state of economy, alleging that the BJP government has destroyed it by repeatedly assaulting the informal sector. “There is an attempt to turn you into a slave,” he had said in the 3.38-minute video. In 2008, Gandhi said, the world was hit by an economic storm, affecting the entire world, including the United States, Japan, Europe, China. In the US and Europe, banks collapsed, corporations companies shut down their businesses, but India remained unaffected, he added. “India had a UPA government at that time. I went to the Prime Minister and asked him, Manmohan Singh ji, what is the reason that when the entire world has suffered an economic crisis India has remained unaffected?” the former Congress chief said. “Manmohan Singh ji replied, Rahul, if you want to understand India’s economy, you will have to understand that India has two economic structures. One is the formal economy and the other is the informal economy,” he added. Also Read: To revive the Congress, leaders must return to the grassrootsPriot to Gandhi’s fresh series on economy, he had released a five-part series on Chinese incursions in Ladakh. Soon after the release of the video, the BJP had taken a jibe at Gandhi, saying he should release a video about the “G-23”, a reference to 23 dissenters who wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking complete overhaul of the party organisation. “People are trying to seize his house. There are talks of election, selection, inability to have a president... He (Rahul) should worry about it. The country is very much in safe hands. He should worry about his party,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reeling-under-modi-made-disasters-rahul-gandhi/story-ALXw1FNxq4COgMGyi8yXLL.html
02-09-2020||India||Assam Police carries out drug raid, catches on ‘Rasode mei kon tha’ trend||The Assam Police on Tuesday caught up on the ‘Rasode mei kon tha’ trend that has gone viral on social media over the past two weeks. The Nagaon police unit has seized drugs from peddlers who were hiding it in a carton of Livsaf and vitamins, it claimed. The police took to Twitter to announce the seizure and did it in a style that has gained a lot of popularity on social media. “RASODE ME KAUN THA ? Rasode me do drugs peddlers tha. Carton me se Livsaf and vitamins nikal diye aur CODEX and drugs chhupa diya. Itne me Team Nagaon ayi aur dono ko utha liya,” they wrote on Twitter.  RASODE ME KAUN THA ?Rasode me do drugs peddlers tha.Carton me se Livsaf and vitamins nikal diye aur CODEX and drugs chhupa diya. Itne me Team Nagaon ayi aur dono ko utha liya.@assampolice @gpsinghassam @lrbishnoiassam pic.twitter.com/UIV7Wrih0pThe tweet comes after 24-year-old engineer-music producer Yashraj Mukhate recently uploaded a video musical spoof on Instagram featuring TV show Saath Nibhana Saathiya’s characters Kokilaben, Rashi and Gopi Bahu. The clip, which was posted on August 20, has so far got 9,133,103 views and is being shared across all social media platforms.   First World Problems • Made Kokila Ben sing this time • I love doing harmonies, enjoyed this one a lot • Kahi share karoge toh credits zaroor dena. Aapke pyaar ke liye bohot saara dhanyawaad!♥️♥️♥️ #dialoguewithbeats #kokilaben #gopibahu #rashi #cooker #saathnibhanasaathiya #yashrajmukhate #ymstudiosA post shared by  Yashraj Mukhate (@yashrajmukhate) on Aug 20, 2020 at 8:51am PDTThe Nagaon police’s drug seizure comes at a time when a Special Narcotics Cell has been set up under the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) to deal with the drug trafficking situation in the state, according to Director General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said.Mahanta told news agency PTI that the recovery of psychotropic tablets in Assam has gone up by 274% in the past two months due to sustained drive against drug trafficking. The number of drug-related cases reported with the police this year is 601 with 200 of them being reported from June 26 to August 30, the DGP said at a press conference in Guwahati. Altogether 1,032 people were arrested in such cases this year and 338 of them were nabbed since June 26, he added.Mahanta said that a database of 80 repeated offenders has been prepared by the CID and a proposal for preventive detention has been sent to the government by the police in Nagaon, Hojai, Hailakandi, Golaghat, Dibrugarh, Bishwanath Chariali districts.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-carries-out-drug-raid-catches-on-rasode-mei-kon-tha-trend/story-oNiokzM93FDz0HqMObSdiO.html
02-09-2020||India||Goa CM Pramod Sawant tests positive for Covid-19, to remain under home isolation||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. He said he is asymptomatic and under home isolation.“I wish to inform all that I have been detected COVID19 positive. I am asymptomatic and hence have opted for home isolation. I shall continue to discharge my duties working from home. Those who have come in my close contact are advised to take the necessary precautions,” he tweeted. I wish to inform all that I have been detected COVID19 positive. I am asymptomatic and hence have opted for home isolation. I shall continue to discharge my duties working from home. Those who have come in my close contact are advised to take the necessary precautions.Goa on Tuesday recorded its highest single-day spike with 588 people testing positive for coronavirus, taking the state’s Covid-19 count to 18,006, while two deaths took the toll to 194, an official said.The number of people discharged so far stood at 13,577, including 273 during the day, he added.“Out of 3,762 samples tested, 2,683 were negative, 588 returned positive while 491 reports are awaited,” he added.Goa’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 18,006, new cases 588, deaths 194, discharged 13,850, active cases 3,962, samples tested till date 2,02,730. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-tests-positive-for-covid-19-to-remain-under-home-isolation/story-siaM2fmm5gvbM1yzskjF0I.html
02-09-2020||India||Pak firing along LoC kills another army officer in Jammu’s Rajouri district||A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) was killed along the Line of Control (LoC) in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday at Keri area of the Nowshera sector in Jammu’s Rajouri district.Also read: Centre to withdraw 100 companies of paramilitary forces from Jammu-Kashmir“A Naib Subedar posted at a forward location in Keri sector sacrificed his life in the line of duty, when Pakistan resorted to unprovoked firing from across the LoC,” said a defence official. The Indian Army has retaliated to Pakistani firing, he added. “We are awaiting more details,” said the official. On August 30, a JCO was killed in Pakistani shelling along the LoC in the Nowshera sector. The martyred JCO is identified as Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh, who belonged to Khadur Sahib tehsil of Punjab’s Amritsar district. Last Saturday, the Border Security Force (BSF) had detected a trans-border tunnel, which originated from Pakistan and went 150 metres into the Samba sector of the union territory (UT) of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K). Pakistan has been regularly opening unprovoked heavy fire on the LoC and the international border (IB) since the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-firing-along-loc-kills-another-army-officer-in-jammu-s-rajouri-district/story-8DAWHOQuaHJZxSMocNq1cO.html
02-09-2020||India||7 BJP leaders test positive for Covid-19 in Jammu-Kashmir||Seven Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from Jammu have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past five days even though the party’s headquarters in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) was shut last Saturday, for 10 days, as a precautionary measure against the contagion.Also read: India again records over 78,000 new Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 3.76 millionBJP Member of Parliament (MP) Jugal Kishore; party vice-president Narinder Singh; general secretary Sunil Sharma; general secretary (organisation) Ashok Koul; former lawmaker Shakti Raj Parihar; general secretary Vibodh Gupta and Mahila Morcha president Sanjita Dogra have been found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19.Most of the BJP leaders are undergoing treatment at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super speciality hospital at Kakryal in Jammu’s Reasi district.Last Saturday, the BJP’s J&K unit had shut its headquarters at Trikuta Nagar in Jammu for 10 days as a precautionary measure after two of its leaders – Koul and Gupta --- had tested Covid-19 positive.“We have decided to close our headquarters for 10 days in compliance with Covid-19 protocol,” said a party spokesman.Earlier, BJP’s Lok Sabha member Sharma, his wife and personal secretary had tested Covid-19 positive.Koul and Gupta had returned from Srinagar recently after attending party meetings presided over by Ram Madhav, national general secretary, who was on a two-day tour to the Kashmir valley.Ravinder Raina, the president of the BJP’s J&K unit, had also recently recovered from his viral infection that he had contracted during his visit to Kashmir following the killing of the party leader Waseem Bari, his brother and their father by terrorists.Raina said the party headquarters in Jammu was decided to be closed for 10 days from last Saturday onwards because of the rapid spread of the contagion.Uday Bhan Chib, president, Pradesh Youth Congress (PYC), J&K, took a swipe at the BJP leaders who are undergoing treatment at the super speciality hospital. “BJP leaders are getting the best of healthcare facilities at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super specialty hospital, where doctors in PPE (personal protective equipment) gears are singing songs for them. However, a common man is left to fend for his life in the Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) in Jammu,” Chib alleged.On Monday, the PYC activists had staged a protest outside the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super specialty hospital, accusing the authorities of admitting only dignitaries and refusing treatment to common people.“An old woman, who had been hospitalised at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super specialty hospital for another ailment, was referred to GMCH, Jammu, after she had tested Covid-19 positive. Her family members were also slapped with a hefty bill by the hospital authorities,” Chib further alleged. “I took up the matter with the hospital’s North Head, Colonel Bali and apprised him about the ill-treatment of an elderly woman patient,” he said. Col Bali has assured Chib and other PYC activists that such an incident would not be repeated in future. “Col Bali assured that the woman will be compensated by providing free treatment at the hospital. Besides, if any patient undergoing treatment in the hospital tests Covid-19 positive, the patient will be attended to and won’t be shifted to GMCH,” he added. Chib also alleged that the hospital authorities had expressed their helplessness about admitting Covid-19 patients, who were not recommended by people in the higher echelons of power.“They claimed to me that they were asked to admit only those patients, who had the approval from the chief secretary,” he further alleged. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-j-k-bjp-leaders-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-8Hk1QNFVgMMtCHJvPzC3XJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB arrests Abdul Basit, links him to Rhea Chakraborty’s brother||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested two people in connection with the drug angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput case.The agency said on Wednesday that it has arrested Abdul Basit Parihar from Mumbai’s Bandra. “He had connection with Samuel Miranda. Miranda is accused of procuring drugs on instructions of Showik Chakraborty (the brother of prime accused and Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty),” news agency ANI quoted NCB as saying.Also Read: 14 people facing CBI probe in Sushant caseMiranda is Rajput’s former housekeeping manager. He was appointed by Rhea Chakraborty in May last year. He used to manage all the household expenses. Rajput’s family has made serious allegations against Miranda - of helping Chakraborty in siphoning off his money and supplying the drugs.The NCB has also arrested Zaid Vilatra from Mumbai in connection with the case, ANI reported. Zaid is understood to be involved in the supply of narcotics like bud or curated marijuana to the high-end party circles of Mumbai, news agency PTI reported quoting NCB officials.Agency sleuths claimed he was arrested after they obtained some “vital leads” into the narcotics case registered against Chakraborty and others, according to PTI.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is also probing the case. It has called Chakraborty’s father for second round of questioning on Wednesday. The agency had questioned Rhea Chakraborty’s parents for the first time in connection with Rajput’s death on Tuesday.Her father Indrajeet Chakraborty and mother Sandhya reached the DRDO guest house in suburban Kalina, where the CBI probe team is stationed, around 11 am and left in the evening after nearly eight hours of interrogation.The CBI continued the interrogation of her brother Showik, who was called for questioning for the first time last week, on Tuesday also, an official said.Rhea Chakraborty and her parents are among those named in the FIR registered by the Patna Police after a complaint from Rajput’s family who has accused her of abetting his suicide and misappropriating the actor’s money.The 28-year-old actress has been questioned for around 35 hours by the CBI in the last four days.Rajput (34) was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of the FIR lodged in Patna to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-arrests-abdul-basit-says-he-procured-drugs-on-instructions-of-rhea-s-brother/story-dbCE4L8ufbgcSrl3OqRKRP.html
02-09-2020||India||Maharashtra launches ‘Mission Begin Again’ today with further relaxations||As Maharashtra launches its ‘Mission Begin Again’ with further relaxations coming into force on Wednesday, authorities are apprehensive about a spike in Covid-19 cases across the state. A day ago, the state had already shot past the 800,000-mark with 15,765 new patients taking the Covid-19 case tally to 808,306.Also read: What’s allowed, what’s not in Maharashtra’s Unlock 4As part of relaxations, the state government allowed inter district travel, more workforce in private and government offices, operation of hotels and lodges at the full strength. Officials feel the spread of coronavirus in rural Maharashtra could increase with more inter-district movement. However, the state government has directed the local administration to adopt ‘Chase the Virus’ programme in September. The campaign calls for increased surveillance to trace and track high-risk contacts.“We anticipate a spike in cases with freer movement between districts. We saw jump in cases after major relaxations were provided in May with opening up of industries and businesses. But the administrations have been asked to ramp up medical infrastructure beforehand. Besides, ‘Chase The Virus’ programme will be adopted to break the chain of transmission,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Under the campaign, 15 people who come in close contact with a patient will be strictly put in institutional quarantine. The campaign has yielded good results in Mumbai, Malegaon and a few other locations.Meanwhile, the state is inching towards the grim landmark of 25,000 fatalities due to Covid-19. The state, which has recorded 24,903 deaths so far, is expected to breach 25,000-mark on Wednesday.On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 1,142 cases and 35 deaths, though Pune district remained on the top in cases and fatalities. Pune city saw 1, 738 cases and 40 deaths, rural part of the district reported 776 cases and 7 fatalities, while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 979 cases and 5 deaths. Nagpur, Satara and Solapur districts were key contributors in new cases on Tuesday with 1, 491(22deaths), 780(17 deaths) and 467 (15 deaths) cases respectively. The state’s active caseload stood at 198,523 as on Tuesday. The total of recovered patients reached 584,537 after 10,978 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 72.32%, against national rate of 76.63%. The number of recovered and discharged patients in Mumbai was 1,18,859 with a recovery rate of 80.88%, and active cases stood at 20,067.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-launches-mission-begin-again-today-with-further-relaxations/story-S2MOh6ly67D0D459o2OSGJ.html
02-09-2020||India||DDA to start public consultation for Delhi’s master plan from today||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will start public consultation for the preparation of Master Plan of Delhi-2041, a vision document for the city’s development in the next two decades, from September 2.The meeting is scheduled to start at 11 am.The first round of consultation to finalise the contours of the vision document will be done with the resident welfare associations of unauthorised colonies in the national Capital. The Centre, last year, had started the process of giving ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies.A senior DDA official said, “To begin this process, an online meeting will be held on September 2 with RWAs of unauthorised colonies of Delhi. This is to understand the issues in their localities and discuss possible solutions to improve the quality of life of residents in these areas.”DDA has roped in the National Institute of Urban Affairs, an advisory body under the Union minister of Housing and urban affairs, for the preparation of the MPD-2041.DDA started the process to confer ownership rights to residents in unauthorised colonies in December 2019. Just days before the model code of conduct for the Delhi assembly elections was put in force, the Centre had handed over ownership rights documents to 20 property owners under Pradhan Mantri Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana (PM-UDAY).The DDA official said that for the consultation process, RWAs of these colonies can register themselves by sending an e-mail to mpd2041@gmail.com. The land-owning agency has also launched an interactive microsite ‘Public Engagement Portal for MPD-2041’ to disseminate information about the consultative process, said an official.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “We look forward to active participation from the people of Delhi and seek their support towards shaping a shared vision for Delhi.”The DDA official said that the land-owning agency plans to hold large-scale consultative meetings with various groups. But due to the Coronavirus disease pandemic, these meetings will be held online.After unauthorised colonies, DDA will hold meetings with various stakeholders and citizen groups such as RWAs, market and trader associations, industry associations, informal sector, women, children and youth, professional bodies and associations, etc. in the next two months.The NIUA has been asked to submit the draft MPD-2041, an official said, by December this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dda-to-start-public-consultation-for-delhi-s-master-plan-from-today/story-0XyjQ2pAv1aqyvJF4uwGCI.html
02-09-2020||India||India again records over 78,000 new Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 3.76 million||India on Wednesday recorded 78,357 new cases of the coronavirus disease which pushed the nationwide tally to 3,769,524, according to Union health ministry dashboard.The number of active cases reached 8,01,282, and those discharged from hospitals stood at 29,01,908 - a gap of 21,00,626.The death toll reached 66,333 after 1,045 people died due to the disease in the last 24 hours.Five states - Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh - have accounted for over half of the total Covid-19 cases and close to 60 per cent of the recoveries, the minittry said on Tuesday.These five states have also reported the maximum number of patients that were cured and discharged, cumulatively accounting for 58.04 per cent of the total 65,081 people who have recovered till Tuesday.While the recovery rate has risen close to 77 per cent, the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.77 per cent, the health ministry said. The number of recoveries is 3.61 times the active cases of the viral infection.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative 4,33,24,834 samples have been tested up to August 31, with 10,16,920 of them being tested on Monday.Three states - Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra - account for nearly 34 per cent of the total tests, according to the government.India’s daily testing capacity has crossed 10 lakh and the tests per million too have seen a sharp increase, reaching 31,394, the health ministry highlighted. Twenty-two states and union territories have tests per million better than the national average, it said.The guiding principle within the Centre-led strategy of ‘test, track and treat’ has been aggressive testing by the states and union territories. Sustained high levels of testing lead to early diagnosis and enhanced recoveries, the health ministry said, adding that 1,22,66,514 tests were done just in the last two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-again-records-over-78-000-new-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-3-76-million/story-vanfr3zCeBLEpHMz0KNwxH.html
02-09-2020||India||100-year-old tribal woman from north Bengal defeats Covid-19||A tribal woman, believed to be 100, who had tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive and was undergoing treatment in a hospital in north Bengal, was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. Also read: Kolkata Metro may resume services from Sept 8“She had multiple ailments. We had never thought that she would recover. The doctors and nurses gave her new life. I don’t have words to thank them. She has become an example of positivity and optimism amid these hard times,” said the woman’s son. The tribal woman, who belongs to Jaigaon, a town on the Indo-Bhutan border, was admitted to the Alipurduar district hospital on August 17. She was suffering from a fever and respiratory problems. Her rapid antigen detection (RAD) test report came positive and on the same day she was shifted to Tapasikhata Covid-19 Hospital in Alipurduar district. “We kept her on high oxygen supply and administered anti-viral treatments, as per Covid-19 protocols. Her condition had stabilised by Monday and her oxygen saturation level went up to 95%. We released her on Tuesday,” said Subarna Goswami, deputy chief medical officer of health, Alipurduar district. As the woman was suffering from several ailments and she was very old and infirm, the authorities had decided to admit her to the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU). “The woman’s recovery will give more energy and enthusiasm to the medical staff, who are treating patients suffering from the viral disease,” said Chinmoy Barman, superintendent, Tapasikhata Covid-19 hospital. The doctors and nurses gave the centenarian a warm send-off on Tuesday afternoon. Later, the district authorities dropped the old tribal woman at her residence in Jaigaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-year-old-tribal-woman-from-north-bengal-defeats-covid-19/story-JLxXHEuvnLLwB7Tf8OsoQJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Varanasi’s 350 boatmen families need ration. ‘Last hope’ Sonu Sood steps in||The newest beneficiaries of actor Sonu Sood’s now widely talked about generosity are the boatmen of Varanasi. Just an hour after Varanasi-based social activist Divyanshu Upadhyay informed the actor about the shortage of ration being faced by 350 families of boatmen, the actor, taking note, promised to deliver ration to all those families.“Families of 350 boatmen, who ply boats on the River Ganga in Varanasi, are running short of ration. They are in need of grain. You are the last hope of these families. Due to floods in the Ganga, the difficulties of boatmen have increased further,” Upadhyay tweeted to Sood and his associate Neeti Goel.The actor did not disappoint. “No member of these 350 families of Varanasi Ghats will sleep hungry after today,” he said.Sood’s associate, Neeti Goel, called Upadhyay and assured him that ration kits will be made available to them in the city itself within an hour. A big thanks to @SonuSood & @NeetiGoel2 from kumahrs of #Kashi.They were thrilled that the ration sent by you.Pottery, their only livelihood was first threatened by plastic cups and now #lockdown.Let’s not lose the skills with this generation due to starvation. #SpreadHope pic.twitter.com/XP9vhH8gnvShortly thereafter, 350 ration kits were made available by the actor, said Upadhyay. Each kit contained 5 kg flour, 5 kg rice, 2 kg gram, a packet of spice and other eatables. Out of 350, 100 kits were distributed among the families of the boatmen by Upadhyay and his team of social workers. The rest will be distributed on Wednesday.The overwhelmed boatmen, said Upadhyay, thanked the actor profusely. Presently, plying of boats has been suspended following the rise in the water level in the Ganga.Earlier, Sood played a stellar role in helping migrant workers reach home by arranging buses for them. He also helped many Indians stranded abroad reach home by arranging special flights for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-s-350-boatmen-families-need-ration-last-hope-sonu-sood-steps-in/story-fWpbFnalpF8oesH0LW1QXL.html
02-09-2020||India||Canada enhances air bubble with India, 56 more evacuation flights till October 24||Even as Canada is keeping its borders closed for international travelers till the end of September, the air bubble with India will be enhanced as it will now continue into the foreseeable future. Meanwhile, the number of evacuation flights operated for Indian nationals stranded in Canada due to the Covid-19 pandemic, under the Vande Bharat Mission, will cross 100 in September.The air bubble was introduced in mid-August with the two national carriers, Air India and Air Canada, flying back and forth between the two countries. Under Phase 6 of the Vande Bharat Mission, 56 more flights will be operated till October 24 between Toronto and Vancouver and destinations in India. With 73 flights already taking passengers back to India since May 20, when they first left Vancouver, the total will cross 100 by the end of the month. More than 13,000 Indian citizens, including international students, have been repatriated so far, according to India’s high commissioner in Ottawa Ajay Bisaria.Canada is keeping restrictions in place with regard to international travellers, only permitting citizens and permanent residents into the country, with some exemptions like for immediate family members of those allowed into the country. Minister of public safety and emergency preparedness Bill Blair announced these will remain till the end of September “to limit the introduction and spread of Covid-19 in our communities.” These measures were introduced in March when the initial coronavirus cases were reported in the country.Also Read: 153 stranded Indians depart from Thailand for New Delhi in Air India flightThose entering Canada will have to undergo a mandatory quarantine of 14 days and no exemptions are being made for those who have recovered from Covid-19 or have tested negative for it. The guidelines in this regard explained that this was being done because “it’s not yet certain how long the virus is contagious” and a negative test “doesn’t prove that a traveller is Covid-19 free.”Also Read: Canada abandons clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccine after China blocks shipmentThe Air India flights to India will head to New Delhi and connect multiple destinations including Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Cochin, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai and Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-enhances-air-bubble-with-india-56-more-evacuation-flights-till-october-24/story-x5k2L72O1SwKainEZZLopL.html
02-09-2020||India||Delhi man held for raping and threatening widow, breaching her trust||Delhi Police on Wednesday said they have arrested a 44-year-old man for allegedly raping a widow, threatening her, and trying to usurp a flat that he got registered in his name after it was purchased using her money. The woman and the arrested man knew each other for more than two decades, officials associated with the case said. Also read: Man kills roommate after tiff over paying rentThe man, identified as Harjeet Singh, was caught from south-west Delhi’s Sagarpur area, nearly a month after a case under Sections 376 (rape), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 506 (criminal intimidation) was registered at the Rajouri Garden police station on the complaint of the 40-year-old woman, said a senior police officer privy to the development in the case, requesting anonymity. Singh is in garments business, the police said. The woman, the officer said, in her complaint told the police that her husband died in a road accident in 2018 and she had got Rs 22 lakh as insurance claim against his death. She alleged that Singh, whom she knew for the past 23-24 years, persuaded her to invest the money in buying a property, the officer said. “The woman agreed and gave him around Rs 17 lakh to buy a flat in Delhi’s Dwarka area. However, Singh got the flat registered in his name. When the woman learnt about it, she confronted him and asked him either to transfer the property in her name or return her money,” the officer said, quoting the woman’s complaint. The woman has alleged that on August 5, Singh came to her house, took her to the terrace and forced himself on her. Before leaving the house, he also threatened her with dire consequences if she reported the matter to the police. The woman, however, approached the police and filed a case against him, said an investigator, who is not authorised to speak to media. “The man was absconding from his home. We raided the places he frequented but could not locate him. Our team kept collecting information about his whereabouts and on Tuesday, we caught him from Sagarpur area on specific information,” the investigator added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-man-held-for-raping-and-threatening-widow-breaching-her-trust/story-E111vocYFXeqUdLC35F5AJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Maharashtra Unlock 4 kicks in today: Here is what’s allowed, what’s not||The guidelines for the fourth phase of relaxation from Covid-19 lockdown issued by the Maharashtra government come into effect on Wednesday, a day after the conclusion of Ganpati festival. Even as the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has announced major relaxations in this phase (called Unlock 4), the general lockdown in the state will continue till September 30 as part of efforts to contain the virus outbreak, chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said in a statement on Monday. Here’s is everything that changes from September 2:--Inter-district movement eased: The state government has allowed inter-district movement of persons and goods, including those for cross-land border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries, beginning Wednesday. People do not require an e-pass to carry out such a trip anymore. --Travel on long distance trains: Passenger reservation system has been enabled and starting September 2, people can travel in long-distance trains only on reserved tickets, an official said. But this travel will be restricted to special trains, which are being plied to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states, he said, adding that the railways is currently running 32 such trains and there will be no change in the frequency. Unlike earlier, these trains will now stop at various stations in the state along the way depending on their scheduled stops.--Hotels can operate with full staff: The hotels, guest houses and lodges in Maharashtra can now resume their operations with 100% staff strength, up from a third of their capacity since July 8. -- Private buses can ply: Private passenger buses and mini buses have been allowed to operate too. --More people allowed in offices: The Thackeray government has permitted increased attendance in offices during Unlock 4. Private offices can now operate at 30% of their strength (or 30 employees, whichever is more), according to the notification. The cap was earlier put at 10%. In government offices, all officers in Class A and B category have been asked to attend the office daily while the attendance of those in category C and D has been increased to 50% or minimum 50 employees in areas, excluding the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune Metropolitan Region.--Gyms, worship places may open later: “From operations of the gymnasium to opening of the religious places are on the cards. Even the Centre has given relaxations in a phased manner and some of them come into effect from September 21. We have ample time to think over more relaxations till then,” said a senior government official.What remains unchanged-- Inter-state travel remains suspended: Even as the state has allowed the resumption of inter-district movement, the inter-state travel travel still remains suspended.--Ban on operations of Metro services in Mumbai: Although the Centre has allowed metro trains to resume operations from September 7, the Maharashtra government has decided to continue with the ban on operations of Metro services in Mumbai at least for one more month, according to the notification. -- Frequency of long distance trains: While restrictions have not been eased for local trains, frequency of special long-distance trains, which are currently being plied, also remains unchanged, an official said. --Schools, colleges shut: Schools, colleges, educational institutions, theatres, swimming pools, bars will remain closed till September 30, the notification has stated.-- Restrictions on gathering to continue: The restrictions on social, political, cultural gatherings, too, continue, the notification has stated. The Centre, however, has allowed academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions with a ceiling of 100 people September 21 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-unlock-4-kicks-in-today-here-is-what-s-allowed-what-s-not/story-CYF6aeU4S6bA55M67jLLcO.html
02-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: South and northwest India likely to receive heavy rain in next 2 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy rain likely over south and northwest India during next 2 daysMany parts of peninsular India, north-western parts of the country, particularly Uttar Pradesh (UP), and a portion of the north-east, including Assam and Meghalaya, are likely to record heavy rainfall on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreFifth of Chennai residents exposed to Covid: SurveyA fifth of the population of Chennai has been exposed to the Covid-19 disease causing Sars-CoV-2 virus, a serological survey conducted in the capital city, has found. Read more‘Who owns chest bump?’ Leander Paes, Mahesh Bhupathi on Bryan Bros“Chest-bumps? Oh, all the time. We always have a laugh about who owns it, who started it, who should patent it,” Leander Paes says with a chuckle, while talking about his conversations with the Bryan brothers over the renowned doubles celebration. Read moreHow police pilots flying a helicopter made a kid smile. WatchPolice officials, all over the world, always stay ready to answer the call of duty. They also go above and beyond their roles to help someone or simply make a kid’s day. This tale, which is both sweet and heartening, is a perfect example. It showcases how a police department took it upon themselves to make a helicopter loving four-year-old smile. Read moreNational Nutrition Week: Coconut oil can help you lose weight, build immunity and also get great skin and hair, here’s howLosing weight may seem almost as daunting as keeping the weight off, which requires regular exercise, a healthy diet, and most importantly, the motivation to stay fit and follow a healthy lifestyle. Read moreSushil Modi: If Lalu Yadav campaigns, will help us win | Bihar assembly electionsIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks to Bihar’s Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi over assembly elections in the state and the Covid-19 pandemic. In the interview, Modi said that Lalu Prasad Yadav’s leadership could benefit the NDA in the upcoming Bihar elections. Modi said, “The left is hardly a force in Bihar, they are a spent force. So RJD aligning with any other party doesn’t mean anything. There is a huge gap in the vote share between BJP and these parties. The credibility of these parties- the RJD, the Congress, they don’t have a leadership. And leaders like Lalu Prasad Yadav- we can’t help him come out of jail but if he comes out of jail, and he campaigns, it will benefit NDA more.” Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-south-and-northwest-india-likely-to-receive-heavy-rain-in-next-2-days-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uBhUAHy5rGHywCtZ6HJTTK.html
02-09-2020||India||Kafeel Khan detained under NSA released from jail, says UP govt indulging in ‘Baal Hatth’||UP doctor Kafeel Khan, who was detained under the National Security Act (NSA) for his speech during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) last year, was released from the Mathura jail late on Tuesday night.After his release around midnight, Khan said the Uttar Pradesh government instead of doing ‘Raj Dharma’ was indulging in ‘Baal Hatth’ or childlike-stubbornness and could frame him in another case. “I will always remain thankful to all my well-wishers, who raised their voice for my release. The administration was not ready for release, but because of the prayers (duaa) of people, I have been released,” he told news agency PTI. Khan claimed that he and his family had to face many hardships as the state government was “after” him because of the oxygen issue in BRD Medical College.The Allahabad High Court had on Tuesday morning ordered the release of Khan and stated that his speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on December 10, 2019 did not promote any kind of hatred or violence.The court also set aside his detention under the NSA saying that the February 13 order against Khan by the Aligarh district magistrate was illegal. Also read| ‘Kafeel Khan’s speech didn’t promote hatred’: HC orders his release, says invoking NSA illegal“A complete reading of the speech also no where threatens peace and tranquility of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. It appears that the District Magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent,” it said.Also read| ‘Privacy, Migrants’: How judge who freed Kafeel Khan bats for fundamental rightsThe court was hearing a plea filed by the doctor’s mother Nuzhat Parveen that sought his release on grounds that Khan was granted bail by a competent court but wasn’t freed and three days later, the NSA was invoked against him. Khan was in lodged in the jail since January 29 for his alleged provocative speech at the AMU.His detention under the NSA was extended by three months on May 12 and then again on August 4 for three more months.Khan said he now wants to help flood-affected people in Bihar and Assam.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kafeel-khan-detained-under-nsa-released-from-jail-says-up-govt-indulging-in-baal-hatth/story-IB27Bngjo9Omz0rxCOWiDI.html
02-09-2020||India||Rumblings in Uttarakhand BJP as MLA questions government||BJP MLA and former party state president Bishan Singh Chuphal has alleged that the government officials and bureaucrats in Uttarakhand are not listening to party MLAs making them face a difficult situation in their constituencies. Chuphal, who is a legislator from Didihat constituency in Kumaon, has reportedly been in touch with other party MLAs who are not happy with their voices not being heard. This development has come at a time when the party has started its preparation for the assembly elections scheduled in 2022. The rumblings within the party were evident a few days back when BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat stated that party MLAs themselves need to work hard in their constituencies and not just bank on PM Narendra Modi’s name for getting votes. When it sparked a controversy with Opposition Congress leaders saying that it meant the Modi wave had ended, Bhagat later tried to clarify by stating, “PM Modi is the greatest and the most influential leader of the world and the party will make people aware of projects being carried out in the state with his blessings.” Chuphal, speaking about the fresh developments, said, “We are unhappy that the officials are not listening to us. They are not ready to address our issues or resolve them.”On dissent against the party leadership and his efforts to gather like-minded party MLAs from the Kumaon region, Chuphal said, “We have no issues with the party leadership but the officials.” “As far as meetings are concerned, I am meeting all kinds of people who come to me with their different issues. As a public figure, it’s my job to resolve their issues. However, the government should do something on the issue of officials not listening to us as public representatives,” said Chuphal. The political experts, meanwhile, claim that the development involving some sort of a dissent among the party MLAs, especially Chuphal has much to do with the Cabinet expansion, as there are three ministerial berths yet to be filled. Political analyst SMA Kazmi, who has been keeping an eye on state politics for over a decade, said, “Chuphal is using pressure tactics considering the Cabinet expansion regarding which there were reports that it was going to happen soon.” “Being a senior MLA, he was unhappy since he was not made minister in the Cabinet after the party came to power in 2017. Now, when only less than a year is left, he is trying to pressurise the party leadership for getting a ministerial berth,” said Kazmi. He said that the issue of officials not listening to the party MLAs is also significant as ‘MLAs have to face the public in their area.’ The Opposition Congress has meanwhile found an opportunity to attack the BJP, which often takes a dig on ‘factionalism and differences in the state Congress.’ Also Read: Lok Janshakti Party to contest all 70 seats in 2022 Uttarakhand assembly pollsLeader of Opposition in the state, Indira Hridayesh, said the current developments show that all was not well in the ruling party. “MLAs are complaining that neither development is being done nor the officials are listening to them. The public is not happy with this too,” she said. “Despite a heavy majority, the government is not able to deliver. If it’s not focused on development even now, then the public will soon come out in protest on the roads,” said Hridayesh. Also Read: JEE main 2020: Uttarakhand govt runs special buses for students in all 13 districtsThe BJP, however, tried to downplay the developments and said, ‘some MLAs have put their issues before the party forum.’ “There are no differences with the party leadership but there are issues regarding the government officials. Those have been put at the party forum by some MLAs which are being addressed by the leadership in the party as well as the state government,” said Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice-president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rumblings-in-uttarakhand-bjp-as-mla-questions-govt-congress-sniffs-opportunity/story-RFCYcdy99q2xJxdSdbYlFK.html
02-09-2020||India||Early lab studies offer hope for plant-based drugs to treat coronavirus||A team of pharmacologists and researchers in search of plant compounds that could help with Covid-19 treatment has found an edible weed that showed promise in lab studies. Researchers from Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University found it in Delhi’s Aravalli Biodiversity Park, which they have been visiting since March.In molecular docking studies conducted recently, Solanum nigrum (black nightshade; Makoy in Hindi), a weed and a vegetable commonly consumed in many parts of the country, the team says they found remarkable results.Their research showed its constituents bind with ACE 2 (an enzyme the Sars-Cov-2 virus uses to enter the body) and have the potential to inhibit viral replication; cytokine storm and inflammation.“We wanted to develop a phytopharmaceutical drug. Professor CR Babu (Professor Emeritus, Delhi University) who developed the Aravalli Biodiversity Park had guided us through the park and helped us collect samples from eight potential plants. At that time, we didn’t know much about the pathogenesis of the disease, so my team and I first worked on that and wrote a paper on how the disease impacts the body,” said Professor Ramesh K Goyal, Vice Chancellor of the University.Based on the first 206 Covid-19 deaths reported in India till April 10, Goyal’s team published a paper in Elsevier’s Diabetes Research and Clinical Practice journal which concluded, what is now well known, that patients with cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus and hypertension are at greater risk of developing Covid-19 infection. The team tried to understand the clinical characteristics of Covid-19 with the renin angiotensin system (RAS), hormonal system that regulates blood pressure.“In drug discovery, one of the mechanisms used is to see how the chemical compound interacts with the body through molecular modelling studies. The score from modelling gives us an idea of how the drug will perform. By the end of April 2020, it was very clear that Covid-19 has close molecular links with angiotensin converting enzyme-2 (ACE2) -- (an enzyme the Sars-Cov-2 virus uses to enter the body) and Open Reading Frame protein (ORF8)—a serological marker,” said Jaseela Majeed, associate professor at the University.“ACE-2 in particular seems to be the main culprit for every complication of the patient like cytokine surge, inflammation and thrombotic events. Unfortunately, even today, no drug that inhibits ACE2 is available. We found that some constituents of black nightshade interact with ACE2 and its associated receptors. The docking scores for the compounds present in Solanum nigrum were higher than some repurposed drugs being used currently and also when compared with other phytochemicals under clinical trials. Our colleagues Professors Rajiv Tonk and Ajit Thakur are working on validating these results,” explained Mahaveer Dhobi, associate professor at the University.Based on some preliminary clinical evidence, results of which are still being compiled Goyal said the drug once developed could be useful for symptomatic patients unlike other plant-based interventions which are prophylactic in nature. The team’s initial research results will be available in Reviews in Cardiovascular Medicine journal soon.The University team has prepared a formulation for the clinical trial permission and are in the process to get the support from various statutory and funding agencies.The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) is also in the process of developing a phytopharmaceutical drug for Covid-19. “The US FDA in 2005 approved phytopharmaceuticals as botanicals. In 2015, phytopharmaceuticals were also approved by the DGCI but since then there were no trials conducted. We now have ACQH which is in phase II of clinical trials. Its safety is demonstrated. We believe ACQH to be antiviral,” said Shekhar C Mande, director general, CSIR.“Phytopharmaceuticals work slightly differently from one cause-one purified compound theory of modern medicine. This involves extract of a compound which has a signature. But this is different from Ayurveda. It follows the same guidelines as modern medicine,” Mande added.“Phytochemicals are coming up in a big way. They provide hope in supportive or palliative care but will take a long time in becoming a therapeutic solution. Docking studies are done on a computer but we have to see how they work on the body. Researchers are studying anti-viral agents of all kinds but my personal feeling is that it will be a long way because the virus multiplies very rapidly,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head, department of microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi“Some phytopharmaceutical drugs for Covid-19 are already undergoing trials. They are different from Ayurveda or those specified in classical texts. These are purified and well characterised extracts from plants which are then standardised trough chemical, animal and clinical trials,” said Dr VG Somani, Drugs Controller General of India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-lab-studies-offer-hope-for-plant-based-drugs-to-treat-coronavirus/story-9fWf3HU0E0vhBgRNbS0wqO.html
02-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Locals carry pregnant woman in labour on cot for 5 kms to reach hospital||Locals of Jabla village in Jashpur here carried a pregnant woman, experiencing labour pain, on a cot for about five kilometres to avail the facility of an ambulance.The village lacks a proper road and the panchayat health centre is often faced with lack of staff.“Vehicles cannot enter our village as there are no roads we have to carry patients to the main road from where an ambulance can be taken. In this case, we had to take the woman to the hospital by a private vehicle as the ambulance could not reach our village,” a local told ANI here.The path to the main road is also only accessible to locals after they negotiate two drains on their way.Bagicha Janpad’s Chief Executive Officer, Vinod Singh said that work on the road will be completed by the end of this year to ensure connectivity to the region.“There had been such incidents in the past too and we had collected information about it. The construction of a bridge will begin by the end of the monsoon season and is expected to be completed by the end of this year,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-locals-carry-pregnant-woman-in-labour-on-cot-for-5-kms-to-reach-hospital/story-2pVfLmafbxDx0NI9lV0eVL.html
02-09-2020||India||Floods in 3 Gujarat districts, over 9,000 shifted||Over 9,000 people were shifted to safer places in Gujarat’s Bharuch, Narmada and Vadodara districts with the Narmada river swelling due to heavy inflow from upstream dams, officials said on Tuesday.The intensity of showers decreased during the day, but in the last three days, rain-related accidents claimed 12 lives in the state, said Commissioner of Relief Harshad Patel.With continuous inflow of water from upstream dams, mainly the Indira Sagar in Madhya Pradesh, the water level of the Sardar Sarovar Dam (SSD) on the Narmada has now reached 133 meters against its top level of 138.68 meters, he said.As per an official release, 10.70 lakh cusec (cubic foot per second) water is being discharged into the river by opening 23 of SSD’s 30 radial gates.As a result, the level of the Narmada has risen significantly in the last few days and water has now started entering low-lying villages on its banks in Narmada, Vadodara and Bharuch districts, Patel told reporters in Gandhinagar.“We have shifted 9,794 persons from 49 villages in these three districts so far,” the relief commissioner said.The state government said the water discharge in the Narmada would be curtailed after 10 pm on Tuesday as the outflow from Indira Sagar dam has been reduced from 11.40 lakh cusec to 7.40 lakh cusec. After a heavy spell for three days, the rain took a break on Tuesday with only light to moderate showers recorded in some parts of Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floods-in-3-gujarat-districts-over-9-000-shifted/story-yJYMhmLAxfoUQqe6lEkPiO.html
02-09-2020||India||Railways to run 20 pairs of special trains for JEE, NEET exam candidates in Bihar||The Railways has now decided to run 20 pairs of special trains from September 2 to 15 for the convenience of those appearing for JEE, NEET and NDA exams in Bihar.Announcing the move, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said the facility will also be extended to students appearing for the National Defence Academy (NDA) exam.  “Indian Railways has decided to run 20 pairs of MEMU / DEMU special trains from September 2 to 15 for the convenience of candidates joining JEE Mains, NEET and NDA in Bihar,” Goyal said in a tweet. While the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE-Main has been planned from September 1-6. The common NDA 2020 exam is scheduled to be held on September 6. The East Central Railway in a press release said the station enroute will have unreserved ticket counters and tickets can also be bought on the UTS mobile ticketing app. On Monday, Goyal had said the students and one guardian each will be allowed to travel on the exam days and the admit card will act as their letter of authority.  Around 8.58 lakh candidates have registered for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main and 15.97 lakh students for NEET. These exams were earlier deferred twice in the wake of the pandemic.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-run-20-pairs-of-special-trains-for-jee-neet-exam-candidates-in-bihar/story-8QTBJQ20PWImmr3Vur0U3J.html
02-09-2020||India||TMC leaders remember Pranab Mukherjee fondly; they helped him win 1st LS polls||As the nation watched on television the last journey of former President Pranab Mukherjee on Tuesday, there was mourning in Bengal’s Jangipur that, in 2004, ended the Congress veteran’s anguish of never winning a public election despite serving as cabinet minister since the 1970s. Mukherjee contested and won the Jangipur seat in Murshidabad district in 2004 and won it again in 2009. Till 2004, he had been a member of the Rajya Sabha. “Perhaps people don’t like me,” Mukherjee had jokingly said during an interview. After the 2004 victory, Mukherjee said in his first speech at Jangipur that he was thankful to the people for finally giving him a land to represent. According to the 2011 census, 66.27 % of the district’s population comprised of Muslims. Mohammad Sohrab, a former Congress MLA and now a senior TMC leader in the district, was Mukherjee’s election agent in 2004 and 2009. “I had cast my vote for Pranab Babu in Rajya Sabha election, Lok Sabha election and even in the election for the President’s post. I knew him for 50 years. He will be missed forever,” said Sohrab. “In 2004, ensuring his victory was a Herculean task as the Communist Party of India (Marxist), which had a strong base, had won the seat twice earlier. Our job was much easier in 2009,” added the former lawmaker. “Pranab Babu was a very religious person and respected all religions. His visit to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) headquarters raised many questions here,” he added. Now the minister of state for labour in the TMC government, Jakir Hossain is another person who played a key role in Mukherjee’s Lok Sabha victories. Hossain said, “I met Pranab Da for the first time a few months before the 2004 polls. He said, ‘Jakir, I need your help to win the seat.’ I assured him that victory would be ours.” “I used all my influence on voters to ensure his victory in 2004. But in 2009, the developmental work he had done in the preceding years made the polls a cakewalk for us,” said the minister. “It is only because of Pranab Da that I got the opportunity to step inside Rashtrapati Bhawan, an experience I will never forget,” said Hossain. Now, the lawmaker from the Raghunathganj assembly constituency, Md Akhrujjaman was one of the lieutenants of Mukherjee during the poll campaigns. Also Read: Stickler for protocol: When Pranab Mukherjee snubbed Obama and Erdogan“In 2004, Congress MLA Samar Mukherjee told me that Pranab Da would contest from Jangipur and asked me to find out a suitable house for him in Raghunathganj town. We selected the house of Mukti Dhar, a local resident,” said the TMC MLA. “I was among the key strategists during the campaign. I requested Pranab Da to ensure deployment of Central security forces at Geria and Sekendra, where rigging was part of polling back in those days. The Election Commission did not allow it. However, it was probably because of Pranab Da’s image that no one dared to rig the polls in those places,” said Akhrujjaman. Also Read: Bangladesh High Commission to hold special condolence meet to honour Pranab Mukherjee“I have countless memories. I will never forget that because of him I could fly in a helicopter and visit the Rashtrapati Bhawan,” added the lawmaker. After Mukherjee gave up the seat in 2012 to become the President of India, his son, Abhijit Mukherjee, succeeded him as the Congress candidate. He retained the seat twice in a row till the ruling Trinamool Congress wrested Jangipur in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leaders-remember-pranab-mukherjee-fondly-they-helped-him-win-1st-ls-polls/story-pV2tweBx1dAqvOqA8UpcPP.html
02-09-2020||India||Heavy rain likely over south and northwest India during next 2 days||Many parts of peninsular India, north-western parts of the country, particularly Uttar Pradesh (UP), and a portion of the north-east, including Assam and Meghalaya, are likely to record heavy rainfall on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A low-pressure area is lying over Pakistan and adjoining western Rajasthan. The western end of the monsoon trough – the line of low pressure – is at its near normal position – from Ganganagar in western Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal – and the eastern end lies close to the foothills of the Himalayas. A cyclonic circulation is lying over Gangetic West Bengal and another cyclonic circulation is lying over southern Assam and its adjoining areas.The IMD has forecast widespread and heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning over parts of West Bengal, Sikkim, Odisha, Bihar, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam in Puducherry, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura on Wednesday.Owing to an interaction between lower-level easterly winds and mid-level westerly trough, widespread and heavy rain with thunder and lightning is likely over north-west India and the western Himalayan region, including Punjab, Haryana, and Delhi , on Thursday and over central parts of the country on Wednesday and Thursday.Peninsular India, including Rayalaseema, coastal and southern interior Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu (TN) are likely to receive heavy rain during the next three-four days. Very heavy rain is likely to occur over southern interior Karnataka, Kerala and TN on Wednesday and Thursday.“Whenever the monsoon trough moves to the north, a convergence zone develops in the extreme south peninsular region. As a result, heavy rain in Kerala is likely over the next few days. There is no likelihood of development of any low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal. We are expecting monsoon to be subdued in rest of the country,” said RK Jenamani, a scientist with IMD’s national weather forecasting centre.Monsoon rain over the country since June 1 is 9% excess. Data showed that the rainfall is 20% excess over southern peninsula and Central India; 9% deficient over north-west; and 2% excess over east and north-eastern parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-over-south-and-northwest-india-during-next-two-days/story-a58xkNGoRj2bA9YNWdj6bM.html
02-09-2020||India||Vande Bharat: 153 stranded Indians depart from Thailand for New Delhi in Air India flight||A special Air India flight from Thailand departed for New Delhi on Tuesday, carrying 153 stranded Indians, under the Vande Bharat Mission.“12th Vande Bharat Mission flight from Thailand to India - AI 335 from Bangkok to Delhi departed with 153 pax. Mission team sent off pax. Thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Thailand, Thai Immigration, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Civil Aviation and Air India,” Indian Embassy in Thailand tweeted.The Vande Bharat Mission started in early May to evacuate Indians stranded abroad due to coronavirus restrictions.More than 12,60,000 stranded Indians have been repatriated under the Vande Bharat mission, according to the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA).The MoCA had said that between May 6 and August 30, a total of 12,60,118 persons were repatriated under the Vande Bharat mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-bharat-153-stranded-indians-depart-from-thailand-for-new-delhi-in-air-india-flight/story-S5uZyoQXS1Wib0ZBTTTmzM.html
02-09-2020||India||Metro guidelines under Unlock 4 likely to be announced today: Here’s what to expect||The government is likely to announce on Wednesday the fresh set of standard operating procedures (SOP) to resume Metro services under the Unlock 4 guidelines. According to people familiar with the development, the ministry of housing and urban affairs held a meeting with metro corporations to finalise the modus operandi. The guidelines are likely to be issued today following the ministry of home affair’s approval. Here’s what to expect --Services to resume on Sept 7: Metro services are set to resume “in a graded manner” from September 7 in the fourth phase of Unlock announced by the home ministry on Saturday. The services will resume after nearly six months remaining suspended due to the restrictions in place to prevent the Covid-19 outbreak. -- Hardeep S Puri to announce SOP: The SOPs already circulated were discussed on Tuesday through VC by D.S Mishra, Secretary, MOHUA with managing directors of 15 metro rail corporations. The suggestions were considered in the meeting and accordingly SOPs are being finalised. MOHUA minister Sh Hardeep S Puri, will be announcing SOPs/guidelines in this regard on 2nd September,” ministry spokesperson Rajeev Jain said.--Services may not resume at all stations: Corporations have been asked to prepare a list of stations where trains will begin operations in consultation with the state governments.--Wear masks, practise social distancing or face fines: Commuters will be required to strictly adhere to guidelines on wearing masks and practicing social distancing norms. The passengers may be fined if they fail to follow Covid-19 norms, officials have said. --No tokens, only metro cards: Those opting to travel in metro trains won’t be allowed to use tokens anymore. The Centre has planned on implementing a contactless ticketing system using only metro cards, once restrictions on public transport are lifted, according to earlier reports. -- Metro rail companies can have their own rules: Based on the virus condition in a particular area, metro rail corporations are free to impose their own restrictions, officials had told HT earlier. --Few stoppages, mandatory thermal screening: In order to keep the coronavirus disease from spreading, there are likely to be fewer stoppages and stations will be opened in a stations in a phase-wise manner. Passengers will undergo mandatory thermal screening, will have to wear face masks, practise social distancing, and use contact-less ticketing system, etc, an official aware of the development had said. --Marking for queues: To make sure metro stations do not get crowded and social distancing is followed, markings for queues across all stations are likely to be done. Also, there might be an overhaul in the air conditioning system inside the trains to ensure supply of fresh air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-guidelines-under-unlock-4-likely-to-be-announced-today-here-s-what-to-expect/story-UXMUKtF512xSIHfyYOkzcN.html
02-09-2020||India||NASA congratulates Indian astronomers on Star Galaxy discovery||The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) on Wednesday congratulated Indian astronomers on the discovery of one of the farthest Star galaxies in the universe estimated to be located 9.3 billion light-years away from Earth.“NASA congratulates researchers on their exciting discovery. Science is collaborative effort around the world and discoveries like these help further humankind’s understanding of where we come from, where are we going, & are we alone,” NASA Public Affairs Officer, Felicia Chou told ANI. NASA congratulates researchers on their exciting discovery. Science is collaborative effort around the world & discoveries like these help further humankind’s understanding of where we come from, where are we going, & are we alone: NASA Public Affairs Officer, Felicia Chou to ANI https://t.co/7uK1ompJiAIndia’s first Multi-Wavelength Space Observatory AstroSat detected extreme-UV light from a galaxy located 9.3 billion light-years away from Earth. The galaxy called AUDFs01 was discovered by a team of astronomers led by Dr Kanak Saha from the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics(IUCAA) Pune.India’s AstroSat/UVIT was able to achieve this unique feat because the background noise in the UVIT detector is much less than one on the Hubble Space Telescope of US-based NASA.India’s first Space Observatory AstroSat, was launched by the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) on September 28, 2015.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nasa-congratulates-indian-astronomers-on-star-galaxy-discovery/story-oO14PDzhz8W7cQqIMKgHXK.html
02-09-2020||India||Bangladesh High Commission to hold special condolence meet to honour Pranab Mukherjee||The Bangladesh High Commission in New Delhi will hold a special condolence meeting on Wednesday for former president Pranab Mukherjee, who passed away at the age of 84.In a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sheikh Hasina called the Congress veteran ‘a highly esteemed leader of South Asia’ who ‘commanded the respect and admiration of all.’“As a renowned scholar and statesman of India, and a highly esteemed leader of South Asia, Pranab Mukherjee commanded the respect and admiration of all. The tireless work of ‘Bharat Ratna’ Pranab Mukherjee for the welfare of the people of India will inspire the future generation of leaders not only in India but across countries in the region,” she wrote in the letter.She called Mukherjee a ‘true friend’ and said that “he was always been highly revered and loved by the people of Bangladesh.”In the letter, she also wrote about Mukherjee’s support and contribution in strengthening relations between the two countries and said that he will always be ‘remembered with the deepest respect’ in Bangladesh.In 2013, Bangladesh conferred the honour of ‘Bangladesh Muktijuddho Sommanona’ (Liberation War Honour) on Mukherjee for his valuable contribution to Bangladesh’s Liberation War of 1971.Mukherjee, who had tested positive for the coronavirus, died on Monday, weeks after his brain surgery.In his long political career, he held several top posts including that of External Affairs Minister, Defence Minister and Finance Minister.The Government of India and many states have announced seven-day official mourning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-high-commission-to-hold-special-condolence-meet-to-honour-pranab-mukherjee/story-oK1HgCW4B1Bk6ibREemsiJ.html
02-09-2020||India||India calls out Pakistan for motivating false propaganda on social media||India on Tuesday called out Pakistan for propagating fake news through social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram.“Malicious propaganda, misinformation, #infodemic, fake news. Call it what you may. Do read this report from the @stanfordio on motivated false propaganda from Pakistan. The truth is out for the world to see,” Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations (New York) tweeted.This follows a report by Stanford Internet Observatory (SIO) on its investigation exposing a network of Pakistan-based Facebook and Instagram accounts that leveraged mass reporting to silence critics of Islamabad. “On August 31, 2020, Facebook suspended 103 Pages, 78 Groups, 453 Facebook accounts, and 107 Instagram accounts for engaging in coordinated inauthentic behaviour. As it notes in its takedown report, Facebook attributed this network to individuals in Pakistan,” the SIO report reads. Facebook shared a portion of this network on August 28 with the SIO which then conducted its own investigation and brought out its report.The report highlights how a network of social media accounts originating in Pakistan posted Pakistani nationalist messages and criticized the Indian government. It also highlighted how the mass reporting networks operated, with Group and Page administrators mobilizing social media users to report accounts that were critical of Islam or the Pakistani military/government.Moreover, many pages and Groups posted Pakistani nationalist content, praising ISI, the Pakistan’s intelligence agency and the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party.It further said this is not the first public suspension of coordinated activity in Pakistan and that in April 2019 Facebook suspended a network of accounts linked to the InterServices Public Relations wing of the Pakistani military.According to Digital Forensic Research Lab, that network “represented a significant influence operation, apparently aimed at boosting support for the army inside Pakistan and boosting support for Pakistan abroad.”Additionally, reporting shows that Pakistani politicians work directly with prominent social media trolls to get pro-Pakistan hashtags trending on Twitter.The SIO report also noted “the repeated invoking of duty towards religion and nation for mass reporting”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-out-pakistan-for-motivating-false-propaganda-on-social-media/story-gpcxIq1jzYlGKxz3KZ0I0L.html
02-09-2020||India||US-India trade deal can be finalised before or soon after Presidential polls: Piyush Goyal||The “whole package” of the US-India trade deal is almost ready and it can be finalised when the local political situation in the United States is conducive, Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday.Goyal said that he is in touch with US trade representative Robert Lighthizer and both the countries agree that the deal can be concluded before or soon after the Presidential elections in November.“The whole package is near ready and can be finalised at any time when the local political situation in the US permits them to. India believes that it has to be a win-win situation for both India and US,” Goyal said during the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum’s third Annual Leadership Summit.“I spoke with Ambassador Lighthizer. We agree that we can look at doing it before elections also or soon after. I am open to signing up tomorrow,” Goyal said.He further said that it is in favour of India and the US to deepen their strategic partnership with the trade deal.“It is in the interest of India and US to deepen our strategic partnership with this trade deal. It will open the doors to starting a dialogue on a larger bilateral engagement,” the Union minister said.Goyal hoped that the two countries can move to the next stage of larger engagement for a free trade agreement.Earlier on Monday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar had an interactive session with former US envoy to India Timothy Roemer, at the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-india-trade-deal-can-be-finalised-before-or-soon-after-presidential-polls-piyush-goyal/story-onLq8GWSxVtroCBRCEc32J.html
02-09-2020||India||Private trains to start trips in 2023-24 fiscal||Indian Railways plans to introduce private trains on its network in phases, with the first dozen due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 by 2027, officials aware of the plan said on condition of anonymity.According to the railway ministry’s projections, the transporter will select the companies that will run the private trains by April 2021; the first 12 are expected to start plying by 2023-24, followed by 45 more in FY 2024-25, the next 50 in FY 2025-26 and 44 by 2026-27.“It may be noted that private trains are slated to run from March 2023 only. Tenders will be finalised by March 2021 and Trains will operate from March 2023,” the railway ministry said in a statement on Sunday.The railway ministry on July 1 began the formal process of allowing private trains on 109 routes — a process that aims to, for the first time, to open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises that has in recent decades been outpaced by the demands of a rapidly growing economy.The trains will be designed to run at a maximum speed of 160 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-trains-to-start-trips-in-2023-24-fiscal/story-GVtyLSD2A2t9sCGTj9ekVM.html
02-09-2020||India||Andhra introduces software solution to send real-time updates of Covid-19 patients to kin||The Andhra Pradesh medical and health department has come up with a software that provides real-time update of the condition of a hospitalised Covid-19 patient to his or her family members from time to time so that they don’t have to be anxious about the patient’s health. Commissioner of health and family welfare Katamaneni Bhaskar said once a patient diagnosed with Covid-19 was hospitalised, he or she won’t be accessible to the family members during the treatment period, making it difficult for them to know about the patient’s health on a day-to-day basis. “Attendants are not allowed into the hospital, let alone stay with the patient in the Covid-19 ward as they would be exposed to the infection. Though in some hospitals they are allowed to wait outside the hospital building, they cannot meet the doctors regularly to know the patient’s status. For doctors, too, it is difficult to handle the family members,” Bhaskar said. In order to avoid keeping the family members of a Covid-19 patient in uncertainty, the state health department has introduced a software in the systems of all government hospitals to provide updates of the patient’s health status to a relative chosen by him of her. At the time of admission, every patient would be asked to provide the phone number of a close relative who could be informed about his/her status on a real-time basis. “Every time a doctor visits a patient, he/she would have to mandatorily update the vitals and other necessary information related to the patient in the system using the specific software tech tool. Depending on the inputs, the software is programmed to reflect the status of the patient as either ‘stable’ or ‘unstable’, which is then sent to the mobile phone of the patient’s relative in the form of text message,” the health commissioner said. The same can also be checked on our website using an OTP which is sent to the number given by the patients at the time of admission. “We have asked the patient to choose only one relative to send regular alerts about his health condition. It is to address the privacy concerns as these are health records,” Bhaskar said, adding that this facility would put an end to the trauma of the family members of a Covid-19 patient. He said Andhra Pradesh is also the only state which has been notifying every citizen who is tested at every stage of the process via mobile text messages. “The person being tested receives an SMS when the sample is collected, one when the sample reaches the lab and another which contains the result,” the commissioner added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-introduces-software-solution-to-send-real-time-updates-of-covid-19-patients-to-kin/story-kUXD3emKMX4powWDmqUE8J.html
02-09-2020||India||Agra stares at possible second wave of coronavirus cases after new spike||With complacency setting in, Covid-19 has once again started spreading its tentacles in Agra increasing the risk of a second wave of coronavirus infection in the district.On Sunday alone, the district reported 65 fresh Covid-19 cases—the maximum in a day so far. On Saturday, there were a total of 2,901 Covid-19 cases in the district with 107 deaths. “Wait and watch for three or four days,” said district magistrate Prabhu N Singh when asked if Agra was heading for its second peak. “Some sort of complacency seems to be setting in among Agra residents. It’s time to be more cautious. Diabetic and 50 plus employees should stay at home and assist from home for the next two weeks particularly,” the DM added.Singh also said only 20% cases were being reported from rural areas and the rest from city areas as urban people had become more careless about their safety.Agra’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr RC Pandey too admitted that people here had lowered their guard and said, “There is no room for complacency as none can claim that they are not at the risk of getting the coronavirus infection. Staff at government offices are falling easy prey as they are coming to office without masks besides defying physical distancing norms. Cases are rising everywhere in the country and Agra is no exception. Thus one should be extra cautious now.” “Also, people seem to have become careless because the rise in coronavirus cases here was far less than other districts in the state. By the end of August, Agra was in 24th place among the districts having maximum cases,” he added.“The rise in cases is attributed mainly to the rise in sample collection as Agra had by August 31 collected 1,17,527 samples and stood at the sixth place in doing so after Lucknow, Meerut, Noida, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr,” the CMO further said.Ten government offices in the Taj city have reported 62 coronavirus cases in the last 15 days. The worst-affected offices are those of Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd, commissioner, DM compound and collectorate, SP city, Agra Development Authority and Agra Nagar Nigam among others.On the rising cases in government offices, the DM said, “Offices need to be checked regularly and make sure all staff are wearing masks and strictly following social distancing. In fact, we are facing our toughest time now and need to treat everyone as carrier (of the virus).” He, however, added that low positivity rate (cases found positive per hundred samples) of 2.5% in the district gave some relief.Agra was the first UP district to have reported five coronavirus cases on March 2 this year. However, there were only 12 cases in the district in March. In April, 441 cases were reported, 439 in May, 390 in June and 574 in July but the coronavirus cases jumped to 1,045 in August. “Many justified the rise in the cases in August because of good pace of sample collection and testing in the district. As many as 60,732 samples were collected here in August as compared to 29,889 collected in July,” the CMO said.Agra district was first in the state to report Covid-19 cases on March 21.On May 21, Agra mayor had expressed apprehension of Agra becoming another Wuhan.Much acclaimed ‘Agra Model’ was exposed because of high number of cases in the first two months. Initially, Agra remained the district with maximum cases.With 2,901 cases so far, Agra is presently at 24th position in the list of districts having maximum cases.Agra is the 6th district in the state with maximum sample collection62 employees at 10 govt offices have tested positive in the last 15 days of August. Positivity rate in Agra is at 2.5% on an average.80% cases are from the city and only 20% from rural areas of Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-wave-of-coronavirus-infection-looms-over-agra-fear-experts/story-edrwUpoUGmBZsS0TririCK.html
02-09-2020||India||‘Missed abortion’ cases in Lucknow as women avoided clinics due to Covid fear||Manisha (name changed), conceived her first baby at the age of 25. Amid the pandemic, she paid her first visit to the gynaecologist in the eighth week of pregnancy, only when she faced a complication of bleeding. She was dismayed to know that the child in her womb had stopped growing. It was a case of ‘missed abortion.’ A missed abortion is a nonviable intrauterine pregnancy that has been retained within the uterus without spontaneous abortion. She is not the only one in Lucknow to have gone through this situation. Doctors said at least 150 such cases had come to fore here in the last 90 days. Dr Apeksha Vishnoi, a gynaecologist in Gomti Nagar, said: “In the past one month, I have come across four to five such cases, where women came after they developed complications.” Gynaecologists in different areas of the state capital said many other women suffered ‘missed abortions’ as they avoided visiting a clinic during the pandemic to avoid being infected by coronavirus.“I have come across at least 20 such cases in the past one and a half months. The women never visited a doctor until complications made them apprehensive about losing pregnancy. And by the time they reached, the damage had been done,” said Dr Amita Shukla, senior gynaecologist at the late SC Trivedi Memorial Mother and Child Care Trust. “A visit to the doctor is advised as soon as a woman conceives. But during the pandemic, when small clinics were shut due to lockdown, many women avoided visiting clinics even as the first trimester (3 months) got over, ending up with complications, the most common being bleeding,” said Dr Priyanka Singh, a practicing gynaecologist near PGI. “Several such cases came up, particularly in July and August. Family members said they were apprehensive about the women being more vulnerable to infection during pregnancy, hence they avoided even contacting the doctor,” said Singh. Asked if these ‘missed abortions’ could be avoided, Dr Rama Srivastava, president of the Indian Medical Association, Lucknow said, “Certain medicines are necessary to sustain pregnancy after a woman conceives, particularly among those who are not adequately healthy.” The gynaecologists said families should ensure at least one personal or virtual interaction between the women and the doctors. “Even if immediate appointment is not available, as doctors are not attending too many patients in the OPD, the women may see a doctor in a week or even in 10 days. But one visit will actually guide her to safe pregnancy,” said Shukla. Many gynaecologists are now offering consultancy over video calls and telemedicine facilities have been started at some hospitals for patients of the gynaecology department. “Patients are contacting us through telemedicine,” said Dr Malvika Mishra, of the women and child hospital at the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-women-in-lucknow-who-avoided-clinics-for-fear-of-coivd-19-report-missed-abortions/story-AHZ4EbrMdyO5biuXFPZFoJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Darjeeling logs maximum Covid-19 cases, deaths in north Bengal; experts blame trading hub Siliguri||Strange though it may sound, but Darjeeling district in north Bengal, three-fourths of which comprises hills, forests and tea gardens, has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases and related deaths among eight districts in the northern half of the state. Till August 31, the district had recorded 5,056 cases and 75 deaths, which is much higher than what Malda - the most populous district of north Bengal – has recorded. Malda has registered 4,978 cases with only 39 deaths. Darjeeling, which has the second lowest population in the state, still has the highest number of active cases among the eight districts - 736. Experts have blamed it on Siliguri, the only subdivision in the district which comprises the plains. They said that the three hill subdivisions of the districts – Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong have recorded very few cases. “Siliguri is a cosmopolitan city, the second largest business hub of the state and a gateway to the northeastern states of India. It is because of this that this sub-division has a large floating population and hence recorded the maximum Covid-19 cases in the entire district of Darjeeling,” said a top official of the district administration. If one looks deeper within the subdivision it is ward number 46 of Siliguri, which has recorded the maximum cases. This area contains the fish markets and sabzi mandis of Siliguri. The hilly regions of the state and the tea garden areas have recorded very few cases compared to their urban counterparts. “Almost 90 percent of the Covid-19 positive cases in Darjeeling have come up from the Siliguri subdivision. Out of 4,941 total positive cases reported from Darjeeling district till Sunday, the hill sub divisions administered by semi-autonomous Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) had only 478 cases. While the total number of deaths in the district was 75, it was only 12 from the hills sub-divisions of Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong,” said Samden Dukpa, executive director of GTA’s heath and family welfare department. The villages located in the hills and tea gardens, on the contrary, have imposed strict restrictions on the residents and maintain social distancing which have helped to keep the Covid-19 numbers low in the hill areas. “Most of the villages in the hills made it mandatory for those returning home to stay in 14-day-long home quarantine. Population in the hills is very low. Being closer to nature, the villagers have high immunity levels. Such factors have also helped to keep the numbers low,” said Dr Kalyan Khan, associate professor, pathology department, North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. Kalimpong district in north Bengal which comprises of hills and forests have recorded only 470 cases till date and three deaths. This is the lowest Covid-19 cases among eight north Bengal districts. Alipurduar district has the second lowest number of Covid-19 cases. Till August 31, the district recorded 2,057 cases with only 12 deaths. “The district has large tea gardens and forest areas. Strict surveillance on migrant workers returning homes helped the district administration to restrict the number of positive cases,” said a senior government doctor of the district’s health department. Malda on the other hand has the second highest Covid-19 cases. It has the maximum population among other districts in north Bengal. A chunk of the district’s population work as migrant labourers in other states. They had returned home in special trains during the pandemic spreading the disease to a considerable extent, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darjeeling-logs-maximum-covid-19-cases-deaths-in-north-bengal-experts-blame-trading-hub-siliguri/story-i96sCHDCWmpKQ6xbRvWFjP.html
02-09-2020||India||‘Privacy, Migrants’: How judge who freed Kafeel Khan bats for fundamental rights||The order passed by the Allahabad high court on Tuesday quashing the detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan under National Security Act is one among the long list of recent orders involving Chief Justice Govind Mathur upholding fundamental rights of citizens.On August 19, justice Mathur took cognizance of a letter addressed to him drawing the attention of the court to an incident in which a student of Benares Hindu University (BHU) went missing on February 16, 2020, after he was allegedly picked up by certain police personnel. The court registered a Habeas Corpus petition based on the letter.During the hearing of the matter on August 25, a bench headed by justice Mathur took exception to the fact Uttar Pradesh police filed a vague affidavit instead of placing all facts on record.“We fail to understand why the police authorities instead of placing on record all the details relating to the facts that happened on after February 12, 2020 and more specifically after the boy ran away from the police station, which facts must have been recorded in the general diary, have filed a vague affidavit,” the court said.The court ordered Varanasi’s senior superintendent of police to file an affidavit placing all details relating to the missing of the student and will now hear the case on September 3.In May, the bench headed by justice Mathur took cognisance of various issues arising due to Covid-19 and the lockdown. In one case, the court passed orders to improve the unhygienic conditions at quarantine centres while in another, the court batted for the welfare of migrant workers who were amongst the worst affected due to the Covid-19 lockdown.Earlier in March, Justice Mathur’s bench passed a significant order directing Uttar Pradesh government to remove hoardings erected at public places displaying pictures and addresses of persons alleged to have taken part in protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The court held that such hoardings are in violation of right to privacy which is an intrinsic aspect of right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution.The high court had, in fact, taken up the matter suo motu (on its own) after news reports emerged of Uttar Pradesh police having erected several hoardings across Lucknow, identifying those accused of violence during the protests that took place against the CAA in December last year. “Courts are meant to impart justice and no court can shut its eyes if a public unjust is happening just before it”, the order passed on March 9 said.The UP government had later filed an appeal before the Supreme Court where it is currently pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-allahabad-high-court-cj-govind-mathur-batted-for-privacy-missing-student-migrant-workers/story-m0w9M5BvXf5ww3VUmjfgEN.html
02-09-2020||India||Mosque will bridge divide, says architect||A mosque coming up outside Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town will be designed in the Indo-Islamic style and aim to bridge communal differences, said the project’s main architect whose name was announced on Tuesday. SM Akhtar, a Lucknow architect-cum-town planner and founder dean, faculty of architecture, Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi, will design the complex being built on five acres of land in Dhannipur village — in compliance with the Supreme Court order in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit last year.“We have appointed professor SM Akhtar as consultant architect and hence he will design the entire masjid complex” said Athar Hussian, spokesperson of Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), the trust overseeing the construction of the complex.Other than the mosque, Akhtar will also design public utility establishments, including a hospital, an Indo-Islamic Research Centre, community kitchen and a museum. Akhtar said the mosque will come up on around 15,000 square feet land and have an amalgamation of Indo-Islamic architecture. “Through this project we have immense opportunities to reunite communities. The Masjid will just be a part of the complex. We can come up with holistic ideas to achieve three values ie human values, Indianness and Islamic,” he said. “We do not want it to become a complex for just one community,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mosque-will-bridge-divide-says-architect/story-AOTogqFuZbOo14qm8ClO2I.html
02-09-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crosses 8-lakh mark, death toll nears 25k mark||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally went past the 8-lakh mark on Tuesday, 177 days after the first infection.The state’s tally now stands at 8,08,306 after 15,765 fresh cases were reported Tuesday. The last one lakh cases took just seven days. The state took 96 days for the first 100,000, 22 for the second, 14 for the third, 11 for the fourth, 10 for fifth, 9 for sixth and eight for the tally to move from 6 lakh to 7 lakh.The death toll in the state also inched towards 25,000 mark to stand at 24,903 after 320 casualties were reported on Tuesday. Mumbai reported 1,142 new cases and 35 deaths, though Pune district remained on the top in cases and fatalities. Pune city saw 1738 cases and 40 deaths, rural part of the district reported 776 cases and seven fatalities, while its satellite city Pimpri Chinchwad reported 979 infections and five deaths. Nagpur, Satara and Solapur districts were key contributors in new cases with 1,491(22deaths), 780 (17 deaths) and 467 (15 deaths) cases respectively. Maharashtra’s fatality stood at 3.08%, while it was highest in Mumbai at 5.23%. Dharavi, the much talked about hotspot has shown signs of drastic improvement, recorded five new cases on Tuesday, bringing the area’s case count to 2,780 of which 2,422 have been discharged.The Maharashtra government announced a few relaxations from the ongoing lockdown by allowing inter district travel, more workforce in private and government offices, operation of hotels and lodges at the full strength from Wednesday. But authorities are still wary about the relaxations leading to the spike in the cases across the state.“Doing away with the restrictions on the inter district movement is like allowing movement of everything leading to the crowding. The spike in cases in the state on earlier occasions were mostly because of the movement of the people, especially those coming from the red zones. The opening up of the activities from Wednesday will lead to the rise in the cases,” said an official requesting anonymity.The official said that anticipating the spike in the cases, the state government has decided to launch Chase The Virus programme across the state in the second week of September. The surveillance, tracing-tracking of high-low risk contacts and the treatment of the patients with comorbidities will be focused upon in a bid to contain the spread. “In some of the districts, the health infrastructure is still weak. People report the symptoms very late and it leads to the rapid spread of the virus. Lackluster approach by the administration in tracking the high risk contacts, has mainly been leading to the rapid spread in a few districts,” he added. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, Maharashtra president of Indian Medical Association, said relaxations given from the lockdown may lead to more cases. “Relaxing activities at this scale is inappropriate especially when the cases in the state are on constant rise over the last few days. The cases are rising rapidly in rural areas, where there are no health facilities including oxygen, beds and emergency medicines. In districts like Sangli, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Beed, Osmanabad have reported a four-fold spike in fresh cases of Covid-19 over the last 7-10 days. In such a scenario the unlocking relaxations may lead to resurgence of cases and perhaps emergence of the second wave,” he said. The total of recovered patients reached 584,537 after 10,978 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 72.32%, against national rate of 76.63%. Maharashtra has 198,523 active patients. The number of recovered and discharged patients in Mumbai was 1,18,859 with a recovery rate of 80.88%, and active cases stood at 20,067. Maharashtra has 13,79,519 patients under home quarantine, while 36,020 are institutionally quarantined.Authorities carried out 72,823 tests in the state in 24 hours at a positivity rate of 21.64%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-8-lakh-mark-death-toll-nears-25k-mark/story-UdLqO38OpdsulOVCvo5NXN.html
02-09-2020||India||China acted again as peace talks were on||India on Tuesday accused Chinese troops of resorting to “provocative action” even as military commanders were holding talks on Monday to ease fresh tensions near Pangong Lake, underscoring the deep mistrust dogging the disengagement process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The latest development follows the two sides trading charges of trespassing the LAC on the southern bank of Pangong Lake since the weekend, complicating the de-escalation process that has stalled at key friction points, including Depsang and Gogra. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said that “even as the ground commanders of the two sides were in discussions to de-escalate the situation” that arose from the face-off on the southern bank of Pangong Lake, “Chinese troops again engaged in provocative action”. Without elaborating on the provocative action, he added: “Due to the timely defensive action, the Indian side was able to prevent these attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo [along the LAC].” Srivastava reiterated India’s assertion that Chinese troops violated the understanding reached by the two sides in diplomatic and military talks on resolving the standoff when they engaged in “provocative military manoeuvres” during August 29-30 in an “attempt to change the status quo” on the southern bank of Pangong Lake. The Indian side “responded to these provocative actions and took appropriate defensive measures along the LAC in order to safeguard our interests and defend the territorial integrity,” he said. Statements issued by both India and China also make it clear that there was a string of incidents between August 29 and 31 — the Indian side talked about the PLA carrying out “provocative military movements to change the status quo” during August 29-30, while China’s western theatre command claimed the Indian side had “broken the consensus” on August 31. The Indian Army has occupied key heights on the lake’s southern bank to prevent the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from grabbing territory on the Indian side of the LAC during a stealthy midnight manoeuvre on August 29, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The PLA’s fresh provocative action on Monday was targeted at the heights held by Indian troops, the people added. Indian troops are holding a series of positions near Black Top, a hill feature, and on Rezang and Reqin passes, which are on the Indian side of the LAC and allow the army to dominate the area and keep an eye on Chinese military activity. Specialist mountain troops played a key role in taking these heights and one of them was killed in a landmine blast. The people cited above said China triggered the latest face-off through its efforts to occupy dominant positions on the southern back of Pangong Lake, which was hitherto not seen as a friction point as it was under effective control of the Indian side. The tensions in this sector were earlier confined to the Finger Area on the lake’s northern bank. The two sides were now attempting to take dominating positions before colder weather conditions start setting in, making large-scale troop movements and logistics more difficult, the people added. Srivastava said all military and diplomatic engagements over the past three months, including discussions between the two foreign ministers and the two Special Representatives on the border issue, resulted in an agreement that the “situation should be handled in a responsible manner and either side should not take any provocative action or escalate matters”. He added, “The actions and behaviour of the Chinese side since earlier this year along the LAC has been in clear violation of the bilateral agreements and protocols concluded between the two countries to ensure peace and tranquillity on the border. Such actions are also in complete disregard to the understandings reached between the two foreign ministers as also the Special Representatives.” The Indian side has taken up the “recent provocative and aggressive actions” with the Chinese side through diplomatic and military channels and “urged them to discipline and control their frontline troops from undertaking such provocative actions,” he said. While the India side is committed to resolving all outstanding issues along the LAC through peaceful dialogue, it expects China to abide by the understanding reached earlier and “earnestly work with India to resolve the situation,” Srivastava said. The Chinese embassy in New Delhi, through a statement, reiterated Beijing’s contention that Indian troops “violated the consensus” and trespassed the LAC on the southern bank of Pangong Lake and near Reqin pass. “What India has done runs counter to the efforts made by both sides for a period of time to ease and cool down the situation on the ground, and China is resolutely opposed to this,” it said. The statement called on India to “withdraw its troops illegally trespassing” the LAC and “immediately stop any actions leading to the escalation and complication of the situation”. Strategic affairs analyst Brahma Chellaney said India’s options were narrowing and the contraction of the economy by almost 25% in the quarter ended June would further reduce the space for military options, and this might embolden the Chinese. “Therefore, last weekend’s activity was essentially a defensive move to occupy vacant heights on the Indian side of the LAC, otherwise, the PLA could have seized those heights just as they have done at other places,” he said. “The Chinese are sitting pretty on land grabs they have made and they have moved to the second stage, which is consolidation. This is not just strengthening their gains but also deterring India from initiating any counter-action by securing their core territorial gains and enlarging their footprint in areas around the land grabs,” he added. Border tensions between India and China flared up in the aftermath of a clash in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15 — the first deadly conflict between soldiers of the two sides along the LAC in 45 years. The clash resulted in the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers, including a commanding officer, and an undisclosed number of Chinese soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-acted-again-as-peace-talks-were-on/story-AcsvNtdMI1nDhU2AVS6neL.html
02-09-2020||India||Telcos get 10 years to pay AGR dues||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed telecom companies, including Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea, to repay about Rs 1.43 lakh crore in combined dues they owe the government over 10 years , offering a reprieve to the sector weighed down by heavy debt and under intense regulatory and competitive pressure in recent years.The breather is short of the 15-20 years sought by the telcos, and which the court said was unreasonable, but came as a shot in the arm to the companies that missed a January deadline to repay their dues.The stock market rallied in response although Vodafone Idea shares took a beating on the perception that its problems were not over. The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) had proposed a 20-year window.A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra asked the managing directors (MDs) or chief executive officers (CEOs) of the companies to furnish undertakings or personal guarantees within four weeks for payment of dues.The court ruled “that, at the first instance, the respective Telecom Operators shall make the payment of 10% of the total dues as demanded by DoT by March 31, 2021.”“Telecom Service Providers have to make payment in yearly instalments commencing from April 1, 2021 up to 31, 2031 payable by 31st March of every succeeding financial year.”“In the event of any default in making payment of annual instalments, interest would become payable as per the agreement along with penalty and interest on penalty automatically without reference to Court. Besides, it would be punishable for contempt of Court.” The court ordered service providers and DoT to furnish a compliance report every year by April 7 each year. The top court said the sale of spectrum by telcos facing insolvency proceedings shall be decided by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT).The decision will come as a relief to Vodafone Idea, which reported its eighth consecutive quarterly loss in the three months to June and expressed concerns about its ability to stay afloat. The company’s gross debt, excluding its lease liabilities, was Rs 1.19 lakh crore as of end-June.Even so, the Supreme Court’s ruling that telecoms firms pay 10% of the dues owed by March 31, 2021 pushed Vodafone Idea’s stock down 12.76% to Rs 8.89 on the BSE.“The window for Vodafone to raise funds, have better models and give payback commitments is small which is adding pressure on the stock,” said Abhimanyu Sofat, head of research, at stock brokerage IIFL Securities.The BSE’s benchmark Sensex gained 0.71% to 38,900.80 points, and Bharti Airtel shares leapt 6.38% to Rs 546.75.According to a previous court submission in July, Vodafone India’s dues as of October 2019 amounted to Rs 58,254 crore. It has paid Rs 3,500 crore and has outstanding dues of Rs 54,754 crore. Bharti Aritel had dues of Rs 43,980 crore in October, of which it has paid Rs 18,004 crore, leaving outstanding dues of Rs 25,976 crore.Total dues owed by the industry amounted to Rs 1.69 lakh crore as of October; the figure has now come down to Rs 1.43 lakh crore.The entry of Reliance Industries’ Jio Infocomm in late 2016 with free voice services and cut-price data forced many rivals out of the fiercely competitive market. Others such as Vodafone and Idea were forced to regroup, but continue to bleed and lose subscribers. Jio has already cleared its smaller backlog of charges.“This {court ruling} is positive for Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio and negative for Vodafone Idea,” said Gurmeet Chadha, strategist at Complete Circle Consultants in Delhi. “Telecom is a gruesome business and when 5G comes you will have to pay more for spectrum. Eventually, unless Vodafone Idea raises significant capital or gets a strategic partner, we are headed for a duopoly.”On October 24, the Supreme Court allowed the central government to recover its dues from telecom companies in a ruling that hit Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea the hardest. The court accepted the government’s definition of AGR or adjusted gross revenues— that it includes their income from revenue lines that are not central to their main business.Income from sales of handsets, termination and roaming charges, rent and dividends should count as part of AGR, which determines what telecom companies pay as licence fee and spectrum usage fee, the court ruled in a verdict that came at a time when debt-laden service providers were already under intense pressure because of adverse regulatory orders,hefty levies and intense competition amid a price war set off by the entry of Jio. Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel both posted record losses in the September quarter.The court order came in a 16-year-old case stemming from DoT claims that telecom companies had under-reported their revenue and thus paid less for spectrum and in the form of other levies.At the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on December 6, Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla sounded a stark warning, saying Vodafone Idea, a joint venture between Vodafone and his group, would have to shut shop if no relief is forthcoming from the government to soften the blow from the Supreme Court verdict that telecom operators pay DoT the dues they owe in three months.Birla,who is also chairman of Vodafone Idea, said he is hopeful the company doesn’t find itself in a situation where it needs to exit from the market.“But, at the same time, if you ask me specifically, it is true we will shut shop if we don’t get relief. Because there is no company in the world that can pay that kind of fine in three months, it just doesn’t work like that,” Birla said at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telcos-get-10-yrs-to-pay-agr-dues/story-8sfcTMFiOsnNrRQbwChIgM.html
02-09-2020||India||CBI questions Chakraborty’s parents in Sushant case||Mumbai: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday questioned the parents of actress Rhea Chakraborty in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, officials familiar with the matter said. Chakraborty ‘s father Indrajeet Chakraborty and mother Sandhya reached the DRDO guest house in Mumbai’s Kalina, where the CBI probe team is stationed around 11 am and left in the evening after close to nine hours of interrogation, a police official said on condition of anonymity. The central investigation agency also questioned Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh, house help Keshav Bachner, roommate and creative director Siddharth Pithani, his former business manager Shruti Modi and house manager Samuel Miranda.Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14 following which the Mumbai police had registered a case of accidental death and recorded statements of nearly three dozen people.The late filmstar’s father subsequently filed a police complaint in Patna, accusing Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting Rajput’s alleged suicide and misappropriating his money.The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of the FIR lodged in Patna to the central agency.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) , which is investigating a money laundering case linked to the actor’s death, questioned Goa hotelier Gaurav Arya for a second day on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-questions-chakraborty-s-parents-in-sushant-case/story-YN8HcQPZgp9cdsG0WIyLXN.html
02-09-2020||India||UGC may allot institutes more time to start next session||The University Grants Commission (UGC) may soon issue revised guidelines for the academic year 2020-21, which is likely to grant institutes more time to start their next session. In a letter to universities, UGC secretary Rajnish Jain referred to the July 6 guidelines issued by the regulator that suggested that final-year examinations should be completed by September-end. The Supreme Court has, however, made it clear that states were empowered to take decisions to postpone final-year/final-semester exams beyond the deadline. Jain said the UGC, the higher education regulator, has mentioned that universities can grant provisional admission to candidates for undergraduate and postgraduate courses till September 30 till “revised guidelines on the academic calendar are issued by the UGC”. According to a person familiar with the developments, an expert committee headed by RC Kuhad, vice-chancellor of the Central University of Haryana, has already written to UGC, saying admissions to the UG courses should be completed by the end of October and the new session should begin by November. For PG courses, the panel has also recommended, the admission process should be completed by November and the session commence from December 1. The education ministry and UGC appointed the Kuhad committee for recommendations on the academic calendar for the 2020-21 session, hit by Covid-19. The panel earlier recommended that the session should begin from September-October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-may-allot-institutes-more-time-to-start-next-session/story-wjjMkXJRlx7vXdYyWehJ6H.html
02-09-2020||India||Fifth of Chennai residents exposed to Covid: Survey||A fifth of the population of Chennai has been exposed to the Covid-19 disease causing Sars-CoV-2 virus, a serological survey conducted in the capital city, has found. The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on Tuesday released its findings. Chennai at present accounts for a third of the total cases in Tamil Nadu. A serological survey provides an understanding of the extent of the virus transmission.The GCC tested 12,405 individuals of which 2,673 people or 21.5% were found to have developed IgG antibodies to the virus. Around 80% of the population is still susceptible to Covid-19, the report stated. Chennai has a population of more than 8 million, and a floating population of 400,000, including workers from other districts and states. All 15 zones of the city were covered.“Since the findings are based only till the end of July, the prevalence rate will be higher now,” said corporation commissioner G Prakash. The results from the exercise jointly conducted by the corporation and Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai are a month old as the field activities of drawing blood samples and data collection happened between 18 and 28 July. The testing of samples was completed by August 6. “There is huge variation in seroprevalence across zones,” the survey report stated. “In zones where there is a high prevalence, more people have developed immunity so the virus transmission has been slower,” said G Prakash. “The data helps us to identify zones where prevalence is low so we can intensify measures to control the virus.”A seroprevalance of 20% is enough to indicate that a city has reached its peak from which it will be a downward trend, says Dr Jacob John, retired professor and former director of the ICMR’s Centre of Advanced Research in Virology. “But this is still not good news. It only means that the frequency of people getting infected will be less but the magnitude will be the same. It takes more time for a 100 people to get infected during the downward part of the curve than during the upward slope.” He added that Chennai’s 21.5% of the serosurvey has to be compared with the proportion of people who turned positive in RT-PCR tests to understand the magnitude of the disease. “For example, if RT-PCR tests indicate that 2% of Chennai’s population is positive, it means for every detected case, there are 10 undetected cases.”As a part of the national serosurvey conducted in the first week of May , four districts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai were studied. The unweighted sero-prevalence of Sars-CoV-2 infection in Chennai was found to be 2%. The prevalence of infection in the five randomly selected containment zones in Chennai was 5%.A host of other cities including Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Pune, Amritsar among others have also conducted serological surveys on a range of sample sizes. Delhi recorded a prevelance of 27.7% in a sample size of 15,000. Starting Tuesday, under Unlock 4, Tamil Nadu relaxed a majority of pandemic restrictions including Chennai. Public transport, malls, restaurants, businesses and industries were once again open with rules of wearing masks, social distancing and standard operating procedures. Tamil Nadu on Tuesday reported 5,928 cases taking the total to 4,33,969 with 96 deaths. Chennai accounted for 1,084 cases with an overall of 1,36,697 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fifth-of-chennai-residents-exposed-to-covid-survey/story-bYJePr6fTEsqrNh8VB3c4I.html
02-09-2020||India||90% of those killed by Covid in India are older than 40, 69% are men||Twice as many men have died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as women in India, with men accounting for 69% of all fatalities, according to health ministry data accessed by HT that offers the most granular view to date of how the pandemic is affecting people across age and gender in the country. And more than 90% of the people who died, both men and women, were above 40 years of age. More than half the 56,292 Covid-19 deaths across states by August 22 were in the 50 -70 age group, with Covid-19 deaths being the highest in the 61-70 year age group among both genders.Less than one in three persons who died of Covid-19 was a woman. By August 22, women accounted for 17,315 of the total Covid-19 toll of 56,292. The pandemic had killed 38,973 men by the third week of August, shows the data, which categorises four deaths as “to be updated” and “others.”  The unreleased data on deaths appears reaffirm what scientists have observed about the global fatality trends of the disease — it is disproportionally fatal for men, and for those who are older.Deaths among women are roughly a third of all Covid fatalities, with the only anomaly being that of death rates being almost the same in girls and boys aged 20 years and below. Girls accounted for 49% of the 599 Covid-19 deaths in the 11-20 age group. Children under 10 years are the least likely to die of Covid-19. There were 301 Covid-19 deaths among people over the age of 90 years, who account for 0.5% of the total deaths. This is much lower than the global average, where people 85 years old and above account for 3.4% deaths, according to World Health Organization data till June.“The risk of dying from coronavirus disease is also linked to underlying health conditions such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hypertension and kidney disease, and the capacity of health-care systems. India’s test, track and treat strategy has focused on diagnosis, surveillance and treatment while simultaneously strengthening health systems and supply chains, which, along with the invaluable hard work of Covid warriors, has helped bring down the case fatality rate to 1.7%,” said Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. The global Covid fatality rate is 3.3%.Worldwide, age remains is a strong predictor of the risk of death from Covid-19, which hits people in their mid-fifties, sixties and seventies the hardest. Death among young adults usually occurs within 24 hours of hospitalisation. “Older adults die of pneumonia and other Covid-19 related complications, but sudden, unexpected death is more common in young adults in their 20s and 30s, whose condition dips very quickly after admission. In such cases, the cause of death is usually cardiovascular, with abnormal clotting in brain, lungs and heart leading to cardiac arrest,” said Dr Shiv K Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi, where India’s first plasma bank has been set up for convalescent therapy to treat Covid-19 . Unlike in Europe, where the majority of deaths took place among older people living in care or assisted-living homes, deaths among people over 80 are relatively fewer in India. A major reason is that life expectancy is lower 69.1 years in India, compared to 83.2 years in Italy, 80.9 years in Germany, and 78.4 years in the US. “Indians develop chronic diseases at a younger age, which raises their risk of severe disease and death from Covid-19. Men also have higher levels of the ACE2 (angiotensin-converting enzyme 2), which is a protein the virus attaches to enter and infect human cells. ACE2 is found not only in lungs, but also the heart, kidneys and tissues lining blood vessels, and in the testes, which partially explain why men are more vulnerable to severe disease,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman of the Institute of Critical Care and Anaesthesiology, Medanta - The Medicity. Sars-CoV-2 causes infection by using its crown-like spike protein, which gives the virus its name (corona is Latin for crown) to bind to ACE2 receptors on the surface of human cells, from where it invades the air sacs in the lungs, leading to respiratory collapse. Men’s immune response to new coronavirus infection differs from that of women, which led to more severe disease often being observed in men, said a team of US researchers led by Akiko Iwasaki from the Yale University School of Medicine. The study, published in the journal Nature last week, found men had higher levels of inflammation-causing proteins called cytokines and chemokines in their blood while women had a stronger T cells response. T cells, which are a part of the body’s longer-lasting immune response, seek and destroy infected cells to stop virus from replicating inside the body. Cytokines are proteins that regulate immune response. Covid-19 is marked by a hyper immune response called a cytokine storm, which can lead to death.The study found that infection worsened in men with weak T-cell response while women who had more severe disease had increase​d amounts of inflammatory cytokines. “Data categorising risk across age and gender helps people make informed choices about their own disease risk and take measures to protect themselves. Many people are still not using the social vaccine (use of masks, hand hygiene and social distancing) and not taking precautions,” said Dr Sarin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-of-those-killed-by-covid-in-india-are-older-than-40-69-are-men/story-glg0Ct4rHQ1YVvZgnckUcM.html
02-09-2020||India||FB biased against right wing: Prasad||Facebook’s India team is dominated by people who “belong to a particular political belief” and have acted against users “supportive of the right-of-centre” ideology, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in a letter to the social media company’s founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday, adding to allegations that the company was being partisan in tackling content. The comments made by Prasad in his letter to Zuckerberg puts the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party on the same side as opponent Congress in accusing Facebook of political bias, although both say the company acted in a manner that benefits the other. Shortly after the letter was made public, Congress party and its MP Rahul Gandhi called for an investigation into Facebook. “I have been informed that in the run up to 2019 general elections in India, there was a concerted effort by Facebook India management to not just delete pages or substantially reduced to reach but also offer no records or right of appeal to affected people who are supportive of the right of the Centre ideology. I’m also aware that dozens of emails written to Facebook management received no response,” Prasad wrote. Facebook, which also owns WhatsApp and Instagram, is the dominant social media website in India. Allegations of political bias first appeared on August 14 after a report by Wall Street Journal said the company’s India policy head intervened to stop a ban on a Telangana BJP MLA for making Islamophobic posts citing commercial interests in India. Late on Sunday evening, the paper published a second report claiming the executive, Ankhi Das, expressed open support for Modi on earlier occasions and had worked on his campaign for the 2014 polls. The company has denied the allegations of bias but did not offer any fresh comments on Prasad’s letter. Interestingly, when Shashi Tharoor, the head of the Parliamentary panel of IT wanted to summon and question Facebook executives on the report, the move was strongly and vehemently opposed by a BJP member on the panel Nishikant Dubey. With Prasad now airing his grievances against Facebook, the committee should be able to summon its executives so that they can be questioned. Prasad did not specifically identify which Facebook pages or groups were taken down, but the company removed a page called The India Eye in April, 2019. In a blog post on April 1, the company said it had removed several pages for ‘coordinated inauthentic behaviour’ -- the term it uses for organised misinformation operations -- including some by Congress IT cell. At the same time, it removed The India Eye, which had a following of 2.6 million people at the time, but did not name the BJP. A screenshot posted by the company then showed the page posting fake news that deprecated the opposition.Following the WSJ report, the Congress also wrote to Zuckerberg seeking details on steps being taken to investigate allegations that the social media giant does not apply hate speech rules to posts by BJP members. “International media have fully exposed Facebook’s and WhatsApp’s brazen assault on India’s democracy and social harmony. No one, let alone a foreign company, can be allowed to interfere in our nation’s affairs. They must be investigated immediately and when found guilty, punished,” Gandhi said in a tweet with screenshots of the latest WSJ article.The party also issued a statement rebutting Prasad’s claim and detailing the number of pro-opposition pages that were pulled down and said Facebook reinstated pro-BJP pages are emails from BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya to Das and other Facebook India executives. “Casting aside democratic principles, BJP attempts to rule the nation by manipulating and coercing public opinion. The blasphemous nexus between the BJP and Facebook is for all to witness and must be investigated without delay,” the party said in a statement.Earlier, Congress’s Randeep Singh Surjewala called Prasad’s letter a case of “the pot calling the kettle black”. The IT minister made three specific points in his letter. In the second point, he said Facebook India was dominated by people “from a particular predisposition”. While he did not idenify what this ideology was, he called it one that has been “overwhelmingly defeated by the people in successive free and fair elections”. The minister also said that it is “problematic when Facebook employees are on record abusing the Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers of India while working in Facebook India and managing important positions”. Alleging that employee bias could impact free speech, the letter adds: it is “unacceptable when political bosses of individuals impinge on the freedom of speech of millions of people”. Again, the letter was short on specifics on this front. Prasad also appeared to refer to the recent WSJ report, saying “the spate of recent anonymous, source-based reports is nothing but an internal power struggle within your company for an ideological hegemony”. The WSJ report was based on internal emails and interviews with employees. The other issues that the minister has flagged include the platform being “used by anarchic and radical elements whose sole aim is to destroy social order, to recruit people and to assemble them for violence” and “outsourcing of fact checking to third-party fact checkers.” The political row over Facebook in India now mirrors a similar confrontation between political rivals in the United States. The Republican party of President Donald Trump accuses Facebook of censoring right-wing voices, while opponent Democrats have called on the company to do more to curb hate speech by right-wing politicians.The social media website has been at the centre of allegations that it provided foreign adversaries of United States the platform for disinformation that influenced the 2016 elections, and similar electorate manipulation was carried out through targeting of people for United Kingdom’s Brexit referendum that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fb-biased-against-right-wing-prasad/story-kgTAwmiDTsTZ7DRqEULhUK.html
02-09-2020||India||PM Modi to address Leadership Summit of USISPF||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver key note address to the third leadership summit of US India Strategic and Partnership Forum (USISPF) on Thursday, organisers announced on Tuesday. “We are honored that Prime Minister Modi has taken time to address USISPF annual event. It signifies importance of US-India relations in the current challenging environment,” USISPF president Mukesh Aghi said. “It is a win-win partnership mutually dependent geo-politically, trade, culturally, diplomatically and scientifically. Aggressive and assertive China provides further opportunity for both nations to collaborate and ensure international rule of law prevails,” he said after USISPF announced Modi’s address to the summit. US Vice President Mike Pence had a fire side on Monday, the first day of the week-long summit titled “US-India Week: Navigating New Challenges”. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also participated in the discussion on Monday. Minister of Railways and Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal also addressed the summit on Tuesday. Being attended by top corporate leaders, government officials and leaders, the summit highlights areas of bilateral cooperation: trade and investment; strategic energy ties; India’s position in global supply chains, collaboration in fintech, healthcare, and technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-leadership-summit-of-usispf/story-APPVU6RDuWXEcjKfqulGtM.html
02-09-2020||India||‘Suicide’ web searches surge||There has been a surge in the internet search volume for keywords related to suicide and copycat deaths after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s alleged suicide death on June 14, according to a study on the association between online media reports of celebrity suicides and subsequent behaviour in the general population. There has also been a small but significant increase in the internet search volume for help-seeking keywords, which indicated that responsible news reports can also be used to nudge vulnerable individuals to seek support, according to researchers at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, who published the study in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry. Self-harm is among the top 10 cases of death worldwide, including India. According to an Indian Council of Medical Research study published in The Lancet Public Health journal in 2018, an estimated 230,314 peopledied by suicide in India in 2016. India accounted for 36·6% of the global suicides in 2016 among women, and 24·3% among men, the study found. Young people are at the highest risk. Suicide was the leading cause of death in India in 2016 for those aged 15–39 years; 71·2% of the suicide deaths among women and 57·7% among men were in this age group. “Google trend analysis showed a surge in internet search volume for suicide-seeking keywords along with media reports of copycat suicides from across India, which provides evidence of the Werther effect. About 58% articles used sensational language, 59.5% articles mentioned the suicide site, 17% articles suggested possible cause for suicide was not related to mental health,” said study author Dr Rajesh Sagar, professor, department of psychiatry, AIIMS. The term Werther effect comes from Goethe’s novel, The Sorrows of Young Werther, and is used to describe a spike in copycat suicides after wide media coverage of a suicide. Rajput’s photograph was used in 47.5% of news media reports and 38% of entertainment media reports though the publication of photographs of a person with mental illness without the consent of the person’s family in cases of suicide violates section 24 (1) of the Mental Health Care Act, 2017, the study said. The peak search volume for suicide and for help-seeking keywords was on the day of the actor’s death. “The biggest worry is people searching for methods of self-harm. There’s a danger of fans identifying with the deceased celebrity and it may lead the vulnerable ones to turn to suicide as an acceptable way out of their problems. Media focus on the method of suicide may also remove ambivalence about which method to choose for suicide in vulnerable individuals, leading to an increase in suicide by the same method,” said Dr Sagar. “Conversations around mental health and suicide can have both positive and negative impacts. Whether it’s the media, social media or narrative within the community, sensitivity, empathy and responsibility are key to reducing the prevalence of suicide,” said Dr Samir Parikh, director, mental health and behavioural sciences, Fortis Healthcare. On the upside, the study found that around 81.5% articles did not use the word ‘commit’ or related terms while reporting the death, and 65.5% reports did not mention the suicide method. At least 28.5% of articles addressed the link between suicide and poor mental health, while a few reports included research findings and population-level statistics of suicide and expert opinions from health professionals. Previous studies of reports of suicide in news media in India found that very few articles mention the link between suicide and psychiatric disorders or substance use disorders, and fewer still educate the public by including opinions from health professionals, research findings or information about suicide prevention programmes. “It’s an important time for our country to work towards a National Suicide Prevention Policy. Mental health needs to be a priority, from immediate crisis intervention and helplines to focusing on preventive mental health and reducing stigma around help seeking. It’s time we advocate for mental health outcomes, strive for early identification and treatment, and use the digital transformation to provide mental health care to all,” said Dr Parikh.The study had some limitations ,including the fact that it reviewed only English-language online media reports. “We only assessed print media online and excluded television, radio and social media, which are important areas for future research as international studies have found television coverage and social media to be associated with increased suicide rates,” he said. (If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suicide-web-searches-surge/story-kp7jLpOWO4OjBmLNOLakzK.html
02-09-2020||India||India, 3 nations call for UNSC reform||India has joined hands with Brazil, Germany and Japan to call for expediting the process for reforming the UN Security Council, with the four countries saying that inter-governmental negotiations on the issue have dragged on for more than a decade without substantial progress. The four countries, also known as G4, outlined their position in a common letter submitted to the President of the UN General Assembly, Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, on Monday. They demanded action for transforming the UN Security Council in line with “Common African Position”, and said negotiations shouldn’t be held “hostage, procedurally and substantially, by those who do not wish to bring about reform”. India’s letter, submitted by the deputy permanent representative to the UN, K Nagaraj Naidu, referred to the draft decision regarding roll-over of the inter-governmental negotiations on equitable representation and increase in the membership of the Security Council, and said this process “must capture clearly the tangible progress” made in two meetings held earlier this year. The letter said clear progress was made in the negotiations this year with member states backing the “Common African Position” as laid down in the Ezulwini Consensus and Sirte Declaration, and the “urgent need for transparency and application of the General Assembly’s rules of procedure to the inter-governmental negotiations”. The Ezulwini Consensus and Sirte Declaration, containing the common African position on reform of the UN Security Council, were developed by a committee on UN reform established by the African Union Summit in 2005. “The growing support for the Common African Position has, in fact, been reinforced not in one but multiple forums, and from multiple groups,” the letter said. The concept was also backed by the Non-Aligned Movement, comprising 120 states, in October 2019 and by G4 in a foreign ministers’ joint statement in September 2019. “Consequently, it is only correct and fair that the growing support expressed for the Common African Position in the two meetings of the [inter-governmental negotiations] earlier this year are captured in the body of the roll-over decision. Otherwise, we will be in the danger of endorsing an incorrect perspective of this year’s work and give an impression that nothing has transpired,” the letter said. The letter also emphasised the need to redress the “historical injustice against Africa” and to “ensure better African representation in a reformed Security Council in line with the Common African Position”. India and the three other countries also expressed their concerns about the inter-governmental negotiations since 2009, saying “there has been practically no progress in the discussions”. “Even the discussions are dubbed as informal and the UNGA rules of procedure do not apply. In eleven years, the situation has not changed. There has been no attempt to capture the discussions in a single consolidated text for negotiations,” the letter said. “In fact, the [inter-governmental negotiations] process has become a convenient smokescreen to hide behind for those who do not wish to see any reform in the Security Council. Consequently, there is a need to ensure that the...process is not held hostage, procedurally and substantially, by those who do not wish to bring about reform in the Security Council,” it further said. “If this happens, and there are indications that this is already happening, those who demand reform will be forced to look for other ways to achieve the same end outside the [inter-governmental negotiations] process,” it added. The letter also noted UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres’ call on July 18 for reform of the Security Council. It quoted him as saying, “The nations that came out on top more than seven decades ago have refused to contemplate the reforms needed to change power relations in international institutions...Inequality starts at the top: in global institutions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-3-nations-call-for-unsc-reform/story-SUttWRWu2iXd6u1t0oTZYK.html
02-09-2020||India||Rajnath dials Opposition over Question Hour issue||Ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament beginning September 14, the government has reached out to the opposition, explaining why it will be difficult to schedule the Question Hour in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, people familiar with the development said. From the government , defence minister Rajnath Singh has called up several opposition leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress and Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress. Chowdhury confirmed that Singh called him and informed him that it will not be possible to schedule the Question Hour because it would require the presence of a large number of officials in Parliament to brief ministers. Singh assured him that the government will try to accommodate the opposition’s demand for the Zero Hour to continue so that members can raise urgent matters .During the conversations, both sides stressed the need for smooth functioning of Parliament during the monsoon session. Singh, who is known to share a good relationship with the opposition, made several calls to some of the parties to reassure them, but the opposition is adamant.Question Hour is usually the first hour of business in the House, when members can ask questions after having given notice 10 days earlier. Zero Hour follows Question Hour and is a more informal session where members can raise questions of public importance. Chowdhury had written a letter to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla last week, urging him not to do away with Question Hour and Zero Hour during the monsoon session. “You will kindly appreciate the fact that raising questions in Parliament, and issues of public importance during the Zero Hour are foremost of the procedural methods available to Members to vent issues of national and public interest,” Chowdhury wrote in the letter. “Curtailing the Question Hour and the Zero Hour by way of restricting the number of issues that could be raised and time earmarked would, therefore, not be in the interest of elected representatives,” he added. For his part, O’Brien argued strongly in favour of the Question Hour and insisted that the officials can brief the ministers virtually. “I will prove to them that if you don’t have private members’ bills, then you can have equal time as pre-pandemic time. Question Hour belongs to the opposition as ministers have to answer. This isn’t Parliament, this is M and S Private Limited (figure out abbreviation),” the Trinamool Congress leader said. Azad, leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, and one of the 23 dissenters who wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking a complete overhaul of the party organization, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts to reach him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-dials-opposition-over-question-hour-issue/story-OUIyaZKTDfnfg7HiAEFQqM.html
02-09-2020||India||Delhi govt says efforts on to double Covid-19 testing, but in gradual manner||Six days after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that testing in Delhi would be doubled in a week’s time, the city administration on Tuesday said it has decided to scale up tests in a staggered manner, and indicated that the plan is likely to include opening new testing centres in some mohalla clinics.Senior officials in working with state health minister Satyendar Jain said a reflection of this “gradual increase” could be found in Tuesday’s health bulletin, which reflected the number of tests conducted in the city on Monday.“Ramping up Covid-19 testing in Delhi as per the directions of the CM has started from Monday. Yesterday, 24,198 tests were conducted -- which is over 6,600 more tests than the average of 17,500 tests per day that happened in the month of August,” the official in Jain’s office said when asked about the government’s plan of hitting the 40,000 tests per day mark.The 24,198 tests were the second highest number of tests conducted in the city so far -- after 24,592 tests conducted on August 8.The official said that apart from further increasing rapid antigen tests, the health minister has asked health secretary Padmini Singla to immediately explore ways of increasing RT-PCR testing capacity in Delhi. “The minister has opined that some mohalla clinics can be shut for the general public and can be used as dedicated Covid-19 testing centres. The health department has to identify which ones can be turned into testing centres and suggest other alternatives which can be executed simultaneously,” the official said. The minister was unavailable for comments.Delhi currently has over 450 operational mohalla clinics. Antigen tests generally provide results within hours and are relatively cheap, but they can give false negatives (in other words, they can miss positive cases). RT-PCR tests, on the other hand, is the most definitive test currently available for Covid-19 and experts say should be used to the extent possible, especially if authorities have the capacity to do so. The downside is that they can generally take 24-48 hours and needs specialised machines.According to Tuesday’s bulletin, RT-PCR tests also saw a marginal increase. Over the past one month, government was conducting an average of 5,465 RT-PCR tests per day against a capacity of over 11,000. On Monday, 7,198 tests were conducted through this molecular testing method in the last 24 hours, while 17,000 people were tested through the rapid antigen tests. When asked if the government is facing a shortage of RT-PCR kits, a second official in Jain’s office said they were adequately stocked. “As on date, the Delhi government has a stock of three lakh (300,000) RT-PCR kits at its disposal. The health department has initiated the process of procuring more kits - both of RT-PCR and rapid antigen. Since rapid antigen is cheaper, there is absolutely no dearth of those kits as well,” the official said.The government, however, said there is no deadline set on when the 40,000 tests per day mark will be achieved. But senior health officials said the escalation will not take more than a week. The government also said there is no set ratio of RT-PCR and antigen tests because it is not possible to put a cap on either of the forms of tests. On Tuesday, 2,312 new cases were reported in Delhi — the highest single-day case count since July 4 or 59 days — keeping with the trend of resurgence of daily infections in the city. The seven-day average of daily cases, which peaked at 3,446 on June 26 before falling to 983 on August 4, has now been rising for the 16th consecutive day. The positivity rate also continued to rise, with 9% of all tests conducted in the last week coming back positive, suggesting that an increasing proportion of Delhi residents are now carrying the virus. In terms of the single-day, 9.6% of samples tested in the last 24 hours came back positive.The spokesperson in the chief minister’s office said the process of ramping up tests got delayed because the state’s principal secretary (health), Vikram Dev Dutt, proposed to keep the matter in front of the Central government’s executive committee led by Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul before moving on it. “The principal secretary (health) had written to the ministry of home affairs in this regard, but no response has been received on it yet from the Centre,” the spokesperson said.Dutt did not respond to calls and messages seeking a comment on the matter.A government spokesperson said in order to ramp up testing, the timings of all state-run dispensaries and seed PUHC (Primary Urban Health Centre) have now been extended by two hours. “Delhi government has 265 dispensaries and clinics, in addition to major hospitals where Covid-19 testing is available for free. This is where we expect the testing numbers to go up mainly. All Delhi government dispensaries and seed PUHCs are now testing patients between 9 am and 2 pm – for five hours instead of three hours,” the spokesperson said.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at ICMR said the Delhi government is on the right track of following the test, track and treat strategy. “But just increasing testing is not the point. Which form of testing is being increased is also significant. Ideally, rapid antigen tests should be conducted only in hospitals, containment zones and on special surveillance groups and high risk groups such as senior citizens. The primary form of testing ideally should be RT-PCR in the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-says-efforts-on-to-double-testing-but-in-gradual-manner/story-kPcq1sXV80VFO6NEUXJ1eL.html
02-09-2020||India||Fresh guidelines for House panels on anvil||Parliament is preparing new guidelines for its standing committees that may include a minimum 15 days’ notice and confirmation by one-third of the members before holding a panel meeting; nomination of members based on their qualifications, interests and occupations; and at least 50% attendance while collecting evidence and adopting reports.Standing committees are an extension of Parliament. They engage in crucial reviews of the functioning of the government, and examine important public issues.The Rajya Sabha secretariat has already prepared draft guidelines after chairman Venkaiah Naidu reviewed the functioning of the eight standing committees under its purview. The Lok Sabha secretariat, however, is yet to draft their version. Once that exercise is over, common guidelines will be inked by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.To be sure, a whole set of dos and don’ts is already available in the rule books of the two Houses. But officials involved in the discussions pointed to an urgent need to bring functional guidelines to address vital issues related to the composition, performance, and work of the panels, given how the issues under their consideration are getting increasingly complex and specialised.On August 5, Naidu, who envisaged the guidelines as a part of larger parliamentary reforms, wrote to Birla, saying they should discuss various issues related to Standing Committees before revisiting the guidelines.“After the recommendations of this Committee of Officers (reviewing the Lok Sabha rules) are received, we may discuss the matter further before revising the guidelines,” Naidu wrote in the letter, which HT has seen.The draft guidelines prepared by the Upper House, which were also reviewed by HT, say that “meetings of the committees shall be convened with a minimum notice period of 15 days so as to enable the members to plan their travel and attend the meetings”.The draft guidelines add that “quorum of 1/3 of the total membership of the Committees shall be ensured in all the meetings of the Committees” and “efforts shall be made to ensure attendance of 50% of the total strength of the Committees while taking evidence and adoption of reports by the Committees”.While every MP is entitled to be a member of a Standing Committee, the draft guidelines say that “level of comfort of members with the issues to be discussed by the Committees and the domain knowledge of subject matter of the Committees is an enabling factor regarding attendance”.“All efforts shall be made to nominate members of parliament on various DRSCs based on their academic qualifications, interests and occupations being pursued,” the draft guidelines add, and “all political parties may be advised to consider the above” while recommending names of their MPs on various committees.It was during the 10th Lok Sabha (1991-1996), that 17 department-related standing committees were set up to review the functioning of ministries. The role of these panels is to review bills, discuss raging issues, and submit reports for the government to act upon. While the recommendations of the panel are not binding upon the government, the panels are an extension of Parliament and act as a robust review mechanism of India’s top legislative body.The current rules, as laid out from 331C to 331 N, talk about the number of members, discretion powers of the Rajya Sabha chairman and Lok Sabha speaker, that ministers can’t be a part of panels, and the one-year term of the panels, how no report can suggest a cut motion (a move to reduce budget expenses), and other rules of functioning.Chaksu Roy, head of Legislative and Civic Engagement, PRS Legislative Research said, “There is an urgent need to overhaul the rules governing parliamentary committees. It will bring operational clarity to their daily functioning, whether it’s regarding secrecy of meetings, quorum or calling of witnesses. With committees shouldering more legislative work it will bring much needed streamlining of their work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-guidelines-for-house-panels-on-anvil/story-WNlyl14V9nhGRba6o006mN.html
02-09-2020||India||3 Quad nations back strong supply chains||India, Australia and Japan on Tuesday agreed to launch an initiative to ensure the resilience of supply chains in the Indo-Pacific, with the move coming against the backdrop of tensions created by China’s aggressive actions across the region. The creation of the “Supply Chain Resilience Initiative” was mooted by Japan amid the Covid-19 crisis, which has played havoc with supply and manufacturing chains, and the three countries held preliminary discussions on the issue over the past few weeks, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. During their first virtual meeting on the issue, commerce minister Piyush Goyal and his Australian and Japanese counterparts, Simon Birmingham and Kajiyama Hiroshi, outlined their intention to work for the launch of the new initiative because of the “pressing need for regional cooperation on supply chain resilience in the Indo- Pacific”, a joint statement said. They signalled their determination to “take a lead in delivering a free, fair, inclusive, non-discriminatory, transparent, predictable and stable trade and investment environment and in keeping their markets open”, it added. The ministers instructed their officials to promptly work out details of the new initiative for its launch later this year, and called on other countries in the region with similar views to join the initiative, the statement said. The people cited above said the supply chain initiative was a natural follow on to the security cooperation between the three countries, both bilaterally and through platforms such as the Quadrilateral Dialogue Mechanism or Quad, which also includes the US. The three countries will now work with regional partners, including members of the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean), to build stronger supply and manufacturing chains that are protected from external shocks and influences, the people said. The three nations see countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia and New Zealand among the players who can have a key role in the initiative, the people added. The issue of supply chains found mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address on Independence Day, when he said: “Many businesses around the world see India as a supply chain hub today. Now we have to move forward with ‘make in world’ as well as ‘make for world’.” Addressing the trilateral meeting, Goyal said the initiative couldn’t have come at a more opportune time in the post-Covid-19 scenario, when there is a likelihood of churning of supply chains in the Indo-Pacific region and it was incumbent on the three countries to take the initiative. “The diversification of supply chain is critical for managing the risks associated with supply of inputs including disciplining price volatility. We could provide the core pathway for linking value chains in the region by creating a network of reliable long-term supplies and appropriate capacities,” he said. In order to improve competitiveness of sectors, the three countries may need to identify manufacturing and services sectors that contribute the most to domestic value addition in the region. “We support the need for specific activities listed for enhancing the resilience of the supply chains, which include those related to [promoting] and facilitating trade and investment as well as diversification of production base,” he said. Goyal noted that the cumulative GDP of Australia, India and Japan during 2019 was $ 9.3 trillion and their cumulative merchandise goods and services trade were $ 2.7 trillion and $0.9 trillion respectively. “With such a strong baseline, it is important that we use this opportunity to work towards enhancing the share of our trade and investment in the region,” he said. However, he pointed out that Japan’s procurement of many specific products from India was limited despite Japanese global imports being high. This includes sectors such as steel, marine products, processed agriculture, agro-chemicals, plastics, carpets, clothing and footwear. He expressed hope the proposed initiative would try to bridge this and work towards enhancing mutual trade. Former Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House who closely tracks the Quad, said the supply chain initiative has been in the works for some time. “Essentially, the thinking is that the Quad with its political, strategic and security elements isn’t enough of a response to the emerging situation in the Indo-Pacific and it needs an economic pillar, including deeper economic cooperation, trade, connectivity, supply chains and global and regional value chains,” he said. “It should be welcomed that India is moving in that direction. These are early days and concepts are being cleared. How effective this initiative will be will depend on action on the ground, and we don’t have much time to lose while focussing on the concretising of ideas,” Bhatia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-quad-nations-back-strong-supply-chains/story-WCTbf0IHqWYnZYhTsLhPxN.html
02-09-2020||India||Will push back against China in every domain: US||The US will push back against China’s aggressive actions, including its “outsized” territorial claims on the border with India, even as it eyes the possibility of formalising the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad as an alliance, a senior state department official has said. Deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun said China has been “picking a fight right now on virtually every front” and has “exploited every opportunity they can from technology theft to assertion of national sovereignty over the territory and territorial waters of other countries”, and the US is in a “concerted effort to push back on all fronts”. “Our strategy is to push back against China in virtually every domain. We’re doing it in the security area. We’re doing it in terms of outsized demands to claim sovereign territory, whether it’s in the Galwan Valley of India on the India-Chinese border, or whether it’s in the South Pacific. We’re also doing it economically,” he said. Biegun made the remarks during a conversation with Richard Varma, former US envoy to India, at a leadership summit organised by the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) late on Monday. Asked about China’s aggressive actions on the disputed border with India, in Hong Kong and across the Indo-Pacific, Biegun said the Donald Trump administration is focused on countering the “predatory practices from the Chinese economy” and is working to “balance out the US-China economic relationship”. China was welcomed into global institutions such as the World Trade Organisation (WTO) two decades ago in order to help the country transition to a more rules-based order, but this “experiment has failed across all the domains”, he said. He said that China “grew so quickly at the beginning of this century” that its “outsized influence in those institutions is instead seeking to transform those institutions to China’s interests”. This is unacceptable from the point of view of the US, which is pushing back in institutions such as the World Health Organization or World Intellectual Property Organization, he added. China is repressing the Tibetans and Uyghurs, has breached an agreement with the UK on the transition of Hong Kong, and is “near hostilities with the government of India” and “in a state of hostility with the people of Taiwan”, Biegun said. Replying to a question on the possibility of giving a formal shape to the Quad – an informal dialogue mechanism between Australia, India, Japan and the US – and whether the larger strategy behind it was counterbalancing the rise of China, Biegun said there was “certainly a temptation in governments” to formalise the mechanism. The Indo-Pacific, he noted, is lacking in “strong multilateral structures” such as NATO or the European Union. “The strongest institutions in Asia oftentimes are not inclusive enough, and so...there is certainly an invitation there at some point to formalise a structure like this,” he said. Biegun cautioned that responding to the threat of China itself would not be enough of a driver for such an organisation, and the goal of the US is to “create a critical mass around the shared values and interests...in a manner that attracts more countries in the Indo-Pacific...to be working in a common cause or even ultimately to align in a more structured manner”. He said Washington would keep its “ambitions checked to start with a very strong set of members”, and a formal alliance would only “happen if the other countries are as committed as the United States”. Biegun also noted that India had recognised that it “can’t be a passive player” in relation to developments in the Indo-Pacific region and this has driven the recent activities of the Quad, including a weekly meeting of the four members along with New Zealand, South Korea and Vietnam on ways to counter the Covid-19 pandemic. He also said a ministerial meeting of the Quad is expected to be held “this fall in Delhi – that’s the intention anyway – in person”. He added, “I’d say this Quad concept has really helped India find a place in the larger Indo-Pacific theatre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-push-back-against-china-in-every-domain-us/story-wxGIJCNB31mWHL0hCNvrdM.html
02-09-2020||India||Committed to maintaining stability along LAC: Chinese foreign min||The lack of a demarcated border between India and China will lead to problems, though Beijing is committed to maintaining stability along the disputed frontier, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi has said. Beijing is willing to resolve differences with New Delhi through dialogue, and it is India that is to blame for current tensions at the border, Wang contended while speaking at the French Institute of International Relations in Paris on Monday. The two sides shouldn’t allow their differences to become conflicts, he said, hours after the Indian Army and People’s Liberation Army (PLA) accused each other of triggering fresh tensions on the south bank of Pangong Lake along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Wang, who is on a week-long European tour that includes stops in France and Germany, made a speech and took questions from senior European politicians and executives. “The border between China and India has not been demarcated, so there will always be problems of this kind. We are willing to manage various problems through dialogue with the Indian side. At the same time, these issues should be placed in appropriate places in bilateral relations,” Wang said, according to a Mandarin transcript of the interaction released by China’s foreign ministry. “China-India relations have recently attracted the attention of all parties. What I want to tell you is China has always been committed to maintaining stability in the Sino-Indian border areas,” he added. “We will not take the initiative to complicate and expand the situation. Of course, we must also firmly safeguard our sovereignty and territorial integrity,” he said. Pointing to the consensus reached in meetings between President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Wang said: “Differences must be managed and controlled, especially not allowing differences to become conflicts.” Meanwhile, China’s foreign ministry continued to blame India for the latest tensions, with spokesperson Hua Chunying saying that even though the statements issued by the Indian and Chinese military on the incidents at Pangong Lake were different, there was “one simple truth” – China has never initiated a war or “taken an inch of land that is not ours” in more than 70 years. She reiterated China’s accusation that Indian troops violated the consensus and “illegally crossed the LAC at the southern bank of Pangong Lake and near Reqin mountain”. She added, “The Indian side has severely undermined China’s territorial sovereignty, breached bilateral agreements and important consensus, and damaged peace and tranquillity at the border areas, which runs counter to recent efforts made by both sides for de-escalation of tensions on the ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-maintaining-stability-along-lac-chinese-foreign-min/story-UtNd1Rs54NcncSbbYTUQoO.html
02-09-2020||India||Fresh clash shows grim reality: Experts||India’s acknowledgement of a fresh faceoff with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) reflects the grim reality of the situation along the disputed border after several rounds of talks couldn’t take forward the disengagement process, experts said. A statement from the Indian Army said soldiers had pre-empted “provocative military movements” by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to change the status quo on the night of August 29-30. It added that these actions “violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements” during the standoff in Eastern Ladakh that began in early May. Over the past few weeks, after several rounds of talks between corps commanders on the ground and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the differences between the two sides on the disengagement and de-escalation process have emerged in the open. The Chinese side has even referred to both sides having “positively evaluated the progress” in disengagement, but the Indian side has insisted that the process remains a work in progress and more needs to be done to take it forward. At the last weekly news briefing of the external affairs ministry, spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said “complete disengagement requires re-deployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC”, which can be done only through “mutually agreed reciprocal actions” by both sides. Former navy chief Admiral (retired) Arun Prakash said the time had come for the Indian side to do a “reality check and prepare for the worst”. He added, “It’s a grim situation.” The Indian side, Prakash believes, has misread the situation especially since the actions of the Chinese side have often differed from it said. “They seem to have decided to restore their boundary to whatever it was according to their historical interpretation,” he said. More significantly, the latest clash occurred on the southern bank of Pangong Lake, where most of the friction in this area has been on the northern bank. The Chinese actions also run counter to Chinese envoy SunWeidong’s assertion last week that the “existing situation on the ground is under control on the whole and there is no fresh standoff between the two forces”. The envoy has even described the June 15 clash – which resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties – as “a brief moment from the perspective of history”. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the latest clash reflected the “obdurate attitude of the Chinese in resolving the standoff” along the LAC. “The incident goes against what their diplomats have been saying. The Chinese are suing the diplomatic track to create a smokescreen while the Central Military Commission headed by President Xi Jinping is pushing the case on the ground,” he said. Patil also believes the latest Chinese action could be part of efforts to shift the domestic narrative after several photos shared widely on China’s social media platforms purported to show the graves of Chinese troops killed in the June 15 clash. “There have been at least four such images of tombstones and maybe the Chinese want to stonewall the domestic narrative and shift it to one of protecting national interests,” he said. Former navy chief Prakash said India will need to “keep its feet firmly on the ground and look for alliances and partnerships” to tackle the challenges facing it. “If things take a military or kinetic turn, escalation won’t be in our hands,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-clash-shows-grim-reality-experts/story-Sc5Fc5xlo0kaj9jdgpsD7N.html
02-09-2020||India||India occupies key LAC heights as tensions spiral||Border tensions with China have spiralled in the sensitive Ladakh sector after the Indian Army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake to prevent the Chinese People Liberation’s Army (PLA) from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29, officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday. The PLA made a second provocative move on August 31 but the Indian Army took “timely defensive action” to thwart the Chinese attempt to unilaterally alter the status quo in the sector, the ministry of external affairs said on Tuesday. The army is on high alert to deal with any adventurism by the PLA in the sector, where both armies have concentrated a significant number of soldiers, tanks and artillery pieces; and are within each other’s rifle range, said an official cited above, requesting anonymity. While India said on Monday that it had pre-empted China’s “provocative military movements” to change the status quo along the LAC on the lake’s southern bank, China claimed that the Indian Army “broke the consensus” reached at talks and “illegally crossed the line again near the south bank of Pangong Lake and Reqin Pass, making a blatant provocation and causing tension.”The Indian Army is holding a series of positions near Black Top (a hill feature) and on Rezang La and Reqin pass that are on the Indian side of the LAC and allow the army to completely dominate the area and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, said a second official. Specialist mountain troops played a key role in taking these heights and one of them was killed in a landmine blast. The second provocative action by the PLA on August 31 was targeted at these heights held by the Indian Army, the official said. “The Indian Army’s taking up positions on the lake’s southern bank was the most befitting action to pre-empt what was seen as inevitable along this part of the LAC,” said Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd), a former army vice chief. The latest developments have deepened the trust deficit between the two sides and dealt a blow to efforts to reduce tensions in the Ladakh sector, where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. Defence minister Rajnath Singh held a meeting with external affairs minister S Jaishankar, national security adviser Ajit Doval and the top military brass to review the latest developments in eastern Ladakh, with the focus on the volatile situation near the Pangong Lake following the Indian Army’s pre-emptive military move and the counter-action by the PLA. “Indian troops pre-empted PLA activity on the southern bank of Pangong Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground,” army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said on Monday, without elaborating on the nature of the Chinese provocation and how Indian soldiers blocked PLA’s actions. Another flag meeting of brigade commanders was held at Chushul on Tuesday to de-escalate tensions but its outcome was not immediately known. More than 200 Chinese soldiers were involved in the attempt to occupy Indian territory, but a sufficient number of Indian troops – armed with accurate intelligence about PLA movements in the area -- warded off the threat. Until now, tensions in this sector were confined to the Finger Area on Pangong Lake’s northern bank. The army said on Monday that while it was committed to maintaining peace and tranquility along the LAC through dialogue, it was equally determined to protect the country’s territorial integrity. Experts said the military and diplomatic talks or economic measures against China haven’t led to any change in PLA’s behaviour in the Ladakh sector. “We need to review if these steps have had any impact at all. It is clear that China has no plans to restore status quo ante. On the contrary, it is constantly making efforts to change the status quo and continues to use the military option,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). The PLA has sparked fresh tensions along the LAC at a time when military and diplomatic talks with China to implement a complex disengagement plan have hit a wall. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly the northern bank of Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains an area of key concern for the Indian Army. The Finger Area – a set of eight cliffs jutting out of Sirijap range overlooking Pangong Lake – has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, but its pace remains sluggish in the Gogra area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-occupies-key-lac-heights-as-tensions-spiral/story-wbZZWS8VUF6q5bfxR8D9nI.html
02-09-2020||India||Offices in the Central Vista area can’t have ‘heritage’ shield: Govt||The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the Central government offices located in or near Central Vista cannot be said to fall within the “Central Vista Precincts” and will not enjoy the protection available to heritage buildings. An affidavit filed in this regard by New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) was presented to the Court by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who presented arguments in defence of the Government action to approve change of land use for the Central Vista project that involves construction of a new Parliament and a common Central Secretariat housing 51 Central government buildings. The affidavit said, “Only the Rajpath along with the green lawns and the water bodies on either side is designated as the Central Vista Precincts….This does not include any other offices located at Central Vista.” The affidavit goes on to mention that “buildings such as Nirman Bhawan, Udyog Bhawan, Rail Bhawan, Krishi Bhawan, Vayu Bhawan, etc” cannot be termed as heritage buildings as the same are not listed in the list of 141 Heritage Buildings notified by the Government on October 1, 2009. This list was finalized on basis of a report received from INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) and Heritage Conservation Committee. Solicitor General Mehta informed the Court that the Central Vista precincts comprising Rajpath along with the green lawns and water bodies on either side will remain untouched in the proposed Central Vista Project that involves a budget of Rs 20000 crore. Mehta added that the Project will not hinder public access to Central Vista Precincts. Mehta’s arguments come in the wake of reservationS expressed in a clutch of petitions by Rajeev Suri, Anuj Srivastava and AG Krishna Menon who opposed the hurried manner in which the Centre went about giving approvals for the Central Vista Project. They claimed that the entire Parliament and surrounding structures enjoyed the “heritage building” tag and could not be destroyed. It was further apprehended by the petitioners that once the new structures are in place, the area would be marked as “High Security Zone” closing public access to Rajpath, lawns and water bodies adjoining it. A three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar posed queries to Mehta on the procedure of public hearing adopted by Government and the notification of March 20, 2020 issued by DDA approving the change in land use. Ths Solicitor General told the Court that public the hearing contemplated for amending the Master Plan of Delhi required Government only to invite objections. Close to 1292 objections were received in connection to the Central Vista Project following which a public hearing was also conducted on February 6 and 7. As regards the March 20 notification, Mehta said that an executive order passed by Ministry of Urban Development in 2013 has delegated power to Vice Chairman, DDA to issue ‘change in land use’ notification. Although the Central Vista project has been challenged on multiple grounds, the bench is currently hearing petitioners and Centre on a limited aspect related to change in land use. The project envisages a new Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, and a common Central Secretariat housing 51 Ministries in 10 buildings. The proposed Lok Sabha chamber is expected to accommodate 876 seats and the Rajya Sabha chamber 400 seats. The new complex will provide for 1224 seats in the Central Hall, equipped with state-of-the-art technology and seamless movement between both Houses of Parliament. Advocate Ankit Yadav, who is representing one of the petitioners, said, “Assurance given by the Centre that Central Vista precincts will remain open to public, allays our concerns that area around Rajpath will not be converted into high security zone. But, the stand taken by NDMC that office buildings situated in Central Vista do not fall in heritage zone is disputed by us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offices-in-the-central-vista-area-can-t-have-heritage-shield-govt/story-jmUNlzQVGK4FdmVWDPxYhN.html
02-09-2020||India||70% of BJP’s poll campaign will be physical: Sushil Modi||Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi has welcomed the Election Commission’s decision to proceed with the assembly polls due to take place in the eastern state later this year even amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi, who belongs to the Bharatiyas Janata Party (BJP), also said there was no sense of panic in Bihar ad claimed that the ruling Janata Dal (United), BJP and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) coalition will win a three-fourths majority. Edited excerpts: There are going to be polls in Bihar in the middle of a pandemic, which is an unprecedented situation. How will this election be different for you?Yes, it is a very different election. To conduct it with all the Covid restrictions is a challenge but no one knows how long the pandemic will stay. We know the floods will end by September and we would know how long a drought lasts, but with this pandemic, we don’t know if it’s here for another six months or two years. So a democratic process cannot be stopped. Polls have been conducted in 34 countries across the world. So even though it will be very difficult, there is no other option but to conduct them. I think the Election commission has taken the right decision.But a lot of countries opened up after Covid numbers started going down. In India, the numbers are still rising and now the daily case figures are the highest in the world. One of your own allies, Chirag Paswan (of the LJP), has also joined the opposition in demanding that the polls are deferred. What if the polls spread the disease?It is for the EC to decide, firstly. Number 2, now there is no panic in Bihar. Now Bihar is also Number 1 in testing ( testing more than 100,000 patients a day). Most of the hospitals are empty, AIIMS {All India Institute of Medical Sciences}, Patna, which was filled in the first week of August, is now 70% empty. So now people are also used to tackling Covid and the kind of scare that was there before is no longer there. Eight percent of patients are in home quarantine, which is the best option. Only 5% of patients need ventilator support. So there is a big difference from before.As campaigning begins, how much will the BJP rely on physical campaigning?More than 70% will be physical campaigning. Even earlier, the Bihar campaign was very different from {that in} other states. There are three kinds of campaigning. The big rallies by hiring helicopters will no longer be there. The ones that attract 40,000-50,000 or 1 lakh crowds, will not be there. Door-to-door was the most effective campaign because all voters don’t attend meetings. Earlier and this time as well, there is no bar on door-to-door meetings. When I was fighting the Bhagalpur election, I only organised {LK} Advaniji’s meeting and no other meeting. These meetings don’t fetch votes. In the last assembly elections, Narendra Modiji had more than 30 meetings and we only won 53 seats. So instead of these meetings, door-to-door campaigns and road shows work. Anyway, in the last moment of an exam, what you do doesn’t matter, what matters is what we have done in the last 4.5 years. Big manifesto and promises doesn’t make a difference, voters normally make up their minds earlier.Today is the day that the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) is starting and the opposition has pointed out that it shouldn’t have taken place because of not just Covid but also because of floods. The fact that the exams are going ahead -- will there be anger in the community? Will that be a factor in the polls? It is not going to be a factor as most students are happy with the exams. Imagine, the number of students appearing would be double and the seats would be the same. There is no problem in Bihar as the floods are in remote areas, but the {exam} centres are mostly in district headquarters. Students preparing for exams are either in block headquarters or district headquarters and there is no problem in any of the blocks or districts. I have not seen a single demonstration with more than 100 people and most of them are political workers. Have you seen any student participating in those? Media is showing 10 people standing with placards, don’t know who they are.What about migrants? So many have had to come back to their villages jobless, some of them walking back. Won’t it be a factor? People know that it’s not the government’s fault, they are intelligent enough. MIgrants came back to Bihar, more than 21 lakh migrants of the state used the free train service and didn’t have to pay. And when they reached their home, they were so happy. And now when Narendra Modi announced free ration, they have five months of food in their home and so they are not worried.But we also so many people walking. Some people died on the way. They could blame the government for not giving them any warning of the lockdown.Was it possible to announce it before? It took one month to transport 21 lakh people by train...People are happy that they reached home. How many people walked from Bombay to Patna? Is there a single example? Is it possible to walk 2,000 km? I understand their misery, their problems but they also understand that it wasn’t possible for the government to organise everything. There were some issues initially. but ultimately they were happy when they reached home.If what you’re saying is correct, then why is it that your own alliance partner Chirag Paswan criticising the chief minister {Nitish Kumar} for his handling of Covid?I will not answer anybody else’s question. Everybody has the right to make their point. It’s for the people of Bihar to decide.Do you think Paswan may be on his way out of the alliance? We are confident that Lok Janshakti Party and the BJP will fight elections together.Last time, Kanhaiya Kumar fought election on a Left ticket and his not being with Mahagathbandhan divided their votes. This time they are all fighting together. Will it impact your chances?The Left is hardly a force in Bihar, they are a spent force. So RJD {Rashtriya Janata Dal} aligning with any other party doesn’t mean anything. There is a huge gap in the vote share between BJP and these parties. The credibility of these parties- the RJD, the Congress -- they don’t have a leadership. And leaders like Lalu Yadav--we can’t help him come out of jail but if he comes out of jail, and he campaigns, it will benefit NDA {National Democratic Alliance} more. We will not have to remind people that here is the man who gave jungle raj to Bihar. So RJD is a polarising party and wherever they fight an election, they create a combination of two castes; all other castes and social groups combine together. These smaller parties don’t make any difference. When BJP, JDU came together in 2010 elections, RJD got only 22 assembly seats and Lalu Yadav campaigned like anything. So when JDU and RJD combined, they defeated BJP. It’s much stronger and we don’t think there will be any difficulty in getting three-fourths majority in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-of-bjp-s-poll-campaign-will-be-physical-sushil-modi/story-w9S90njNZt89uWpHNw2EmO.html
02-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: Centre to issue guidelines for Metro services today||The ministry of housing and urban affairs on Tuesday held a meeting with metro corporations to finalise the standard operating procedures (SOP) for operating metro services allowed under ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines, which will be issued on Wednesday following the home ministry’s nod, officials aware of the development said.The meeting on Tuesday chaired by urban housing ministry’s secretary Durga Shankar Mishra was attended by the managing directors of 15 metro rail corporations, officials said. The home ministry on Saturday issued guidelines for the fourth phase of an exercise to lift restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), announcing that metro rail services can resume in a graded manner from September 7.“As informed earlier, Metro Rail operations have been allowed w.e.f. 7th September, 2020. The SOPs already circulated were discussed today through VC by D.S Mishra, Secretary, MOHUA with MD’s of various Metro companies. The suggestions were considered in the VC meeting and accordingly SOPs are being finalised. MOHUA minister Sh Hardeep S Puri, will be announcing SOPs/guidelines in this regard on 2nd September,” ministry spokesperson Rajeev Jain said. The guidelines issued the home ministry said that the standard operating procedure (SOP) for this will be issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs.“We discussed the broad outline of the guidelines today. The same will need to be discussed and finalised with the home ministry tomorrow (Wednesday) and issued by afternoon. We heard suggestions of metro managing directors, which will be considered and accordingly the SOP will be finalised. The final guidelines will be announced by the minister on Wednesday,” an official part of the meeting said.Corporations have been asked to prepare a list of stations where trains will begin operations in consultation with the state governments.Passengers will have to follow strict guidelines on wearing masks and practicing social distancing norms failure of which may result in fines, officials said.Passengers travelling in metro trains are also not going to be allowed to use tokens anymore as the Centre has plans of implementing a contactless ticketing system using only metro cards, once restrictions on public transport are lifted, Hindustan Times had reported on April 30.The metro rail companies are also free to impose their own restrictions based on the condition of the virus in the region, officials had told HT earlier. “Broadly we may have few stoppages and open the stations in a phase-wise manner, there will mandatory thermal screening, face masks, social distancing, contact-less ticketing etc, which will have to be practiced,” an official aware of the development had said.The new norms on resumption of metro rail are likely to include contact-less ticketing through metro cards, increase in the average stoppage time at each station, markings for queues across all stations to control crowds and maintaining social distancing and an overhaul in the air conditioning system inside the trains to ensure supply of fresh air.In addition to this, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which provides security to Metros, has chalked out protocols to ensure smooth and contactless travel in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-likely-to-issue-guidelines-on-wednesday-after-meeting-officials-of-15-metro-corporations/story-6JYxRtZ5omk3VH0DoUFxxH.html
02-09-2020||India||China resorted to provocative action, violated agreements, says India||India on Tuesday said China resorted to provocative action a day earlier when it attempted to change the status quo on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake even as military-level talks were underway. China’s actions this year have been in clear violation of agreements, a spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs said.The Chinese side, India said, has “engaged in provocative military manoeuvres in the late night of 29th and on 30th August in an attempt to change the status quo in the South Bank area of Pangong Lake”.Also read: China provokes again, tries to alter status quoThe Indian Army said on Monday they responded to these provocative actions and took appropriate defensive measures along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in order to safeguard the country’s interests and defend its territorial integrity.“As stated yesterday by Indian Army, the Indian side responded to these provocative actions and took appropriate defensive measures along the LAC in order to safeguard our interests and defend the territorial integrity,” the statement released by MEA stated. The officials said due to timely defensive action by troops, the Indian side was able to prevent these attempts to unilaterally alter status quo.Without citing the clash in the Galwan Valley in June, India said China’s actions since earlier this year along the LAC clearly violate bilateral agreements and protocols concluded between the two countries to ensure peace and tranquillity on the border.“The actions and behavior of the Chinese side since earlier this year along the LAC has been in clear violation of the bilateral agreements and protocols concluded between the two countries to ensure peace and tranquility on the border. Such actions are also in complete disregard to the understandings reached between the two Foreign Ministers as also the Special Representatives,” the statement read. Also read| China in 70 years has not occupied an inch of foreign land: BeijingIndia indicated that the issue of China’s recent provocative and aggressive actions was taken up in both diplomatic and military channels. China, India said, was “urged to discipline and control their frontline troops from undertaking such provocative actions”.MEA officials said that Indian side is firmly committed to resolving all outstanding issues along the LAC in the Western Sector through peaceful dialogue and expects China to sincerely abide by the understanding established by both the countries to restore peace and tranquillity along the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-china-resorted-to-provocative-action-yesterday-its-actions-this-year-have-been-in-clear-violation-of-agreements/story-SkjmLd9r6PA8SWaRD2ErYM.html
02-09-2020||India||Podcast: The Life and Times of Amit Varma||This week, Amit Varma joins Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) to talk about his continuously evolving career, his libertarian ideology, and his views on nationalism.  This week, Amit joins Milan on the show to reflect on his career as a journalist, author, entrepreneur, podcast host, and--yes--professional poker player. Milan talks to Amit about his libertarian leanings, his views on nationalism, and why exactly India has so few economic reformers.If you’re listening to this podcast, chances are you are a fan of the podcast, “The Seen and the Unseen.” For 186 episodes and counting, the journalist Amit Varma has been putting together some of the most thoughtful, insightful and eclectic conversations with the best and brightest in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/podcast-the-life-and-times-of-amit-varma/story-59aPGzl1fjmbmf0DznllAM.html
02-09-2020||India||Plea seeking deferment of Bihar elections dismissed in SC||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a plea against the election commission’s decision to hold assembly elections in Bihar amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, saying the commission would have considered all aspects.The state assembly elections are scheduled to be held in October. A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan dismissed a PIL (public interest litigation) filed by a Muzaffarpur resident Avinash Thakur seeking postponement of the elections.Pointing to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state and floods that have displaced thousands of residents in 14 districts of north Bihar, the petition argued that the health of citizens should be paramount and not holding elections. The petition cited a newspaper clipping of August 12 in which the chief election commissioner was quoted saying that elections to the 243-member assembly in Bihar would be held as per schedule. “The election commission will take care of every situation. They must be considering everything,” the bench observed. Political parties in the state are divided over holding elections during a pandemic. Some parties such as the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) have requested deferment of polls. Left parties have supported this demand. However, the ruling combine of the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have indicated that they are happy to go ahead with the elections. The petitioner’s counsel, Neeraj Shekhar, said the Representation of People’s Act gives power to the commission to defer polls. He asked the court to seek a report from the commission or the state authorities to assess the situation on the ground. He stated that there is a ban on any political, social or cultural gathering in the state due to Covid-19 at present.The election commission is getting poll-ready though the dates have not been announced yet. Recently, the poll panel released guidelines for the conduct of polls in Bihar, which provide for the “last hour of polls” to be used for voting by Covid-19 patients and those suspected of having the disease.Only 1,000 voters at each polling station will be permitted. All voters will undergo temperature checks and wearing of masks shall be compulsory. The guidelines provide that a candidate’s convoy will have no more than five cars. Three persons at a time have been permitted for door-to-door canvassing.“Politicians and administration are focusing on election preparation instead of battling with floods and Covid-19,” the petitioner told the bench. Shekhar urged the court to consider the ground situation and direct the election commission to not ask the state government to recommend holding of elections. The bench, also comprising justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah, said, “We cannot interfere with the process of elections. What you suggest cannot be a ground to stop elections. This kind of petition under Article 32 cannot be entertained.” The petitioner decided to withdraw his plea. Shekhar made a final request to move a representation to the election commission in this regard. The bench said that this right was available to the petitioner even otherwise and refused to pass any direction to the effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-seeking-deferment-of-bihar-elections-dismissed-in-sc/story-px7f189i4rA4UKemI75OoI.html
02-09-2020||India||Flouting Covid-19 norms in metro may attract heavy fines once it reopens||Travelling without a face mask, sitting on seats that are meant to be left vacant in order to maintain social distancing, spitting, and littering in trains or platforms, may attract hefty fines once Delhi Metro services resume in the Capital, according to people familiar with the matter. A flying squad of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which guards the Delhi Metro, will be on the lookout for any violation of rules that have been put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19. The fines could start from Rs 500 for first-time offenders and are likely to be scaled up significantly for a repeat offence, the people added.Delhi Metro services have remained suspended since March 22, when the “janta curfew” (voluntary curfew) was observed on an appeal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, two days before a 68-day national lockdown was imposed. While other modes of public transport have been allowed with restrictions since then, as part of a gradual “unlocking”, Metro services -- including the Delhi Metro, which caters to nearly 2.4 daily million passengers -- have remained suspended.Also Read: To reach 40k tests target, Delhi govt clinics to stay open longerWhen the Delhi Metro will begin has not been announced yet, but there have been indications that its resumption could be a part of the next unlock norms to be announced before September 1.Decisions regarding new protocols for the Metro -- whenever it resumes -- were taken in a meeting convened by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday, and attended by senior officers from CISF and the Delhi Police. The meeting was also attended by senior police officers from the adjoining states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, as the Delhi Metro also operates services to parts of these states that fall within the National Capital Region (NCR). One of the officials who was a part of the meeting said on condition of anonymity that it was decided all guidelines set by the Indian Council of Medical Research must be strictly followed. “Any passenger who is caught spitting or dirtying will be fined. Those who do not follow rules like wearing a mask; are found sitting on seats that are to be left vacant; or deliberately violating social distancing norms will also be fined,” the official said. Also Read: Govt asks states to focus on elderly to reduce fatalitiesWhen contacted, deputy inspector general, CISF, Jitender Rana, said the force’s Alpha teams and flying squads will step up checks and monitoring. “Apart from our regular security work, our teams will also keep an eye out for anyone disrupting hygiene on Delhi Metro, thereby putting fellow passengers at risk. Such violators will be caught and fined,” Rana said. A third officer privy to the developments said: “The fine will be of ₹500 for a first-time offender and may go up significantly for repeat offenders. Those not complying or refusing to pay the fine may be prosecuted and be handed over to the Delhi Metro Rail Police (DMRP), a unit of the Delhi Police,” he said. The third officer added that the CISF personnel checking commuters at entry points will wear personal protective equipment. Before passengers can enter the station, their will be checked for body temperature, masks, and their status on Aarogya Setu app will be verified. “This may cause queues outside the station and so a Delhi Police personnel will be deployed to ensure social distancing,” he said, adding that access gates to stations will be opened depending upon the footfall and size of the station.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayOther norms in Delhi Metro once it starts operations include a ban on the use of tokens, introduction of automatic top-up facility to recharge smart cards, designated spots for passengers at platforms and controlled air-conditioning, with the temperature to be maintained at 26 degrees Celsius.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last week urged the Centre to resume Metro services in the national capital, saying the people of city were requesting for it. “We have taken this up with the central government on several occasions. We have urged the Centre to explore the possibility of resuming Metro services in Delhi, while keeping it prohibited in other states. Delhi is a special case because we have the Covid-19 situation under control,” he had said at a webinar with traders.A DMRC spokesperson confirmed that a meeting was held with security officials on Thursday. The spokesperson, however, declined to comment on what transpired at the meeting.Prashant Kumar, 27, a resident of Mehrauli, who works at a private finance firm in Connaught Place, said since the Metro is shut, he has been forced to take cabs. “Working from home isn’t an option every day. We have to go to office and cab refunds are not provided by the company. The expense is too much for me. We’ve been waiting for Metro services to resume. If the government can resume flights, it can also take due precautions and resume the Metro service,” Kumar said.In nearly all countries hit hard by Covid-19, lockdown restrictions, including those on public transit, have been lifted after the peak of daily cases had abated and remained low. This trend has been consistent in countries such as Italy, Spain, Germany, South Korea, and Japan. Epidemiologists have also warned against resuming Metro services, citing an increase in Delhi’s case positivity rate. In fact, as on Friday, Delhi had logged an average of 1,544 new cases of the infection in the past seven days — the highest since mid-July.Doctor Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR, said in Delhi, the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing every day. “The positivity rate is already on the rise. So if the population is mixing, it is likely to increase the chances of infection,” he said.Sewa Ram, professor and head of the department of transport and planning, School of Planning and Architecture, New Delhi, said there was a similar fear with running DTC buses, but Metro has a better infrastructure. “However, modifications will be required. The authorities will need to ensure contactless travel, social distancing and operational changes. There needs to have stringent measures and checks. If it’s done the right way, reopening of the Metro will be of immense help to people who depend on it for their mobility,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-wearing-masks-dirtying-the-metro-sitting-on-restricted-seats-will-attract-hefty-fines-dmrc/story-e9zj3sbfDGnsY0rhiiztfK.html
02-09-2020||India||Supreme Court junks demand to stay Bihar elections due to Covid-19 pandemic||Bihar is the first state to go to polls during the Covid-19 pandemic and amid preparations being made by the Election Commission (EC) for holding elections two months from now, the Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the first sign of resistance to EC’s decision. A three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan dismissed a PIL filed by a Muzaffarpur resident Avinash Thakur seeking postponement of Assembly elections due in October this year. Pointing to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state and floods which have displaced lakhs of residents in 14 districts of north Bihar, the petition stated that at present, the health of citizens should be the paramount consideration of the state authorities. The petition cited a news clipping of August 12 where the Chief Election Commissioner was quoted saying that elections to the 243-member Assembly in Bihar will be held as per schedule. Also read: All Lok Sabha MPs will be requested to undergo Covid tests, says SpeakerThe bench observed, “the Election Commission will take care of every situation. They must be considering everything.” The petitioner’s counsel Neeraj Shekhar said that the Representation of People’s Act gives power to the EC to defer the polls. He asked the Court to seek a report from the EC or the state authorities to assess the situation on the ground. He stated that presently, there is a ban on any political, social or cultural gathering in the state due to the pandemic. “Politicians and administration are focusing on election preparation instead of battling flood and Covid-19,” the petitioner told the bench. Shekhar urged the Court to consider the ground situation and direct the EC not to ask the state government to recommend holding assembly elections. The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah, said, “We cannot interfere with the process of elections. What you suggest cannot be a ground to stop elections. This kind of petition under Article 32 cannot be entertained.” The petitioner decided to withdraw his plea. Shekhar made a final request to move a representation to the EC in this regard. The bench said that this right was available to the petitioner even otherwise and refused to pass any direction to this effect. Political parties in the state are divided over holding elections during the pandemic. Some political parties, like the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) have requested deferment of polls. The Left parties too have supported this demand. However, the ruling combine of Janata Dal (United) and Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) are happy to go ahead with the election. The EC is getting poll-ready although dates have not been announced yet. Recently, the poll panel released guidelines for conducting polls in Bihar which provide the “last hour of poll” to allow Covid-19 patients. Those suspected of having the disease will also have the opportunity to cast votes at the respective polling stations. Only 1,000 voters to each polling station have been permitted by the EC. All voters will undergo temperature checks and the wearing of mask shall be compulsory. The EC guidelines further provide that the poll candidate’s convoy will have only five cars. Three persons will be permitted to conduct a door-to-door campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-junks-demand-to-stay-bihar-elections-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-HMae6rogfs4XbuAJi9qinI.html
02-09-2020||India||JP Nadda summons Bihar BJP MPs for meeting to finalise poll strategy||BJP national president J P Nadda has convened a meeting of party MPs from the state in New Delhi on August 29 to finalise strategy for the assembly polls due later this year, sources said.Nadda had addressed a meeting of the executive committee of the party’s Bihar unit on Sunday,All 17 BJP MPs from Bihar and general secretary and the party’s state in-charge Bhupender Yadav have been asked to attend the meet. Rajya Sabha members of BJP from Bihar have also been invited, sources said.The meeting comes ahead of seat sharing talks with allies JD(U) and LJP, which are expected to take place any day after September 6, when the current lockdown in Bihar is scheduled to end.On Sunday, Nadda had reiterated the BJP leadership’s stand that the NDA will contest the assembly polls under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar.The BJP has appointed former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis as its election in-charge for Bihar. Former Jharkhand chief minister Raghubar Das has also held virtual meetings with party workers from the extremely backward classes (EBCs).The party has actively started door-to-door campaigning from August 25 despite the Covid-19 pandemic.As part of a virtual campaign, the party has formed several WhatsApp groups, to be used to reach out to the booth-level workers by sharing videos of speeches of party leaders and sending the party’s message in real-time. Virtual campaigns are expected to be the dominant norm this election season||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-summons-bihar-bjp-mps-for-meeting-to-finalise-poll-strategy/story-0QXLDeT3Ba1q0FKp4WGvJN.html
02-09-2020||India||Bihar elections to witness big participation of women polling personnel||A record 2.03 lakh women employees of the Bihar government have been enlisted in the database prepared by the Election Commission and the office of Chief Electoral Officer of the state for the upcoming assembly elections. This is the first time that such a big number of women personnel are being engaged in election duty following the increase in the number of booths in view of the Covid-19 safety guidelines and requirement of additional manpower for polling stations as well as other field duties. The total number of polling stations is 1.06 lakh with creation of additional 33,797 auxiliary booths apart from 72,727 booths.A total of 6.58 lakh polling personnel have been enlisted for election duty of which 4.55 lakh are male and 2.03 female. Sources said the process for assigning poll related works to the polling personnel will start once the election schedule is announced possibly by mid-September. Additional Chief Electoral officer, Bihar, Ranjita said women polling personnel would be engaged in election work in large numbers given the rise in number of booths. “Women polling personnel would be deployed at the booths and also assigned other roles as per their rank and seniority. So far 2.03 lakh women personnel have been enlisted for poll duty from different districts,” the additional CEO said. Sources said the women polling officers would be deployed as presiding officers, polling officers, magistrates and even micro observers depending on their rank and seniority. “The modalities are being worked out,” said another EC officer. In the last few elections, the EC has been promoting all-women managed booths to encourage the participation of women voters but the number of such booths was limited. In the 2015 election, the polling percentage of women voters was higher than the male voters. Statistics show that female voters who voted numbered 1,89,14,687 out of a total 3,12,72,523 female electors, which was 60.48%. The number of males who voted stood at 1,90,78,453 out of 3,57,82,181 total number of 3,57,82,181, which was 53.32% in terms of polling percentage. The overall polling percentage in the 2015 election was 56.66% in Bihar. In the 2019 parliamentary polls, 59.58 % of women voted while the percentage of male voters was 57.33%. Meanwhile, the CEO’s office has directed all the district magistrates-cum-district election officers to carry special drives for enrolment of returnee migrant labourers who are not in the electoral rolls so that they can exercise their franchise in the coming assembly polls.CEO, Bihar H R Srinivasa directed the DMs to prioritize the work apart from enrolment of all eligible voters in updated electoral rolls. “The exercise of enrolling migrant labourers having returned to Bihar during lockdown has been going on and all districts have been asked to carry special drives for enrolment of all those returnees, who do have their names in the electoral rolls,” said the additional CEO.An estimated 25 lakh migrant labourers returned to Bihar during the lockdown period in April and May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-elections-to-witness-big-participation-of-women-polling-personnel/story-WdjokhpoheLwwnKPe6Ra9J.html
02-09-2020||India||Will contest Bihar polls under leadership of CM Nitish Kumar: JP Nadda||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Janata Dal (United) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) --- partners in the ruling alliance --- will contest the upcoming Bihar elections together under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar, BJP national president JP Nadda said on Sunday.“Whenever the three parties --- the BJP, the JD(U) and the LJP --- came together, there was resounding victory (in Bihar)…We will fight together and we will win again,” Nadda said, addressing party leaders and workers in the state through video-conferencing.He also appealed to BJP workers to become “ambassadors of change”. “For this, we have to contest at each and every booth to win. We have to add value not only to the BJP, but to the alliance partners as well…We are fighting an election during a pandemic and the challenges are immense,” he said, striking a note of unity in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the concluding session of a two-day Bihar BJP meet.Nadda’s remarks came at a time when Kumar’s JD (U) and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP have appeared to be at odds. The LJP has even questioned Kumar’s leadership in the run-up to the elections to the 243-member House due in October-November.In an interview to HT on August 22, LJP president Chirag Paswan criticised the Bihar government for its alleged failure in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and the state’s annual flood woes.After Nadda’s address, JD(U) spokesperson Nikhil Mandal said Kumar is the “first choice” of the people of Bihar. “The BJP, the JD (U) and the LJP will contest the polls unitedly and win the elections,” he said.LJP spokesperson Ashraf Ansari said: “It is up to the BJP to decide (as to who will lead Bihar).”In his address from the national capital, Nadda said BJP workers should not only spread awareness about the central government’s schemes and efforts to mitigate the Covid-19 crisis but should also highlight the good work done by the state government.“…we need to take all precautions of physical and social distancing. So, the best form of campaigning is small door-to-door campaigning,” he told his partymen. “Reach out all sections of society, all age groups.”He also hit out at the Opposition, calling it a “spent force”. “They do not have any vision, any thought. They are doing petty politics,” Nada said.In the Bihar elections, the NDA will be up against a grand alliance, or mahagathbandhan, of the Rashtriya Janata Dal, Congress, Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP).The Election Commission is yet to announce the poll schedule for Bihar, but there are indications that the voting process might be held on time. Recently, the poll watchdog released a broad set of guidelines for post-pandemic elections.Rajesh Rathore, state Congress spokesperson, said: “BJP president Nadda has made it clear that the NDA wins elections due to the alliance of three parties, and not because of Nitish Kumar...Bihar’s people are not going to forgive them for their misrule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-contest-bihar-polls-under-leadership-of-cm-nitish-nadda/story-dI1ZRaLHD4o1wOCQmUK7UK.html
02-09-2020||India||BJP banks on development and Nitish Kumar to win Bihar polls||The two-day Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state executive committee meeting, which began in the virtual mode on Saturday, set the agenda for Bihar elections — that the alliance was going to focus on the party’s development agenda and pit the “reliable and time-tested leadership” of the Nitish Kumar government against the Grand Alliance. The political resolution passed on first day of the meeting made it clear that the BJP was going to retain its poll strategy of portraying the Grand Alliance as an unlikely partnership. “The parties attached to the Grand Alliance are mentally opposed to each other, they are never stable and cannot provide the public-oriented government. Whereas the NDA has a reliable and time-tested leadership and all parties of the alliance believe in development-oriented policies. We believe in all-round development with social justice,” read the party’s political resolution.A similar sentiment was echoed by new state election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis, the former Maharashtra chief minister. “Public memory is short. Take to the people the government’s work, both of the Centre and the state. Also, highlight what was the scenario when a family was ruling the state. What were the problems they faced and then you need to tell them how PM stood behind Bihar during the times of pandemic? How the state government effected the changes in last 15 years,” said Fadnavis in his maiden address.He exhorted the party members that despite the twin problems of pandemic and floods faced by the state, the BJP workers will have to reach out every household. “Nobody can stop Bihar from progress. In last 15 years, Bihar is back on rails. Now is the time to make a leap. The state and Centre will run hand in hand towards progress,” he said.Fadnavis asked party leaders to recognize the importance of youth power in the elections. “Bihar has close to 58% youth population. If anybody can help in the making of modern Bihar and India, it is these youths. A country which relied on youth power has shown development,” said Fadnavis, adding that this election is going to decide “the fate of Bihar.”“This is an election to make history for Bihar. India will change and so will Bihar. Let us repeat our Lok Sabha performance,” he told the executive committee members.The political resolution passed by party also enlisted the development work done by the Centre, how the Central government solved the long-pending issues of Article 370, Triple Talaq and Ayodhya temple. It lauded the state government’s effort in effectively dealing with the pandemic and floods.The executive committee is also likely to discuss better co-ordination among its alliance partners and decide on the seats that it should contest. BJP sources said the core agenda of the meeting would revolve around election preparations and the role party functionaries would have to play at different levels — from the headquarters to campaigning in Assembly segments.The inaugural session was also addressed by state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, who set a target to win three-fourth of seats for the NDA in assembly elections scheduled in October-November.Stating the target in presence of BJP national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav and others, Jaiswal made an appeal to 7.6 million party workers in the state, up to the panchayat level, to ensure that the coalition achieves the mark.The session will end with the address of BJP president JP Nadda on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-banks-on-development-and-nitish-to-win-bihar-polls/story-uQVKBL9hxwcdTvNXtf3YwM.html
02-09-2020||India||Bihar polls: BJP picks development as winning card, Fadnavis fine tunes message||The two-day BJP state executive committee meeting has set the agenda for Bihar assembly elections by declaring that the alliance will contest on the plank of development and would leverage the youth power for return to power.The political resolution passed on the day one of the meeting also made it clear that the BJP was also going to repeat its time-tested formula of projecting the opposition Grand Alliance as a coalition formed to protect ‘scam-tainted’ families.“The parties attached to the Grand Alliance are mentally opposed to each other; they are never stable and cannot provide a public-oriented government. Whereas the NDA has a reliable and time-tested leadership and all parties of the alliance believe in development-oriented policies. We believe in all-round development with social justice,” read the party’s political resolution.A similar sentiment was echoed by newly-appointed state election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis, the former Maharashtra chief minister.“Public memory is short. Take the government’s work—done both by the centre and the state—to the people and remind them about the time when a family was ruling the state. Then you need to tell them how the PM stood with Bihar during the times of pandemic. How the state government effected the changes in the last 15 years,” said Fadnavis in his maiden address.He exhorted the partymen to reach out to each household despite the twin challenges of coronavirus pandemic and the floods.“Nobody can stop Bihar from progress. In the last 15 years, Bihar is back on rails. Now is the time to make a leap. The state and centre will run hand in hand towards progress,” he said.Also Read: BJP chief JP Nadda, top leaders begin 2-day virtual strategy meet todayThe former Maharashtra CM also stressed on the importance of youth power in this election.“Bihar has close to 58% youth population. If anybody can help in making a modern Bihar and a modern India, it is these youths. A country relying on youth power will develop,” Fadnavis said and added that this election was going to decide “the fate of Bihar.”The political resolution also enlisted the development works done by the centre and the ‘historic’ move to abrogate Article 370, ban Triple Talaq and the resolution of the long pending Ayodhya dispute. It also lauded the state government’s effort in effectively dealing with the Corona crisis and the floods.Also Read: BJP to trust own cadres for Bihar elections, says no room for party hoppersThe executive committee is also likely to discuss issues of coordination between allies and seats sharing for the polls.The inaugural session was also addressed by state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal who set a target of winning three-fourth of seats for the NDA in assembly elections due in October-November. He appealed to 76 lakh party workers in the state up to Panchayat level to ensure that the coalition achieves the mark.The session will end with the address of BJP President J P Nadda on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-polls-bjp-picks-development-as-winning-card-fadnavis-fine-tunes-message/story-4JXWneDSUSDRCoww0xLDrL.html
02-09-2020||India||Bihar assembly election 2020: BJP chief JP Nadda, top leaders begin 2-day virtual strategy meet today||BJP national president JP Nadda and several other senior party leaders will hold a two-day virtual meeting from Saturday to chart out a plan for the assembly elections in Bihar, which are due in October-November this year, chief of the state unit Sanjay Jaiswal has said. The Bharatiya Janata party’s national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, general secretary Bhupender Yadav, party’s election in-charge in Bihar Devendra Fadnavis and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar are expected to attend the state executive committee meeting.Also read: BJP to trust own cadres for Bihar elections, says no room for party hoppersOn the first day of the meeting, political resolutions will be placed before the attendees for approval, Jaiswal, who was accompanied by state unit general secretary Devesh Kumar, spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan and media in-charge Rakesh Kumar Singh, said while interacting with reporters in Patna on Friday. “This is a very important state executive committee meeting being held just before the assembly elections during which the party would give a message to its 76 lakh workers in the state,’’ Jaiswal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.During the meeting, leaders will also discuss expanding the BJP’s organisation and ensuring better coordination with its allies Janata Dal(United) or JD(U) and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), according to sources quoted by PTI.Besides, former Maharashtra chief minister Fadnavis’s presence at the meet will be crucial amid the ongoing rift between Maharashtra and Bihar over the probe in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Also read: Ahead of Bihar polls amid Covid-19, ECI issues new guidelines for votersEven as opposition parties and LJP, NDA’s partner in the state, expressed concern over conducting polls in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission has given a go-ahead for the state elections.The poll body, however, has issued a fresh set of guidelines for carrying out polls amid the virus outbreak. As per new guidelines, candidates can file their nominations online and people are required to wear face masks during election-related activities.At poll booths, thermal scanning of all voters will be carried out at the entry premises and sanitisers, soap and water shall also be made available.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-bjp-chief-jp-nadda-top-leaders-begin-2-day-virtual-strategy-meet-today/story-NqGBQFa25cUFL1c9AiTSNP.html
02-09-2020||India||BJP to trust own cadres for Bihar elections, says no room for party hoppers||Unlike its ally Janata Dal (United) which is welcoming defectors from other parties in a big way in Bihar, the BJP has said it would not like to do so at the cost of its own committed workers who expect the party to reward them at the time of elections.Sanjay Jaiswal,president of the Bihar unit of the BJP said that he would not like to comment on the approach of the JD-U, but there was no scope for outsiders in his party ahead of the assembly elections. “Those who had to join the BJP, they did so last year in November-December. BJP has a strong force of 76-lakh committed workers and the party will work hard to win on all its traditional seats,” he said Friday.Jaiswal said that there were many within the party who were strong contenders for seats and there was no point looking outside though many leaders were sending feelers. “It is too late now. BJP works with a long-term vision and there is no place for habitual party hoppers who move around at the time of election only in search of seats,” he added.On the likely talks of seat sharing within the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), Jaiswal said it would happen at the right time at the right level and there was no point discussing talking about it as if now.“Last time, the BJP had contested 157 seats and it is quite natural that we will have to compromise with less due to three NDA constituents vying for seats. So, we already have a problem at hand of denying seats to some rightful claimants. In such a situation, there is no point making room for imports,” he added.Jaiswal’s comments are significant as all the six leaders who have switched over to the JD-U are sitting MLAs and three from powerful political families and it could lead to turf war in the ticklish ticket distribution, more so because JD-U has often claimed to be a bigger claimant on the basis of its share in 2005 and 2010 assembly polls. In 2015, JD-U had left NDA to move over to the Grand Alliance.Another senior BJP leader said that the experience of the 2015 election, when most of the imported leaders had to bite the dust, and that in neighbouring Jharkhand and Maharashtra more recently warranted that the BJP should trust its own hardworking workers and reward them during elections. It was the BJP that was the main beneficiary of party hopping in the 2015 assembly election, when the Grand Alliance of JD-U, RJD and the Congress scuttled ticket prospects for many hopefuls. Many others were accommodated through the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) - Secular of former CM Jitan Ram Manji. Over 20 tickets of the BJP had then gone to leaders defecting from other parties. This included 10 sitting MLAs. However, the debacle of the BJP in the peak of Narendra Modi wave against the combined might of GA was such that it was confined to just 53 seats despite getting highest vote share of 24.4%, compared to 18.4% of the RJD, 16.8% of the JD-U and 6.7% of the Congress, which together came to a whopping 41.9%.Later, the below par performance was attributed to dissension within the party due to large scale crossovers from other parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-trust-own-cadres-for-bihar-elections-says-no-room-for-party-hoppers/story-QdHOGvVE8qxlpl5jMW5zhO.html
02-09-2020||India||BJP finds big role for Devendra Fadnavis in upcoming Bihar polls||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis is set to play an important role for the BJP in the Bihar assembly elections, set to take place later this year. Fadnavis, the BJP’s central core committee has decided, will play the role of party’s election in-charge in Bihar, along with BJP Bihar in-charge, Bhupendra Yadav. “A formal announcement to this effect would be made shortly but the core committee has decided to entrust this responsibility to former Maharashtra CM,” said a senior party functionary of Bihar. BJP sources said Fadnavis has been roped in by the party leadership for the poll preparedness and attended a Bihar core committee meeting through video-conferencing on Thursday. He is said to have presented his viewpoints on different matters. The elections for the 243-member Bihar assembly will take place in October/ November. Fadnavis being given the charge of Bihar elections is in line with the party’s policy of entrusting its key leaders with the responsibility of handling state elections. Late BJP leader Ananth Kumar was the party’s in-charge for the Bihar assembly polls in 2015. The development also comes at a time when Bihar and Maharashtra governments have been trading charges over the handling of the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case by Mumbai Police. Fadnavis faces a tough ask as two BJP’s allies JD (U) and the LJP are at loggerheads. The LJP has conveyed to the BJP leadership, the sources said, its uneasiness about the manner in which the issues raised by it have been dealt with. Welcoming Fadnavis’ appointment, senior BJP leader Dr CP Thakur said that he is a capable leader “and manages elections very well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-finds-big-role-for-devendra-fadnavis-in-upcoming-bihar-polls/story-onnuxQv4bCRVHpX7CEcrlJ.html
02-09-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi asks Congress to identify constituencies in poll-bound Bihar||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday sounded the bugle in poll-bound Bihar by asking the cadre to work for “effecting a decisive change in Bihar”. He also asked senior leaders to identify the constituencies the party will contest.Assembly elections in the state are due later this year though the Election Commission has not taken a final call on the poll dates and sought suggestions from political parties.Addressing party workers through video conferencing, the former Congress president made it clear that every effort should be made to strengthen the party and the Grand Alliance, “without compromising respect and dignity.” “History is witness to the fact that every change has begun from Bihar. Mahatma Gandhi started his freedom struggle from Champaran. In the present context, Bihar Congress will do this change,” said Gandhi. He also asked the state unit to highlight the Nitish Kumar government’s failure to effectively tackle Covid-19 and the flood situation.“Highlight the failure of the state government on the front of education, health and employment. Take them to people. The state government has failed to tackle Covid and flood situations effectively.The Nitish Kumar government was reluctant to take back the migrants. The state government was boasting on the front of corruption; now the CM doesn’t talk on these issues,” said Gandhi.BPCC president Madan Mohan Jha said that Rahul Gandhi had assured the state unit that he was willing to come to state as and when required. “Rahulji also spoke on the need of strengthening the alliance with respect to one and all,” said Premchandra Mishra, Congress MLC. Though he avoided the contentious issue of leadership in the Grand Alliance (GA), Gandhi said Congress will form the next government with everyone’s help.“The next government will be ours. We will form the government with the help of all,” he said. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) is said to be keen that party president Lalu Yadav’s son Tejashwi Yadav be declared as the GA’s chief ministerial candidate. However, the Congress has all along maintained that this decision will be taken at a later stage.Rahul Gandhi also asked party’s Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil and Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president Madan Mohan Jha to identify the number of seats and the constituencies it will contest.A senior leader of Congress said that party wants to contest at least two seats every district, which puts the total seats to 76. “The JD (U) had contested on 100 seats when it was part of the Grand Alliance, so we would definitely like to get a majority share of its seat plus would like to retain our winning seats,” said the leader. In the 2015 assembly elections, the Congress had contested on 41 seats and won 21 with a vote share of 6.7% while the RJD had contested on 101 seats and won 80 seats with a vote share of 16.8%. With Bihar continuing to reel under floods and battling the surge in Covid-19 cases, Tejwashwi Yadav and NDA ally Lok Janshakti Party have voiced concern over holding assembly polls in the state. However, the ruling JD(U)-BJP coalition wants the polls to be held as scheduled.The term of the present Assembly expires on November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-asks-congress-to-identify-constituencies-in-poll-bound-bihar/story-JGsvGg7M343MynJHnmn1KL.html
02-09-2020||Editorials||In J&K, time for dialogue||In a candid interview to this newspaper earlier this week, Jammu and Kashmir (J&K)’s former chief ministers, and National Conference (NC) leaders, Farooq and Omar Abdullah, spoke of the bitterness they personally felt after Parliament pushed through constitutional changes in J&K last year. The conversation was laced with anger at what they saw as a violation of a sovereign commitment by India by effectively revoking Article 370; hurt at how they were detained and put in the same basket as separatists even as they are viewed as India’s representatives in Srinagar; and determination to challenge the changes politically and legally.To be sure, the NC’s record is not all clean. Sheikh Abdullah’s turn towards radicalism in the early 1950s jeopardised the project of integrating Kashmir with the rest of India. Despite repeated opportunities in power, the party was unable to win over the hearts and minds of people of J&K — which provided space for separatists. By almost portraying themselves as the only force standing between India and secession, the NC also extracted a wide range of political concessions from Delhi, with doubtful outcomes. But it is also true that the NC’s firm position in favour of India, right from 1948 onwards, has been an important element in adding legitimacy to India’s political and diplomatic case against Pakistan. The NC has lost hundreds of workers to terrorism because it defended the Indian flag. The Abdullah father-son duo have always participated in peaceful and democratic politics.And that is why when they speak, New Delhi must listen and begin a wider process of engaging with Kashmir’s pro-India forces. The Centre will not bring back Article 370 — but by suggesting that they will fight this out in the Supreme Court, the Abdullahs are leaving room for a political dialogue that does not hinge on a resolution of this issue. By pointing to the apprehensions caused by the domicile law and the delimitation process, and the need for statehood, the NC is actually giving a roadmap to the central government on what needs to be revised. If the Centre releases other democratic leaders such as Mehbooba Mufti, begins a genuine dialogue, builds trust and addresses a part of the concerns of Kashmir’s political mainstream, there can be a meeting ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-j-k-time-for-dialogue/story-YKZxlSsms7WmmvOinlZtyJ.html
