05-09-2020||News||Why society owes Asha workers a debt||The unsung heroes of the response to the Covid-19 pandemic have most definitely been the millions of frontline women workers, especially Accredited Social Health Activists (Ashas) who have been working tirelessly at the community level. They have engaged in numerous activities, ranging from door-to-door surveys, contact-tracing, awareness campaigns and ensuring quarantine/isolation. This is in addition to their regular roles, ranging from accompanying pregnant women to health centres, keeping track of immunisations, making home visits for new- born care and following up on tuberculosis patients. Recently, these workers have been in the news for their strikes, demanding better payment, regularisation, access to personal protective equipment and free health care. Who are these women and are their protests, in the midst of the pandemic, justified?Currently, there are about a million Asha workers who have been crucial in the efforts to decentralise health care and strengthen the primary health system. Their contribution to the increase in institutional deliveries, immunisations and decline in maternal and infant mortality has been widely noted. While each Asha worker can easily spend six to eight hours working in a day, she is not paid a regular monthly salary. Instead, the central government has an incentive-based system in which, at the end of the month, each Asha worker is paid based on the basis of the tasks she has completed on a pro-rata basis. Following protests, recently the incentives were revised such that each worker can earn at least Rs 2,000 per month. Some other tasks that Asha workers undertake such as conducting awareness campaigns are not listed as activities they are given incentives for, but they still do so as a commitment to the community. In contrast, the minimum wage for unskilled workers suggested by a government- appointed expert committee in 2019 is Rs 9,750 a month. The story of almost 1.4 million anganwadi workers is no different. Although they do get a fixed monthly pay, they are treated as voluntary workers who receive an honorarium and not a salary. While the central government contributes Rs 4,500 per month towards their pay, a number of states top this up with additional amounts though these are low. Just as the Ashas, the anganwadi workers play an essential role. They are responsible for nutrition services, including distribution of supplementary nutrition, growth monitoring and nutrition counselling along with providing pre-school education. For the additional work that Asha workers are now doing due to Covid-19, they have been promised an incentive of Rs 1,000 per month. However, reports from most states are that they have not received this yet. Further, reports suggest that, in many places, Asha and anganwadi workers work without any protective equipment such as masks or gloves while going door-to-door for surveys and other tasks, and in the process, are getting infected with the virus. Moreover, in many places, these workers face stigma from the community, with people not allowing them to enter their homes and abusing them when they try to collect personal details related to travel.The way frontline women workers in our country are treated also points to the gendered nature of work itself. Many of the tasks that these women perform are perceived to be an extension of the care roles that they play within the household. The unequal distribution of care work within the family and the subsequent undervaluation of such work is extended to the community and the State. Expanding better opportunities with decent wages for frontline workers could also contribute to the revival of the rural economy by putting wages into the hands of many, and take us closer to achieving our health and nutrition goals. This is important at a time when employment opportunities for educated rural women are so few.Dipa Sinha is an assistant professor at Ambedkar University, Delhi. This article is based on her recent study of frontline workers commissioned by IWWAGE, a research initiative of LEAD at KREA University The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-society-owes-asha-workers-a-debt/story-sKhgxsrNcH9mShfVhYaFzL.html
05-09-2020||Noida||Man injured as mobile phone bursts in pocket in Greater Noida||A 22-year-old man was injured when his mobile phone exploded in his pocket in Tughalpur in Knowledge Park area. The victim, Vasu Bhati, was rushed to a private hospital for medical treatment. Bhati, a resident of Ajayabpur village in Greater Noida, said that the incident took place on September 1. He said that he had bought an phone in July 2019 for about ₹20,000 from a local mobile phone store. “The phone was in the right pocket of my trouser. That day, I drove my car to a service centre. As soon as I got off the car, the phone exploded,” he said. He added that the phone was completely damaged and he suffered burn injuries on his thigh. “The skin on my thigh was completely damaged. It is now difficult to even walk properly. I am unable to join my work,” said Bhati who drives a cab. “My grandmother had died on September 3. I was busy in the family rituals for her last rites and hence filed a complaint on September 5,” he said. Varun Pawar, station house officer Knowledge Park police station, said, “The victim has not met me personally. We will register a case and investigate the matter.” The phone company could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-injured-as-mobile-phone-bursts-in-pocket-in-greater-noida/story-Mu9jsdbq1u3cGnVPYaQgHN.html
05-09-2020||City||Stripping case: Bail rejected, ex-Khanna SHO surrenders before IG||Fifteen months after three men were stripped and then filmed at Khanna Sadar police station, the station house officer (SHO) at the time, inspector Baljinder Singh, surrendered before inspector general (IG, Ludhiana Zone) Naunihal Singh on Saturday. The Punjab and Haryana high court had rejected his bail application. The police had been after him for the past two months, having booked him for assault, illegal detention, stripping three men and recording the video. The police had also added sections of the SC/ST Act and the Information and Technology (IT) Act against the inspector in the FIR lodged at City-1 police station of Khanna on July 5. He had been suspended from the force. In the nine-second video, three persons were seen standing nude in front of the SHO, whose voice is audible but his face cannot be seen. After the video went viral, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta had directed inspector general of police (IGP), Ludhiana Range, to carry out a fact-finding inquiry into the matter on April 16 this year. IG Naunihal is leading the special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the matter. On April 23, the phone that was used to record the video was traced. It belonged to constable Varun Kumur, the ‘chhota munshi’, at the Sadar police station. His statement was recorded and he was transferred to the Police Lines. Sources said the constable claimed that though his mobile phone was used, it was the SHO, who had recorded the video. The constable, however, could not give a satisfactory answer on why he had forwarded the videos.The victim Jagpal Singh Jogi, who is the husband of a former sarpanch, said he had a land dispute with a Doraha-based Congress leader. He claimed that in June 2019, inspector Baljinder arrested him, his son, Gurvir Singh, and friend Jaswant Singh from their fields and thrashed them brutally in the police station. “We were forced to remove our clothes and humiliated by making a video. Later, we were falsely implicated in a case of burglary,” he has claimed. Later, he complained to the DGP through his counsel. SP headquarters Tajinder Singh Sandhu, who is a member of the SIT, said the accused would be brought to Khanna for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stripping-case-bail-rejected-ex-khanna-sho-surrenders-before-ig/story-UEqbjj1eTlYo6REAQ8JsoK.html
05-09-2020||City||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body to provide hawkers with loans up to ₹10,000 to combat Covid lockdown losses||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Saturday announced that it will provide loans up to ₹10,000 to provide street vendors with financial aid as their businesses have been affected adversely during the Covid-19 lockdown. The loans will be provided by the state government, under the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors Atmanirbhar Nidhi Scheme. Urban street vendors with be able to apply for a working capital loan of up to ₹10,000, with a repayment period of a year, from the bank. If the amount is repaid in regular monthly instalments, they will be eligible for 7% interest subsidy. “Street vendors in the city should take advantage of this scheme. They can apply at the civic facilitation centre, Aadhaar card centre or through www.pmsvanidhi.mouha.gov.in,” said an official from KDMC. The hawkers’ union, however, said application for the scheme poses a problem as the vendor’s Aadhaar card has to be linked with the bank and mobile number. Arvind More, president, Mahanagar Hawkers Union, Kalyan, said, “Not many hawkers have it [Aadhar, mobile number, bank account] linked and hence they won’t be able to apply for the loan. What the civic body should do is use the data of the surveyed hawkers to check their documents. They should deposit the money to the vendor’s account directly if the purpose is actually to help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-to-provide-hawkers-with-loans-up-to-10-000-to-combat-covid-lockdown-losses/story-6d5v2tsfn5fRnBytnKzO5N.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway to set up spit pouch vending machines at Mumbai’s suburban railways||In a bid to curb public spitting, the Central Railway (CR) has decided to provide spit pouches at suburban railway stations. The spit pouches will be available through automatic vending machines at the stations.This is being done to increase hygiene and stop passengers from spitting on railway tracks and platforms. The pouches will be made with biodegradable material and will be spill-proof. They will also be scented and will release a fragrance every time a person spits in them. The pouch vending machines will be installed in an attempt to increase non-fare revenue. “We are exploring the possibility of introducing spit pouches on the city’s suburban railway stations,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway. The pouches have already been introduced at Nagpur railway station on a trial basis.Passenger associations, however, are sceptical that the people will pay for these pouches and has asked the railways to provide them free of cost. “The pouches are the need of the hour, but nobody will buy them. The railways should introduce the pouches for free and should tie-up with organisations for this. Only then will they become popular among passengers,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad. CR recently also introduced automatic vending machines to provide face masks, hand sanitisers and gloves at suburban railway stations. The vending machines are already functional at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Dadar and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-to-set-up-spit-pouch-vending-machines-at-mumbai-s-suburban-railways/story-wia9uh3JZQkDcYTlh4txyO.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||‘Covid-19 fatigue’ hits Mumbaiites, say experts; active coronavirus cases witness surge in Mumbai||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has risen by around 25% in the past fortnight to 22,978 on Saturday from 18,301 on August 22, with medical experts and officials from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public health department attributing this increase to the surge in the city’s daily case count. Active cases are calculated by deducting number of discharged patients and number of fatalities from the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Experts cautioned that this could be a cause for concern as the city’s infections graph, which had plateaued, has begun to rise again. The increase in the number of daily cases, according to the experts, is owing to easing of lockdown restrictions, the recently concluded Ganeshotsav and more people stepping out of their homes due to “Covid fatigue”. “This is not a good sign for Mumbai, especially since the city has opened up considerably. If this trend continues, Covid-19 cases could increase at an alarming rate again, and Mumbai may have to tighten lockdown curbs yet again,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state government’s Covid-19 task force formed in April to reduce fatality in the state, adding that one of the primary reasons for the sudden surge in cases is “lack of Covid-related hygiene owing to Covid fatigue among citizens”. Madhav Sathe, retired professor of microbiology at BYL Nair Hospital, said, “There is definitely a behavioural change, as there is too much pressure about these things for a long time now. We cannot say this is a prominent cause for increase in Covid cases, as there are a lot of other factors. But people are getting restless now, and are stepping out more.”Dr Pradya Ajinkya, Mumbai-based psychological counsellor, said, “With the decline in businesses, and the uncertainty people have faced and are likely to face over the next few months, there is an elevated stress. People are looking for a way to return to normal. There can be a stress-based response to fear of quarantining, losing loved ones, and hence some psychological fatigue is there.” Rasika Karkare, a Mumbai-based clinical psychologist, pointed out that people may not sanitise as often anymore, or change clothes right away upon returning home. “Collectively we are facing a pandemic that we don’t have prior experience of. Initially everyone took it seriously. Now for five to six months we are at home in the same environment. There is no boundary between personal and professional due to work from home. Fatigue is natural. People are looking for a reason to celebrate, or meet relatives, and many may have ventured out more during Ganeshotsav too.”Joshi said people also do not trust the civic body, and to avoid moving to an institutional quarantine facility, they do not get tested till four to five days after developing symptoms. “In such cases, they interact with a lot more people in the meantime, and the infection rapidly spreads,” he said. The number of cumulative active cases in Mumbai as of Friday was the highest recorded in over a month. The last time Mumbai had higher active Covid-19 cases was on July 26, when the number was 22,768. Since then, the cumulative active cases steadily declined, until Friday.In the past week, the daily count of Covid-19 cases has also risen, especially in the past four days. On Saturday, Mumbai recorded 1,737 cases and 33 deaths, taking the total number of cases in the city to 153,712, and the toll to 7,832. The city had recorded 1,929 cases on Friday, 1,526 on Thursday, 1,622 on Wednesday and 1,142 on Tuesday.On the contrary, Mumbai had recorded as low as 705 Covid-19 cases in August (on August 3), which also witnessed a number of days when the daily infections were below 1,000. “People have begun to believe Covid has gone. It is still very much there. Mumbai is still not out of the woods. Covid-appropriate behaviour of wearing a mask, sanitising, and social distancing is mandatory,” said Joshi. “BMC needs to do three things on a war footing. We cannot become complacent now. The civic body needs to realise they have to close the tap, even as they talk about high recovery. Mumbai still has a high fatality rate. Aggressive and increased RT-PCR testing, early diagnosis and door-to-door survey and early treatment needs to continue.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in-charge of the civic health department, said, the increase in number of active Covid-19 cases is a result of the recent lifting of curbs, Ganeshotsav and the shift of the spread from slums to high rises. “As more affluent people are now turning positive, the rate of self-admission in private hospitals has increased. These residents are opting to prolong their treatment in a private hospital,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-fatigue-hits-mumbaiites-say-experts-active-coronavirus-cases-witness-surge-in-mumbai/story-zB2cXAnQXGNkDR9ERR0F7N.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM appoints Deepak Mhaisekar as advisor to control Covid-19||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has appointed Dr Deepak Mhaisekar as his advisor to suggest measures to control Covid-19 pandemic. He will analyse the ground situation, coordinate with state and Central authorities and advise the chief minister on what needs to be done. The retired IAS officer was Pune divisional commissioner at the time of retirement and has been at the forefront in the battle against Covid-19 before being retired on July 31. The first case of Covid-19 was detected in Pune. Five districts - Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur come under Pune divisional commissioner office. The chief minister already has former chief secretary Ajoy Mehta as principal advisor appointed to advise on how to revive state’s economy that is facing a slump following full lockdown of three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-appoints-deepak-mhaisekar-as-advisor-to-control-covid-19/story-T14cZF1xCkTj0eX7PFb8gM.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Free food packets to poor families in home isolation: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced distribution of free food packets to poor families who do not want to get themselves tested for fear of isolation impacting their meagre earnings. The CM said the distribution of free food packets would help encourage poor families to go for early testing, which was imperative to check the spread of the pandemic and control the increasing fatality rate in Punjab. The programme will start from Patiala, one of the worst-affected districts with widespread false propaganda, he said. The CM directed other districts to make similar arrangements for distribution of free food packets to poor Covid patients in home isolation so that they get motivated to come out for testing and do not live in fear of losing their earnings during isolation. Accepting the suggestion of Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, the CM said that district Congress committees and local MLAs will help the district administration in the distribution of these packets. The CM stated this while chairing a virtual meeting with elected representatives, including ministers and MLAs, as well as senior officials. Noting that people were also scared of hospitalisation, Amarinder said his government was encouraging home isolation to combat this fear and had also decided to remove posters/stickers from homes of patients to end the stigma attached to their isolation. The CM asked the ministers to visit hospitals in the districts represented by them, and urged them to encourage party leaders and workers to be more active in combating the pandemic. He himself would soon be visiting a hospital to assess the situation on the ground, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/free-food-packets-to-poor-families-in-home-isolation-punjab-cm/story-2bMnFlAhYgn5TUwShRCgyI.html
05-09-2020||City||High caseload, fatality: Patiala authorities ask health staff to increase sampling or face music||A day after Patiala district surfaced among 15 districts with high Covid-19 caseload and fatality, the health department issued stricter directions to its frontline workers to increase sampling across the district, or face the music. Punjab’s two districts—Patiala and Ludhiana— figure in the list released by the Union health ministry following a surge in the Covid cases for the past one month.In a letter to senior medical officers, the Patiala health department has directed them to meet daily target of collecting at least 3,000 samples. Presently, the district is collecting 1,500-1,800 samples per day.Patiala district has recorded 6,876 positive cases, of which 5,260 have recovered, while 1,434 are active cases. As many as 182 fatalities have been reported so far.Following video conferencing with Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Friday, the department has shot off a letter to its medical staff and mobile teams to increase sampling in their respective areas or be ready to face the music.“The situation can be handled with increased sampling, as it would help the department to contain further spread of the infection. We have collected over 92,000 samples so far,” said Patiala’s civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra.He added that increase in sampling will also help detect symptomatic patients at early stages so that they can be given required treatment. “Of total fatalities, 99% are of those who had one or the other comorbid conditions. In many of the cases, it has been seen that the patients reached hospital when their condition deteriorated,” Dr Malhotra said.“The SMOs have been directed to report immediately if any registered medical officers or assistant medical officers refused to go on sampling duty so that the action can be initiated against them under epidemic and disaster management act,” the letter stated.“People are not cooperating in giving samples. The health workers are facing ill-treatment and misbehaviour not only in villages but in urban areas too. People hurled abuses and even turned violent in some of the recent cases,” said a medical officer, pleading anonymity.Civil surgeon Dr Malhotra said the SMOs have been asked to have communication with panchayats or municipal councillors and local administration to convince people to go for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-caseload-fatality-patiala-authorities-ask-health-staff-to-increase-sampling-or-face-music/story-mzEpIh7nqXOwodiS9n5PgL.html
05-09-2020||Gurugram||Man kills cab driver, police exhume body five months later||Almost five months after a cab driver went missing, Gurugram police on Friday arrested a 24-year-old man for allegedly shooting him and dumping the body in a drain near Narwana in Jind, almost 186 km from the city. The partially decomposed body was exhumed on Friday, said police.The victim was identified by his first name as Suresh (27) and lived in sector 5 of Gurugram with his wife and two children. According to the police, he had gone out to Narwana on April 12 to meet the suspect, Sukhbir, after he a tiff with him over a phone call. He never returned home. Since his disappearance, his family did not inform the police.The victim’s father, after not having heard from him for five months and suspected something amiss, registered a missing person’s complaint at the Sector 5 police station on September 1, said police.Station house officer (SHO) Rajender Kumar said they questioned victim’s wife and neighbours “We were informed that a man named Sukhbir was a regular visitor to Suresh’s house whenever he was not home. We scanned his call details, following which a team went to his house in Narawana where we arrested him,” he said.When questioned, said police, Sukhbir detailed the events of April 12. “Sukhbir, in an apparent attempt to cool things down, took Suresh to a road side eatery in Jind for drinks and dinner. After getting him drunk, Sukhbir called one of his close friends and helped Suresh into their car. Then Sukhbir shot him twice once in his chest and once in his mouth. The duo allegedly dumped his body in a remote section of a drain along Narwana –Jind Road and informed victim’s wife regarding the murder,” said Kumar. “The role of the wife in the murder is unclear. The man who assisted Sukhbir is still at large. We have identified him.”Police said Sukhbir told them that he was in a relationship with the victim’s wife during their college days, but they broke it off. They met again over a social media website after five years in 2019. “The wife told Sukhbir that Suresh had been arrested several times and would often physically assault her. She told him that she was unhappy in the marriage,” said Kumar. Police confirmed that Suresh had earlier been jailed in an assault case. Last year, once Suresh got out of jail, his wife introduced Sukhbir as a friend who wanted to help him, said police. Sukhbir allegedly lent him ₹3 lakh to buy a car and drive it as a cab.One day, Suresh allegedly caught them talking over the phone. He suspected them of being in an affair and assaulted his wife and threatened them both, police said, following which Sukhbir decided to murder him.Police on Friday sent Suresh’s body for autopsy.A case was registered against the suspects under sections 302 (murder), 365 (kidnapping), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) and sections of Arms Act of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 5 police station. Police produced Sukhbir before the court on Saturday and was taken on five-day police remand to recover the weapon and car used in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-kills-cab-driver-police-exhume-body-five-months-later/story-08VRArvYdpZiOPmrbaSMCO.html
05-09-2020||Gurugram||MCG councillors complain against choice of members of panel to look into waterlogging issues||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Friday constituted a 10-member committee to compile a detailed drainage plan for the city. However, at least two councillors raised objections to the choice of panel members, saying that it does not include any local official or councillor from those parts of the city that were mostly affected during last month’s rains. These places include Iffcco Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Golf Course Road, Cyber City, sectors 27 and 28. The formation of the committee comes in the wake of heavy waterlogging on August 18 and 19, after which the MCG and GMDA identified at least 18 points across the city that were as described as being “extremely vulnerable” to flooding. In the MCG’s House meeting, held on August 28, the matter of poor drainage system along the Golf Course Road and sectors 27 and 28 was raised by RS Rathee, local councillor of ward 34. Following this, the MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh had announced the formation of a committee to look into the issue. The five councillors and five officials appointed to the committee by Mayor Madhu Azad primarily oversee operations of old Gurugram. Locally, areas located on the left of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway from the side of Delhi, are considered as part of old Gurugram. On the other hand, IFFCO Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Golf Course Road, Cyber City, sectors 27, and 28 are all located on the right side of the expressway.The committee comprises councillors from wards 4, 15, 24, 29, and 31 while two additional commissioners, a joint commissioner looking after both zones 1 and 2, MCG’s chief engineer and the senior town planner make up the rest of the committee. Barring ward 29 and 31, all the remaining wards are located in old Gurugram. Ward 29 primarily covers Jharsa village while ward 31 covers Wazirabad village. But none of these areas are located in close proximity to any of the 18 waterlogging-prone points, said the complaining councillors.Rathee lodged a formal complaint with the MCG regarding the absence of local councillors and officials in the committee and has also written to the mayor about the matter. “You have formed a committee to look into the massive waterlogging in Gurugram, particularly on Golf Course Road around Sectors 27 and 28, during the recent rains, leading to submergence of the underpasses and creating a dangerous situation, in addition to huge inconvenience, to the commuters. I raised this issue in the House meeting and the commissioner assured that a committee would be constituted to address the issue (sic),” read Rathee’s letter.Rathee’s letter further stated, “It is most unfortunate that I have not been included in this committee. This is highly objectionable as most of the areas which were affected in the recent rains are part of my ward 34. Most of the councillors included in the committee are from the old city who do not have knowledge about this area.” Following the rains on August 18 and 19, seven out of city’s 11 underpasses were inundated, with the worst-affected being the underpass at DLF Phase-1/DLF Phase-4 junction, which had to be closed for nearly 40 hours. Residential areas next to Aravallis, around GCR and Cyber City were also severely affected as rainwater flooded many low-floor houses and basement parking.Incidentally, both the joint commissioners of Zone 3 — of which Aravallis, GCR and Cyber City are a part — and executive engineers of the area, who have in-depth knowledge of localised drainage issues, have not been included in the committee. This matter was raised by ward 30 councillor Mahesh Dayma. “It is illogical that local officials and councillors having in-depth knowledge of the Aravallis have not been included in the committee. It is due to the run-off rainwater from the Aravallis that the city experiences floods ever year. Hence, without any official or councillor, who knows the location of creeks and dams in the Aravallis, the committee cannot give a proper and accurate assessment of any drainage plan. The waterlogging woes of the city will continue to persist,” said Dayma. Reacting to the allegations, Azad said that councillors and officials who are not part of the committee can still give inputs to the former that can be reviewed accordingly.“We have included councillors from all four zones in the committee. However, any official or councillor can give recommendations and suggestions to the committee which would be taken into consideration,” said Azad. “The committee will have a meeting on Monday where all suggestions, recommendations, and plan of action would be decided, following which I will be in a better position to comment on the matter,” said Kuldeep Bohra, councillor of ward 31, who happens to be a part of the committee. The 10-member committee has been assigned the task of carrying out field visits to check the issues of drainage which caused flooding in August and consult local residents and RWAs to incorporate their suggestions while preparing the report. The committee can also use voluntary services of experts and engineers having experience in dealing with the drainage issues in urban areas and will have to coordinate with officials of GMDA, NHAI and DLF before finalising the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-councillors-complain-against-choice-of-members-of-panel-to-look-into-waterlogging-issues/story-2TiQbN4y8pPn8FUOWuSHgK.html
05-09-2020||Gurugram||One held for shooting liquor shop owner||The police on Friday arrested one suspect allegedly involved in the shooting a 42-year-old liquor contractor on Wednesday night while he was returning home, along with his friend, in village Jatauli in Haily Mandi. The police said the shop owner was shot at least 16 times and died on the spot, while his business partner suffered three bullet wounds and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. According to the police, the incident took place around 10pm when the victims, Inderjeet, Vikram and Vishal, who have a liquor business in Haily Mandi, were returning to their residences in a car. As their car entered a lane, a herd of cattle blocked their path. Five armed men on three motorbikes surrounded the car from two sides and started firing indiscriminately at the victims. At least 20 gunshots were fires out of which 16 were shot at Inderjeet. Vikram, on the other hand, sustained three bullet injuries, while Vishal was also reportedly unhurt. The suspect was identified as Sadhu of village Khandevla in Pataudi and was taken on a one-day police remand after being produced before the district court on Saturday, said the police. A senior official privy to the investigation said that Sadhu was regularly in touch with one of the inmates in Bhondsi Jail who was threatening Inderjeet, the liquor shop owner.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the Pataudi police team arrested Sadhu after receiving a tip-off on Friday. After the incident, he was allegedly hiding inside his friend’s house but was regularly in touch with other suspects who had planned to kill the victim. “The deceased had allegedly received several extortion calls, but we are yet to verify the facts. Sadhu has not revealed anything against his associates which can lead to their arrests,” he said. Sangwan said five teams including the crime branch are conducting raids at different locations to nab the suspects. An FIR has been registered and several suspects have been identified. At least 12 people, all locals from Jatauli village, have been named in the FIR. The police said a probe had revealed that earlier in July 2019, some of the accused men had fired gunshots at Inderjeet in a shooting incident in Jatauli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/one-held-for-shooting-liquor-shop-owner/story-A0O1MEMFJQfY8pN1bcncMI.html
05-09-2020||Gurugram||Written consent of at least 60% of parents needed for academic guidance visits||The Haryana education department on Friday said that districts could take a call on allowing students in classes 9 to 12 to visit schools to address their questions only if 60% parents of that particular school gave their written consent.As per the Unlock 4 guidelines, issued by the Union government on August 29, students of these classes outside containment zones could physically attend school for guidance from September 21.In a letter to district education officers, the state education department asked them to convene a meeting of various school management committees and take parents’ consent before September 21.District education officer Indu Boken said, “We are in the process of collecting feedback from parents. Besides parents, School Management Committees (SMCs) that involve parents, teachers, and other members from the society will also be roped in before a final decision about permitting visits is taken.” If the over 60% parents of a school were willing to send their wards, then that SMC will initiate the process of opening schools as per Covid-19 protocol, she said. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that the school had taken oral feedback from parents as part of the online parents-teachers meeting (PTM) on Saturday and prepared a report on it. “We also had asked parents to share their preferences about the reopening of schools. We have recorded the feedback and will be sharing it ahead. Once we receive further instructions, we can start seeking written consent from parents,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/written-consent-of-at-least-60-of-parents-needed-for-academic-guidance-visits/story-YAc8S9Tm6DERyjVYWBcK7K.html
05-09-2020||Gurugram||Quizzes, dance, music: Pandemic doesn’t stop students’ appreciation for their teachers||Teachers and students across schools in Gurugram celebrated Teacher’s Day with virtual festivities on Saturday amid the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions. From students’ dances to quizzes, online platforms were used to stream activities for teachers as a mark of gratitude for their efforts, especially during the lockdown. At KR Mangalam World School, South City 1, students organised an interactive session for teachers. “We reached out to a radio jockey who interacted with our teachers for a special session and made the day special for them,” said Yash Handa, head of the school’s student council. Handa said that students across classes also pitched in with pre-recorded poems, songs, and performances dedicated to teachers. “Students volunteered and made efforts to thank teachers through various gestures. We even reached out to school alumni who sent out videos thanking the teachers for their efforts,” said Handa. At Amity International School, sector 46, students organised quizzes and musical performances. “All students got the chance to convey their gratitude to teachers through various activities. While the celebrations were low key in comparison to previous years due to the pandemic, we did the best we could,” said Shreya Singhal, a class 11 student. Last year, celebrations across schools involved functions where students presented skits and ensemble performances. Besides these, several schools have a role-play tradition as part of which senior students donned the hat of teachers for junior students for the day. Aditi Misra, principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 45, said that on Saturday, both students and parents had prepared videos that were shared with teachers. “All students made efforts in their own way to wish teachers. Despite restrictions, students left no stone unturned in making their teachers feel special,” said Misra. Students of government schools also took to WhatsApp to wish their teachers. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that while students had created poems and cards to wish students, the school had also distributed certificates to teachers as a mark of their efforts. “We have been receiving wishes from students since morning. At my own level, I gave out certificates to teachers since they have worked very hard during the past year and the months following the lockdown,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/quizzes-dance-music-pandemic-doesn-t-stop-students-appreciation-for-their-teachers/story-Ov4hGgRS8wyUfyqimGHUXL.html
05-09-2020||City||Gurugram records 57% rise in active cases in a week||Gurugram: The district has recorded a 57% increase in the number of active Covid-19 cases over the past week, according to an analysis of data from the district health department.On Saturday, Gurugram had 1,520 active patients, up from 965 a week ago. Besides, it also registered the daily average of 191 new positive cases during the week from August 30 to September 5, up from 117 new cases each day the week prior. As per the health department data, Gurugram’s test positivity rate (TPR) over the past week also showed a sharp uptick, from 7% on August 30 to 11.7% on September 5 (Saturday), when the district recorded its highest single-day jump in at least six weeks with 265 new positive cases. Notably, just 115 patients were discharged on Saturday. The district’s total tally of Covid-19 cases now stands at 13,015, up from 11,804 a week ago. There were 1,211 new cases in the last seven days, the highest weekly aggregate in at least nine weeks. The daily growth rate in new positives, as of September 5, was 2%. This is the highest since early August, when the growth rate had dropped to under 1%. Then it was hailed as a positive development by officials and experts. Now, experts said that an increasing TPR indicates that spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus (which causes Covid-19) has accelerated among Gurugram’s population at large. This is also reflected in the sharp contraction of the district’s doubling rate, which stands at 40 days as of September 5 (down from 81 days on August 26). “What is worrying is that not all tests are targeted anymore. Many tests are being administered at camps to individuals who have not been found through the contact tracing effort. Despite less targeted testing, the positivity rate is consistently going up, certainly points to increased transmission, which is natural since people are moving about after experiencing lockdown fatigue,” said Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine at PGIMER Chandigarh. “The recent sero survey results also show that most of Gurugram’s population is still vulnerable, which makes the possibility of a second surge more alarming. I think we are beginning to see it now,” Kumar added.Health department officials echoed similar views. “People have become lax with social distancing and basic hand hygiene. While it’s important to resume normal activities, it shouldn’t lead to carelessness. I would advise people to stay at home as much as possible and avoid unnecessary social engagements,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. Yadav further said that the department is taking necessary measures to shore up testing and restore the test positivity rate to 5%, as recommended by the World Health Organisation. Even so, the officials pointed out that newer cases are milder in nature. “Deaths are still low. Most people are in home isolation. Why the cases are milder is still a matter of speculation. It could be a different section of the population is getting affected, or a possible mutation of the virus. We don’t know yet,” said Dr Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, Gurugram. On Saturday, the district recorded two new deaths due to Covid-19, taking the total toll to 137. The mortality rate remains at just above 1%. Of the 1,520 active cases, 1,332 are in home isolation, while 162 are hospitalised. Another 26 are under observation at various covid care centres in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-records-57-rise-in-active-cases-in-a-week/story-CTvOWZNFjU1yF607xSZ5KK.html
05-09-2020||Gurugram||Police in plain clothes to be deployed near Bhondsi Jail to curb smuggling of contraband items||With several cases of smuggling of contraband items inside Bhondsi Jail having come to light in recent times, the jail authorities have decided to deploy personnel in plain clothes at the outskirts of the jail to keep a watch on motorists who throw such items across the boundary wall. Police officials familiar with the matter said that the exercise will begin next Monday. As per the police, three mobiles were recovered from a packet between barracks one and two around 6.55am on Friday during a routine inspection, following which a case under Section 42A of the Prisoners Act was registered at the Bhondsi police station. According to the complaint, during an inspection of all the barracks conducted by a quick response team, another packet was found on the ground behind barrack number 7. Preliminary probe suggested that the packet, containing the phones and chargers, had been flung across the boundary wall of the jail compound between 2am and 3am on Friday, the police said. “The packets contained three smartphones and three batteries and three chargers. We are questioning the inmates to ascertain if they had any knowledge of the incident,” KK Rao, commissioner of police, said, adding that cases of mobile phone smuggling has increased recently. More than 15 instances of mobile phones and drugs being flung across the boundary wall of the jail complex have been reported this year. The police said mobile phones are used by some inmates to make extortion calls and contact their henchmen and aides to run their operations on their behalf. Rao said from next week, police officials in plain clothes inside private vehicles will monitor the area and will note down the details of people found loitering around the jail premises. Anyone found to be suspicious will be put under scanner.“We are also conducting investigation based on technical surveillance and calls are being monitored to know who is using the mobile phones from inside the jail and what is being conveyed to the receiver,” said Rao. The smuggling of contraband items inside the jail premises have come under the scanner after the police arrested deputy jail superintendent Dharambeer Chautala receiving drugs and mobile phones on July 23. Later his son, Ravi Chautala, was also arrested for threatening to “blast Bhondsi jail” in a purported audio clip, which went viral across social media. During interrogation, Chautala revealed that he used to supply mobile phones and narcotics to some of the inmates inside the jail. The police had recovered at least 20 4G SIM cards and 230 grams of hashish (cannabis) from their possession. A probe had found that one 4G SIM card was sold for over ₹20,000 to the inmates, who were using phones to run their networks outside the prison. A special investigation team (SIT) was also formed to probe the matter, following which two more aides of Chautala were arrested. According to the police, cases of throwing packets inside jails were earlier reported mostly from other districts such as Jind, Sonipat and Ambala. However, this practice has been noticed inside Bhondsi Jail in recent times as well. With visitation from friends and family members put on hold due to the nationwide lockdown, such incidents have increased in recent times, said the police. Another senior police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that in recent crimes, threat calls being made to sweet shop owners in Gurugram and Delhi were traced back to Bhondsi Jail. Several other incidents have also deepened the suspicion of the police regarding the involvement of Bhondsi inmates in crimes taking place across the district. On June 26, a brick kiln owner was shot dead in Sohna by three men. This crime too was traced back to a call from a jail inmate in Bhondsi. Similarly, in Pataudi, a gangster had made an extortion call from jail. In another incident on February 1, a group of at least seven suspected criminals allegedly opened fire at a prison van and fled with two undertrial prisoners. The incident took place on Gurugram-Faridabad Road The city police chased the group and managed to arrest three persons, including one of the undertrial prisoners, after an encounter in Sikrona village in Faridabad. During questioning it was revealed that the operation to free inmates was planned from Bhondsi jail through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-in-plain-clothes-to-be-deployed-near-bhondsi-jail-to-curb-smuggling-of-contraband-items/story-si6fTdu7L20ksqttJ0nOSN.html
05-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Health centres along Yellow Line metro stations to provide assistance to passengers with symptoms||Gurugram: The district health department has earmarked three urban public health centres (PHC) to provide health assistance and testing services to metro passengers who are found to have flu-like symptoms and are denied entry into the metro premises. The department will put up boards on entry and exit gates of the five DMRC metro stations in the city giving details of the nearest urban health care centre where passengers can get themselves checked if they have symptoms, said health officials on Saturday.Metro service on the five stations of the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro will resume from September 7 in a graded manner.According to the standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), all passengers entering the metro stations will have to undergo mandatory thermal scanning and if they have flu-like symptoms or temperature higher than normal, they would not be allowed to travel.Virender Yadav, civil surgeon, Gurugram, said that the urban PHC at Nathupur would cater to passengers from the Dronacharya and Sikanderpur metro stations while passengers from MG Road and Iffco Chowk metro stations can approach the Sukhrali and Chanderlok health centres for medical assistance and testing, if required. The passengers at HUDA city centre metro station can also approach the Chanderlok primary health centre for assistance. “The passengers who show flu-like symptoms and high temperature will not be allowed to enter the metro stations and they will be directed to go to these health centres. On Sunday we will put up sign boards at entry and exit of these five stations mentioning addresses and contact numbers of PHCs,” said Yadav, adding that details of other PHCs will also be shared so that people can visit them later. The health department said the timings of these PHCs are from 10 am to 6 pm while the civil hospital will remain open 24X7.For smooth resumption of metro services, the district administration has also said that it will appoint supervisors for the five stations, who shall coordinate with local DMRC officials. The city police will conduct a rehearsal on Sunday with DMRC and CISF to put in place measures for smooth movement of commuters on Sunday.A DMRC spokesperson said that all passengers will be required to undergo thermal screening and hand sanitisation at the entry/frisking point itself. Forty-five major stations have been provided with auto thermal screening-cum-hand sanitisation machines whereas the rest of the Metro stations will be provisioned with ‘auto sanitizer dispensers for hand sanitisation and thermal screening will be done manually by thermal guns. This will be facilitated by DMRC/security personnel near the frisking/entry point, he added.“Passengers having a high temperature or signs of Covid-19 will not be allowed to travel. They will be directed to report to the nearest medical centre,” he said, adding that DMRC personnel deployed at entry gates will assist such passengers.Similar measures will also be taken at stations of the Rapid Metro , the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-health-centres-along-yellow-line-metro-stations-to-provide-assistance-to-passengers-with-symptoms/story-EkhHCay94hB9zTrGjDlCML.html
05-09-2020||City||Two held for assaulting cops at Saket court complex||New Delhi: A group of men allegedly assaulted two police officers in Saket court complex on Friday night, and fled with one of their cellphones. Two of them were arrested on Saturday, and two others are at largeThe suspects escaped in their car after the incident and a case has been registered, with efforts on to arrest the others, the police said. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that on Friday at around 9.20pm, the police control room received a call regarding a quarrel at the complexes gate number 2. Constable Hitesh was on duty at the gate when around a car tried to enter the court premises around 8.30pm, and was stopped by private security guards deployed there. “When the car driver argued with the guards, they called the constable. The occupants of the car told the constable that they had to visit an advocate in the lawyers’ chamber. The car was then allowed to proceed after verification and the guards were told to record the details in a register,” Thakur said. When the car returned, it had another person inside. The occupants then pointed at constable Hitesh and told the other occupant that they were stopped by him. At this, the person, who police said appeared to be inebriated, came out and hit the constable, who tried to pacify him. When the person did not stop, the constable called assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Kailash to the spot, Thakur said. “The ASI also tried to placate the situation, but they attacked him as well, and he fell on the ground. The suspect then picked up his cellphone and left in the car along with other occupants,” Thakur said. According to the officer, both policemen were medically examined, and a case under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 379 (theft) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Saket police station. “Footage from CCTV cameras installed near the spot is being retrieved. A probe is on,” Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-assaulting-cops-at-saket-court-complex/story-YalkfZLtA5if2HW4LDe57L.html
05-09-2020||City||Ludhiana educationist’s book detailing challenges brought about by Covid-19 released||A book, “Corona Story”, describing the experiences of various challenges during the pandemic, authored by Ranjodh Singh, president of the Ramgarhia Educational Council, was released on Saturday.The book was released by Sardara Singh Johl, chancellor, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, at an event organised by the department of Punjabi of Ramgarhia College for Girls.Besides, Surjit Patar, Gurbhajan Singh Gill, Bhai Gurmeet Singh Shant, Jagbir Singh Sokhi and Janmeja Singh Johl were among the speakers at the event . Moulana Usman Ludhianvi and Naib Shahi Imam also attended the book release. Principal Inderjit Kaur welcomed the guests. Talking about his book, Sardara Singh Johl said it portrayed the difficult phase that citizens were passing through due to Covid-19 and how their lives had been influenced by it. Patar praised the topic, title and the ideas collected in the book, which he said will be enjoyed by readers in the future as well. Janmeja Singh Johl said the book mirrored the plight of social, economical, cultural and academic upheavals due to Covid 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-educationist-s-book-detailing-challenges-brought-about-by-covid-19-released/story-1oJYLL2vDeA0cAvyFvnoIO.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: The monkey trap||Monkeys tamed and kept in cruel captivity can turn ‘rogues’ on escape or abandonment. A notorious male was nabbed on Wednesday from Panchkula’s Sector 26 after the ‘Goonda Bandar’ had bitten dozens of kids and women. The street goonda specialised in ambushing from the rear and had even delivered nasty nips to women joggers. As the terror mounted, complaints reached the CM window and the administration swung into a frenzied response. But capturing this bandar was no easy task as it preferred not to join monkey troupes because it was habituated to human presence. It preferred a loner’s tempestuous life, giving violent vent to inner fears and anxieties rooted in the miseries of captivity. To compound the residents’ miseries, the rogue managed to stage great escapes on every attempt by the authorities to capture it, including an instance when it was caught but managed to slip away by biting through the rope tethering it!Having escaped, the rogue turned all the more suspicious and cunning. The Haryana forest department again tried its luck by putting cages, traps and nets primed with bananas. But the wily rogue steered well clear. The rapid task force (RTF) of the municipal corporation was pressed into action, given the fact that its members had captured an estimated 700 monkeys in 2.5 years. Significantly, RTF monkey catchers astutely understand the peculiarities of primate psyche as manifest in the context of urban human-animal conflict. “Monkeys that have been released from captivity cannot adjust to their freedom. They turn suspicious of humans and harbour acute and bad memories of captivity where they were badly treated and beaten. On being freed, they bite humans out of fear and spite,’’ RTF member Alfaaz told this writer while drawing on his experience of 12 years.“We did not threaten this monkey by brandishing sticks and cages. We offered bananas and made comforting sounds that monkeys typically respond to. We won the monkey’s confidence and it started to follow us and obey our commands. We had to get the monkey close to us and grab it as it would not fall for a cage/trap/net. However, one of our team members, Ravinder, who drives our rescue vehicle, was not liked by the bandar. The bandar was cheesed off by Ravinder’s presence and tried to bite him repeatedly,” said Mohammad Ali, a RTF member.The bandar took refuge in a grilled enclave of potted plants outside a house. “So, we got Ravinder to go next to the grill. Enraged, the monkey stretched out an arm and tried to grab Ravinder. Alfaaz moved like lightning and caught the monkey’s arm extended from behind the grill. I rushed from the other side and caught the monkey’s right arm,’’ said Ali.Alfaaz knew a monkey’s arms rotate and can be pinned back like those of a human. All that was needed to complete the classic picture of a rogue accosted after a gruelling chase was for ‘Sheriff Alfaaz’ to have clamped handcuffs on the wrists! The monkey was speedily transferred to a cage and given more bananas, which it relished with an air of nonchalance. The rogue was later rehabilitated in the jungle by the forest department. Tailpiece: A capture of a femme fatale a few years back also from Sector 26 bears recollection because it is supposed to have indulged in a despicable colourism, a trait more worthy of allegedly superior human races! Having been kept in captivity, the female escaped. ‘’She took to biting women and that, too, only dusky women, while striking friendships with and accepting food from fair-skinned women. She was afraid of men and would not bite them. The affected people told us that this female monkey had been kept by a fair-skinned woman shopkeeper from Himachal Pradesh and was more trusting of people with lighter skin colour while reacting aggressively to darker counterparts,’’ recalled Alfaaz.Having gauged the bewitching bandari’s psyche accurately, Alfaaz got Sameer, a dark-skinned colleague, to dress up in a lady’s suit and rouse the monkey. Sure enough, the bandari attacked Sameer. The ‘lady’ shed her garb, pounced and promptly caught the rogue by the scruff of its neck. The scores had been settled! vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-the-monkey-trap/story-abZCpFIaj61FxxId9n02uL.html
05-09-2020||City||Month on, Amritsar GMCH fails to give plasma therapy to Covid patients||No critically-ill Covid-19 patient was given plasma therapy at Amritsar’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, in the past one month. Plasma therapy is considered as one of the most successful treatments for Covid-19 patients. Under the convalescent plasma therapy, antibody-rich blood plasma of patients, who have recovered from Covid-19, is preserved for transfusion into critical patients. In June, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had allowed Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) in Amritsar, Faridkot and Patiala to treat Covid patients with plasma therapy.Till August 5, four critically-ill patients of GMCH, Amritsar, and two of GMCH, Faridkot, were treated through plasma therapy and all six had recovered from the virus successfully. However, in the last one month (from August 5 to September 5), seven more Covid-19 patients at GMCH, Faridkot, were treated through plasma therapy while GMCH, Patiala, also successfully infused plasma of recovered patients into 10 critical and sick patients and helped them to recover from the virus, but no patient was given this treatment in GMCH, Amritsar.As per the GMCH staff, the hospital is struggling in getting plasma from the donors as most of the Covid survivors are reluctant to come back to the hospitals for donation. Till August 5, the GMCH, Amritsar, could persuade only four donors to give plasma for the treatment of others.Also, GMCH, Amritsar, is a part of the Punjab’s plasma pool system through which the hospital can exchange plasma with medical colleges of Patiala and Faridkot.“In last one month, over 55 Covid-19 patients from Amritsar died at the hospital. Besides the holy city, many more patients of neighbouring districts had also succumbed to the virus at GMCH, Amritsar. Though the hospital is admitting moderate and critically-ill Covid-19 patients daily, it is not giving plasma therapy to the patients. This is because the hospital is short of plasma donors and the plasma bank is almost running dry. At present, 22 patients of Amritsar are in GNDH’s intensive care unit and 18 are on oxygen support. Also, 35 more people from Amritsar, who are at moderate level, are admitted there and are eligible for getting the plasma treatment”, said a senior doctor of the hospital, on the condition of anonymity.Dr Avtar Dhanju, head of Covid-19 isolation ward of GMCH Amritsar, said, “We have some units of plasma available with us but most of the patients are being admitted to the hospital in extremely sick condition. No patient was eligible as per ICMR’s guidelines for getting plasma from recovered patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/month-on-amritsar-gmch-fails-to-give-plasma-therapy-to-covid-patients/story-Mu6yAPhSKijEXU1N8VeYDK.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||20-year-old man dies by suicide in Chandigarh||A 20-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself at his residence in Sector 20, Chandigarh on Saturday. A suicide note was recovered from the spot which stated that only he is responsible for taking this extreme step. The incident came to light at around 6 pm when the victim’s father went to the roof and saw him hanging from a rod of the tin shed. The deceased was staying with his parents, brother and sister. The deceased had told his sister that he is going out with his friends but instead went to the roof and hanged himself. The police were informed about the incident. The victim was taken to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. Police have initiated inquest proceedings in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-year-old-man-dies-by-suicide-in-chandigarh/story-oi2AfekFHZHRXO9D3wmLPK.html
05-09-2020||City||Kapurthala records 400% jump in infections in a month||Kapurthala district has recorded around 400% jump in the positive cases in the past one month. The district had 388 positive cases and 12 deaths till August 5, which have now shot up to 1,541 infections and 67 fatalities. The health department was collecting 200 samples per day till last month, which has doubled now, according to official records. “Still, the health officials are unaware of the source of infections of some positive cases and new teams have been added to conduct a field survey. Though the state government has appealed to people to willingly undergo the test, the response is tepid,” a senior health officer said. Kapurthala is the 7th worst district with 67 casualties from the virus and on average the district is reporting two deaths daily for the past 15 days. Still, the district does not have any level-3 bed to treat critical patients. Serious patients have to be referred to Amritsar medical college for treatment. District nodal officer Dr Sandeep Dhawan said that the people are not cooperating with health officials in most cases even teams have identified people with comorbidities but most do not want to undergo a test. “People come to hospitals in serious conditions. This is a huge challenge for us,” he said.Officials said a door-to-door survey was being carried out by ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) and ANM (Auxiliary Nursing Midwives) workers and around 40,000 people mainly elders, pregnant women with comorbidities have been identified, the groups most susceptible to Covid-19, so that treatment could be given at an early stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kapurthala-records-400-jump-in-infections-in-a-month/story-eLW1HqRsQLHz5zAV7u9QDN.html
05-09-2020||City||Guest house raided in Morni, four booked for immoral trafficking||A guest house was raided in Morni on Saturday and four people were booked for allegedly operating an “escort service”.A case under Sections of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 was registered against the accused at Chandimandir police station. The accused have been identified as Mahender Singh, owner of the guest house, Isham Singh, manager, Harjeet Singh and his nephew Mani for allegedly supplying women. The FIR stated that Panchkula DCP was informed by his sources that the owner of the guest house in Bajroli village on Morni road was operating an escort service. After receiving information, the police sent a decoy customer to the guest house, who booked two rooms for ₹7,000.When the decoy customer reached the guest house, he was informed by Isham that two women have already reached there. He immediately called the police, who conducted a raid at the guest house. The police also recovered ₹7,000 from Isham.The manager was rounded up who told the police that the two women aged 23 and 34 were from Batala and Ludhiana. He said that Harjeet and Mani, both from Zirakpur, would ‘supply girls’ to their customers. “The women said that they earn ₹500-1,200 per client, and half the amount is kept by Harjeet and Mani,” the FIR stated. Following this, a case was registered and four persons were booked for immoral trafficking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/guest-house-raided-in-morni-four-booked-for-immoral-trafficking/story-gmQh2GH4v18QlUWu2UHvUK.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Cop beaten: HC denies bail to trio, says act can’t be taken lightly||Merciless beatings given to a police official on duty cannot be taken lightly, lest that should send a wrong signal in the society that one can indulge in such type of acts and get away with it, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said.“If the concession of pre-arrest bail is granted to the persons accused of assaulting public servants on duty, that may further embolden the people to take law in their own hands and indulge in such acts, resultantly demoralising such public servants especially when they are from law enforcement agency,” the bench of justice HS Madaan observed while dismissing bail plea of three persons from Fazilka.The trio was booked for beating a cop on duty on July 26. After their bail pleas were dismissed by a local court they had approached the high court. They had claimed that the cop had come with a woman to their residence and caused injuries to them and one woman in the family. They had also claimed that one of the women named in the FIR was admitted in a hospital at the time of the incident.As per the FIR, the cop along with a co-worker was on PCR duty. They heard a commotion and rushed to the spot. When the complainant cop tried to intervene in the fight, he was dragged by the accused persons inside their house and beaten up mercilessly.The bench observed that at this stage, it is not to look minutely into the merits of the case and same would be dealt with by the trial court. “I do not find any reason to disbelieve the prosecution story and rely upon the version set up by the petitioners at this stage, merely because one of the co-accused was admitted in the hospital,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cop-beaten-hc-denies-bail-to-trio-says-act-can-t-be-taken-lightly/story-Ope10ZmBuCidArw7sTzivK.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: More power to city police||The Police Reforms Commission with Kanwar Bahadur Singh (retired IPS), formerly IGP-cum-ADC to the Punjab governor as its single member, has been set up recently to overhaul Chandigarh police. It’s a move that should be viewed positively as the Police Complaints Authority established in 2010 to probe allegations of “serious misconduct” against the police remains a toothless body with only recommendatory powers. In fact, PCA has complained in the past about no action being taken on its recommendations. The reforms commission is expected to suggest measures to improve police infrastructure, upgrade police functioning, that is, investigation, prosecution, forensic, intelligence, training etc in Chandigarh. “It will identify shortage of manpower, if any, and recommend necessary manpower required in terms of police-public ratio,” read an order issued by UT home secretary Arun Gupta. Streamlining the force will definitely be a challenge, given the increasing number of crimes in the city, especially snatchings and break-ins and corruption cases against police officials. In fact, in 2018, PCA had complained that following PCA inquires and recommendations against police officials, either closure reports had been filed or no follow-up action had been taken. PCA had also questioned how cases could be probed by the police against its own officials and sought independent investigators. The new commission will recommend changes in the recruitment system, training and skill enhancement techniques. It will also help the police department develop a mechanism to deal with public grievances. Upgrading the police telecommunication network, improvement of intelligence gathering techniques, provision of police housing facilities and other welfare measures will also be managed by the commission, the order stated. The commission will submit its report within a period of three months from the date of notification of its constitution. The director general of police will provide the necessary secretariat assistance office etc to the commission, it added. Action station What should be expected from the Police Reforms Commission? A single-member Police Reforms Commission has been set up in Chandigarh. What should be done to improve the functioning of the local police force? Send your answers with your photograph to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by September 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-more-power-to-chandigarh-police/story-wOlK5QauEKNVfRcqhuDPzJ.html
05-09-2020||City||In pandemic grip for five months, Amritsar’s war memorial bleeds||Akin to other tourist establishments in the state, the coronavirus pandemic has also taken a toll on Punjab State War Heroes’ Memorial and Museum, which has been lying shut since March.According to a rough estimate, the state-of-the-art memorial has been suffering a loss of around ₹20 lakh per month ever since the lockdown was imposed here.The memorial staff is being paid ₹4 lakh salary per month, besides monthly electricity bills of ₹3-7 lakh. Ever since its temporary closure, the memorial has made no money through tickets, which used to be around ₹10 lakh per month. Moreover, nearly ₹1 lakh is spent on its monthly maintenance.“Though the memorial is closed for the last five months, we have not laid off any of our staff members. We are managing everything with the reserved funds,” said Col (retd) HP Singh, project director of the memorial, which is spread over seven acres of land opposite India Gate on GT Road here. He said it was still unclear that when the memorial would be opened as till now they have not received any instruction from the government.The memorial, which was inaugurated in October 2016, had already been struggling to attract visitors, despite being in Amritsar, a city that used to see a footfall of 50,000 tourists on weekdays and around one lakh on the weekends before the pandemic. Against the projected average daily footfall of around 5,000, the memorial used to draw only 200 visitors on weekdays and 500-600 on the weekends till its closure during the lockdown.The ₹150-crore project covers the heroism and sacrifices in Punjab from the days of Alexander to Kargil War. It also covers the origins of Miri Piri, which evolved at the time of the sixth Sikh master Guru Hargobind Singh.There are nine galleries in the memorial. Construction work on its fourth gallery, which will depict the battle of Saragarhi, Jallianwala Bagh massacre, and battles in World War I and II, is suspended due to the unavailability of funds. “We are waiting for around ₹1 crore funds from the government to complete the fourth gallery,” the colonel said.Other galleries are dedicated to information about the ancient times, including the era of Guru Hargobind Singh till the rise of the Sikh empire, the Sikh empire and the Anglo-Sikh Wars, Jammu and Kashmir operations (1947-48), Indo-China War (1962), Indo-Pak War (1965-1971) etc.For a year now, the memorial authorities have been waiting for the sanction of ₹60 lakh to inscribe names of 4,000 martyred soldiers, including 54 of Punjab, who have been missing since the first Indo-Pak War (1947-48), on the boundary walls of fountains inside the memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-pandemic-grip-for-five-months-amritsar-s-war-memorial-bleeds/story-e3Fp1HlcV8ylEeJxOeeUnN.html
05-09-2020||City||263 test positive, 12 succumb to Covid in Ludhiana||In no let-up, Covid-19 claimed 12 more lives on Saturday, even as 263 Ludhiana residents also tested positive for the virus.With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district has climbed to 11,477, while the death toll has risen to 486.The 12 deceased include a 75-year-old man from Kot Gangu Rai village, a 72-year-old woman from Patel Nagar, a 71-year-old man from Udham Singh Nagar, a 70-year-old man from Satjot Nagar at Dhandra Road, a 67-year-old woman from Madhopuri, two 60-year-old men from Brahmpuri in Khanna and Meena Bazaar, a 55-year-old man from Malwi Mohalla in Raikot, a 49-year-old man from Moti Bagh Colony, Phullanwal, a 35-year-old man from Noorwala Road, a 31-year-old man from Tharike village, and a 21-month-old child from Sundar Nagar. Five more people from other states and districts died in Ludhiana. These included two patients from Jalandhar and one each from Jammu and Kashmir, Patankot and Bathinda.Among the Ludhiana residents found infected on Saturday are 61 patients with influenza like illness symptoms, 37 are contacts of positive patients, 11 are healthcare workers, 11 undertrials and three police personnel.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Out of the total 11,477 patients, 9,240 (80.5%) have recovered from the disease, leaving 1,748 active cases. The department has collected over 1.56 lakh samples till now.”He appealed to the residents to adhere to the directions issued by the state government and district administration to control the spread of disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/263-test-positive-12-succumb-to-covid-in-ludhiana/story-GZYH51Xc1A4DO7y4crxzjM.html
05-09-2020||Noida||Gaurav Chandel murder case: Prime suspect Ashu arrested from Mumbai||The prime suspect in the murder of Greater Noida resident Gaurav Chandel in January this year, during a car-jacking incident, was arrested by a joint effort of the Mumbai crime branch and a team from the Hapur police department in Mumbai on Saturday.Chandel was allegedly murdered on the intervening night of January 6 and 7 while he was on his way home to Gaur City in Greater Noida West. He was returning from Gurugram where he worked as a regional manager with a private health care firm. He had spoken to his wife, Preeti Chandel, at 10.22pm when he had informed her that he was near the Parthla roundabout.Chandel was missing for more than five hours and his body was found around 4.15am on the service lane between Parthla roundabout and the Hindon Bridge, where his location was traced via his mobile phone’s GPS tracker, under the Phase 3 and Bisrakh police jurisdiction. A case was then registered at Phase 3 under sections 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code.The victim had received head injuries and the autopsy later revealed that he had been shot twice on the back of his head. Police suspected it to be a robbery gone wrong.His SUV, a Kia Seltos which he had purchased in December 2019, had been found abandoned in Ghaziabad’s Akash Nagar on the night of January 14. The Hapur police had later arrested the prime suspect’s wife Poonam (single name) and Ashu’s friend and accomplice Umesh in connection with the case.Akash Rajendra Singh (32), aka, Ashu, the prime suspect in the case, carried a reward of Rs 2.5 lakh on him. He is a history-sheeter who is a part of the Mirchi gang and has several murder, robbery and kidnapping cases registered against him in Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana. So far, 19 cases against him have been identified, the police said.“Ashu Jaat was arrested in Mumbai on Saturday. He is wanted in a number of criminal cases in UP and carried a reward of Rs 2.5 lakh on his arrest. Our special teams from Hapur police were also looking for him since long and were also present in Mumbai. The team is bringing the suspect to UP on transit remand,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general, Meerut range.According to a statement from the Mumbai police, Ashu was arrested on Saturday morning from the Jogeshwari West Prem Nagar area of the city where he was incognito, under the garb of selling vegetables using different aliases for the better part of the past one year.Ashu had also been charged with the murder of BJP leader Rakesh Sharma in Hapur in September 2019. He was notorious for using stolen vehicles for various crimes. A team from the Hapur police had also visited Mumbai following tip-offs about his movement.Mumbai police had inputs about him and was tracking his movements for a while, the police statement said. Police added that he had been hiding using different disguises across Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Maharashtra.“Ashu was one of the top wanted criminals in the district. Besides the Chandel case, he had several cases of murder, extortion, robbery, etc., registered against him in the district,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, who was the then superintendent of police (rural) at the time of the incident.He said that multiple teams had been formed at the time to track the suspects behind Chandel’s murder. Raids had been conducted in multiple districts in several states like Punjab, UP, Haryana etc., he added.Chandel’s family did not respond to multiple calls and messages.A senior Noida police official, on condition of anonymity, said if the need arises, they will take Ashu in police custody for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gaurav-chandel-murder-case-prime-suspect-ashu-arrested-from-mumbai/story-cSSTE02vTOmVoxHh83liqI.html
05-09-2020||Noida||Death of Noida student: Cops trace the route victim took in his SUV||A day after a 24-year-old student succumbed to injuries he had suffered during an alleged carjacking incident on Wednesday night, the police on Saturday said that they have traced the route the victim took after leaving home in his SUV. The student, Akshay Kalra, died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sector 62 on Friday night, two days after he was critically wounded by unknown assailants for resisting the alleged car robbery. The victim, a resident of Stellar Park in Noida Sector 62, had completed B.Tech in computer science from a Noida-based private university this year. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, said the police scanned Akshay’s mobile phone network and traced the route he was following. “He had left his house at 10:30pm and halted near a Dhaba in Noida Sector 61 after sometime. A police team questioned the dhaba owner, who said he had closed the dhaba at 10pm and left for home,” Singh said. The police are also scanning the mobile phones’ movement which were near the victim on Wednesday night. They have checked some CCTV cameras on the route and found a car moving in the same direction as of Akshay. “We are investigating the matter from all angles. Prima facie it appears a case of carjacking. But it could also be a case of road rage due to nature of injuries,” Singh said. The victim’s parents said they have lost their son, and they only want the criminals be arrested as soon as possible. Akshay’s father Gulshan Kalra said some people’s mentality have fallen to the level where they can kill someone for money. “The society needs to rethink over the moral fall. I do not blame the police for this incident. In fact, it was the police who admitted my son to hospital and informed me about the incident. The police have been cooperating with us and trying their best to solve the case,” he said. Pradeep Luthra, the victim’s maternal uncle, said that Akshay was a good student. “He wanted to do MTech and then become a lecturer. He had completed his schooling from Delhi, and moved to Noida four years ago. In the evening, he used to go out in his car. We did not know this would turn fatal,” he said. Akshay was a patient of thalassemia and he required to visit doctor twice a month. He is survived by his parents and an elder sister who is pursuing PhD in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/death-of-noida-student-cops-trace-the-route-victim-took-in-his-suv/story-gkLdT5NVIV2JWt6Lv1iT1O.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi records highest spike in Covid cases in 71 days; tally over 1.88 lakh||Delhi recorded 2,973 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest single-day spike here in 71 days, taking the tally to over 1.88 lakh, even as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asserted that the situation was completely under control and no one should panic. This is the fifth successive day in September when over 2,000 new cases have been reported in a day. Also, over 36,000 tests were conducted on Saturday. Twenty-five fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 4,538, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. On June 26, the city had recorded 3,460 cases, the highest single-day spike before September 5. On Friday, 13 deaths were reported and the daily case count was 2,914. On September 1, 2 and 3, the fresh cases count stood at 2312, 2509 and 2737, respectively. The number of active cases on Saturday rose to 19,870 from 18,842 on the previous day. On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947. The Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days. Barring August 31 when over 14,000 tests were conducted and 1,358 fresh cases reported, since Sunday daily cases count has been recorded in excess of 2,000. The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported from August 30-September 5 in that order are: 14,389 (1,358); 20,437 (2,024); 24,198 (2,312); 28,835 (2,509); 32,834 (2,737); 36,219 (2,914) and 38,895 (2,973). The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 4513 on Friday. The Saturday bulletin said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 4,538 and the total number of cases climbed to 1,88,193. The positivity rate on Saturday stood at 7.6 per cent while the recovery rate was over 87 per cent, as per the bulletin. Declaring a “war” on coronavirus, Chief Minister Kejriwal said the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi is attributable to doubling of testing, but asserted that the situation in the city was completely under control and there is no need to panic. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said he is not worried about the data, but more concerned about keeping people healthy. “Delhi declares war on corona. We have doubled testing, started testing at markets, bus stands, mohalla clinics etc. Test, test, test. Isolate infected people and provide them good treatment. I have told officers not to worry if the number (of cases) increases due to multifold testing,” Kejriwal later tweeted. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain took a meeting with medical directors and medical superintendents of all Delhi government hospitals to review the status of testing, the bulletin said. The divisional commissioner also took a review meeting with all district magistrates on Covid-19 issues. The Union health secretary held a meeting with state health secretaries to review the Covid-19 pandemic situation, it said. The number of containment zones in Delhi jumped to 976 from 949 the previous day. Since August 18, cases again have been coming in four-figure count. According to the bulletin, out of the total number of beds in Covid hospitals, 9229 are vacant. Also, 2337 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who have returned through the Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights, it said. According to the bulletin, 1,63,785 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. The number of people in home isolation stands at 10,514. The number of Rapid Antigen Tests conducted on Saturday stood at 29,333 while the RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests figures were 9,562 in all adding to 38,895, according to the bulletin. The total number of tests done till date in Delhi stands at 17,44,466. The number of tests done per million, as on Saturday was 91,814, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-highest-spike-in-covid-cases-in-71-days-tally-over-1-88-lakh/story-SX0TPfKB7Qk1BfXZfg1nJM.html
05-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 24-year-old falls to death after 11th floor balcony breaks off||A 24-year-old software engineer died after he fell from his 11th floor balcony at Rishabh Paradise highrise in Ahimsa Khand-II in Indirapuram on Friday night. Police said the fall was likely caused after a portion of the balcony he was leaning on to broke off. The victim was identified as Deepak Singh and shared the flat in Tower A with two others, also IT professionals.“One of his flatmates had his birthday on September 2, and the group of friends decided to party on September 4. Three more of their friends joined them on Friday night. While they were sitting in the balcony, the victim was standing and leaning on the balcony parapet when it suddenly broke off,” said Sanjeev Sharma, station house officer (SHO) of Indirapuram police station. The incident happened at around 11.30pm.The man was rushed to a local hospital from where he was referred to a private hospital in Noida but he did not survive. Singh was native of Farukkhabad in Uttar Pradesh. Police said that they did not received a complaint from the family so far. “We also called his four friends for questioning about the incident and all of them told that it was the balcony parapet that broke off,” SHO added. The apartment owners’ association (AOA) said that they alerted the developer, Rishabh Group, to certain structural maintenance work last year. “We had given a written representation to the developer in October, 2019 following issues of plaster peeling off and other related concerns raised by our residents. After Saturday’s incident, we gave another written representation to the developer regarding the structure,” said Sanjeev Gupta, president of highrise AOA. The developer said that the project was completed in 2009 and sale deeds were also executed in favour of the residents. “The entire incident will be probed by the police and flat owners also have a responsibility to take up maintenance of their flats. The AOA, although formed three years ago, is not ready to takeover the project and we have written a number of letters in this regard to district authorities and also to the development authority. The developer has no link to the incident that took place in the flat,” said Sanjeev Jain, managing director, Rishabh Group. Around 1,000 families reside in the project. “The family of the victim got in touch with us. But as they were busy with the last rites, didn’t press any complaint. As of now there is no foul play into the incident and all his friends told that he fell off after the balcony grille broke off. Our forensic team also visite the incident site. We are waiting if his family comes up with any complaint. The body was sent for post mortem,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-24-year-old-falls-to-death-after-11th-floor-balcony-breaks-off/story-GFgIHOJ9BeubGL7jSx4aRJ.html
05-09-2020||City||Gurdaspur sees Sunny after 6 months||BJP MP Sunny Deol on Saturday discussed the law and order situation in Pathankot with the district police.The Bollywood actor, who has been in his constituency since Friday, also inquired about the status of probe into the case of attack on cricketer Suresh Raina’s family in the district’s Thariyal village.“A positive discussion regarding security in Pathankot district was held with SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana. I inquired about the district’s law and order situation and the attack on Indian cricketer’s family,” Deol said in a tweet.Expressing grief over the tragedy, he hoped that Raina’s family would get justice soon.The actor in the past has faced criticism from his political opponents, including the Congress, for staying away from his constituency (Gurdaspur) for a long period. He is visiting his constituency after a gap of six months.Earlier on Friday, the MP had met Gurdaspur deputy commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq and SSP Rajinder Sohal and held a discussion over the coronavirus pandemic.“Positive discussions were held with the SSP related to making people more aware of corona and on key issues pertaining to Gurdaspur’s law and order,” Deol had tweeted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurdaspur-sees-sunny-after-6-months/story-Q2oFfPXV1qFfAOT8u4nCFI.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Remembering Kumari Vidyavati Anand, an educationist par excellence||The birth anniversary of Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the first vice-president of the Indian Republic, is celebrated as Teachers’ Day. On this day as I pay my homage to him, I also pay tributes to Kumari Vidyavati Anand (popularly referred to as Madam), the founder principal of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalya (HRMV) in Jalandhar, the foundation stone of which was laid by Dr Radhakrishnan on November 7,1959. Madam developed deformity in her hands at the age of 10, but with grit and determination she went on to do her master’s in economics and became a lecturer at HRMV in Lahore. After partition, the college reopened in Jalandhar in a rented building with 70 students. Mehr Chand Mahajan, who went on to be the third Chief Justice of India, was the then president of the DAV College Managing Committee (DAVCMC) and reposed faith in Madam and she accepted the challenge of building a first-rate girls’ college. Today, HRMV is a multi-faculty postgraduate girls’ college with a magnificent campus. It is the pride of the region,evolving with the changing aspirations of youth and the expectations of the nation.Madam was a member of the Panjab University senate from 1964-1971 and 1971-1977 and a member of the syndicate from 1974 to 1975. She was actively associated with the social welfare programmes of the Arya Samaj. A Gandhian to the core, she wore khadi all her life. Someone who considered discipline to be the quintessence of education, Madam was a strict disciplinarian; no one could be lax with their duties on her watch. However, under her stern exterior, there throbbed a compassionate heart. She offered generous concessions to students in need.Very few leaders have the willingness and courage to train their colleagues to take up higher responsibilities. Madam’s discerning eyes spotted talent and rewarded it. HRMV became a nursery of future principals of DAV Colleges for Women in north India, all groomed by Madam and now working with missionary zeal. Madam was the only woman to be appointed the secretary and the vice-president of DAVCMC and Arya Pradeshik Pratinidhi Sabha, New Delhi.Madam led an ascetic’s life. She had bought a house in Delhi years ago and as the rates of the property sky-rocketed, she sold it later for more than Rs 1crore. Of this amount she donated Rs 85 lakh to the DAVCMC, which adopted DAV College for Women, Karnal, at the request of its founding fathers. When I was asked to take charge of the college it had a few faculty members and was a single faculty college without a suitable building. Madam gave the college Rs 40 lakh for its development and the organisation decided to name the college after her in recognition of her commendable work. Today, Kumari Vidyavati Anand DAV College, Karnal, has 350 students, modern laboratories and a multi-purpose auditorium. Her family has given a corpus fund to DAVCMC, out of which every year scholarships worth Rs 15,000 are given to students on merit-cum-means basis.I am reminded of Sir Edward Dyer’s words:“Some have too much, yet still do crave; I little have, and seek no more.They are but poor, though much they have,And I am rich with little store;They poor, I rich; they beg, I give;They lack, I leave; they pine, I live.”I am so glad to have been associated with Madam. She took me under her wings in Jalandhar and then followed through my journey, being instrumental in making me grow both professionally and socially.Madam left for her heavenly abode on January 2, 2002, but her rich legacy will inspire many generations.The author is a retired principal of KVA DAV College, Karnal, and member, DAV College Managing Committee, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-remembering-kumari-vidyavati-anand-an-educationist-par-excellence/story-KVgFTKi4rHfpcvngfuThYP.html
05-09-2020||City||Noida: One arrested for stealing money from man by switching his ATM card||Noida: A man, believed to be around 30 years of age, was arrested by the Noida police on Saturday afternoon for allegedly switching the ATM card of a person and then withdrawing money from it, along with his accomplices.The suspect was identified as Rizwan, who was arrested by the Sector 39 police from near an ATM kiosk in Sector 45. According to police officials, he and at least two of his accomplices had swapped the ATM card of a man, Santosh Yadav.“When the victim came out of the ATM kiosk, he received messages of transactions that he had not done. He immediately raised alarm after which a few passersby and a police unit that was stationed nearby came to him,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh. He said that there were three men two of whom managed to escape while the suspect was caught.“The gang has been involved in several such frauds across the district. They confuse their victims and use the distraction to see their ATM pins and then swap the cards doing transactions to take their money. They would mostly target people who are not very friendly with modern systems,” said Singh.Based on Yadav’s complaint, a case was registered at the Sector 39 police station against the suspect under sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.The senior officer also said that the exact amount allegedly withdrawn from the victim’s account is still being verified.“We recovered a data reader and card reader from the suspect and a search is on for his accomplices while the suspect is being sent to jail,” said Singh.On August 6, the Sector 20 police had arrested five members of another such gang from Nithari. Thirty four ATM cards were recovered from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-one-arrested-for-stealing-money-from-man-by-switching-his-atm-card/story-CN6FEmuKLquMUyDgcKryrO.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: For helping a girl believe in herself, happy Teacher’s Day, Amrita Ma’am!||More than two decades ago, there was a reticent girl studying in junior school. She loved to read not just course books, but also novels and comics. She was particularly fascinated with the collection of Encyclopaedia Britannica at her friend’s house. Each time she visited, she would bring one home to read, devouring it from cover to cover before returning it. One fine day, the girl joined her new class. She seemed a little forlorn as her best friend was allotted a different section. Her class teacher walked in wearing a bright Chanderi sari and sporting an even brighter smile. She looked around the classroom at her new students with the excitement of a five-year old who had received the gift of her dreams. “Good morning girls! Welcome to Class IV,” she said. The energy in the class was infectious. This teacher was different from others. While asking questions, she would specifically seek out those who purposely didn’t meet her eye. “I know you know the answer,” she would call out to the shy girl. Her reassuring smile made everything easier. And gradually, the reserved student began opening up. She even began quoting answers from her favourite Encyclopaedia Britannica. On those days, the teacher’s smile would reach her kind eyes. “I knew you knew,” she would say softly. One fine day, the teacher walked in and handed the keys of the coveted classroom cupboard to the shy student. For a ten-year old, it was a matter of great pride to collect test papers and put them in the hallowed cupboard, take out the chalk and duster each morning, negotiate with those who had submitted their papers late and so on. The teacher had laid a foundation for the little girl to gradually come out of her shell, learn responsibility, make new friends, and be comfortable being in the forefront.By the end of the year, the teacher had enrolled that student for an inter-school “two-minute” extempore speech contest. The stage was bigger, and the audience was overwhelming. The bashful student spent an entire minute in stunned silence. She managed to speak a few lines at the last minute, but was unable to win a position. Flushed, the student got off the stage to be embraced by the teacher, “You looked so good on stage,” she said with a tight hug. That day, the student learnt another lesson – the only way to outgrow your fear was to go through it, irrespective of the result. This incident set the ground for many extemporaneous speeches, writing competitions, conferences, first-times, in the future.This may be an ordinary story of an ordinary child, but the hero of the story is the extraordinary teacher who helped the shy little girl to come out of her shell in her own time, at her own pace. As Henry Brooks Adams says, “A teacher affects eternity; he can never tell where his influence stops.” For me, every single day is Teacher’s Day, when I am able to face my fears. Thank you, dear Amrita Ma’am, for all the lessons, love, patience, and for helping me out of the shell – without damaging it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-for-helping-a-girl-believe-in-herself-happy-teacher-s-day-amrita-ma-am/story-U2hQMW5DGEZMD6e0SAtRSL.html
05-09-2020||City||Four arrested for murdering taxi driver over cab fare dispute||The Ghaziabad police on Saturday arrested four persons who allegedly strangled a 25-year-old cab driver when he demanded ₹2,300 fare for taking the suspects to Bijnor on August 30. The police said they searched CCTVs in Ghaziabad and Meerut and came across two locations from where the suspects were identified. The four suspects – Rupesh Tomar, Ankur Chaudhary, Sunny Chudhary and Sanjay Chaudhary – are residents of Ghaziabad. According to the police, the four met cab driver Shivam Singh at Duhai on the Delhi Meerut Road and asked him to take them to Bijnor. “Initially, the driver demanded ₹5,000 as fare for the two way journey but the amount was settled at ₹2,300. While they were returning at night the same day, the men asked the victim to drop them near Govindpuram instead of Duhai. Midway, the driver asked them for the fare but they did not have sufficient money. So instead, one of the suspects sitting in the rear strangled him. Later, they dumped his body at Kushaliya and drove the car to Indergarhi, which is about 2km from their locality at Sadarpur,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). While the Swift Dzire car of the victim was traced by his family late on August 30 through the GPS locator, his body was recovered on September 1. In order to crack the cases, the police scanned dozens of CCTV cameras in Ghaziabad and Meerut and came across CCTV footage at a CNG pump in Meerut where the victim had stopped for refilling and the four suspects were also spotted. “The four were also spotted in CCTV footage after they left the victim’s car after his murder, and walked to their locality. When the four were spotted, the electronic surveillance helped us get their mobile numbers and the documents with the cellular company confirmed their addresses. Soon, they were nabbed and also confessed to the crime,” said a police officer, who did not wish to be named. Police said the victim was a resident of Vijay Nagar. They added that the four suspects are in age group 24-30 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-arrested-for-murdering-taxi-driver-over-cab-fare-dispute/story-OB1Ly0W8ZY0ToqIzB9OuIO.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two more arrested in ₹14.5 lakh dacoity case||A day after counter intelligence and Fatehgarh Sahib police arrested Neeraj Kumar Ashu of Ganesh Nagar, Mandeep Singh Manna of Noormehal and Deepak Deepu of Ghora Colony for allegedly robbing Rs 14.5 lakh from a farmhouse in Basant Avenue during a gambling party, Ludhiana police on Saturday arrested two of their accomplices. Vivek Manu Jhangi of Model Gram and Sahil Kanda of New Chandar Nagar were nabbed and Rs 20,000 in cash, sharp-edged weapons used in the crime and tokens worth Rs 1.50 Lakh were recovered from their possession . Also, Gagandeep Singh Shehanshah of Dugri, Raj Kumar of SBS Nagar and Sukhwinderpal Singh Shegal of CMCH area have also been arrested for organising the gambling parties.Police said that in the wee hours of August 14, at least 14 people had barged into the farmhouse where gambling parties was organised on a large scale. The accused fired in the air, threatened the gamblers and robbed them of Rs 14.5 lakh and gold chains, rings and pendants at gunpoint. However, the victims did not lodge a police complaint as they were involved in illegal activities.Police have launched a manhunt for the arrest of the owner of the farm house - Harvinder Singh of Flower Enclave and his accomplice Jaspreet Singh Makkar of Dugri phase-2.Superintendent of police (counter intelligence) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti who led the operation said, though a complaint was not lodged, police had registered a case and initiated investigation. He said Neeraj is also a local gangster who has several criminal cases registered against him for robberies and attempt to murder. A 32-bore weapon with 15 live cartridges which were used in the crime have been recovered from him.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, detective) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said Neeraj is already wanted by Ludhiana police in an attempt to murder case. On June 8, Neeraj and his accomplices had opened fire at the house of Rishav Benipal in Dharampura area over an an old rivalry. Another local gangster, Puneet Bains of Ghora colony, who is wanted in the Dharampura firing, is also involved in the dacoity, he said.He added that the accused had used a Hyundai i-20 car, Alto, a Royal Enfield and scooters to execute dacoity. Among these vehicles, the i20 car was robbed by Mandeep Singh Manna and unidentified accomplices from Rawinder Singh near Police Colony of Bhamiya Road on August 4.The DCP added that accomplices of the accused – including Manjeet Singh Sonu of Sahnewal, Shubham Langra of Bhamiya Road, Aman Bhola of Dhandra Road, Vishal Gill, Himanshu, Dimpy and their two unidentified accomplices are yet to be arrested. More important information has been expected from the accused during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-two-more-arrested-in-14-5-lakh-dacoity-case/story-rbzjLUavNZjI0PGhSTrvvL.html
05-09-2020||City||69 deaths 1,515 fresh Covid-19 cases in state||Punjab on Saturday reported 69 Covid-related fatalities pushing the death toll to 1,808. The state also witnessed 1,515 new cases, taking the tally to 61,527, according to a media bulletin released by the state government. Ludhiana again topped the chart with 12 deaths followed by 10 from Ferozepur, eight each from Amritsar and Jalandhar, four from Patiala, three each from Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Mohali, Pathankot and Rupnagar, two each from Faridkot, Sangrur, Moga, Barnala and Hoshiarpur and one each from Kapurthala and SBS Nagar, the bulletin said.Jalandhar reported 254 cases, Ludhiana 208, Mohali 146, Patiala 138, Amritsar 132, Gurdaspur 113, Hoshiarpur 105, Bathinda 100 and Mansa 49, the bulletin said. A total of 1,306 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. So far, 43,849 people have been cured of the infection, said the bulletin. Punjab has 15,870 active COVID-19 cases now, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/69-deaths-1-515-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-state/story-8AngZuxe0Yr0taY2nSIu9M.html
05-09-2020||Noida||Saturday markets return after 2 months in Noida, traders expect to see green shoots soon||With the Uttar Pradesh government partially lifting weekend restrictions imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19, markets in the city opened on Saturday for the first time in almost two months, bringing a sigh of relief to traders who hope their business will pick up soon.According to traders’ associations, more shoppers made it to the markets on Saturday as compared to the weekdays, a development that has given rise to expectations in many shopkeepers that they will be able to recover a fraction of losses they incurred first because of the nationwide lockdown and then the statewide weekend closure.“The move has definitely brought some relief among the traders as the market attracts more customers on weekends. Even though markets will remain closed on Sunday, we expect a rise in business by at least 15 to 20% as now markets have been allowed to open their shutters on Saturdays. Due to the pandemic, almost every trader’s business has been hit at least 50 % as compared to the pre-Covid time. However, keeping the market open on Saturday will benefit us to some extent,” said president of Sector 18 market association, Sushil Kumar Jain, who is also the head of Confederation of All India Traders Association, (Delhi-NCR chapter). He added certain businesses like those involved in event management, hospitality, tourism etc will take their more time to recover, several other businesses will see better recovery with more customers allowed to shop on Saturdays.In an order issued on September 1, UP had allowed marked to open on Saturdays across the state limiting weekend restrictions on markets only to Sundays.“Traders are happy with the decision, and the market witnessed more crowd as compared to weekdays, especially in shops that deal exclusively in items for women. Given the trend today (Saturday), we expect a rise in sales by at least 30 percent in the coming weekend. Noida is home to many people who engage in blue-collar jobs and only get time to shop on Saturdays and Sundays. Though the market will stay shut on Sundays, being open for business on Saturday would help in recovering our losses,” said CB Jha, head, Atta market association.On July 9, the Uttar Pradesh government had announced statewide weekend restrictions mandating markets to remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays during which extensive sanitisation drives were to be taken up to break the chain of Covid-19 infection. With the new instructions, markets need to be cleaned every Sunday and shops can remain open from 9am to 9pm on the rest of the days of the week.In neighbouring Ghaziabad district as well, traders said they expect to see some green shoots in their business soon.“Now that the government has allowed markets to operate on Saturday after two months, we expect at least 20% recovery soon, and if the government allows us to open on Sundays, then the sales could hike by nearly 30%,” said Pradeep Gupta, convenor, Indrapuram Vypari Ekta Sansthan—a traders’ body.Meanwhile, shopping malls in the city also saw a better footfall as the September 1 order allowed them to remain open for business for longer. “On weekdays, we usually see a footfall of 4,000 to 5000 persons, but this being the first Saturday when we are getting to operate for full 12 hours (9am to 9pm) since the lockdown, we saw in number of visitors. Today we saw a footfall of around 9,000 visitors by just 6pm. The actual figures would be clear by tomorrow. Most of the visitors headed towards the food court. Earlier in June, we did operate on Saturdays but working hours were restricted and we had to start closing the shops by 6.30 to 7 am.,” said Amit Taneja, vice-president, operations, Logix mall.Malls in UP were allowed to open on June 8 with restrictions on their timings.Earlier on May 21, the shops in markets were allowed to open on an odd-even basis. Later, on July 15, the state government lifted the odd-even restrictions and allowed them to open for five days in a week.Markets’ association now want the state government to remove weekend curbs completely and restricting the closures of shops for sanitisation on a weekday. “We request the government to allow the markets to open on Sundays as well, and close the market on a weekday. This would help with better recovery of business,” said Jain.The district administration, however, warned of a rise in the number of coronavirus cases if social distancing norms are not followed in overcrowded markets.“There could be a rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases if markets are overcrowded. It is, therefore, important for people to maintain social distance, wear masks, and keep a sanitiser handy. If precautions are not followed by people, then given the rising crowd in markets the Covid-19 cases will naturally increase,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Noida authority, that is responsible for disinfecting market places, said it now only get one day to hold sanitisation drives in all markets.“Markets will now be sanitised on Sundays only. The drive would be intensified now, though we don’t need extra workforce as we have enough people (around 4,000 workers) for the drive as of now,” said SC Mishra, project engineer, health, Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/saturday-markets-return-after-2-months-in-noida-traders-expect-to-see-green-shoots-soon/story-CXIdyMQnt5os1a4ymbxJdM.html
05-09-2020||Noida||Overseas clients not making payments, garment exporters in Noida stare at ₹250cr loss||The garment and apparel exporters in Gautam Budh Nagar district are not a happy lot in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Not only have their production and orders gone down by over 40%, but a number of their client companies overseas have also filed for bankruptcy, thereby putting at risk the payment of collective outstanding dues of over ₹250 crore. Lalit Thukral, chairman (northern region) of the apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC), said after the outbreak of Covid19, around 600 garment export units have been closed and the units in Noida suffered a collective loss of over ₹3,000 crore. “The pandemic was sudden and the industry was caught unawares. Orders had already been shipped to overseas buyers and, instead of accepting them, the buyers are bargaining with Indian exporters saying since their companies have been declared bankrupt, there is no legal obligation on them to make payments. They are now asking the Indian exporters to either take the shipments back or sell to them at half the price,” he said. He further said loopholes in India’s export policy are being exploited by overseas buyers. “In countries such as Bangladesh and China, no item is allowed to be exported unless full advance or letter of credit (LC) is given by the buyers. But in India, the government has not yet made any policy to safeguard exporters. Although the government had set up the Export Credit and Guarantee Corporation of India (ECGC), to mitigate the risk of non-payment to exporters, a majority of exporters remains uncovered by ECGC insurance,” Thukral said. He said at present, ECGC offers a package for banks at 0.07% of the credit amount, for packing credit taken by an exporter. “This can only protect the banks in case the exporter files for bankruptcy. The ECGC needs to design a similar policy for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) to protect exporters in case of non-payments,” he said. Apparel exporter Manoj Sahu said ECGC is currently providing coverage to exporters only post-shipment. There there is no safeguard in case a buyer defaults after the exporter has purchased the material. “Coverage must be extended to pre-shipment as well. The apparel exporters are working on single digit margins. A single buyer defaulting would result in years of work disappearing overnight. The ECGC should also increase its insurance cap to 90%, instead of the prevailing 80%, of total outstanding. The time has come to overhaul our export policy,” he said. The AEPC all-India chairman A Sakthivel, on September 2, had also written to secretaries of ministry of textiles and ministry of commerce, regarding non-realisation of export proceeds due to buyers declaring bankruptcy and cancellation of export orders. “This has led to a major concern, where our exporters have already claimed for duty drawback and rebate of state and central taxes and levies (RoSCTL), for the shipped goods. It has been ascertained that if the buyer does not pay for the shipped goods, exporters would have to refund/return the drawback and RoSCTL with interest,” the letter states. The AEPC’s letter further said that it is a double blow for its member exporters, whose goods have been shipped after they have paid all the taxes.A senior official of the ministry of commerce said they have received the letter. “We are working on it. We hope to bring out some mechanism very soon, which can save the exporters from this adverse situation,” he said, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/overseas-clients-not-making-payments-garment-exporters-in-noida-stare-at-250cr-loss/story-o03kp3tHuHt4Yyd53lVjMI.html
05-09-2020||City||Missing saroops: Akal Takht inquiry says SGPC didn’t give record on 2016 fire||Amritsar Questions on the 2016 fire incident that damaged holy saroops of the Guru Granth Sahib in large numbers, remain unanswered as the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) failed to provide record related to it, the Akal Takht inquiry report says. The SGPC made public the concluding portion, around 10 pages, of this inquiry report on Saturday. The incident took place on May 19, 2016 at the SGPC publishing house, in which holy saroops were damaged. The apex gurdwara body which was then headed by Avtar Singh Makkar had claimed that 14 saroops were damaged. Underlining the role of the then SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh, the report reads, “Being a chief secretary, it was his responsibility to provide the inquiry commission the count and the serial numbers of the saroops burnt and damaged in the fire. He did not so, even as we demanded this record in written”.The saroop incident and the fact that something was amiss was exposed in June this year, when the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) raised the issue and termed the fire incident as one of the major reasons leading to the missing saroops. As per an SGPC office note that surfaced on Wednesday, the number of saroops was 80, though the gurdwara body has said that the note did not prove that the number was indeed 80.The report also highlights the role of Satinder Singh, secretary (finance), “The record of the damaged and burnt saroops was not found in the publication department in writing. It was also not found at Goindwal Sahib, where the damaged saroops were cremated. Satinder Singh was assistant secretary of this department in 2016, but he did not bring anything related to it on record”. The question arises then why did the SGPC not maintain its record? The Sikh bodies are seeking answer to this question.BOX Roop Singh, who quit on moral grounds, also indictedThe inquiry report has also indicted Roop Singh, who had quit as chief secretary on ‘moral grounds’. The SGPC executive committee had accepted his resignation during its August 27 meeting. The committee was silent over this indictment. The inquiry report, however, says, “Roop Singh remained the secretary of the publication department in 2016, but he never carried out the actual attestation of the holy saroops. In 2015, Manjit Singh was secretary of the department, who ordered the staff to match the saroops kept in the publishing house with the record books, but after assuming this charge, Roop Singh did not get this task completed…Being a chief secretary, his responsibility was to get detail of the annual audit, but he was irresponsible in the matter.”Roop Singh, however, says, “I have been held guilty under a conspiracy, while actual culprits were spared. I tendered my resignation on moral grounds, but with my move, demand was also raised for president’s resignation. If I was guilty, why was my resignation approved? As far as the details of damaged saroops is concerned, I was not given the report of the flying department that had probed the fire incident. How could I provide it to the inquiry panel?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-saroops-akal-takht-inquiry-says-sgpc-didn-t-give-record-on-2016-fire/story-S9rRZPxci9mFXUkalBtU9H.html
05-09-2020||City||AQI improves in 2020 but PM10 and PM2.5 high on several occasions||With the lockdown and economic activities yet to resume to pre-Covid-19 times, there has been considerable improvement in the air quality index (AQI) in the first eight months of 2020 as compared to the same period last year. Pollution officials, however, say that other reasons too had an effect.Data from the UP pollution control board (UPPCB) from January to August this year showed Ghaziabad had an average AQI of 163.68 over the eight months as compared to 224.42 for the same period in 2019. This puts the city’s air in the “moderate” category (that can cause breathing discomfort to the people with lungs, asthma and heart diseases), better than the previous year’s “poor” (breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure).These readings were based on four online air quality monitoring stations at Vasundhara, Indirapuram, Sanjay Nagar and Loni.Ghaziabad city in 2019 topped the list of the most polluted cities on several occasions during winter.  Utsav Sharma, regional UPPCB officer, acknowledged the lockdown’s effect in reducing ultrafine particulate matter (PM2.5, or those particles with a diameter less than 2.5 microns), from 100.66 µg/m³ to 76.34µg/m³, and fine particulate matter (PM10) from 236.66 µg/m³ to 149.75µg/m³ . The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m³ and that for PM10 is 100µg/m³, according to the central pollution control board (CPCB).“Apart from that, the work for Delhi Meerut Expressway is in its advanced stage (reducing major construction activity). Further, this year, we received only 4-5 complaints of visible emission from industrial units due to better enforcement (industries that produced essential items were allowed to operate),” said Sharma. “We have also been able to curb the practices of open garbage burning. We are also preparing a district plan for solid waste and plastic waste management. So, we have already stepped up our enforcement.” Heavy rain in the months of July and August this year also helped bring down the average sharply.“But, winter is coming and that will be a major challenge to keep in check the pollution levels,” said Sharma.During winters, wind speed is generally low making it harder to disperse pollutants and with the lockdown being relaxed, its effect too is expected to reduce.“The authorities will face major challenge in upcoming winter season when PM2.5 levels will surge. The city is yet to get e-buses and even an intelligent traffic management system which could help in managing traffic bottlenecks and snarls,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation. The office bearers of Kaushambi Apartments RWA (KARWA) said that they will again resort to legal recourse and move apex court in a petition. “Our petition will be related to air, water and noise pollution. The reduction in pollution has resulted due to lockdown and recent rains. We will approach the Supreme Court soon as on ground several directions of the National Green Tribunal are not fully implemented,” said VK Mittal, president of KARWA. Ghaziabad city is also a prominent industrial town and has emerged high on pollution levels in past several years. It is also identified under the list of 15 non-attainment cities in UP (by UPPCB) which have high levels of air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aqi-improves-in-2020-but-pm10-and-pm2-5-high-on-several-occasions/story-WlQOvHmdfDEgmHzMTshauO.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||BJP accuses Ludhiana MC of harassing shopkeepers with incorrect notices||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has slammed the municipal corporation (MC) for serving change of land use (CLU) notices to shopkeepers without checking its own records.The BJP leaders said the notices were also served to shops that were established five decades back, when the CLU norms were not in place. While traders were facing financial crises due to the pandemic and restrictions imposed by the government, this exercise by the MC was akin to harassment, the leaders said.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Notices are being served to recover pending charges and nobody is being harassed. Those facing issues can contact me and the issue would be resolved at the earliest. The CLU charges are being recovered only from those whose shops were established after CLU norms came into being.”The MC recently began an exercise to recover the pending CLU charges from owners of shops situated on various commercial roads of the city. The shopkeepers are being told to show the CLU certificate or deposit the dues.BJP district president Pushpinder Singal said, “Rather than providing any relief to residents, the state government is harassing them by issuing notices without checking its own records. The timing is not right as people are already struggling to make ends meet.”Leader of BJP councillors in MC General House, Sunita Rani, said, “Congress leaders are shedding crocodile tears over the issue since the notices have been issued on their directions. If the MC does not stop harassing the public, we will be forced to take to roads in protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-accuses-ludhiana-mc-of-harassing-shopkeepers-with-incorrect-notices/story-84XgabM1NCU6Pz4gd28dBO.html
05-09-2020||City||Missing saroops: Gurdwara body backtracks on filing criminal cases against staff||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Saturday backtracked on filing criminal cases against its staffers indicted in the missing 328 Guru Granth Sahib saroops case fearing external interference into its matters, nine days after passing resolutions for same.In its August 27 meeting, the executive committee had resolved to file criminal cases against its six staffers dismissed for their role in misappropriation in the case. However, on Saturday SGPC decided to take action against the erring employees within the organisation as per the panthic traditions. “Working on the mission for which the SGPC was founded, stringent punishment will be awarded to the employees who committed irregularities, under Gurdwara Act as per the panthic traditions, so that nobody dares to do so in future,” said SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal.“No one will be allowed to interfere into the matters of SGPC and Sri Darbar Sahib (Golden Temple). The SGPC is an independent entity and competent to take decision on its own,” he elaborated, a day after former Rajya Sabha member and National Commission for Minorities chairman Tarlochan Singh alerted him about police “interference” if cases are filed against the erring employees.Notably, in a TV interview, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had also advocated criminal cases against the employees nominated in this case.However, the SGPC chief made it clear that the decision to initiate legal proceedings against the controversial CA firm SS Kohli and Associates for recovering the service charges would remain intact.Formal apology before Akal Takht on Sept 18Under fire for being head of the organisation that witnessed misappropriation, Longowal apologised for having hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community. “In the recent past, the SGPC had to face worrisome circumstances due to some employees performing their duties with irresponsibly and committing irregularities. Misappropriation in the record related to the holy saroops is becoming a hot topic. I feel this has hurt the sentiments of all followers of Guru Nanak. So, I personally seek forgiveness from the Sikh sangat,” he said.Longowal said the incumbent office-bearers and the SGPC executive committee would appear before the Akal Takht on September 18 to tender a formal apology for the same. He appealed to the employees accused in the case to also do so.On severe demand from the Sikh masses, the SGPC has finally made the inquiry report public, based on which it has initiated action against the accused on Akal Takht’s direction. The SGPC chief said this report will be available on the official website. However, only 10 pages containing conclusion of the report have been disclosed.Responding to the Sikh bodies seeking whereabouts of the missing saroops, Longowal said, “I assure you that the saroops are not missing, nor have they been desecrated. The erring employees issued these saroops to the sangat without making their entries in the record books. These indulged in this illicit practice for their personal gains, which is also mentioned in the inquiry report.”“Feeling the anguish caused by this matter to Khalsa Panth, suggestions of Sikh intellectuals, saints and religious organisations will be given shape. The shortcomings highlighted in the inquiry report will be eradicated, so that the system could be run in an adequate manner. The SGPC is bound to give hard punishment to every accused, but some people are politicising this sensitive matter, which should not be done,” said the SGPC chief.State human rights’ wing warns of moving court Reacting on the SGPC decision, Punjab Human Rights Organization (PHRO), which had uncovered the matter, warned of moving the court directly to file criminal cases against the SGPC functionaries. “It’s totally a U-turn by the SGPC from its previous decisions, including filing of criminal cases. It is another attempt of hushing up the matter. Why did Longowal keep mum on the 2016 fire incident and whereabouts of the missing saroops,” asked PHRO investigator Sarabjit Singh Verka.He said, “The Akal Takht jathedar must take cognizance of the matter otherwise the PHRO would have no option than to move the court. As per the inquiry, the accused deserve criminal proceedings against them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-saroops-gurdwara-body-backtracks-on-filing-criminal-cases-against-staff/story-WHhIqgBwnZdNXeZ3FMIzdM.html
05-09-2020||City||JEE (Main) Day 5: Ludhiana aspirants find math tricky||A total of 306 of 496 candidates appeared for the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main on day five at the ION digital zone near Sherpur Chowk on Saturday. The examination was conducted by Tata Consultancy Services at nine exam centers in Punjab. The question paper consisted of 75 questions with three sections comprising 25 questions each. Of the three sections (physics, chemistry, and mathematics), students found the maths section difficult and lengthy. The exam was conducted in two shifts — morning and evening. As many as 156 appeared for the examination in the first shift which began at 9am and concluded at noon, while 150 turned up for the second shift which was held from 3pm to 6pm. The students were satisfied with the arrangements made by the authorities to prevent the spread of Covid-19. According to the students, they were given new masks at the entrance gate and were made to go through thermal scanning. Though sanitizers were kept at the centre, students were permitted to carry their own along. Sumit Khanna, a student, said, “I found the exam easy and balanced. The math section was a little tricky and lengthy”. Another student, Riya Mehra, said that she was able to complete the exam in the allotted three hours. According to her, out of all three sections, questions asked in the math section were the most difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jee-main-day-5-ludhiana-aspirants-find-math-tricky/story-KHOThkIUXYGvJPAYWj6ujL.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC to blacklist contractors delaying projects: Mayor||To take up problems being faced by councillors of the west constituency regarding development works, cabinet minister and MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu conducted a meeting with municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and mayor Balkar Sandhu at the MC’s Zone D office on Saturday. Congress councillors of the west constituency also participated in the meeting and raised issues including delay in taking up development works, stray cattle menace and lackadaisical approach of MC officials in dealing with the problems. “If contractors delay projects even after the MC makes payment, strict action will be taken against them. Councillors have apprised Sabharwal of problems being faced at ward level and he has assured they will be resolved soon,” Ashu said. Sandhu said the MC will blacklist contractors who delay development projects in the city. The councillors also slammed authorities for failing to deal with the stray cattle menace despite collecting cow cess from residents. Ashu said they also discussed the issue of legacy waste/garbage dumped at Jainpur site where a sports park is being developed under Smart City project. The experts involved in the process are preparing a report and the waste, which is dumped at the site for years, will be used to make foundation, the minister said. Earlier, the consultant company of Smart City Mission had tabled a proposal to shift the legacy waste from the site at the cost of around Rs 20 crore. But, it was rejected by Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-to-blacklist-contractors-delaying-projects-mayor/story-lwp4t3wiCDugaadeGSipKK.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality drops to ‘moderate’ category on Saturday||After oscillating between the “good” and “satisfactory” categories for one-and-half-month, the national capital’s air quality dropped to the “moderate” category on Saturday. Experts attributed it to lack of favourable wind speed and rains over the last few days. The city recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 101. The last time Delhi recorded its AQI (124) in the moderate category was on July 15. AQI between 0 and 50 is considered safe, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor. At 301-400, it is considered very poor and 401-500 falls in the severe category. The above 500 is severe as well as the emergency category. A Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) official said the air quality deteriorated slightly due to lack of rains and favourable wind speed. However, rains on Saturday evening will lead to some improvement. On August 31, it recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 41, which was the lowest since the CPCB started maintaining air quality records in 2015. It was the fifth “good” day in terms of air quality this year. AQI values were 45, 50, 50 and 45 on March 28, August 13, August 20 and August 24, respectively. The AQI value remained between 50 and 70 on most days in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-drops-to-moderate-category-on-saturday/story-Q8TVxRrGWY1x4UMcVzxgRJ.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ferozepur man to be questioned in Kharar for 2019 murder||Wanted criminal Ashish alias Bhuvnesh Chopra from Ferozepur will be brought soon to Kharar on production warrants in connection with the murder of Inderjit Singh Sidhu alias Dhinda on September 7 last year at Darpan City, Kharar. The counter Intelligence wing of Punjab police arrested Chopra at Haryana’s Yamuna Nagar on Friday and recovered a .32 bore pistol with 12 cartridges from him.Involved in a number of cases, Chopra also has a case registered at the Fazilka police station under the Arms Act and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. “Chopra is wanted in a number of cases registered in Ferozepore. We will be bringing him on production warrants,” said Bhagwant Singh, station house officer, Kharar (city), where the murder case was registered. Chopra and another man had pumped 18 bullets into Dhinda in broad daylight, four in the head, killing him on the spot. Inderjeet (27), a resident of Guru Nanakpura in Ferozepur district was visiting Mohali and staying with a friend named Rohit at Darpan City when he was killed. He and Rohit were riding pillion with another friend and were just coming out of the society gates when two men stopped them, fired indiscriminately and fled.The motive of the crime was believed to be old enmity of the gunmen with Dhinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ferozepur-man-to-be-questioned-in-kharar-for-2019-murder/story-Kn1Ny3beS8jQt94BdxudFO.html
05-09-2020||Kolkata||Court orders re-postmortem of body of BJP worker who died inside police station||A court in West Bengal’s Uttar Dinajpur district on Saturday ordered fresh postmortem examination of the body of a 24-year-old BJP worker, who died inside a police station here three days ago.The court order came after the family of the deceased, Anup Roy, sought a fresh postmortem examination.His family also lodged a police complaint against five policemen alleging that her son was beaten to death by them.Uttar Dinajpur Superintendent of Police Sumit Kumar said the initial postmortem examination report said that Roy, who was called to Raiganj police station for questioning in connection with a recent case of dacoity, died of cerebral haemorrhage.“We had called him for questioning. He had collapsed after reaching the police station. We took him to a government hospital, where he was declared dead. The postmortem report said he died due to cerebral haemorrhage,” he said.The SP, however, welcomed the court order for a fresh postmortem examination.“We too wanted a re-postmortem. We will ask doctors to expedite the process,” Kumar told PTI.West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh has earlier alleged that the party worker was roughed up and then shot dead by the police.Police sources, however, said that there was no injury or bullet mark on the body of the deceased.The deceased BJP worker’s mother lodged a complaint against five policemen accusing them of beating her son to death.The district SP said that a case has started against the five policemen and a probe is on to find out their role in his death.The BJP’s Uttar Dinajpur district unit said that it is good that an investigation has been initiated against the accused policemen.“The police have been non-functional in the district.Now they should do some work. We ask them to speed up the probe,” a local BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-court-orders-re-postmortem-of-bjp-worker-s-body/story-4ySmoQ0sct5TDHz7xxLECK.html
05-09-2020||City||Teachers’ Day: State honour for three Ludhiana teachers, admn fetes two DEOs||Bringing laurels to the district, three teachers have bagged the state award on the occasion of Teachers’ Day. District education officer (DEO, secondary) Swaranjit Kaur and DEO (elementary) Rajinder Kaur have also won administrative awards.The teachers received the state award through a virtual programme held at the Government In-Service Training Centre, Ludhiana, on Saturday.Jatinder Pal Sharma, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, SiyaarA science teacher, Sharma, 58, had joined the school as its principal on April 6, 2017. From a strength of only 167 students, he spearheaded the enrolment to up to 473 students, with children from as many as 18 villages now attending the school. A model school, it was appreciated by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma on the Independence Day. From just 5% pass percentage in the Class-10 results in 2017, this year the school produced a whopping 89.3% result, with nine Class-10 students scoring more than 90%.Parvinder Kaur, Government Primary School, JargariA primary teacher, Kaur, 39, has been recognised for educating children using modern techniques, including animations. Despite the pandemic, she ensured her students attended online classes. She educates the children in both English and Punjabi. She teaches children through slides, received from the education department, on multiple-choice questions.Rapwinder Kaur, Government Senior Secondary School, TharikeKaur, 40, is a science mistress at the school. To her credit are poems about science, a science park made out of waste and excellent results, both qualitatively and quantitatively. She has been working towards enhancing students’ learning through information and technology and models. Under her guidance, students not only participated in science exhibitions up to the national level, but also bagged various positions 52 times.Rajinder Kaur, DEO, elementaryKaur joined as DEO, elementary, on May 31, 2019. Under her leadership, enrolment of pre-primary students has risen by 76% as compared to last year, while in primary section the enrolment has increased by 28.61%. As many as 897 out of 993 schools have been turned into smart schools, where students are educated using projectors, LED TVs and computers. Also, with the help of NRIs, the building of Government School, Nathowal, has been upgraded. Rs 1 crore will also be spent on the building for making it fully air conditioned. Schools of Sidhwan Bet, Gurey, Kanganwal are also being upgraded with the help of NRIs.DEO, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur was not available despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teachers-day-state-honour-for-three-ludhiana-teachers-admn-fetes-two-deos/story-fNpQJBNPgRw7EGpFTUtmYJ.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||1,515 fresh cases push Punjab’s Covid-19 tally to over 61,000||The death toll from Covid-19 rose to 1,808 with 69 more fatalities in Punjab while the infection tally jumped to 61,527 with 1,515 new cases on Saturday, according to a medical bulletin. Twelve new deaths were reported from Ludhiana; 10 from Ferozepur; eight each from Amritsar and Jalandhar; four from Patiala; three each from Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Mohali, Pathankot and Rupnagar; two each from Faridkot, Sangrur, Moga, Barnala and Hoshiarpur and one each from Kapurthala and SBS Nagar, the bulletin said. Among places which reported new cases included Jalandhar (254), Ludhiana (208), Mohali (146), Patiala (138), Amritsar (132), Gurdaspur (113), Hoshiarpur (105), Bathinda (100) and Mansa (49). A total of 1,306 novel coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. So far, 43,849 people have been cured of the infection, according to the bulletin. Punjab has 15,870 active Covid-19 cases now, it said. Eighty-five critical patients are on ventilator support while 507 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. With a collection of 24,098 more samples for Covid testing, the figure of total samples taken so far for testing has reached 11,68,106 in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-515-fresh-cases-push-punjab-s-covid-19-tally-to-over-61-000/story-CJZ7v8V1Ex49wHxRMUMjwL.html
05-09-2020||City||Mohali shopkeepers defy weekend lockdown again||Shopkeepers in Mohali on Saturday defied the weekend lockdown restrictions to protest against the state government’s decision of closure of shops dealing in non-essential items on Saturdays and Sundays. Several traders dealing in non-essential commodities opened shops despite weekend lockdown being in force.The police could be seen asking the shop owners to close their shops.The Punjab government had imposed a weekend lockdown in all cities and towns in the state, as part of a strict response to the worrying surge in Covid-19 cases. All shops except those dealing in essential commodities were asked to remain closed while eateries were allowed to open only for home delivery.The Mohali Beopar Mandal has now decided to open all shops on weekends in complete defiance of the government orders. The administration so far has not decided to give any relaxation in the wake of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities in the district.“Mohali is an integral part of tricity then how can shops be closed here and open in Panchkula and Chandigarh. We have been suffering losses for the past three months due to Covid-19 and the government’s move of continuing with the weekend lockdown would deal a severe blow to our businesses,” said Vineet Verma, president of Mohali Beopar Mandal. “About 35 showrooms of different brands have closed down business in Mohali. How are we supposed to survive and meet our monthly expenses?,” asked Sarabjeet Singh, general secretary of Mohali Beopar Mandal. Mohali SDM Jagdeep Sehgal said, “Police teams were sent to different markets to persuade shopkeepers to close the shops. The curfew is for the safety of residents.” Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mohali, Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “Deliberations are on. However, no case has been registered against the shopkeepers.” Traders protest in Baltana tooShops were opened in Baltana, Zirakpur, too but there were no customers. Shopkeepers held a protest near Baltana police post after the police asked them to close shops. President of furniture market in Baltana, Paramajeet Singh, said, “We urge the government to roll back its decision to help the businesses survive. It is becoming difficult to pay rent as the business has been adversely affected due to the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-shopkeepers-defy-weekend-lockdown-again/story-0SvYKqk8LprCkb7cEtEHMK.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Dyeing units in Ludhiana dumping waste in public sewers: Ex-councillor||Former BJP councillor and ward number 57 councillor Manju Aggarwal’s husband, Inder Aggarwal, submitted a complaint with the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) after dyeing units had allegedly dumped untreated waste at Shingar cinema disposal point on Friday evening.Aggarwal said owners of dyeing units are dumping untreated waste in MC sewer lines, which gets into the Buddha Nullah and adds to pollution. Excessive dumping of waste also chokes sewer lines, he said. “I had witnessed untreated colourful waste from dyeing units at Shingar cinema disposal point earlier also. This waste gets into Buddha Nullah through Dharampura drain. Complaints have been submitted to the MC and PPCB earlier as well, but no solution has been found yet. Now, officials have assured that a survey will be conducted in the area from Monday onwards and action would be taken against violators.”PPCB environmental engineer RK Goyal said PPCB officials including SDO had visited the site on Friday after receiving the complaint. A survey will be conducted in the area with the MC officials from Monday onwards to find out which dyeing units the waste is being released from. Strict action will be taken against violators, he said. MLA (Ludhiana east) Sanjay Talwar has also raised the issue for a long time as sewer lines in different wards of his constituency choke after excessive and untreated waste is dumped by owners of dyeing units in MC sewer lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dyeing-units-in-ludhiana-dumping-waste-in-public-sewers-ex-councillor/story-VKcDWXtoLGoh6s6W0Mys5I.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Veggie prices fall as supply picks up in Chandigarh||Despite the all-pervading mayhem that incessant rains have brought in the city, there is some good news in store. The vegetable prices have come down by 10-20% due to the increased supplies.After the city recorded the wettest August since 2004, vegetable prices had gone up due to heavy rains, but now the prices have started coming down. With light showers predicted this month, prices are likely to fall down further.Speaking about this, officials of the Chandigarh market committee said, “Due to rains throughout the region, supply had gone down leading to an increase in the prices of vegetables coming from states like Himachal Pradesh. The supply has resumed now and prices are expected to go further lower.”Cabbage and lemons which are both coming to the city from Himachal Pradesh saw a dramatic 25% drop in their prices. However, residents still claim that they are being overcharged by vendors. Treasurer of Sector 28D Resident Welfare Association (RWA), Superiya Goel said, “Vendors don’t stick to the list and when we show them the market committee list they ask us to go to them to buy the vegetables.”She said that vendors are selling tomatoes at ₹80 per kg and capsicum at ₹75 per kg which are priced at ₹60 per kg and ₹50 per kg respectively as per the market committee list for Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/veggie-prices-fall-as-supply-picks-up-in-chandigarh/story-sEQlHA1yFS5k7lpr3bMpIO.html
05-09-2020||City||Head-on collision due to reckless overtaking kills two car drivers||22-year-old man speeding in Hyundai Verna crashes into oncoming vehicle on single-lane road, killing himself and a 60-year-old manOvertaking at a high speed claimed the life of a 22-year-old youth and the driver of another car after their vehicles crashed head-on near Basemi village on Humbran Road on Saturday morning. The victims have been identified as Pranav Giri, 22, of Chandar Nagar, and Baljit Singh, 60, of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar. Baljit was a manager in a tyre company, while Pranav worked at a chemical factory owned by his family.According to ASI Gian Singh from PAU police station, who is investigating the case, Baljit was heading to work in his company’s Toyota Etios around 10am, while Pranav was returning home from the factory in his Hyundai Verna car. According to eye-witnesses, in an attempt to overtake the vehicle moving ahead of him, Pranav collided with the car coming from the opposite side near Basemi village.The impact of the collision killed Pranav on the spot, while Baljit breathed his last while being rescued from his mangled vehicle. The bodies were handed over to the families after post-mortem examination at the Ludhiana civil hospital.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.The accident affected the flow of traffic for over two hours until police removed the damaged vehicles from the road and restored it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/head-on-collision-due-to-reckless-overtaking-kills-two-car-drivers/story-dW2GM03R5fTkHEnYvZSBQM.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||49-year-old man kills himself after humiliation by panchayat||A 49-year-old man from Shatabgarh village in Zirakpur died by suicide on Saturday after being booked for harassing a female sarpanch and being humiliated by the panchayat. He was found hanging at home, after which his family alleged that he could not bear the humiliation, and that he had been made to place his turban at the feet of the womanA single page handwritten suicide note recovered from spot blamed the woman sarpanch, her husband, a former sarpanch and three others from the village for his death, police said. The woman sarpanch is from the Congress party while the deceased is believed to be a SAD supporter. All six named in the note have been booked under charges of abetment to suicide but no arrests have been made. An FIR lodged in the case said the 49-year-old man and the sarpanch had clashed over some issues after which he was booked by the police for harassing her.Soon after, at the panchayat, the man was asked to compromise with the woman and apologise to her. Not just that, the son of the dead man said his father had also been asked to place his turban at the woman’s feet and was mocked by those present for doing so.A case under section 306 of the IPC was registered at the Zirakpur police station. The harassment case The 49-year-old was among three persons booked on the complaint of the woman sarpanch. She and a few panchayat members were working on clearing streets and drains in the village and going from house to house asking a few people to vacate panchayat land which they had occupied.On August 24, at around 9 am, the sarpanch was verbally abused and slapped by the man, who also tore her clothes and manhandled her, police said.Police had the registered a case against the accused under sections 323, 354 of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/49-year-old-man-kills-himself-after-humiliation-by-panchayat/story-wCtDIZ3f56if7yrgD6P7SJ.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Rains lash parts of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh; traffic jams in several areas of NCR||A spell of moderate rains along with thundershowers drenched parts of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, while Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana witnessed light showers in some areas. In Delhi, rains led to heavy waterlogging, which disrupted traffic movement on key roads. The MeT Department has forecast light to moderate rains at a few places in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan in the next 24 hours, and rainfall along with thundershower for Uttar Pradesh for September 8. Rains had been evading the national capital for the last few days, with the city recording just traces of rainfall in the first five days of September.Also read: Mumbai faces intense overnight thunder, lightning but light rain The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides official figures for the city, recorded nil rainfall till Saturday morning. Normally, the observatory records 28.8 mm precipitation during the period. The Palam and Lodhi road weather stations have also reported a rain deficiency of 99 and 100 per cent, respectively, this month. Overall, the city has recorded 555.6 mm rainfall against the normal of 552.6 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts. Delhi recorded 237 mm rainfall in August this year, the highest for the month in seven years, according to an India Meteorological Department data. In Uttar Pradesh, thunderstorm accompanied with lightning also occurred at isolated places. The maximum temperatures stayed close to normal levels in most parts of Punjab and Haryana, even as rains lashed a few areas.Also read: Rainfall in Noida to weaken as mercury set to rise, says IMD Chandigarh, the common capital of both states, recorded its high at 34.3 degrees Celsius, according to a report of the Meteorological (MeT) Department. In Haryana, Ambala and Bhiwani had maximum temperatures of 34.1 and 34.9 degrees Celsius, respectively. Ambala, Hisar and Narnaul received 0.2, 6 and 9 mm rainfall, respectively. In Punjab, Amritsar’s maximum temperature settled at 32.1 degrees Celsius, while maximum temperatures of Ludhiana and Patiala were 34.7 and 33 degrees Celsius. Rajasthan’s Chhatargarh in Bikaner district recorded a maximum of 7 cm rainfall. The rainfall was recorded since Friday till Saturday morning, the MeT Department said. Bap (Jodhpur), Nokha (Bikaner), Jawaja (Ajmer) and Khinvsar (Nagaur) each recorded 6 cm rains while several other places recorded rainfall of 5 cm or below during this period, it said. Ganganagar, Pilani, Phalodi received 10 mm, 3.1 mm, 0.8 mm rainfall respectively while Churu and Bikaner recorded 0.2 mm rains till Saturday evening since morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rains-lash-parts-of-delhi-uttar-pradesh-traffic-jams-in-several-areas-of-national-capital/story-eFqWIfuFMvesK66QQH3IRL.html
05-09-2020||City||Water logging, traffic snarls after rain on Saturday||New Delhi: Rain and thunderstorm across Delhi on Saturday left several arterial stretches inundated and caused severe traffic snarls on major roads. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said while most parts of the national capital received “moderate” rain, southwest Delhi and south Delhi recorded “heavy” rainfall.IMD data showed that till 8pm, Delhi’s Safdarjung observatory recorded 15.6 mm rainfall. The department said rainfall and thunderstorm were likely to continue through Saturday night. The maximum temperature was recorded at 36.8 degree Celsius while the minimum temperature settled at 26.4 degree Celsius.“The monsoon trough has remained near Delhi from September 3. This is the reason why the city has been receiving light rainfall in some parts and today (Saturday), we recorded moderate rainfall. Apart from this, the day time temperature in Delhi was high, which resulted in thunderstorm activity in Delhi-NCR,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said.Srivastava said a cyclonic circulation passing over northwest Rajasthan also contributed to Saturday’s rain.Light rain will continue in this region till September 7, the met department said.Delhi traffic police records showed that traffic slowed down in areas around Pragati Maidan, the Barapullah elevated corridor, Sarai Kale Khan, Moti Bagh, Munirka, Rajouri Garden, Mukarba Chowk, Britannia Chowk, Pul Prahladpur, Delhi Gate, Karol Bagh, West Patel Nagar, Maujpur crossing and Dwarka Link Road.IMD data shows that in August, Delhi had recorded 236.5 mm rainfall, which is the highest in the last seven years. In the first five days of September, however, Delhi has recorded only trace rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/water-logging-traffic-snarls-after-rain-on-saturday/story-o0cnTMpCSV9y2yTxYaar9N.html
05-09-2020||City||Fake currency racket busted in Delhi, 4 arrested||htreporters@hindustantimes.com New Delhi: Delhi Police on Saturday said they had busted an inter-state syndicate involved in printing and circulation of fake Indian currency. Four persons were arrested and R1.34 lakh of ready-to-use and R 20,000 of semi-finished fake notes, all in the denomination of R100, were found on them. The syndicate was active in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi-NCR and it usually printed and circulated fake notes in R100 and R200 denominations, senior police officers said. The arrested persons were identified as Mohammad Azeem Khan,47, Akil Ahmed,42, Akeel Ahmad alias doctor,45, and Nitin Patel,46. Equipment used to print fake notes was recovered from the men, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav. DCP Yadav said the special cell for the past few months had been working on various syndicates involved in the printing, supply and circulation of fake notes. Recently, the team received information about one such racket running from Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh. On August 30, the team learnt that two members of the syndicate would deliver a consignment of fake currency notes to someone in Delhi near the Anand Vihar bus terminal. “A trap was laid and two men – Azeem Khan and Akil Ahmed – were arrested with R1.20 lakh of fake notes. Their interrogation led to the arrest of Akeel Ahmed and Nitin Patel and the recovery of finished and semi-finished fake notes from their printing unit in Pilibhit,” said DCP Yadav. During interrogation, Yadav said, the arrested men said they were involved in manufacturing fake notes for nearly eight years. “The arrested men revealed that they have already circulated more than R25 lakhs of FICN in Delhi-NCR,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fake-currency-racket-busted-in-delhi-4-arrested/story-CfLDXRyX4ut4Z0Hc37T9eN.html
05-09-2020||City||Body of male Covid-19 patient turns out to be of female at graveyard, hospital booked||JamshedpurThe Jharkhand health department cut a sorry figure on Saturday after body of a male Covid-19 patient sent from a Ranchi-based hospital turned out to be that of a female at a graveyard here under Sakchi police station (PS) in Jamshedpur.The Ranchi district administration, however, lodged an FIR against the Ranchi-based Asclepius Hospital in Irwa late Saturday evening following a tweet by state health minister Banna Gupta after the family of the 60-year-old deceased Covid-19 patient from Azadnagar locality here lodged a complaint with the minister and Jamshedpur district administration. Abdul Hamid Ansari, elder brother of deceased Abdul Samid Ansari, said his brother had been suffering from pneumonia for the past 3-4 days after which they admitted him in Asclepius Hospital in Ranchi on September 1. “He died on Friday (September 4) after which we were handed over his body packed in a plastic kit today. But when we opened the face part of the packet for the last glimpse after offering Namaz, we found to our utter shock that this was body of a female,” said Hamid.He said this criminal negligence on the part of the hospital had exposed the health system in the state. “My brother had tested Corona negative at the time of admission but was declared positive later. We doubt even that because commission was all too evident in the hospital,” alleged Hamid.“Every day, we were charged Rs 25-30, 000 by the Asclepius Hospital. And how could any hospital send wrong bodies to wrong places! Licence of such hospitals must be cancelled immediately. We have complained to state health minister Banna Gupta and district administration here and they have assured to get our brother’s body for proper last rites,” Hamid said at the Sakchi graveyard in the city.Neyaz Sharif, another relative, said there was no transparency on Covid-19 treatment in the state health department or in any of the hospitals in Ranchi, Jamshedpur or any other city in the state. “Everything is arbitrary here. Families are getting no information about their patients for 10-12 days. Other states have declared Rs 3-4 lakh compensation in case of Covid-19 death but Jharkhand government has not declared any such policy,” said Sharif.Ranchi SDO Lokesh Mishra lodged an FIR against Asclepius Hospital management Saturday evening for grave lapse and negligence. “The hospital management had handed over the wrong body to a family in Jamshedpur. An FIR has been lodged against Asclepius Hospital after our investigation found the allegation to be true. Further action is being taken. Such negligence will not be tolerated,” the SDO said.“I had ordered the Ranchi deputy commissioner to investigate and take immediate action in the matter after I received the complaint from the family of the deceased from Azadnagar. FIR has been lodged and we want to assert against such negligence will not be tolerated at any cost during this Corona crisis,” said health minister Banna Gupta .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-of-male-covid-19-patient-turns-out-to-be-of-female-at-graveyard-hospital-booked/story-wGjdeCMq50LJw0SYTBio9L.html
05-09-2020||City||Stay alert, stay safe from online fraud||Phishing scams are not new. For years, scammers have tricked consumers into revealing crucial information pertaining to their credit cards, debit cards and bank accounts. So much so that financial institutions now routinely send out alerts to consumers, warning them about these fraudsters. Yet, a friend almost fell prey to a phishing fraud last week.He had only recently got a mail –a genuine one- from one of his credit card companies, saying he is going to lose all the reward points earned by him through spending on his credit card, if he failed to redeem them within a fortnight. So when he got a text message from his other credit card company saying that his points will expire in 24 hours and he should take immediate action to convert the points into cash to be credited to his card account, he did not initially suspect anything. He even clicked on the link (never make that mistake!) given at the end of the message and it opened up a form to be filled by him – that looked authentic enough with the logo of the bank, but the particulars asked for, got him suspicious. The form required him to provide not just his name and mobile number, but also his date of birth, credit card number, including the Card Verification Value (CVV) on the back of the card. So he went back to the message to check it again and this time, he noticed several grammatical errors that confirmed that it was a ‘smishing’ or a phishing via text messaging scam.This of course is a pre-Covid -19 fraud, which obviously works even now because scammers are still resorting to it! In fact another old trick -- about a friend who is terribly sick and urgently needs financial help -- has now been modified to link it to Covid. Many consumers have received e-mails from friends whose e-mails have obviously been hacked, asking for money for Covid treatment. The new version of this is a phone call or an e-mail informing the recipient that one of his or her contacts has been found to be Covid positive and so the recipient has to undergo a Covid test and needs to immediately fill up a form for the test and the payment for the test and also self-quarantine. People succumb to it, on account of the sheer panic created by the possibility of having contracted the disease. Such callers may also resort to ‘ID spoofing’ or fake caller ID information, to make you believe that it’s from an authentic source!Imposters basically try to play on consumers’ vulnerabilities to create confusion and fear that would cloud their judgement and prompt them to take a step that would help the hoaxer. For example, they will send a message saying someone has tried to log into your account using a wrong login, so you need to immediately verify your account or else your email account will be disabled. Clicking on the link provided for verification will introduce a malware.Similarly, there could be an e-mail , informing that your credit score has plummeted and asking you to click on the link provided to check your score, understand how it had gone down and how to improve on it. You click the link and you are in the impostor’s trap.Fake websites offering ‘authentic’ medicines at low rates are another not- so- new form of fraud that has now gained ‘popularity’ in these Covid times, when consumers, particularly senior citizens, prefer to get their medicines home-delivered. Consumers often receive emails with a link to such portals that rob them of their money as well as credit or debit card details. In March this year, the International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol) urged consumers to exercise utmost caution while buying medical supplies online and said criminals often used web addresses that were almost identical to the legitimate ones.So stay alert, stay safe!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stay-alert-stay-safe-from-online-fraud/story-WrkLbocnCuP24fWkH0XlKO.html
05-09-2020||Lifestyle||DIY sanitisers: Denizens take to making sanitisers for skin’s sake||Flaky skin as a result of using store bought sanitiser has become a major problem that city residents have been facing amid the pandemic. With Unlock 4.0 en route, the use of sanitisers in office spaces, malls and restaurants has only increased, with guards dumping large amounts of it in hands of all visitors.An implication of this problem has citizens making DIY sanitisers at home that are skin friendly and moisturising! “The 18% increase in GST, along with the nearby shop usually running out of stock propelled me to make a sanitiser that is not only more skin friendly but has moisturising benefits also,” says Neha Bindal, a Delhiite. She made her own sanitiser at home. “I mixed tea tree oil with witch hazel (that can be ordered online), vitamin E oil and aloe vera gel (taken from the plant in house) and voila! A sanitiser with moisturising properties is ready,” she says.City mums, who have young kids at home, are preferring to make alcohol free sanitisers. “I took vinegar, which is known as an effective antibacterial agent, and mixed it with few drops of lavender oil to mask the smell. I gave my kids their individual spray bottles,” says Himanshi Puri, a Gurugram resident. Denizens are also using, rubbing alcohol to make a moisturising sanitiser. “Home made sanitisers are good, as long as you balance the alcohol percentage with skin friendly ingredients. I used 99% rubbing alcohol and mixed it with aloe vera gel and citrus essential oil. And it turned out skin friendly,” says Thunlai Brhama, another Delhiite.  Our lives have come to a standstill as all of us are locked down at home worrying about the safety of our loved ones due to CoVid-19. Hygiene has been a major talking point lately as hand sanitizers are sold out in most countries. And as a mother not only is it important for me to stock up all necessities at home but its a difficult time as children aren't in school, aren't attending birthday parties or being allowed to go out. Hence as part of home schooling my daughter Samairra, I decided to teach her how to make her own hand sanitizer. All of you can try this at home and in fact, its chemical free and 100% original as many duplicates are being sold in the market! And as an activity its great to teach a child in the current climate and as a bonus they are partly learning science as well as art too! . . Click On The Link In My Bio To Watch The Video.! . . . #HandSanitizer #HomeMadeSanitizer #Covid19 #CoronaVirus #CoronaVirusPandemic #CoronaVirusOutBreak #JuhiPamar #JuhiBlogs #JuhiVlogs #Vlogs #YoutubeVlog #VideoTime #StayQuarantined #StayHome #BeSafe #BeHealthy #TakeCare #TakePrecautions #SelfQuarantine #KidsAtHome #DIYSanitizer #MakeYourOwnSanitizer #HomeSchooling @samairratalesA post shared by  Juhi Parmar (@juhiparmar) on Mar 18, 2020 at 8:48am PDTEven social media and TV is inspiring some to make Ayurvedic sanitisers. “I was following a yoga teacher on social media who said that to make a sanitiser, one needs water, neem leaves, basil, alum, camphor and Aloe Vera. I followed the process and made sanitisers for whole family. let’s see how it turns out,” says Kalpna Sharma, another Gurugram resident. Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/diy-sanitisers-denizens-take-to-making-sanitisers-for-skin-s-sake/story-UHeGx0HjirkAxqvUd0bzwN.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC pulls up Panjab University V-C for not replying to contempt notice||The Punjab and Haryana high court has pulled up Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar for not responding to a contempt notice issued in June this year. The notice was issued in a case pertaining to the promotion policy for faculty of Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital, Panjab University (PU). Last May, disposing of a plea from 37 faculty members of the dental institute, the high court (HC) had directed the varsity to take a final decision on framing their promotion policy within four months. PU kept dillydallying, and when on June 10 this year, the HC found that the order has not been complied with, it issued show-cause notices to the vice-chancellor (V-C) and registrar Karamjit Singh to respond by July 20. On July 20, the registrar responded, submitting that the promotion policy framed in 2007 based on Punjab pattern will continue to be followed at the dental college. However, the V-C had not filed any response. “This court is unable to understand the reluctance and hesitation shown by the vice-chancellor to respond to the contempt notice, which conduct apparently smacks of certain self conceit. However, in the interest of justice, one more opportunity is granted to do the needful,” the bench of justice Arun Monga said, seeking Raj Kumar’s response while observing that the registrar has responded and tendered an unconditional apology. The PU’s counsel had submitted that the same apology/affidavit be also considered on behalf of the V-C. However, court did not agree to it, stating that the contempt notices were issued in individual capacity to separate functionaries, and gave the V-C time till September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-pulls-up-panjab-university-v-c-for-not-replying-to-contempt-notice/story-6fN1uEZWudywjqXkxAuYMJ.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh district education officer dies of Covid||Chandigarh district education officer Harbir Singh Anand, 58, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday passed away in early hours on Saturday after his blood oxygen level dipped.Anand had opted for home isolation, but was shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, when his condition worsened, confirmed health officials. He was a resident of Nayagaon in Mohali. His case has been added to neither Chandigarh’s nor Mohali’s tally so far.Anand was earlier principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 10, from 2014 to 2019. In an unfortunate turn of events, his death happens to have coincided with Teachers’ Day. “He had served the department for 33 years and was well respected by everyone,” said Bhag Singh Kairon, president of Joint Action Committee of Government School Teachers of Chandigarh.Three other employees of the DEO office in Sector 19 had also tested positive along with Anand. UT education secretary Sarpreet Singh Gill said: “We are following the protocol and will get all employees of the DEO office and who had come in contact with Anand and other three employees tested. For now, the office has been closed.”234 fresh cases, 1 more deathMeanwhile, for the fifth consecutive day, more than 200 Covid cases were reported in Chandigarh. A death was also confirmed, taking the toll to 69. Also, 185 patients were discharged, including those who were asymptomatic and completed 10 days in home isolation.With 234 fresh cases, the total has reached 5,502, of which 2,140 are active. As many as 70% of them are in home isolation. The person who died has been identified as a 27-year-old man from Sector 14, who also suffered from diabetes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-education-officer-of-chandigarh-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-QUedRftKLzu0dhRLwm7tHP.html
05-09-2020||City||Infant among 5 dead in Mohali, Covid toll inches towards 100||Five people, including an eight-month-old girl, died of Covid-19 in Mohali on Saturday while 172 people tested positive for the virus. As many as 99 people have died so far while 4,667 have tested positive in the district. While 2,422 patients have been cured, including 79 discharged on Saturday, 2,146 cases remain active. The eight-month-old girl from Mohali village was undergoing treatment at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, but could not survive, said the health authorities. Other patients who died include a 60-year-old man from Kurali and another of the same age from Mohali. A 52-year-old woman from Dera Bassi and a 65-year-old man from Kansal succumbed too.Among the fresh cases, 55 are from Mohali city, 38 from Gharuan and 28 each from Kharar and Dhakoli. 6 Harayana CM residence staffers +veAn 80-year-old man is among three people who succumbed to Covid-19 in Panchkula, taking the district’s toll to 28 on Saturday.Meanwhile, six staffers of the Haryana chief minister’s residence are among 142 people who have tested positive for the virus. The tally has climbed up to 2,941, of which 1,171 are still active and 1,742 patients have been cured. The elderly man who died was from Pinjore and had tuberculosis. Another man from Pinjore, aged 55, also succumbed. He was suffering from hypertension. The third case is of a 55-year-old man from Majri Chowk, Old Panchkula, who had diabetes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infant-among-5-dead-in-mohali-covid-toll-inches-towards-100/story-8s7RGMvImB12naCTAhUGnO.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Defying MHA guidelines, Haryana Olympic Association to hold elections on September 19||Defying the ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines on Covid-19 pandemic, which restricts any sports or political congregation till September 20, the Haryana Olympic Association (HOA) has decided to hold its elections on September 19 at the HOA Bhawan in Panchkula’s sector 3. The four-year tenure of the current HOA body will be ending in September-October. The Haryana Olympic Association (HOA) is led by former additional director general of police (ADGP) PV Rathee. As many as 33 sports associations are affiliated with the HOA, each unit having a voting right of three while there are 21 district Olympic associations and four independent and departmental units, each having a single voting right. The total voting strength of the state Olympic body is 124.As per the current MHA guidelines, any social/academic/sports/cultural/religious and political functions and other congregations are only allowed from September 21 onwards with a ceiling of 100 persons. Before that, there is a complete ban on the above activities.Returning officer, Sandeep Vermani, has forwarded a letter, dated September 3, to all affiliated units, including district Olympic associations headed by the respective deputy commissioners, seeking the name of their representatives for casting the vote in the HOA polls.“After accepting the assignment, the undersigned has drawn up the schedule of the elections of the HOA to be held on September 19 from 10am onwards,” stated the letter with its subject “ Conducting the elections to the executive committee members and other office bearers of the HOA”.On July 22, the HOA had sought permission from Panchkula deputy commissioner to hold its annual general body meeting in the last week of August. However, the permission was denied in view of the MHA guidelines on the pandemic. Now, for the elections, the HOA has refrained from seeking the administration’s permission.Vermani said, “We will be taking care of the social distancing norms and if there is any such issue, we might look for virtual options, like holding the elections through Zoom.”However, the point nine of the election schedule issued by Vermani clearly mentions that the voting will be held during the general body meeting on September 19 (between 12 noon to 2pm) at HOA Bhawan in Panchkula.There is no mention of holding the polls through Zoom in the election schedule and as per the Indian Olympic Association’s (IOA) constitution, which mentions abide to all the state units, the elections can only be held through physical presence and secret voting and there is no other option, including zoom (virtual), available.Indian Olympic Association’s secretary general Rajiv Mehta said, “We are yet to receive an official communication from the HOA regarding the elections and seeking an observer from IOA. Moreover, at the time of pandemic, there is no need to rush for the elections.”“As per the guidelines received from the International Olympic Committee, which we have forwarded to all our affiliated units and is applicable to each of them, any unit/body whose tenure is going to end during the pandemic can extend their term by six months,” Mehta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/defying-mha-guidelines-haryana-olympic-association-to-hold-elections-on-september-19/story-UgsNzfOUp84kAd6UrpbCkM.html
05-09-2020||Ranchi||Hemant Soren writes to PM Modi against centre’s GST compensation proposal||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the centre not giving full GST compensation to the states, saying this “act of sovereign default” runs against the very spirit of the cooperative federalism.In a letter addressed to the prime minister, Soren said this is symptomatic of the “withering trust” between the centre and the states.Also read: Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Incarcerated Lalu’s political meetings cause uproarIn the letter, dated September 4, Soren said the states were given assurance that the centre would compensate the losses they suffer for the next five years, but it has just been three years, and “we find ourselves deserted”.“Reluctance and inability of the GOI to give full compensation to the states is betrayal of the commitment it made in the Union Parliament and also in all the council meetings held so far (sic),” the chief minister said.Soren is the latest non-NDA chief ministers to come out against the centre’s offer on the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to the states.Soren is heading a coalition government in Jharkhand consisting of JMM, Congress and the RJD.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also written to Modi, saying depriving states of GST compensation is an “attempt to undermine federalism” and urged him not to belie the trust between the states and the centre on the issue.Also read: Over 1 lakh respond to Jharkhand CM’s Twitter poll on NEET-JEE examsBesides the two, the chief ministers of Punjab, Kerala, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Rajasthan and Puducherry have also rejected the centres proposal.Banerjee and Soren were among the opposition parties CMs who had participated in a virtual meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, a day before the GST council meeting.In the 41st meeting of GST Council on August 27, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the Covid-19 pandemic is an “act of God” which has hit GST collection and ruled out paying compensation to states from its coffers.As per the centre’s calculations, the compensation requirement of states in current fiscal would be Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore would come from levy of cess.Out of the shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, the shortfall due to GST implementation is Rs 97,000 crore and the remaining is due to Covid-19 impact.The centre has given two options to states - to either borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore or borrow only Rs 97,000 crore through a special window, which would be provided by the RBI- to meet the revenue shortfall.Referring to the prime minister’s speech at the launch of the GST in July 2017, Soren said, Modi had portrayed the new tax regime as a great example of cooperative federalism that would herald inclusive growth of the nation.“I echo your sentiments but you would agree that India as a nation can grow only if its constituent states also grow and become self-reliant. But reluctance of the central government to fulfil its constitutional obligations regarding GST compensation goes against the interests of the states and the spirit of cooperative federalism,” he said.“... Jharkhand contributes to compensation fund a cess of nearly Rs 5,000 crore from the mineral sector alone. What we get in return is just a paltry sum of nearly Rs 150 crore as monthly compensation.“And now we are being asked to borrow at a time when the state is hard pressed to fulfil salaries of government servants,” he added.Soren said that as the state’s economy is in a precarious situation at present, it needs more funds to take care of farmers, migrant workers, those in the unorganised sector and unemployed youths.“At this critical juncture we naturally expected you to give us more than just the admissable compensation. We also expected you to announce that the GST compensation would continue even beyond the original period of five years,” he said.Urging the prime minister to intervene in the matter and issue directions to the ministry concerned for the release of the compensation amount, Soren said, it will not only melt away all the apprehensions but also reinforce the trust in the spirit of cooperative federalism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/hemant-soren-writes-to-pm-modi-against-centre-s-gst-compensation-proposal/story-v9LduSZrtSjaVXk51KjAhM.html
05-09-2020||NA||9,746 fresh cases push Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally to nearly 390,000||Karnataka on Saturday registered 9,746 cases and 128 deaths due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, taking the overall tally to 389,232, the state health department said. The total cases include 283,298 discharges and nearly 6,300 deaths. The state also witnessed record 9,102 patients getting discharged after recovery on Saturday. The health department in its bulletin added that out of the 99,617 active cases, 98,848 patients are under isolation at designated Covid-19 hospitals and are reported to be stable where 769 patients are in ICU. Out of the total cases reported on Saturday, 3,093 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. Bengaluru Urban reported the maximum cases on Saturday followed by districts such as Mysuru (790), Belagavi (473), Davangere (395) and Dakshina Kannada (377) etc. Also read: How India reached the grim figure of 4 million Covid-19 casesThe maximum discharges and positive cases are from Bengaluru Urban too which stand at 101,152 and 144,757 respectively. Over 3.2 million samples have been tested in Karnataka so far out of which 76,761 samples were tested on Saturday. Meanwhile, India on Saturday registered yet another highest single-day spike of 86,432 Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally to over 4 million, as per the union health ministry’s dashboard. This is the third consecutive day that over 80,000 cases have been added in a span of 24 hours in the country. As many as 70,072 recoveries in last 24 hours took the recovery rate to over 77 per cent. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/9-746-fresh-cases-push-karnatka-s-covid-19-tally-to-nearly-390-000/story-0GfRDJbLZVgYZx3IwBBoQK.html
05-09-2020||Noida||In highest single-day surge, Noida records 213 fresh Covid-19 cases||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Saturday recorded its highest single-day spike of 213 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 8,686, official data showed. (How India crossed 40 lakh Covid-19 case mark. Read more)The number of active coronavirus cases reached 1,299, up from 1,188 on Friday, 1,163 on Thursday, 1,114 on Wednesday, 1,067 on Tuesday, 1,055 on Monday and 1,009 on Sunday, according to data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department for a 24-hour period.The district’s death toll stands at 46. On the brighter side, the mortality rate among positive patients continued to decline and reached 0.52% on Saturday, one of the lowest in the state, data showed. Also, 94 more patients got discharged during the 24-hour period and so far, 7,341 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district, it showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar stands sixth among districts in Uttar Pradesh in terms of recoveries, 11th in active cases, and 20th in death toll, data stated.It was 0.54% on Friday, 0.55% on Thursday, 0.54% on Wednesday, 0.55% on Tuesday, 0.56% on Monday and 0.57% on Sunday, according to official statistics.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients dropped slightly to 84.51% from 85.44% on Friday, 85.49% on Thursday, 85.86% on Wednesday. It was 86.20% on Tuesday, as per the statistics.There were 59,963 active cases across Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. So far, 1,95,959 patients have recovered across the state, while the death toll linked to Covid-19 climbed to 3,843, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-213-new-covid-19-cases-today-biggest-single-day-spike/story-NkJM7bLwgPXlGqiKBWfcZK.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Happy Teacher’s Day: Posters, acts wished Delhi-NCR teachers virtually||This Teacher’s Day, we thought, would be low-key as children and teachers won’t be present physically in the school. Then, we thought why not plan an online session to salute the teachers... After all, teachers have also ensured that learning continues during the pandemic despite all the challenges that we have faced,” says Anuradha Rai, principal of a Gurugram-based school. School children across Delhi-NCR have come up with creative ways to thank their teachers, albeit virtually. Samarth Singhal, 8, who has made a poster, says, “I drew a tree to represent my teacher and wrote: Teachers plant the seeds of knowledge that last a lifetime.” Amyrah Chowdhry, 7, has written on her poster: “Thank you teachers for working day and night to find innovative ways so that our education doesn’t suffer when we are at home. Teachers are our corona warriors!” Kiara Gupta, 7, has been practising for days to portray her teacher by wearing a saree like her, and imitating her. Ahead of the little one’s final online performance, today, her mother Megha Saraf Gupta, a teacher in Gurugram, says, “She was so excited to do something to say thank you. So, I draped my dupatta around her like a saree, and she has been practising to speak like her ma’am for days now!” Even teachers are excited to see what their pupils do to celebrate this day. Robin Bansal, a Delhi-based school teacher, says, “Every year, I get lots of chocolates, cards and cookies from my students, but this time I’m waiting to know what’s in store... It’s the love and respect from them that keeps us going.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/happy-teacher-s-day-posters-acts-wished-delhi-ncr-teachers-virtually/story-UnkQ6sPbyFDfQ2HSHVRjRO.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Online registration for admissions to ITIs in Haryana from September 7||Online registration for admissions to engineering and non-engineering trade courses in all state and private industrial training institutes of Haryana will start from September 7, an official spokesman said. The candidates can register on www.itiharyana.gov.in to get details of guidelines regarding admission, list of district-wise institutes, information related to the seats available trade-wise and institute-wise. The online admission forms can be filled till September 22. The information about the complete programme of merit and seat allotment for various admission stages will be made available on the website. The spokesperson said in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, applicants should submit scanned copies of the original certificates of educational qualifications, reservation and permanent address etc and deposit the fee online or upload the information in the admission form itself. The applicants can also download the ITI Haryana App of the department to get the latest information of trades and institutions. The spokesman said for the convenience of applicants during the admission, helpline services will be available on 7888490270-74 from 9am to 5.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-registration-for-admissions-to-itis-in-haryana-from-september-7/story-6rk12aNmWNUlqwTPZuEfpI.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Maximum temperatures hover around normal levels in Punjab, Haryana despite rains||Maximum temperatures stayed close to normal levels in most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, even as rains lashed a few areas. Chandigarh, the common capital of both states, recorded its high at 34.3 degrees Celsius, according to a report of the Meteorological Department. In Haryana, Ambala and Bhiwani had maximum temperatures of 34.1 and 34.9 degrees Celsius, respectively. Hisar, Karnal and Narnaul recorded their maximum temperatures at 36, 34.6 and 34.5 degrees Celsius, respectively, the weather office said. Ambala, Hisar and Narnaul received 0.2, 6 and 9 mm rainfall, respectively. In Punjab, Amritsar’s maximum temperature settled at 32.1 degrees Celsius, while maximum temperatures of Ludhiana and Patiala were 34.7 and 33 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana received 0.4 mm rainfall. The MeT department has predicted light to moderate rains at a few places in both states in the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/maximum-temperatures-hover-around-normal-levels-in-punjab-haryana-despite-rains/story-EI2CRfifQorvbCLvkREMRN.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Over 1,500 agriculture officials to verify bajra crop data in Haryana||The Haryana agriculture department has deputed over 1,500 officials in all districts to ensure accurate and timely verification of bajra crop data. About 7 lakh farmers have so far registered 38.88 lakh acres on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ (MFMB) portal. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal, said 727 agriculture graduates and 800 Saksham Yuva had already been deployed to ensure complete verification of bajra crop sown. He said farmers who want to seek redressal for issues related to land records should contact the district revenue officer through the MFMB portal. However, for any other grievance, they should contact the deputy director, agriculture. The DDAs will ensure resolution of their issues within seven days. Urging the farmers to register on the MFMB portal, he said, the department had set a target to ensure 100% coverage of farmers under the MFMB scheme. “This will ensure that farmers were able to get their harvest procured at minimum support price, besides being able to avail incentives and subsidies being offered by the department. It also helps put a curb on malpractices such as sale of stored harvest or crop brought in from other states, which puts extra burden on their resources,” Kaushal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-1-500-agriculture-officials-to-verify-bajra-crop-data-in-haryana/story-0GhQ40pO4mJUhqIcJdXgYP.html
05-09-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro plans to run special services for NEET candidates on Sept 13||The Metro Railway in Kolkata is planning to run special services for NEET candidates on September 13 to help them reach their examination centres, a top official said Saturday.As per the plan, candidates along with guardians will be allowed to board the trains on showing their admit cards, Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi told PTI.He said the modalities are being worked out and the details will be shared next week.The metro authorities are yet to announce the date of resuming normal services.The Union Home Ministry, in its Unlock 4 guidelines, has granted permission for the resumption of metro services from September 7 in a graded manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-metro-plans-to-run-special-services-for-neet-candidates-on-sept-13/story-08MClYLafYNZW9WdsonFxO.html
05-09-2020||City||Unidentified woman’s body recovered from canal in Haryana’s Kurukshetra||Police on Saturday recovered the body of an unidentified woman from Narwana branch canal in Haryana’s Kurukshetra. The body was spotted by locals who informed the police. Police officials said the deceased has not been identified yet. “The woman’s age is about 25 and she was wearing a black t-shirt. There is a possibility that the body might have come from Punjab,” Jhansa police station incharge Jagdish Singh said, adding that no injury marks were found on the body.“She might be from nearby districts as the body has not decomposed,” he added.The body has been sent for postmortem at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Government Hospital in Kurukshetra and police officials are trying ascertain her identity. Half-naked body of woman found in KarnalPolice have recovered a half-naked body of a woman from novelty road in Karnal city. Police officials said the woman, whose age is about 50, has not been identified yet. They said as per preliminary investigation it seems to be a case of murder as injury marks were found on her body.Karnal City Police station incharge Harjinder Singh said a case has been registered under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code against unknown person and the actual cause of death can be ascertained after the postmortem report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unidentified-woman-s-body-recovered-from-canal-in-haryana-s-kurukshetra/story-IcTwvpUNgV2J0c9OkE8YyI.html
05-09-2020||Pune||Prakash Javedkar participates in review meet over Covid situation in Pune||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday participated in a review meeting over coronavirus situation in Pune today.The Union minister, who hails from Pune, reviewed the measures taken by the district administration to contain the spread of the deadly virus.Notably, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Health Minister Rajesh Tope also attended this meeting.Javedkar had earlier held a video conference on March 21 with Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaiskar, District Collector Naval Kishor Ram and other officials to discuss the Covid-19 situation of this city.According to the Union Health Ministry, at present, Maharashtra has 2,11,325 active cases of coronavirus. So far, 6,25,773 have been cured and 25,964 have died after contracting the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/prakash-javedkar-participates-in-review-meet-over-covid-situation-in-pune/story-SHU7bUye1Lc8wc04iGPYOP.html
05-09-2020||City||Tricity Buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||No car is too fast for Chandigarh Traffic Police Officiating senior superintendent of police (SSP, Traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena has penchant for cars. This could be observed from the tweet he put out about a Ford Mustang driver was sent an e-challan for jumping the traffic signal after a resident clicked a picture of it. “V8 5.0 L engine with a horse power of 460 BHP which goes from 0-100 kmph in 4.6 seconds but not fast enough to save you from a challan by the Chandigarh Traffic Police,” Meena wrote. Cong members have last laugh as BJP camp fights it out at MC meet With BJP councillors taking on each other over the location of the animal carcass incineration plant, Chandigarh mayor Raj Bala Malik found herself in a spot during the municipal corporation’s general house meet the other day. Opposing the plant in Sector 25, a woman BJP councillor asked Malik to decide on the location. Malik was mum till the MC commissioner came to her rescue and sarcastically asked if the mayor were to take all decisions, why convene a meeting. A nominated councillor suggested, “Why not toss a coin and decide between Sector 25 and Industrial Area?” Malik skirted the matter, saying only the House has the power to decide on such issues. All this while, Congress councillors could be seen grinning and watching the differences in the BJP camp. AAP protesters let Covid guard down in Mohali Whenever protesters hit the street, they forget that we’re living in changed times amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) activists gathered outside the District Administrative Complex in Sector 76, Mohali, on Friday to seek the dismissal of state social justice minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in connection with the post-matric SC scholarship scam. Many of the protesters were neither wearing masks nor observing social distancing. On the one hand, Mohali district has crossed the 4,500 Covid-19 cases mark, while on the other hand no police action was taken against the violators of safety guidelines. A token of gratitude for their teachers With no Teachers’ Day celebrations amid the Covid-19 pandemic, students of government schools of Chandigarh took it upon themselves to honour their teachers on the occasion. Principals of government schools said that students made posters and cards for their favourite teachers and handed them over to the schools by Friday. Some students made dance videos for their teachers, while some drew pictures of their favourite teachers. Chandigarh DGP’s tweet gets him bouquets, brickbats Social media spares none. A recent tweet by Chandigarh director general of police Sanjay Baniwal sharing the news of his promotion not only got him congratulatory notes but also criticism. Sharing his promotion letter, Baniwal thanked “Prabhu Shri Ram, parents and Guru Ma” along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore. Soon after, congratulatory notes started pouring in for the 1989-batch IPS officer. Gradually, there were tweets that were critical. While the DGP ensured he thanked each of those who congratulated him, he chose to avoid replying to the critical tweets. A netizen reminded him that these promotions are “based on the grace of merit and experience”, while another said: “DGP sahab is ensuring his entry into the good books of the ruling establishment.” An N-95 and fingers crossed for Panchkula’s civil surgeon Panchkula district is seeing the highest number of Covid-19 cases per day in September. The daily count is more than 150 and coronavirus is making its presence felt in government offices, including the civil surgeon’s office. Dr Jasjeet Kaur has finally switched from the cloth mask to a safer N-95 and many in the civil surgeon’s office are keeping their fingers crossed, hoping their madam (as they address her) stays safe at such a crucial stage when the district needs her the most. When being a doctor’s kin doesn’t help at PGI Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, is strictly adhering to the protocol of not admitting asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 patients as the facility has been marked for the critically-ill. Recently, a relative of a senior doctor was not admitted to the hospital as he was not having any symptoms and the doctor’s request to admit the person for better monitoring was not accepted. “I’ve bought him an oximeter and asked him to check the saturation levels and stay in touch,” the dejected doctor said. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh and Amanjeet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-y5M56vF3d5pXkWX3lyfTzN.html
05-09-2020||City||Over 25,000 LED streetlights to illuminate Karnal||More than 25,000 smart and energy efficient LED streetlights will be installed in chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s constituency Karnal by the end of this year, as per officials. The amount being spent on the project has not been disclosed yet. However, people associated with the project said over ₹30 crore will be spent on installation of these LED streetlights under the smart city project.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, who is also the CEO of Karnal Smart City Limited, said, “Tenders for this project will be released soon. As of now, four bidders have shown interest in the project.”He said samples of the submitted LED will be tested on the ground to evaluate its efficiency. “The live demonstration for the project has been scheduled for September 8. After this, financial bids will be opened to qualified bidders and after evaluating the process, the letter of intent will be issued to the lowest bidders,” Yadav said.He said the LEDs will have a fully integrated system with smart feeder panels and radio frequency-based individually controlled lights. “It will help in saving 50-70% energy as compared to conventional lights. Besides automatically switching on and off in the day and night respectively, it has an energy metre to record and analyse consumption, prevent theft and fault monitoring for reduced turnaround time,” Yadav added.The deputy commissioner said Karnal had emerged as the cleanest city in Haryana by getting the 17th position in the Swachh Survekshan 2020. He said the installation of smart streetlights in Karnal will not only uplift the image of the city but also reduce the maintenance time and cost with its smart features.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-25-000-led-streetlights-to-illuminate-karnal/story-aNFT7mVSDWuEAYnA0CyKkM.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM ends self-isolation after testing negative for Covid-19||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday ended his week-long self-isolation after testing negative for Covid. The chief minister had isolated himself after coming in contact with two MLAs who had later tested positive. He came in contact with the legislators in the Vidhan Sabha on August 28 during a one-day session of the House. Captain Amarinder, who presided over a virtual high-level meeting of ministers, Congress MLAs and senior officials, disclosed during the interaction that he had got himself tested on Saturday and was found negative. This is the third time the chief minister has got himself tested for coronavirus since the outbreak in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-ends-self-isolation-after-testing-negative-for-covid-19/story-mPirhHBFzVpuIL0LDzitgP.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||SGPC chief apologises to Sikh community for missing Guru Granth Sahib saroops; makes inquiry report public||Under fire for 328 Guru Granth Sahib saroops (copies) going missing, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal on Saturday apologised to the Panth (Sikh community) for hurting its sentiments and made the inquiry report public. After presiding over a meeting of SGPC executive committee at Teja Singh Samundari Hall in Amritsar, Longowal said, “The saroops are not missing, rather they were issued to the sangat (devotees) but the records were not maintained for which action has been taken against erring staffers.” He said that the report will be uploaded on the official website of the gurdwara body. Acting against those indicted in the report on the Akal Takht’s orders, the SGPC executive on August 27 dismissed six officials and employees, and suspended five, including the Dharam Parchar Committee secretary, besides terminating the services of controversial chartered accountant Satinder Singh Kohli. The SGPC executive also passed a resolution to conduct its budget session on September 28 that was delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-chief-apologises-to-sikh-community-for-missing-guru-granth-sahib-saroops-makes-inquiry-report-public/story-SbjUcJJjr1ZfuKFq4OUUsL.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Nizamuddin dargah to reopen on Sunday||The mausoleum of Muslim saint Hazrat Nizamuddin in New Delhi will reopen for devotees on Sunday with strict social distancing norms in place six months after it was closed as part of sweeping measures of check the Covid-19 pandemic. It will remain open to visitors between 5 am and 10 pm, the shrine’s caretakers said.The area around the shrine was one of the first containment zones after the nearby Tablighi Jamaat headquarters emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in March.The caretakers said the devotees will be required to maintain a minimum six feet distance at the shrine and will not be allowed to spend more than 15 minutes there. They have set up various points, where the devotees will have to sanitise their hands. “Wearing masks inside the dargah is mandatory. No bags or luggage will be allowed...,” the shrine management said in a statement. “No sitting or waiting is allowed...”The devotees will not be allowed to offer flowers, perfumes, and incense at the shrine or touch any part of the mausoleum. The Thursday night qawwalis at the dargah, which attract hundreds of visitors, will not be organised for now. “Anybody suffering from fever, cough, or cold or any symptoms of Covid-19 will not be allowed inside the dargah,” said a caretaker. Children below 10 and senior citizens above 65 will be discouraged from visiting the shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nizamuddin-dargah-to-reopen-on-sunday/story-v9lAbZcRBcDemHUKKKf4fN.html
05-09-2020||Pune||552 PMC employees Covid positive, 27 deaths||A larger number of employees from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) are testing positive for the Covid -19 infection as they are working on the frontline of the ongoing pandemic. Until today, a total of 552 employees tested positive for the Covid-19 infection and 27 of them lost their life. PMC employee welfare officer Shivaji Daundkar said, “Many employees are testing Covid positive. Until today, a total of 552 employees tested positive and PMC has lost 27 employees. Among 552 positive employees, 334 recovered and 191 are taking treatment. Some department heads and senior officers have also tested positive.” Along with the employees, many elected members from the PMC tested positive. The PMC did not have an exact number of elected numbers tested positive and took treatment at various hospitals. One of the Covid-19 positive elected members said on anonymity that he personally faced difficulties in getting a bed in a private hospital. After requesting two to three times I got a bed in a private hospital as I was feeling discomfort at home. The officer from the health department said, “Almost all the senior officers from the health department tested Covid -19 positive. As the health department employees and officers are coming in direct contact with patients and their relatives, the ratio of testing positive in the health department is high. The PMC promised to give Rs1 crore compensation to the employees who die due to Covid -19. The general body of the PMC had approved this resolution. Opposition leader Deepali Dhumal in the PMC demanded to give compensation to the employees’ relatives immediately as per the policy framed by the general body. After unlocking, a large number of citizens are visiting the PMC. Mainly, the relatives of Covid 19 positive patients are visiting the civic body to get the benefit for various health schemes. Some of the visitors and employees are relaxed and are not following the mask guidelines which is adding more patients to the Covid tally, said a senior PMC officer who himself tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/552-pmc-employees-covid-positive-27-deaths/story-sCvjuE5kAA1GBAYlHGlo3J.html
05-09-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 3,600 fresh cases, 95 deaths||Pune district reported 3,600 fresh positives and 95 deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, as per the state health department. This puts the progressive positive count at 1,89,722, of which 1,30,366 have recovered. The death toll for the district is 4,333 and 55,023 are the total number of active cases. Pune rural reported more single day deaths than both, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwwad municipal corporations. PMC reported 1,689 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,08,117 and 38 deaths in the last 24 hours till Friday evening, which puts the death toll as per PMC data, at 2,692. The PCMC reported 1,053 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 51,826 and 17 deaths in the last 24 hours till Friday evening which took the death toll to 833. Pune rural reported 858 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 29,779. Pune rural reported 40 deaths in last 24 hours till Friday evening which took the death toll to 808.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-3-600-fresh-cases-95-deaths/story-4QVwwAMye4xGloPA8x0KuL.html
05-09-2020||Pune||Sharad Pawar expresses concern over COEP jumbo facility||Following a series of complaints about the jumbo facility in Pune, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar held meetings with the administration and party leaders from the city and raised concerns about the recently set up Covid centre. His meeting comes in the wake of NCP and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar being targeted for alleged “mismanagement” at the jumbo facility, set up after spending Rs 84 crore. The 800-bed facility currently operating at the capacity of 400 beds at the College of Engineering Pune (COEP) at Shivajinagar has been inviting criticism as patients have complained about poor food quality, shortage of medical staff and medicines. Pawar during the meeting with Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Friday afternoon expressed unhappiness about the management of the facility, said an official requesting anonymity. Rao, despite numerous attempts, could not be reached on phone and text messages remained unanswered. Later, during a meeting with party leaders, Pawar asked party workers from the city to help people get timely medical help, Vandana Chavan, NCP Rajya Sabha MP, said. “The NCP chief expressed his concerns over the mismanagement at the jumbo facility at COEP ground,” she said. The facility has come in the eye of the storm after the death of a journalist, which was preceded by two more people dying due to delayed treatment. “Took review of Covid pandemic situation in Pune from Vandana Chavan and Amol Kolhe,” Pawar later tweeted. PMC chief blames manpower crunch Due to a manpower crunch, the civic administration had to stop admitting patients at the jumbo hospital, said PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar. Taking cognisance of the complaints from patients, Kumar has served show-cause notices to the agencies operating the facility. “We have stopped the admission of patients at the jumbo Covid-19 hospital as of now,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sharad-pawar-expresses-concern-as-over-coep-jumbo-facility/story-MO3avC3QgfWMo5GOykEHON.html
05-09-2020||Pune||NGO seeks performance details from Pune MP Girish Bapat||A city-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) PuneVotes has sought details from MP Girish Bapat on his performance in the last one year and sent him a questionnaire regarding the same.PuneVotes is a branch of MumbaiVotes.com which is a not for profit, independent info-bank. The portal is the outreach arm of the informed voter project which is a registered non-profit institution with the charity commissioner’s office in Mumbai.The questionnaire has been sourced from promises made by him through a manifesto for Pune city released during Lok Sabha Election 2019. Other promises are sourced from newspapers from April 2019 to April 2020 one-year period.Avinay Sanyogita, researcher, MumbaiVotes, said, “We believe that it’s not just the constitutional but also an ethical duty of elected representatives to fulfil promises made to people. They should take the initiative and declare their performance to the citizens.”“This will also allow citizens to understand the processes of governance and actively engage with politics. This will promote transparency and accountability, and strengthen democracy in the long run,” he said.The questionnaire is related to Bapat’s promises on making the city pollution-free, development of more gardens, improving the environment, incorporating better traffic management, improvement in the public transport and continuous water supply and safety of women in Pune which were the main features of Bapat’s poll manifesto.Bapat had promised to undertake various developmental projects under the Pune Smart City plan and also promised to ensure that Pune metro and other ongoing projects will be completed within the deadline.In his manifesto, he promised the residents of Pune, that he will work towards improving the sports and education system. He also promised to give homes to everyone, develop the newly-proposed airport at Purandar and 100 per cent segregation of solid waste and garbage till 2020.MP Girish Bapat said “ I don’t remember if I have received any questionnaire regarding this during past two months. Please ask the concerned organisation to send it on my WhatsApp “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ngo-seeks-performance-details-from-mp-girish-bapat/story-UaHoRzoAWMg0jUtcFqPzzO.html
05-09-2020||Pune||Teachers take classes to students’ homes at Kalamshet village in Mulshi taluka||Virtual classes are the new normal these, but online classes are out of bounds for children in rural areas. This has not stopped the teachers of Zilla Parishad school, Kalamshet village in Mulshi taluka to provide education to children. Sanjeev Bagul, principal, Zilla Parishad school had his colleagues have undertaken a new initiative to provide education to students at the doorstep. Considering the inability of parents to buy expensive smartphones or laptops due to minimal income, network issues, electricity issues, and others, Bagul and his colleague Anil Rathod, assistant teacher of Zila Parishad school, appointed two volunteers Shital Sonawane and Sachin Akare who go home to teach students.“Students should not miss out on classes amid the pandemic and all students have the right to education, be it the city or rural areas,” he said.Sonawane visits the houses of students and teaches each student individually. She has a total number of five students to teach and each student attends class at his/her home on alternate days. Sushmita Sontakke, a first standard student gets her lessons from Sonawane in a nursery where her parents Savita and Mahendra work and take care of the premise. On the other hand, Akare goes to a tribal colony near the Kalamshet village. Ten students including girls and boys from class first to fourth gather at a veranda in the tribal colony. Students are asked to wear masks and sanitize their hands before starting the class. Bagul, who came up with this idea of keeping his students connected with the education in the pandemic, has recently provided tablet phones to the students with educational applications installed in it through the help of an NGO. Bagul along with Rathod visit students’ homes twice in a week and teach, supervise, and get insights from students and volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/teachers-take-classes-to-students-homes-at-kalamshet-village-in-mulshi-taluka/story-kA4ju32xnskip5dxG7XhmN.html
05-09-2020||City||Over 80% migrants who returned to Uttarakhand provided MNREGA jobs||Around 80% of migrants workers, who returned to Uttarakhand after losing their jobs because of the nationwide lockdown imposed in March to check the Covid-19 pandemic spread, have been provided jobs under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS), officials aware of the matter said. New job cards under the scheme have been provided to over 103,000 people since April. Over 80,000 of them have been offered employment.Also read: Chhattisgarh gets additional 1.50 crore man-days under MNREGAState MNREGA coordinator Mohammad Aslam said as the people started returning to the state, they tried to expand avenues to give them jobs. “...maximum jobs have been given in Tehri Garhwal district [12,570] followed by Udham Singh Nagar [11,739]. The least number of jobs have been given in Nainital district [2,048],” he said. “We have a budget of Rs 700 crore for this financial year, and since migrants started returning, over Rs 340 crore have been spent on wages. The number of people associated with activities under MNREGS has increased by almost 2 lakhs [200,000] from April to September this year compared to last year.”There are over 736,000 MNREGS job card holders in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-80-migrants-who-returned-to-uttarakhand-provided-mnrega-jobs/story-dOcptjQPUWEmCXDke0eXcO.html
05-09-2020||City||Offerings at Himachal’s temples dipped 90%||DHARAMSHALA/HAMIRPUR Not only the state’s ordinary citizens, even the shrines in Himachal Pradesh, also called the ‘Land of Gods’, have been hit by covid-19, as the deities continue to in lockdown. The offerings at the state’s major shrines, which earlier ran into crores of rupees is down to a trickle, since temple doors were shut on March 17. The state government controls 34 temples, including the major ones in Bilaspur, Una, Kangra and Hamirpur.Compared to an income of ₹12.9 crore at the Baba Balak Nath Temple, Deot Sidh, in Hamirpur, one of the richest shrines in Himachal, between April and July 2019, the income in the corresponding period this year has been ₹1.1 crore — a drop of more than 90%. “The income includes online offerings and from the properties that the temple trust owns,” said Hamirpur deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena. The temple trust has ₹16.7 crore cash, ₹28.4 crore in fixed deposits, besides 26.6kg of gold and 3.8quintal silver. Meena added that the Baba Balak Nath Temple Trust also donated ₹5-crore to the covid relief fund. The earnings of the Jwalamukhi Temple in Kangra between April and August 2020 were ₹65.5 lakh, compared to ₹6.7 crore in the corresponding period last year. Jwalamukhi shrine has ₹3.4 crore cash deposit, ₹20.8 crore in fixed deposits, 23.3kg gold and 8.9quintal silver. The earnings at the Bajreshwari Devi Temple, Kangra, were just ₹34.9 lakh in last five months, compared to ₹3.75 crore last year.Last year, the earnings of Chamunda Nandikeshwar Dham, Chamunda, were just ₹10.8 crore. This year, its income, including offerings, was ₹2.8 crore.Jwalamukhi Temple donated ₹1cr to covid-19 relief fund. The Bajreshwari Devi temple contributed ₹50 lakh, besides spending ₹22.1 lakh on providing food and other facilities at quarantine centres. Chamunda Temple spent ₹1.65 lakh on food and logistics at quarantine centres. Kangra district magistrate Rakesh Kumar Prajapati, who is also the commissioner of temple trusts of government-controlled shrines in the district, said offerings at temples increase during festivals. “Temples have been closed for the public since March, even during the navratris and the month of Shravana. Temples received minor offerings through online,” said Prajapati.TEMPLES TO OPEN ON SEPT 10, WITH SOPsThe Himachal Pradesh cabinet in its meeting on Friday decided to open temples, and other religious places like gurdwaras and mosques from September 10.The language, art and culture department has been entrusted with the task to prepare the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for opening of temples and to decide on measures to be put in place to prevent the spread of covid-19. Prajapati said they had proposed the use of thermal scanners at entry gates and facilities for hand sanitisation. “We have proposed disallowing offerings of water and flowers. Devotees will not be allowed to touch gates, doors and bells,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/offerings-at-himachal-s-temples-dipped-90/story-kKJrLfv6Ioy3ItA0zfoijL.html
05-09-2020||Election:||Bihar’s 3000 migrant workers employed to protect state’s green dream||Muhammad Ibrahim, 25, of Chhatiya village is busy making bamboo tree guards/bamboo protectors locally known as jafri. Ibrahim is not alone as several of his co-villagers including Md Rahul, Md Akhtar, Md Islam and Md Azizur are also doing the same.They said each of them was earning Rs 400 to Rs 600 daily and was happy doing the job.“When we lost jobs due to Covid-19 lockdown and had to return home from other states, this job gave us hope as we are earning as much we used to in other provinces as migrant workers,” said Ibrahim.Chhatiya village with a population of about 10,000 under Purnia east block has set an example for the rest of the country facing a job crisis during the pandemic.“We get Rs 4 for making one protector and we make 100 to 150 protectors daily and earn Rs 400 to 600,” they said, adding, they would have faced extreme crisis without this job. “There is never a dearth of jobs, it is created and one should know this very art,” said Md Tabrez, 22, of the same village.“Over 3,000 people of the village are engaged in making bamboo protectors and the products are being supplied to all the districts of Bihar for meeting the requirements of the highly ambitious Jal Jeevan Hariyali project of Bihar government, requiring plantation of 2.50 crore saplings.Md Sabir, the man behind the bamboo protectors, praised the local administration for giving the business a boost by linking it to the government scheme.“After it was linked to government schemes such as planting saplings by MGNREGA and Jal Jeevan Hariyali, it started taking the shape of an industry with most of the over 3000 villagers getting accommodated in the job,” he said.He said bamboos, the chief ingredient of the product they are making, are most brought from Assam. To fence a sapling, a set of four bamboo protectors is needed. Also Read: Bihar Assembly Election 2020: BJP Parliamentary board to decide on seat-share with JD(U)Purnia district magistrate (DM) Rahul Kumar, who oversaw the campaign to identify migrant workers’ skills to help them find a matching job, said he was happy that over 3,000 workers, mostly migrants, were engaged in the work of making Bihar green.“Besides, we have set up units for making readymade garments at Dagarua and Jalagarh and banana processing and bags manufacturing units are in pipeline,” Kumar added.Also Read: Bihar NDA turns battle ground for Dalit leadership as Manjhi, Paswan face offBihar government has resolved to plant 2.50 crore saplings to overcome the green deficit in the state. After Jharkhand was carved out in the year 2000, Bihar was left with just 9 per cent of green cover of its total area (94,163 sqkm).The Nitish Kumar government has already launched a unique initiative called ‘Jal Jeevan Hariyali’ to recharge and rejuvenate natural water sources like wells and ponds across the state and to plant trees. The state government has fixed a budget of Rs 24,000 crore for the scheme which will be spent over a period of three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-s-3000-migrant-workers-employed-to-protect-state-s-green-dream/story-dSMEXXQfXVifPNQsqmTr9I.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh-Manali highway blocked due to landslides in Mandi district||The Chandigarh-Manali highway was blocked due to landslides in Mandi district on Saturday. Boulders started rolling on to the road near Duwara in Mandi district early on Saturday. However, no loss of life was reported in the incident. Police teams were at the spot to prevent any untoward incident. Boulders started falling on the road again around 8.30am, blocking the highway. Superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri said that traffic from Mandi to Kullu has been diverted to Bajaura road. “Boulders are continuously falling on the road. Clearance will be started once the landslide stops,” she said, advising commuters to be alert while taking the highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-manali-highway-blocked-due-to-landslides-in-mandi-district/story-yJyuB9R9eEITp0QICfvJhN.html
05-09-2020||Lucknow||Mosque in Ayodhya will be of same size as Babri Masjid, says trust formed for its construction||A mosque that will come up in Ayodhya pursuant to the Supreme Court verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi case will be of the same size as Babri Masjid, said an office-brearer of the trust formed for its construction.The five-acre complex in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village will also house a hospital, a library and a museum among others, the office-bearer said, adding that retired professor and noted food critic Pushpesh Pant will be consultant curator of the museum.Also read: Mosque in Ayodhya likely to be named Masjid Dhannipur “...the complex of the mosque, which will be built in Dhannipur, will also have facilities like a hospital, a museum at the Indo-Islamic Research Centre. The mosque will be on 15,000 square feet, while the rest of the land will have these facilities,” Athar Hussain, the secretary and spokesperson of Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), told PTI on Saturday. “Yesterday, noted food critic Pushpesh Pant gave his consent to curate the museum,” Hussain said. The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board has formed the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), a trust, for the construction of the mosque on the five-acre plot. Hussain said Professor S M Akhtar of Jamia Millia Islamia will be the consultant architect of the project. Akhtar, the Head of the Department of Architecture at Jamia Millia Islamia, told PTI earlier that the entire complex will “bring together the ethos of India and the spirit of Islam”.Also read: Mosque complex in Ayodhya gets Hindus’ backing The Uttar Pradesh government allotted the five-acre plot in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village for the construction of the mosque on the directive of the Supreme Court. After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court had on November 9 last year ruled in favour of the construction of a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a “prominent” place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992 by ‘kar sevaks’ who claimed that an ancient Ram temple stood at the same site. Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony to begin the construction of the Ram temple on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mosque-in-ayodhya-will-be-of-same-size-as-babri-masjid-says-trust-formed-for-its-construction/story-zpC2u01zyRGZTZD7vMPPAL.html
05-09-2020||Pune||COEP jumbo facility in a storm of complaints||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) “jumbo facility”, the city’s first such Covid care centre built on the grounds of the College of Engineering, Pune (COEP), has come under huge criticism from patients and relatives of patients under treatment at the facility. The son of a 48-year-old woman had to hunt for a private hospital on Friday, after his mother complained about the poor facilities and services being provided at COEP jumbo centre. The son, requesting anonymity, said, “My mother, aged 48, was admitted to COEP on Monday. She has blood pressure and diabetes too. She said that there is no proper treatment given and also the trainee doctors running the facility have no idea about how to manage the facility.” He added: “I got the call from a doctor there, who said her oxygen saturation had gone down to 89%, and we need to shift her to a ventilator. A few minutes later I got a call again saying that her saturation is fine; that the battery of the oximeter was low. Such is the level of management at a facility which has critical Covid-19 patients.” He further said: “I had to start looking for another centre. My mother needed an oxygenated bed and so I called up the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital. There is a waiting period of at least 20 days there. I had to forcefully discharge my mother from COEP in a serious condition. The treatment at the facility is bad.” Another relative of a 45-year-old man admitted on Tuesday, said, “My father who has high blood pressure complained that there are no caretakers to take him to the toilet, which is, apparently, some distance. I want to shift him out of there, but there are no beds in the city.” Ashok Lokhande, husband of corporator Swati Lokhande of the BJP, alleged corruption at the facility, citing a case where a doctor allegedly demanded money for a drug freely available at the centre As of Wednesday evening, the dashboard showed not a single bed available at the facility. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra, said , “A few senior private doctors who have experience of about 10-20 years offered to provide daily services for a few hours at the jumbo facility or any facility that the PMC decides. However, the PMC insisted that they can only recruit people full-time for at least six months. These are doctors practicing at their own private clinics and so cannot commit full time. A specialist need not be at the hospital 24 hours, a few hours is enough to keep a daily check, but the PMC went on to recruit people who are not running the facility efficiently.” Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner, said, “We have taken cognisance of all the complaints and also issued a show-cause notice to the contractor. We are yet to receive a reply. We have also appointed an inquiry into the corruption allegations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/coep-jumbo-facility-in-a-storm-of-complaints/story-cwG7zOoveV0y8AUwzAMP4K.html
05-09-2020||City||4 earthquakes rock villages in Maharashtra’s Palghar district||Four earthquakes shook villages in Palghar district of Maharashtra from Friday evening to Saturday morning. Palghar district Disaster Management Cell chief Vivekanand Kadam said the earthquakes measured 2.8,4,3.6 and 2.7 respectively on the Richter scale.No casualty or damage to property was reported, he said. Kadam said the tremors were recorded by National Centre for Seismology,Noida, which comes under the Ministry of Earth Sciences at 10.33 pm and 11.41 pm on Friday and at 12.05 am and 6.36 am on Saturday .People of Dapcheri,Talasari,Dongripada,Amboli,Dhanivare,Osarvira,Kasa,Bordi,Dhundalwadi,Shisne and other villages ran out of their homes in panic and stayed the night outside even as the Talasari police made public announcements, asking them not to panic.On August 23, at 11.39 am, a mild tremor measuring 2.8 on the Richter scale, was recorded at Aaina village in Dahanu.Since November 2018, villages around Dhundalwadi and other areas of Dahanu have been experiencing mild tremors at regular intervals, creating fears in the minds of locals.In July 2019, 55-year-old Rishya Meghwali, a resident of Vasavalpada, Dahanu, died after a portion of the roof of his floor came crashing down on him when a tremor had hit the region. Meghwali’s wife had suffered also minor injuries. Another tremor was recorded in February 2019, when two-year-old Vaibhavi Bhuyal of Haladwadi, Talasari, died in a similar mishap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-earthquakes-rock-villages-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-district/story-1khFROmR3hJHE0arSL6VRI.html
05-09-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow Metro gears up to restart operations on September 7||Ahead of restarting operations of Lucknow Metro on Monday, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) managing director reviewed the operational preparedness of Metro stations on Saturday.Also read: Centre approves urban mobility plan of 13 cities in UPKumar Keshav said, “ I want to ensure proper cleanliness and sanitisation of Metro premises, including ticket counters (TOMs), AFC gates, TVM machines, Entry-Exit gates & other high-frequency touchpoints.”“I have instructed the operational staff, such as Station Controllers (SCs), Customer Care Assistants (CRAs) & security personnel to wear masks and gloves while dealing with commuters to adhere to the social distancing norms & adopt other safety measures,” said Kumar Keshav.He said, “No one would be allowed to walk inside the station without a mask. Temperature of every passenger would be recorded through thermal scanners and passengers would be encouraged to use Aarogya Setu app too.” “Keeping in mind the health and safety of the commuters amid the outbreak of Covid-19, UPMRC will follow the highest standards of health and hygiene. The revamped guidelines of UPMRC extend to every outlet and encompass check-in procedures, station premises, and surveillance systems. Lucknow Metro will follow normal timings of operation _ 6 am to 10 pm from September 7.”He said, “Special emphasis would also be on mopping and cleanliness inside the Metro premises. Signage and markings have also been placed within the station premises and inside trains to maintain social distancing.”Kumar Keshav said, “ Metro staff will encourage passengers to use the GoSmart Card which is a contactless form of travel that can reduce the transmission risk of the coronavirus. The cards can be recharged online, thereby ensuring a safer travel experience as compared to tokens.Commuters can also use these cards for generating tokens from ticket vending machines for their family members.”The station premises of the Lucknow Metro will be sanitised at regular intervals and trains will also be sanitised twice a day.Kumar Keshav , said, “ At every station, Lucknow Metro will ensure safety of staff and passengers both by adopting the highest level of hygiene and safety measures for the well-being of the commuters .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-metro-gears-up-to-restart-operations-on-september-7/story-fxH2TEIlZfo2BdpjiAOgiN.html
05-09-2020||City||UP may hire global consultant to develop Ayodhya||The Uttar Pradesh government is considering hiring a global consultant for Ayodhya’s “all-encompassing and long-term” development in anticipation of the town’s expected emergence as a major tourist attraction with the construction of the Ram Temple there, officials aware of the matter said. The state’s housing and urban planning department will initiate the process soon, they added.Also read: Ayodhya authority rushes approvals for Ram temple plans, construction can startThe temple construction was launched in August months after the Supreme Court paved the way for it by ordered it at the site of the demolished Babri Mosque after decades of litigation and bad blood. “With the temple to come up soon and the state government positioning Ayodhya as an important tourist and pilgrimage centre, the government is looking at the overall development of the town with an over 100-year relevance and sustainability of the plan and the work executed under it,” said an official on condition of anonymity.“Once a consultant is hired, all development works — tourism development and promotion, infrastructure development, conservation, connectivity, internal transport, amenities — will come under this plan.” Ayodhya would be the first town in the state for which a global consultant would be hired for its development.“Often, consultants are hired for greenfield projects, not a brownfield project such as [redeveloping] existing old city,” said the official.Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha said the housing and urban planning department will decide the terms of reference and invite the expression of interest for hiring the consultant.Officials said it would take four months to complete the hiring process beginning with the invitation of bids from interested companies and consultants.A presentation regarding the plan has been made to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and he would appoint a committee soon for overseeing the hiring process.The government initiated Ayodhya’s redevelopment in 2017 and speeded it up after the Supreme Court judgment over the temple construction.Adityanath reviewed the development work in the town on Thursday. He promised to develop it as a ‘solar city’ to help conserve and balance the environmental needs and give Ayodhya a new identity.“Ayodhya is known worldwide as Lord Ram’s city and has an immense mythological significance and, therefore, all the development works in the town must be executed, keeping its ancient culture intact. Ayodhya, once developed, will spur the speedier development of several districts in eastern Uttar Pradesh,” he said.The government has attracted attention to Ayodhya through mega-events such as deepotsavas (mass lamp lighting). Its plan for the town includes the development of riverfronts, multi-level parking, underground power cabling, an airport, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-may-hire-global-consultant-to-develop-ayodhya/story-9s3ZKyj1xAS2NYyMCq82vM.html
05-09-2020||City||Uttar Pradesh to develop Chitrakoot Parikrama marg||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the development of Chitrakoot Parikrama (circumambulation) Marg associated with Lord Ram. He said the path is very narrow at some places and asked Chitrakoot district magistrate on Friday to relocate people, pay them compensation and rehabilitate them to widen it. Adityanath said the path should be made hindrance free for pilgrims while asking for a plan for it.Also read: Ayodhya’s Ram ki Paidi set for major facelift by this DiwaliLord Ram is believed to have spent most of his time during his 14-year exile in Chitrakoot.Speaking at a meeting to review development works of Chitrakoot Dham division, he also asked officers to “start a project to conserve and revive ancient water systems made by the Chandela rulers”. He added there is immense scope for development in the region where the work on Bundelkhand expressway, defence corridor, and development of Chitrakoot as a tourist and pilgrimage hub is underway.Adityanath said they have to make Bundelkhand region a hub of organic farming. “...farmers would get better prices for their organic produce. Make people aware of organic [farming] and promote zero budget farming. If we encourage people to rear good quality cows, then it would also help eradicate practice of abandoning cattle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttar-pradesh-to-develop-chitrakoot-parikrama-marg/story-nra2pEL36shmDDIW5lmVEM.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Situation under control in Delhi, spike in Covid-19 cases due to increased testing: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Covid-19 situation in the national capital is “totally under control”, despite the recent spike in daily cases, which he attributed to scaled-up testing, and urged people not to hesitate to go out and get tested. Also read: PM must explain why India failed, says ChidambaramAddressing a digital press conference, the chief minister said testing has been doubled to nearly 40,000 tests per day, with camps now set up in mohalla clinics, weekly markets, inter-state bus terminals and construction sites. Kejriwal’s comments came on a day when Delhi recorded 2,973 cases of Covid-19 — the highest single-day spike since June 26, when 3,460 infections were logged.“In the last few days, Covid cases in Delhi have increased and people are getting worried about it. I spoke to several experts. Some call it a second wave, some say it is not. But, keeping all these technical aspects aside, I reviewed the entire situation over the past four or five days and want to assure everyone that Delhi’s situation is well under control,” Kejriwal said. He said the reason Covid-19 cases are increasing in the city again is because of increased testing. “From 18,000-20,000 tests per day, we are now conducting around 40,000 tests. So, more people are getting identified, treated and they are being isolated to prevent them from spreading the infection to others. Today, if I decrease the number of tests, the number of daily cases will also come down and everyone will be happy. The only way to defeat Covid-19 is aggressive testing. There is nothing to be scared, but there should be no scope for complacency,” he said. Delhi on Saturday conducted 38,895 tests — the highest ever in the city so far. The chief minister also tried to allay fears of beds not being available for Covid treatment and said the government has a plan ready in case there is a need to increase beds in the city. Senior government officials said the drill would be the same, to requisition more hospitals, hotels and banquet halls as was done in the months of May and June. He said that of over 14,000 Covid beds in Delhi’s hospitals, only around 5,000 are currently occupied. “The rate of admission in hospitals has been almost constant over the past few weeks. Of the 5,000, around 1,600-1,700 beds are occupied by people coming from other states for Covid treatment. In the last five years, Delhi government improved the city’s health infrastructure in such a way that now people from across the country are coming to the Capital to get treated. In case there is a need, we will increase beds,” Kejriwal said. Delhi has seen an increase in positivity rate from 5.9% to 9% — which means the Capital has the fifth worst figure in the country. The chief minister also urged people not to be complacent, and follow Covid-19 preventive measures strictly. “Some people are not getting tested. People say nowadays everyone is recovering on their own, so there is no need to get tested. No, please go and get tested. Please also do wear masks when you step out and follow physical distance,” he said. On Saturday, Delhi recorded 25 deaths taking the city’s total death toll to 4,538.Kejriwal talked about the city’s fatality rate, which he claimed is currently not only the lowest among other states in India, but also among other cities across the world.Government data between August 15 and Friday showed Delhi’s CFR is 1.4%, which means that out of 100 infected people, one person is losing their life. The national fatality rate, on the other hand, is 1.7%.“Time and again I have said there should be no deaths because of Corona. This is the most crucial aspect of Corona. On Friday, there were 2,914 cases and 13 deaths. The death count is the lowest not only across the country but across the world, which means that the death rate yesterday was 0.4%. The day before yesterday, the death rate was 0.6%,” Kejriwal said. He compared the data with June when Covid-19 cases in Delhi had peaked and said there were days in June when the daily number of deaths was more than 100.“Today the number of deaths ranges between 10-20, despite the same number of positive cases. To achieve this, we formed separate teams of doctors and conducted audits in every hospital in Delhi — whether a private, government or an MCD hospital. We rectified even the smallest problems which were identified as a cause of death. I want to thank all the doctors, the officers, and all the hospitals who have cooperated in our objective to bring down the number of deaths in Delhi,” he said. The chief minister added that people are getting infected but are also recovering swiftly. Around 87% of the people have recovered in Delhi, while the national recovery rate is 77%, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-situation-under-control-spike-in-delhi-cases-because-of-increased-testing-says-cm/story-zNqBGeWrhpaOODypvF4iDN.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Case fatality rates have reduced in Delhi, says CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged citizens of the Capital to remain calm after more than 2,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were registered for four successive days.Kejriwal, while speaking to reporters, attributed the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases due to increased testing and reiterated that the situation is under control. The Delhi chief minister said that the average case fatality rate has dropped and is lower than the national average.“I want to assure you that Covid-19 situation in Delhi is completely under control but there is no room for complacency,” Kejriwal said while addressing reporters virtually.“As per data between August 15 and today, the fatality rate among Covid-19 patients is 1% in Delhi against 1.7% of national fatality rate,” he added.The Union health ministry in its briefing on Thursday had highlighted that Delhi was among the states witnessing a fall in the case fatality rate. Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh have seen case fatality rates fall recently. Among these states, Tamil Nadu has witnessed the highest fall in case fatality rate over the past three weeks.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader asked people to remain mindful of the preventive measures and warned those not getting tested. He pointed out that people have also begun flouting rules about wearing masks in public places.Speaking about infrastructure to deal with the pandemic, Kejriwal said beds across several hospitals are ready to cater to Covid-19 affected patients. He said all more than 14,000 beds have been allotted. He said 5,000 beds are currently occupied of which one-third are being used to treat patients who do not belong to Delhi.He added that the Delhi government has refurbished its medical facilities to provide better healthcare services to people all over the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/don-t-panic-delhi-s-covid-19-cases-rising-due-to-more-testing-arvind-kejriwal/story-8WZDfldzgqWcIIbgOfRrgL.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Tibetan detained for protesting outside Chinese embassy||A Tibetan national has been detained by the Delhi Police from outside the Embassy of China in the diplomatic area of Chanakyapuri, New Delhi, where he had come to stage a protest on Saturday morning, officials said. The detained Tibetan citizen has been taken to a nearby police station, where he is being questioned to ascertain why he was protesting outside the embassy, carrying a flag in his hand.Also read: Will sanction Chinese officials responsible for human rights abuse in Tibet if elected, says Joe Biden“We have detained the Tibetan national as soon as he reached there. He is being questioned to know the reason behind the protest. We have deployed police personnel outside the Chinese embassy and traffic has also been diverted to ensure nobody else reaches there for demonstration,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav.Around noon, the Delhi traffic police posted an alert on Twitter, informing the public that traffic movement was closed from Shanti Path to Panchsheel Marg and Kautilya Marg roundabouts due to a demonstration. “Motorists are advised to take alternate route _ Kautilya Marg, Panchsheel Marg, Vinay Marg, Sardar Patel Marg, etc,” traffic police unit tweeted.Nearly 15 minutes later, Delhi traffic police updated on Twitter that traffic was normal on the routes.According to a police officer who did not want to be named, the New Delhi district police received an input that some Tibetan nationals would gather outside the Chinese embassy and carry out a protest. “One Tibetan national came to protest but he was immediately detained and removed from outside the embassy. Adequate police arrangements have been made and areas outside the embassy have been barricaded to stop protesters. We anticipate that more protesters may attempt to reach the embassy,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tibetan-detained-for-protesting-outside-chinese-embassy/story-nre4N8EMh6xZzNWXct8XeO.html
05-09-2020||City||‘Too risky,’ says Bombay HC, refuses to order shifting of patients for holding exam at Covid care centre||Observing that a hurried use of a Covid care centre for holding examination will pose risk to the health and safety of the students, the Bombay high court on Friday refused to order shifting of Covid-19 patients from a nursing college at Daund for holding an examination there.Also read: Alarming increase in active Covid cases; Mumbai sees 20% jump in fortnightRejecting a plea of the Sushrusha Institute of Nursing Sciences to shift Covid-19 patients at its premises so it could hold a nursing examination there from September 8, the bench of justices Amjad Sayed and Surendra Tavade said, “The Covid care centre at the said premises will have to be deeply sanitised and made virus-free...Considering the paucity of time and the risk involved to the health and safety of the students to write examination in said premises, which is presently being used as a Covid care center, we do not think it proper to grant the mandatory relief as sought.” Daund Medical Foundation, which runs the college, had moved the high court, seeking a direction to release its premises from requisitioning for a Covid care centre and shift the Covid-19 patients at the nursing school to some other Covid care centre.Its counsel, advocate Uday Warunjikar, pointed out that a number of educational institutes are run from the college campus, which is requisitioned by order dated March 27, 2020, for a Covid care centre. However, the premises are now required for second year P. B. B. Sc. Nursing course. He added that most of the patients admitted at the college campus were asymptomatic and could easily be shifted elsewhere.Assistant government pleader B V Samant opposed the prayer and pointed out that it was not possible to release the nursing college campus from requisition, as the number of Covid-19 cases was on the rise in Daund tehsil. Besides, Samant said, there was a risk of spreading the virus while shifting the 32 patients admitted at the college premises.The court accepted the government lawyer’s contention and also took into consideration the fact that about 80 students will be appearing for the examination and the local revenue authorities had made an alternate arrangement for the examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/too-risky-says-bombay-hc-refuses-to-order-shifting-of-patients-for-holding-exam-at-covid-care-centre/story-RunHODec5Aguf2b2NqESSK.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Split deceased policeman’s compensation between first wife, child and daughter from second marriage: Bombay HC||While hearing the plea by the daughter of the second wife of a railway policeman who succumbed to Covid-19, the Bombay high court (HC), on Friday, directed that the ₹60 lakh compensation deposited by the authorities would be shared equally between the first wife, her daughter and the daughter of the second wife. The daughter of the second wife had approached the court seeking equitable distribution of compensation amount among the two wives and daughters of the deceased policeman. The court further directed the two wives and daughters to arrive at an amicable settlement and said that the pending claims would be decided during the next hearing on September 11. The division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Madhav Jamdar, while passing the order in the petition filed by the daughter of a railway policeman who succumbed to Covid while on duty in May, held that the amount of compensation accruing to the deceased policeman had to be shared in equal proportion among his three heirs. The daughter of the policeman had petitioned the court seeking directions to the authorities to disburse the compensation amount accruing to her father in equal proportions between the first wife and her daughter and the second wife (her mother) and herself. While the first wife and daughter had initially opposed the claim, when advocate Prerak Sharma for the daughter of the second wife informed them that as per a previous order of the HC, the second wife did not have a right but her daughter did, they agreed to share the compensation. After a consensus was reached among the three the court said, “The parties and their Advocates have after certain discussions agreed to share the amount deposited in the Court by Respondent Nos.1 and 2 in the ratio of 1/3rd: 1/3rd: 1/3rd, i.e. 1/3rd of the said amount shall be handed over to and received by the Petitioner (daughter of the second wife), 1/3rd by Respondent No.3 (first wife) and 1/3rd by Respondent No.4 (daughter of the first wife).” The court then directed the Prothonotary and Senior Master to distribute the entire amount of around ₹65 lakhs deposited with him by the state and railways towards compensation for the deceased policeman between the three in the said ratio. The court further held that as it did not want both the families of the deceased policeman to waste their time and money in litigation they should arrive at an amicable settlement with regards to the movable and immovable assets of the deceased policeman and posted the matter for hearing on September 11 by which time the two families should reach the settlement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/split-deceased-policeman-s-compensation-between-first-wife-child-and-daughter-from-second-marriage-bombay-hc/story-uLCV9DBwXsLxLLJLGU5lbO.html
05-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Maharashtra may breach 26,000-mark in fatalities today||Maharashtra may breach the mark of 26,000 deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday. The state’s death count reached 25,964 on Friday, according to data released by state health department. Of the 378 deaths in the past few days, reported on Friday, as many as 248 were reported in the last 48 hours.Also read: How India reached the grim figure of 4 million Covid-19 casesPublic health expert Sanjay Pattiwar said delay in treatment is the major reason for such a high toll. “People are either not testing after showing symptoms or even if they test positive, they are not getting admitted (for treatment) in time,” he said. Apart from Mumbai, said Pattiwar, most areas lack adequate infrastructure to cater to these patients, resulting in such a high toll in the state.The highest single-day toll in the state was 422 on August 18.The state government ,in order to curb the incidence of Covid-19 deaths, has decided to start house-to-house survey, ‘My Family, My Responsibility’, beginning September 15. It aims to identify every citizen for Influenza-Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and citizens with co-morbidities.Since the government launched its Mission Begin Again, to ease the lockdown, the number of cases have been increasing. There were 19,218 cases reported on Friday and number of cases has now reached 210,978 active cases in the state. Friday was also the third consecutive day when the state witnessed a high number of cases. This has resulted in 70,521 new Covid-19 cases in just four days. Till now 863,062 have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-maharashtra-may-breach-26-000-mark-in-fatalities-today/story-7HVFqHL2lxr5IFgV8KKyQK.html
05-09-2020||Patna||Bihar NDA turns battle ground for Dalit leadership as Manjhi, Paswan face off||Dalit identity politics is taking centre stage in poll-bound Bihar and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) seems to be the battleground to decide which party holds sway over the community, considered a formidable vote bank in the state.Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) came out with a full-page advertisement on Friday, with a stinging tagline, “Wo lad rahe hain hum par raaj karne ke liye, aur hum lad rahe hain Bihar par naaz karne ke liye’ (They are fighting to rule us, we are fighting for Bihar’s pride).Chirag Paswan is also giving out a call “Aao Banayein naya Bihar, yuva Bihar; chalo chalen Yuva Bihari ke saath’ (Let’s build a new Bihar, a young Bihar; let’s move with the young Bihar). Chirag identifies himself as a ‘Yuva Bihari’, and his twitter account also carries the name ‘Yuva Bihari Chirag Paswan’. The slogans, deemed to be an attack on chief minister Nitish Kumar, were repulsed by JD (U)’s newfound ally in local Dalit icon and former chief minister, HAM-S chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, who said his party was ready to take on Chirag’s party head on if it chose to field candidates against JD (U).“Chirag says wherever there will be a JD (U) candidate, LJP will field its candidate. If this is so, my party HAM-S will field candidates against the LJP in the assembly elections. In the NDA, if all the constituents fight together, it will be good for the state and the country,” said Manjhi, adding he was there to strengthen Nitish Kumar, who has been under continuous attack from LJP, an NDA constituent at the Centre. Manjhi, whose decision to join forces with Nitish Kumar is being seen as a tactical ploy to neutralize Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP—attacked Paswan, alleging he did nothing for the Dalits despite doing Dalit politics for decades. Also Read: Nitish expedites pending cases as battle for Dalit votes intensifiesIn the evening, Manjhi also attended the meeting of the state-level vigilance and monitoring committee, set up as part of the SC,ST (prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1955, in which chief minister ordered that rules be made for giving a job to the kin of a SC/ST person, who gets killed. Manjhi was quick to welcome the move within minutes and sought that the same be implemented in other states too. Dalits, constituting nearly 18% of the state population, are very significant in Bihar politics these days due to their growing assertion, and the face-off between Manjhi and Paswan is for establishing credentials to lead the community.Also Read: Grand Alliance constituents set to contest Bihar assembly election on common agendaFormer Bihar minister and Dalit leader Shyam Razak, who recently switched over to the RJD, however, accused Nitish Kumar of opportunistic wooing of Dalits before the polls.“So many Dalits got killed and he has woken up now on the eve of elections. Dalits are also watching. As far as infighting within the NDA is concerned, it is their internal matter,” he added. BJP MLC and former union minister Sanjay Paswan termed the Manjhi-Chirag face-off, ‘a generational issue’. “It (fight) is not between Manjhi and Ram Vilas Paswan. Bihar is itself standing on the threshold of generational shift and that may give an edge to Chirag, who wants to shape his politics in a new way, but NDA will be the ultimate gainer,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-nda-turns-battle-ground-for-dalit-leadership-as-manjhi-paswan-face-off/story-VkVH59ZTrmNJjhLZBLRLUN.html
05-09-2020||City||Farmer commits suicide in Bundelkhand region||A 65-year-old indebted farmer, who suffered damages to his crop, on Friday allegedly died by suicide by hanging himself from a tree in Madhya Pradesh’s Bundelkhand days after he received a notice warning of action if he did not pay Rs 19,469 electricity bill, his family and police said.Also read: NCRB data shows in 2019, a person died by suicide every four minutesPrithvipur police station in-charge Narendra Tripathi said prima facie it appeared to be a case of suicide.The farmer’s family said his uncle was traumatised and was under stress since he received the Rs 19,469 bill in July. He had taken a loan of Rs 92,000 from a bank and some loans from local money lenders too. “What traumatised my uncle more was the notice...received in August and issued by a tehsildar that he would have to face legal action if he did not pay the power bill by August 26. Yesterday [Friday], he told me that he was much worried given the notice and he wondered how he would pay the bill,” said a nephew of the farmer. Another nephew of the farmer said their uncle owned 9-acre land and he had invested over Rs 40,000 in the summer-sown kharif crop so far. “The crop was destroyed due to insufficient rains. ...there was [also] pressure on him to repay the loan to the bank... All this tension led to his taking the drastic step.”M K Soni, an executive engineer with a local power distribution company, said he has come to know that there was some domestic reason behind the farmer’s suicide. “I am not aware if he had got any notice to pay the bill.”Sub-divisional magistrate Tarun Jain said he visited the farmer’s village and found his crop was affected. “I will have to check how much was the amount of the electricity bill.”Tripathi said the body of the farmer was handed over to his family after a post-mortem. “A case has been lodged and an investigation is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-commits-suicide-in-bundelkhand-region/story-bHt37xDpoNlFezddyYOSCP.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Migrants not entitled to the benefit of reservation in Maharashtra: HC||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has held that migrants as contemplated under the Maharashtra Caste Certificate Act, 2012 are not entitled to the benefit of reservation in Maharashtra and dismissed a petition seeking review of the court’s earlier decision to the same effect. The bench of justice SV Gangapurwala and justice Shrikant Kulkarni said the 2012 enactment and the rules framed under it provide a cutoff date and the persons who have entered Maharashtra on or after the cutoff dates are treated as deemed migrants, who are not entitled to the benefit of reservation.These observations came while the bench dismissed a petition filed by Aruna Kudmulwar, president of Kundalwadi municipal council in Nanded district, seeking review of the dismissal of her petition by the bench on June 16, 2020.She had approached the court challenging the October 22, 2018 decision of the caste scrutiny committee at Nanded to refuse a verification of her claim that she belonged to Manner Kapu caste, a nomadic tribe (NT-B) in Maharashtra, which is entitled for reservation.The caste scrutiny committee had refused to verify her claim on the ground that she was not entitled to the benefit of reservation in Maharashtra for being a ‘migrant’ in terms of the 2012 enactment - having migrated to Maharashtra after the cutoff date provided in the rules made under the Act.Also Read: Bombay HC to decide on bail, parole pleas on September 10 as Maharashtra jails see spike in Covid-19 casesKudmulwar, who was born and brought up in Hyderabad, had shifted to Maharashtra after her marriage to a Kundalwadi resident in May 1987. She claimed that she belonged to the Munnur Kapu caste, which was included in NT-B category (part of OBC) in Maharashtra only in January 2014, and since she had migrated to the state much before the date, she was entitled to the benefit of the reservation provided for the caste. Before January 2014, the caste was included in the special backward class.HC, on June 16, dismissed her petition and confirmed the decision of the caste scrutiny committee. The bench said a perusal of the Caste CertificateRules, 2012, demonstrate that the deemed cutoff date for special backward classes is October 13, 1967 and that for nomadic tribes is November 21, 1961.Also Read: As schools in Maharashtra switch to online mode amid Covid-19 pandemic, teachers get busier, but still pass with flying coloursThe bench added that under the rules, a person who has moved to Maharashtra on or after the deemed date is a ‘migrant’ and is not entitled to the benefit of reservation in the state.She had sought a review of the June 16 order contending among others that she cannot be termed a “migrant” since she has been residing in the state for over 30 years, and since competent authorities are authorised to issue caste certificates to persons domiciled in Maharashtra - persons residing in the state for 15 years or more-- she could not be denied the benefit of reservation.The argument, however, failed to impress upon the bench which rejected the review petition noting that the petitioner, having migrated to Maharashtra after the cutoff date, was a migrant and thus not entitled to claim the benefit of reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/migrants-not-entitled-to-the-benefit-of-reservation-in-maharashtra-hc/story-lo9oPvifitBgF3oMZAkDYI.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Alarming increase in active Covid cases; Mumbai sees 20% jump in fortnight||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has shot up by over 20% in the past fortnight, from 18,299 cases on August 21 to 22,222 on Friday . Active cases are calculated by deducting number of discharged patients and number of deaths from the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Also read: Study reveals antibodies against coronavirus stay in body for 60-80 daysMedical experts and officials from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public health department have attributed this increase to the surge in the daily Covid-19 cases within the past week. Experts have indicated that this could spell trouble for the city, as it is a sign it’s Covid graph, which had begun to stabilize, is showing an upward curve again, due to Mumbai’s unlock plans, and the recent Ganesh Chaturthi festival. The number of cumulative active cases as of Friday is also the highest number of active cases recorded in over a month. The last time Mumbai had this high number of active Covid-19 cases was on July 26, with a total of 22,768. After that, the cumulative number of active cases showed a steady decline, until Friday. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the civic health department, said, “The increase in the number of active Covid-19 cases is a result of our recent unlock plans, the festival, and also because of the shift in the spread of Covid-19 from slums to high rises. As more affluent people are now turning positive, rate of self admission in private hospitals has increased, and these residents are opting to prolong their treatment in a private hospital.”In the past week, the daily number of Covid-19 cases has also gone up. Especially in the past four days of September, daily Covid-19 cases have drastically increased, as opposed to the daily number of cases in August. While on Friday the city recorded 1,929 new Covid-19 cases, on Thursday it recorded 1,526 cases, and on Wednesday, it recorded 1,622 cases. On Tuesday, September 1, it recorded 1,142 new Covid-19 cases. On the contrary, Mumbai had recorded as low as 705 Covid-19 cases on August 3, and the month saw a significant number of days when daily Covid-19 cases were less than 1,000. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Maharashtra government task force formed in April to reduce mortality in the state, said, “This is not a good sign for Mumbai, especially since it has opened up considerably. If this trend continues, Covid-19 cases could increase at an alarming rate again, and Mumbai may have to tighten its lockdown, yet again.” Joshi also said one of the main reasons for increase in the number of Covid-19 cases is lack of Covid-related hygiene, arising from ‘Covid fatigue’ among citizens. Yet another reason is lack of faith in the civic body, as many people do not want to shift to institutional quarantine facilities, so do not test until the 4th or 5th day after they have got symptom. “In such cases, they interact with a lot more people meanwhile, and the infection rapidly spreads,” Joshi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/alarming-increase-in-active-covid-cases-mumbai-sees-20-jump-in-fortnight/story-lktvAe1SqxuxZ6Q26V8D1I.html
05-09-2020||City||64-year-old Covid patient dies after jumping off hospital’s 2nd floor in MP’s Jabalpur||A 64-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly committed suicide on Friday afternoon by jumping off the second floor of a hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur, where he was being treated since September 1, said police. The district administration has ordered an inquiry into the incident.Also read: India registers highest single-day spike with 86,432 new Covid-19 cases; death toll reaches 69,561Sub-inspector Vinay Bundela said the patient was from Jabalpur and was admitted to the super speciality wing of the Government Medical College Hospital. “He jumped off the 2nd floor of the hospital through a window and died on the spot. His body was sent for a post-mortem examination as per a Covid protocol.” District collector Karmveer Sharma said an inquiry committee to look into the incident will include three members- of the hospital management, a district administration official and a psychiatrist. At least two Covid-19 patients admitted to the hospital have earlier attempted suicide and prompted authorities to cover its widows with iron nets. But the wing of the hospital where the patient allegedly committed suicide had no iron nets covering its windows, said a hospital staffer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/64-year-old-covid-patient-dies-after-jumping-off-hospital-s-2nd-floor-in-mp-s-jabalpur/story-7NU7UOhU8q9biGTGlnZF3N.html
05-09-2020||Kolkata||Bengal govt announces financial assistance for single-screen cinema halls||The West Bengal government has announced financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to single screen- cinema halls which suffered extensive damage to property caused by cyclone Amphan, an official said.An Information and Cultural Affairs department letter to Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) on Friday said the one-time financial package was being given in response to an appeal by the apex body of the producers and distributors forum of eastern India in August.The government letter further announced that Rs 1 lakh as a financial package to single screens which suffered partial damage in the calamity which lashed South Bengal districts in May this year.“....This is to inform you after careful consideration the state government has decided to provide Rs 2 lakh each to single-screen cinema halls that suffered major structural damage and Rs 1 lakh each to single screen-cinema halls that suffered partial structural damage caused by the cyclone Amphan,” the notification said.Cyclone Amphan, along with torrential rain, had struck parts of West Bengal on May 20, flattening houses, uprooting trees, snapping cables, and inundating low-lying areas.In July, at a meeting with stakeholders of the film industry, including actors, technicians, producers and distributors, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said to an appeal, “As of now, reopening cinema halls is not possible. We can provide some assistance to cinema hall owners who have been affected by cyclone Amphan.” The EIMPA had earlier appealed to the government for a financial package for the survival of the single-screens which are reeling under the twin cascading effect of Covid-19 and cyclone Amphan as the over 250 single-screen theatres continue to be closed since the third week of March, an office-bearer said.The Centre is yet to announce any possible time frame for opening of single-screens and multiplexes which downed shutters since the third week of March due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-govt-announces-financial-assistance-for-single-screen-cinema-halls/story-TVUgmYVJKVUNUVqEz8TrqL.html
05-09-2020||City||Madhya Pradesh HC grants 2-month bail to rape accused to marry survivor||The Madhya Pradesh high court has granted temporary two-month bail to a man for marrying a woman, who accused him of repeatedly raping her after he went back on his promise to marry her even as she divorced her husband. The man was granted bail after the two agreed to tie the knot.Also read: Rape violates fundamental right under Article 21, rules Gauhati HCIn its order on Wednesday, a single bench of justice SK Awasthi said the accused was arrested on February 12 for allegedly repeatedly raping the woman, criminal intimidation and under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act from Dewas district. “The counsel for the appellant has said the prosecutrix (woman) in her statement which was recorded under section 164 of CrPC had said she was having a love affair with the appellant and he made physical relation with her first on February 15, 2017. Thereafter, he started coming to her house regularly and continued to have physical relationship with her. On the insistence of the appellant she divorced her husband and thereafter he refused to marry her,” it said.The order added the counsel has submitted now the family members of both the parties are ready to solemnise their marriage and in this regard the woman has also given an affidavit before the court. “The appellant and the prosecutrix are major and they are ready to solemnize marriage. In the circumstances, the present appeal is allowed in part and the appellant is granted a temporary bail for a period of two months from the date of his release so that during this period he can solemnise the marriage with the prosecutrix.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/madhya-pradesh-hc-grants-2-month-bail-to-rape-accused-to-marry-survivor/story-LrR0WbWEtB1TtU3TXUWVTM.html
05-09-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro to run 66 special trains on September 13 for NEET||The Kolkata Metro will run around 66 special trains on September 13 when the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) is scheduled to be held. Earlier this week chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said that out of the 4,652 students who were supposed to appear for the JEE exam in West Bengal on September 1, only 1,167--around 25%-- could sit for the exam. Around 75% of the candidates could not appear primarily because of the lack of public transport during the Covid-19 pandemic. On September 13, Kolkata Metro authorities will operate 66 special trains for candidates between 11 and 7 pm. Those who don’t have smart cards will be issued paper tickets. “The metro is expected to run from September 14. Passengers may have to book e-passes through an app a few hours before they want to take a ride as a restricted number of passengers would be allowed to board each train. The QR codes of the e-passes would be scanned before the passenger is allowed to enter the station,” said a metro official. Also Read: Bengal government floats e-pass idea for Kolkata Metro to tackle rush The JEE Main is being held between September 1-6, while the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 is scheduled for September 13. The rush of candidates on September 13 is expected to be more as nearly 16 lakh candidates across India have registered for the NEET exam. Also Read: Bengal banks to resume normal service, will open on 1st and 3rd Saturdays The Supreme Court had on Friday refused to entertain the petition filed by ministers of six states seeking a review of the top court’s August 17 order to conduct NEET and JEE (Mains) examinations as scheduled. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said that the centre should undertake a survey to find out how many candidates could not appear for the examination across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-metro-to-run-66-special-trains-on-september-13-for-neet/story-vTe5AbKcJttbsJoTWROFOJ.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai faces intense overnight thunder, lightning but light rain||Mumbai and its suburbs witnessed recurrent flashes of lightning and loud claps of thunder between 1.30 am and 3 am on early on Saturday. Also read: Parts of Delhi to remain cloudy; light rains in some areas todayThough the rumbling thunder sounded almost like mini explosions, there was hardly any overnight rain recorded either in the suburbs or south Mumbai. Between 11.30 pm and 8.30 am, the Santacruz weather observatory representative of the suburbs recorded 6.9 mm rain while Colaba, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 15 mm rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted on Thursday itself that the city and suburbs could witness partly cloudy conditions with the possibility of thundershowers in the evening or late night over the weekend. “On early Saturday morning, radar images showed very intense echoes over Alibag that slowly moved over Mumbai leading to thunder and lightning with light drizzling but faded soon enough. Similar weather is expected on Saturday and Sunday night or Monday early morning,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.After a record breaking rainfall in July and August, September began with a break in rain activity with less than 20 mm rain over the first five days of the month. This led to hotter conditions as the maximum temperature was at 33 degrees Celsius in the suburbs and 32 degrees Celsius in south Mumbai, both a degree Celsius above the normal mark. However, high humidity ranging between 85-90% led to sultry weather. “These factors are leading to land heating and allowing the formation of tall clouds during the evening or later at night. However, rain activity is likely to be subdued over the next week for Mumbai region,” said Hosalikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-faces-intense-overnight-thunder-lightning-but-light-rain/story-NQvcRW8NNA9f6C3r4hS3sN.html
05-09-2020||Kolkata||Bengal banks to resume normal service, will open on 1st and 3rd Saturdays||The Mamata Banerjee administration in West Bengal has asked banks in the state to resume normal services and remain open on the first and third Saturdays from September 5. Banks would, however, remain closed on second and fourth Saturdays as usual. The state administration had on July 20 directed banks to remain shut on all Saturdays and Sundays as Covid-19 cases were rising every day. “Now in consideration of the current Covid-19 situation and the relaxation in different activities permitted by the government outside the containment zones, it has been decided to rescind the effect of the notification (of July 20) with immediate effect thereby allowing all bank branches to work on Saturdays henceforth excepting the 2nd and 4th Saturday which had so long been observed as holidays of banks prior to issuance of the notification,” stated an official notification. Also Read: Bengal government floats e-pass idea for Kolkata Metro to tackle rushThe banks would however remain closed on lockdown days. The West Bengal government has already declared three days – September 7, 11 and 12 – when lockdown restrictions would be enforced. The centre has asked states not to impose lockdown without consulting the Union government. “The lockdown on September 7, 11 and 12 have been declared following all protocols. The centre has been informed,” said a top official of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-banks-to-resume-normal-service-will-open-on-1st-and-3rd-saturdays/story-B4gJZUlz5Wno0kysR3ZfOI.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Parts of Delhi to remain cloudy; light rains in some areas today||Parts of Delhi are likely to remain cloudy with a possibility of light rain in a few areas. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that while there was a forecast of moderate rain in Delhi-NCR between September 3 and September 5, the monsoon trough moved away from the city.Also read: Rainfall to weaken in Noida as mercury set to rise, says IMD“Delhi was supposed to have received moderate rainfall, but now only parts of the city will possibly witness light spells,” a senior IMD official, who did not wish to be named, said. On Thursday too, Delhi received rain in some parts. It had received moderate rainfall on August 28, and since then, gusty winds have been blowing across the city. The winds have kept the city’s air quality index (AQI) in check.On Monday, the city had recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 41 _ the lowest since 2015 when AQI monitoring records are being maintained in the national capital. The average AQI in Delhi was 41 in the “good” category. It was also the fourth “good” air day recorded over a month since 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-to-remain-cloudy-light-rains-in-some-areas-today/story-DTRLhiVCKMgQ4pAayIHRvN.html
05-09-2020||Patna||Nitish expedites pending cases as battle for Dalit votes intensifies||As Hindustan Awam Morcha (HAM) supremo Jitan Ram Manjhi crosses swords with the chief of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ally, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP)’s Chirag Paswan, to reposition himself as the real stalwart of Dalit politics in the state, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday asked departmental secretary to expedite investigations in pending cases of atrocities against SC and STs and have them disposed, within a fortnight, by September 20.Presiding over a meeting of the state-level vigilance and monitoring committee, constituted as part of the SC, ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1995, Nitish Kumar asked for speeding up the investigation process for time-bound disposal of all pending cases latest by September 20, as the government prepares to go in for state general elections with a positive report card on its “development with justice” agenda.The missive to SC, ST welfare department secretary Prem Kumar Meena comes at a time when battle lines are drawn between the opposition’s Grand Alliance and the NDA for a substantial slice of OBC vote bank, and, more particularly, for a larger pie of the Dalit vote bank, which accounts for 16% of total vote share, while LJP chief Chirag Paswan, an NDA ally, continues to take on the chief minister on law and order, migrants and Covid-19 fronts.Former chief minister and HAM chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, who is still to become a part of the NDA but has struck an alliance with JD (U), has jumped in the fray in defense of the chief minister.Manjhi has said that he would not only shield Kumar but also expose Chirag and senior Paswan (Ram Vilas) for doing precious little for the cause of Dalits. Paswans account for less than 6% of the Dalit votebank.Notwithstanding Manjhi’s support, which many see as mere sabre rattling for getting honourably re-instated as the Dalit mascot in the NDA camp, JD (U) chief Nitish Kumar, who is on a spree to compensate the exit of Shyam Rajak and keep his “zero tolerance policy against caste, corruption and communalism (3Cs)” intact, has decided to send out a clear message that cases of atrocities under the SC, ST Act will not be condoned at any cost.Also Read: Grand Alliance constituents set to contest Bihar assembly election on common agendaKumar also asked the department to immediately frame rules for providing a government job to one family member in the event of murder of a person of SC, ST community and also expedite the process for the appointment of public prosecutors by the law department to ensure cases are defended well at trial level.The amendment in the SC, SCT (prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1995, by the NDA government had led to a countrywide hue and cry, with LJP chief Ram Vilas Paswan leading the protests. Dalits believed that the amendment had diluted the act.Also Read: Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Incarcerated Lalu’s political meetings cause uproarFollowing the protests, some of the amended provisions relating to arrest and punishment were restored, making the upper castes restive, who in turn, were placated with EWS (economically weaker section) quota at a later stage.Kumar also directed the department secretary Prem Kumar Meena to ensure that the benefits of welfare schemes for SC and STs reached them and to also explore new measures for mainstreaming them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-expedites-pending-cases-of-atrocity-against-dalits-as-battle-for-votes-intensifies/story-nhn96f4upR8VqzhgNXCMyJ.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Best place to see the corona sky||The best way of experiencing Delhi’s extraordinarily brilliant pandemic-era clear blue sky is by heading to Sunder Nursery, just across the road from Humayun Tomb. This time, refuse to be seduced by the getaway’s flowers and monuments. The garden has a secret hidden in broad daylight—it offers a most unobtrusive view of the Delhi sky.During beautiful clean air days such as these, the sky in Sunder remains a sprawling carpet of clear blue. Masses of frothy while clouds do gather up occasionally, but they only add to the character. The sky then looks like your drawing room floor, after the dog has torn up the sofa cushions, scattering the cotton stuffing all over the place.A Lodhi Garden loyalist may argue that a similar view is to be found in her beloved park. But in Lodhi the perspectives of the sky is intruded—most beautifully, admittedly—by much bigger monuments than those in Sunder. Lodhi’s stately trees, too, rush to claim the sky as their own. Gigantic trees also stand in Sunder Nursery, but here their arrangement is almost geometrical, leaving out vast open spaces for you to cherish the sky in all its infinite majesty. In some spots, depending upon the light, the sky gets so overwhelming that you feel it might fall down on the grass at any moment.Among many distractions, the garden has two long rows of frangipani trees. Each of these trees is topped with dozens of white flowers, like a planet with many moons. From certain angles, the sky appears so close to the top of these trees that you feel as if it were resting upon their fragrant frailty. Equally enchanting is a narrow tree-lined track that cuts through a sloping lawn, and upon which the sky hovers like a narrow stream of paradise.In the evening, the setting sun tries to grab the attention but the garden’s sky has such a commanding presence that the sun is forced to stay in the background. If only Sunder Nursery could stay open till late at night, then one could use it as an open-air planetarium to watch the stars that seem to have lately popped up over Delhi. In such a dreamy night, we could lie flat upon the dewy grass, with learned friends pointing out all the Ursa Majors and Ursa Minors, the constellations that lit up our heavens. While the ever-inconstant moon would quietly become the new background prop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-best-place-to-see-the-corona-sky/story-om1HrgBcDchOqwD8CswNxN.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC asks Punjab to submit details of FIRs against all police officers||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Punjab government to submit details of the FIRs registered against all serving state police officers. The high court bench of justice Anupinder Singh Grewal also directed that details of nature of criminal case and status be also submitted along with current posting of these officers. Details have been sought by October 3.The order was passed on the plea of one Surjit Singh, a Moga resident, who had approached the court challenging his dismissal order passed by senior superintendent of police, Moga. He had submitted that the order was passed without taking into consideration the order passed by the inspector general of police, Ferozepur range, on November 23, 2018.In that order, he had been reinstated in service after registration of FIR against him, the court was told adding that criminal case against him is pending adjudication and dismissal order is discriminatory in as much as large number of police officers, who are facing criminal cases are still in service. The high court bench while seeking response in his case has sought replies by October 3, further ordering that details of FIRs registered against all serving police officers in the state be submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-asks-punjab-to-submit-details-of-firs-against-all-police-officers/story-5R8KPYPTEi2bZX7oXnI1mO.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Constable grievously hurt in Ludhiana mob attack||The police have booked at least 21 people, including eight women, for a murder bid on a constable in Jawahar Nagar camp on Thursday night. The victim, constable Gurpreet Singh, has been admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, where his condition is stated to be serious.Three of the accused have been identified as Tarsem Lal, Bunny Kumar and Narinder Kumar. The remaining accused remain unidentified.In his complaint, ASI Kulvir Singh, deputed at Division Number 5 Police station, said while he was on patrolling duty on Thursday night, he was informed about a scuffle between two groups at Jawahar Nagar camp. The groups were gathered at Tanki Wali Gali and Manocha Chakki road with glass bottles in their hands.He, along with a police team, reached the spot and tried to diffuse the situation. Meanwhile, the mob launched an attack on the police team and pelted them with bottles and bricks. In the melee, constable Gurpreet Singh was attacked on the head by a sharp-edged weapon on his head. The mob then dispersed taking advantage of the dark.Police have registered a case under Sections 307, 353, 186, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/constable-grievously-hurt-in-ludhiana-mob-attack/story-OnLinVaSckTe06vkgFjZgO.html
05-09-2020||City||Patiala senior deputy mayor files theft case against wife||The city’s senior deputy mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi has filed first information report (FIR) against his wife and her friend for stealing 22 tolas of gold ornaments and Rs 1.5 lakh cash. The accused have been identified as Jaspreet Kaur (40) and Manav Sharma (24).Police have registered case under sections 451 (house trespass), 323 (punishment for causing injuries voluntarily), 379 (theft), 498(enticing or taking away with criminal intent a married woman) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC act.SHO Kotwali police station Rahul Kaushal said in his complaint, the complainant alleged that accused Manav, who is well known to his wife, barged into their house when he was not present.“However, when Yoginder’s son resisted to Manav’s presence, both the accused first thrashed his son before fleeing from the spot with gold ornaments and cash,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-senior-deputy-mayor-files-theft-case-against-wife/story-PoITu8uGxYqKaTIV4QNAzJ.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Centre flags dropout, transition rates in govt schools; Punjab told to work for improvement||The Centre has expressed concern over the high dropout and low transition rates in the state government-run schools in Punjab. The Union ministry of education, which recently reviewed the performance indicators and progress made by the school education department, has flagged the high dropout rate in elementary and secondary classes, particularly in ‘aspirational districts’ Ferozepur and Moga, in the state. In 14 of the 22 districts, the boys’ dropout rate is more than 12% at secondary level whereas it is “very high” in Ferozepur and Moga districts at 14% and 16%. The dropout rate of Scheduled Caste children is also 16% at the secondary level, according to the minutes of the meeting of the project approval board for Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, a centrally sponsored scheme, issued by the Union ministry of education on Thursday. Similarly, the decline in transition rate – percentage of students advancing from one level of schooling to the next, say from middle to secondary – is another concern highlighted by the ministry. “The transition rate from secondary to higher secondary is less than 80% in districts. The lowest transition rate of 55% is in Tarn Taran district and 65% in Ferozepur district,” it said. The Central ministry has asked the state to take measures to reduce the student dropout and improve the transition rate at all levels. The school education department officials had informed the ministry that to reduce the dropout rate, increase the transition and improve the learning levels, the department had started an enrolment drive in all districts, introduced English medium, improved educational and infrastructure facilities and undertaken a learning enhancement programme. The government schools have seen a 10% increase in student enrolment this year with many parents, who were financially-stressed due to loss of job or income during the coronavirus pandemic-induced lockdown, shifting their children from private ones in the past five months. Also, there are reports that several migrant workers have moved back to their home states with their families. School education secretary Krishan Kumar, who attended the virtual meeting of PAB chaired by Union school education secretary Anita Karwal on June 25, could not be contacted. 281 SINGLE-TEACHER SCHOOLS The school education department has also been asked to carry out rationalisation of teaching staff to make sure there is no single-teacher school as well as maintain subject-wise pupil-teacher ratio (PTR) in the government-run schools in the state as per the norms under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009. As per the document, Punjab has 281 single-teacher schools – 279 are primary schools and two middle schools – and each of these is managed by a lone teacher. Though the overall PTR at various levels is better than the national norm, the department is facing a problem in maintaining subject-wise PTR at secondary level with one science teacher for every 84 students. The PTR for mathematics is one teacher for 79 students. The ministry has asked the state to ensure required number of subject teachers at the secondary level. 37% SEATS VACANT IN RESIDENTIAL SCHOOLS FOR GIRLS Of the 3,950 seats in 35 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBVs), 1,454 seats, or say 36.81%, remained vacant with the maximum unfilled seats being in the residential schools for girls of classes 6 to 8. As against the targeted enrolment of 1,000 girls in 10 such schools, almost half the seats were vacant. Similarly, several seats remained vacant in two other categories of special KGBV schools for classes 6 to 12. The state government has been asked to restrict the large dropouts from these residential schools in classes 11 and 12. KGBVs were established to provide access and quality education to girls from disadvantaged groups to ensure their transition from elementary to senior secondary level. RS 1,294 CR BUDGET APPROVED FOR SSA A budget of Rs 1,294 crore, including spillover of Rs 191 crore from the previous year, has been approved by the ministry for the state under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan for 2020-21 with funds for strengthening of school infrastructure in existing schools, running pre-primary classes, digital initiatives, teacher training and inclusive education. The programme aimed at ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education is jointly funded by the Centre and the state on 60:40 sharing basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-flags-dropout-transition-rates-in-govt-schools-punjab-told-to-work-for-improvement/story-x5mOW15IS7W3gM0kQJwNuI.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||1,600 encroachments found along Ludhiana’s Buddha nullah in initial survey||During the ongoing survey being conducted to demarcate the Buddha Nullah, authorities and contractors have found over 1,600 encroachments including houses and factories along the nullah.During the ongoing survey being conducted to demarcate the Buddha Nullah, authorities and contractors have found over 1,600 encroachments, including houses and factories, along the nullah.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The findings are of an initial survey that has not been completed yet. As per officials, revenue records of 900 encroachments have not been found yet. The matter will now be taken up with officials of the revenue department. Notices will be issued to property owners to show the ownership documents. It may take some more time to complete the project, but the encroachments along the nullah will be removed and MC is also taking up plantation drives for its beautification.” One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said that during the initial survey it had been found that some encroachments had been done within few feet of the nullah. Few religious buildings and plots allotted by municipal corporation to its employees are also part of encroachments. The contractor who has been deployed for the demarcation project has not submitted the final report with MC yet. Earlier, the special task force constituted to clean the nullah had directed the MC to conduct a survey for removing encroachments and beautification of the nullah. The demarcation process commenced on July 8 so the nullah’s width can be increased. Apart from MC, irrigation and revenue departments are also involved in the process. The nullah is the main drain of the city. Due to encroachments, its width has decreased over the years and it overflows almost every monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-600-encroachments-found-along-ludhiana-s-buddha-nullah-in-initial-survey/story-fqtbcIjpWRSnguMT5Ul1LO.html
05-09-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Covid toll rises to 474 with 14 deaths, 300 test positive||As many 14 Ludhiana residents lost the battle to Covid-19 on Friday, taking the death toll to 474. While 63 deaths have been reported in the past four days, the number of fatalities was much lower at 32 for the corresponding period in August. The district’s Covid-19 tally also to 11,214, with 300 residents testing positive on Friday. Of the total count, Ludhiana has 1, 743 active patients, while 8,997 people have recovered from the virus. The latest fatalities included 10 men and four women. The female patients were a 62-year-old from Doraha, a 61-year-old from Sandhu Nagar, a 59-year-old from New Kundanpuri and a 57-year-old from Guru Nanak Colony. The male decease include a 65-year-old from Haibowal, a 64-year-old from Daba, a 62-year-old from Gurdev Nagar, a 61-year-old from Chimini Road, Khanna; a 55-year-old from Jodhan village, a 54-year-old from Haibowal Kalan, a 48-year-old from Sahnewal, a 45-year-old from Tibba Road, a 45-year-old from Manjeet Nagar, Tibba; and a 35-year-old from Kanganwal village.Among those who tested positive are 115 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), 33 are contacts of positive patients and 73 patients were referred from the outpatient departments. As many as 14 patients are healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-covid-toll-rises-to-474-with-14-deaths-300-test-positive/story-6h3LnEJa5HOlJDA7LGqvII.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case drug link: Rhea Chakraborty’s brother held||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is looking into the allegations of drug use by the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his actor-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, arrested Rhea’s brother Showik and Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda on Friday night. Two others –Bandra residents Basit Parihar, 23, and Kaizan Ebrahim – were also arrested on Friday on charges of peddling drugs, taking the number of arrests in the case to seven. KPS Malhotra, deputy director of NCB, said, “We have informed the families of Showik and Miranda and both have been arrested under several sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.” Parihar was produced before a magistrate’s court which remanded him in NCB custody till September 9. Showik, Samuel and Ebrahim will be produced before a magistrate’s court on Saturday. The other three arrested for drug peddling are Zaid Vilatra, 20 (arrested on Thursday), Abbas Lakhani, and Karan Arora (arrested on August 27-28). Lakhani and Arora were arrested based on a specific input in another case and curated marijuana was seized from their possession. Their questioning led NCB to Vilatra, who told officials that he ran an eatery in Bandra (West), but was suffering losses owing to the lockdown and so started to peddle drugs. Vilatra alleged he was in touch with Ebrahim and Parihar. Parihar allegedly told NCB that he used to procure drugs from Vilatra and Ebrahim, on the instructions of Chakraborty’s brother Showik who asked him to give it to Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda. Showik’s chats on a messaging application showed that on March 17, he shared Vilatra’s contact number with Miranda and asked to pay him ₹10,000 for 5gm. Miranda and Vilatra were tracked to the same location on March 17, said NCB officials. A senior IPS officer from NCB said, “We conducted searches at Miranda’s and Showik’s homes and collected some evidence. The investigation is at a preliminary stage and details of the evidence gathered can’t be revealed at the moment.” NCB officials said they have recovered Indian currency worth ₹955,750 and foreign currency – US$ 2,081, 180 British Pound, 15 Dirham – from Vilatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-drug-link-rhea-chakraborty-s-brother-held/story-f8Yg0luKMkPX9w4ypL663M.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Final-year exam papers can be of 50 marks each with one-hour time, panel of vice-chancellors suggests to Maharashtra government||The committee of vice-chancellors of all universities in Maharashtra in its report has recommended to the state government that each paper for final-year examinations of professional and non-professional courses can be of 50 marks with a duration of one hour for completion. Oral examinations or viva can be held through applications such as Skype or over phone. The state government has asked the vice-chancellors to submit the timetable of exams and other such details by September 7, following which the same will be placed before state disaster management authority for final approval, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant confirmed.Following the Supreme Court ruling that students cannot be promoted without writing examinations, the state had formed a committee of vice-chancellors headed by Suhas Pednekar, vice-chancellor of University of Mumbai to suggest how the process can be conducted safely. The committee submitted its report to the state higher and technical education department on Friday with 11 recommendations.“The committee has recommended that the students should be allowed to appear for exams from home. It has also recommended that each paper can be of 50 marks with a duration of one hour to complete. Oral exams or viva can be held through Skype and other such application or over phone. The format of exams will have to be decided by the Board of Examinations and Academic Council of the universities,” said Samant, adding that they have many options available such as open book exams, multiple choice question (MCQ), optical mark recognition (OMR) and assignment-based exams.The committee has also recommended to seek extension up to October 31 from University Grants Commission (UGC) to complete the examination process. Offline or physical exams will be conducted only where the student is not in a position to appear for same online, Samant said.According to the report, 90% of the students have mobile phones or desktops which can be used for online exams. The 10% students, who don’t have either of the two or have internet connectivity issues, can be allowed to appear for the exams physically at Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Limited (MKCL) centres, officials said.The report states that the examination process, including declaration of results, can be completed by October 31 and admission for the next academic year can start from November 1, said an official.It also states that practical exams can be held between September 15 and 30.Samant has already declared that final-year examinations can be conducted from the first week of October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-exam-papers-can-be-of-50-marks-each-with-one-hour-time-panel-of-vice-chancellors-suggests-to-maharashtra-government/story-2M4K4w7RA1xhPwsHsqaSKO.html
05-09-2020||City||Three robbers snatch young couple’s car at gunpoint in Ludhiana||Robbers struck for the second time within two weeks on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur road near Baddowal, taking away a young couple’s car at gunpoint on Thursday evening.The victim, Kulwant Singh, 25, of Shimlapuri, told the police that he and his wife, Maninder Kaur, visited Mullanpur Dakha to buy biscuits. While returning home, they stopped at a nursery near Baddowal to buy plants and pots for the kitchen garden.While Maninder went inside, he waited in their Maruti Suzuki Ritz car. Meanwhile, three men on a motorcycle turned up there. Two of them threatened him at gunpoint to step out of the car and warned that they will shoot him if he resisted.He quietly got off the car and two of the robbers drove it away, while their accomplice followed them on their motorcycle.He immediately notified the police, but was unable to note down the motorcycle’s registration number. A police team from Mullanpur Dakha station reached the crime spot and initiated investigation.According to the victim, the accused were in the mid twenties and were wearing kurtas with trousers.Inspector Prem Singh, station house officer (SHO) at Mullanpur Dakha police station, said a case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused. Police are scanning footage from CCTVs installed in the area to trace the accused.On August 21, a Ferozepur-based trader had lost his SUV to gun-wielding robbers in Mullanpur Dakha, hours after purchasing it from Manimajra, Chandigarh. The case remains unsolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-robbers-snatch-young-couple-s-car-at-gunpoint-in-ludhiana/story-27N52zkWDW7fCGPlGY6e1J.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Tree branch falls, kills 9-year-old in Mumbai’s Lower Parel||A nine-year-old died as a tree branch fell on him at Marwadi Chawl in Lower Parel on Friday. The deceased, identified as Samar Bosak, was taken to Wadia Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.The incident took place around 1.38pm at Pandurang Budhkar Marg. Local resident Santosh Kharat, said, “Children were playing inside compound when a branch from the Peepal tree fell on the boy. He received severe head injuries and was taken to the hospital. Landowners need to conduct yearly pruning and cutting of dangerous trees to avoid such incidents. This should be done before monsoon.”According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the property owner is responsible for maintaining, cutting or trimming trees on their premises. Usually, officials from local civic ward office inspect trees in private compounds and issue notices to property owners if the trees pose a danger to the people there.Despite several attempts, Sharad Ughade, ward officer of G South ward (Lower Parel), was unavailable for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tree-branch-falls-kills-9-year-old-in-mumbai-s-lower-parel/story-GA6alaXNPRK9ZrHKEqFLrO.html
05-09-2020||City||Police crack case of missing cab driver with arrest of dhaba owner from Narwana||The Narwana and Gurugram police in a joint operation on Friday claimed to have solved a five-month-old case of a missing taxi driver, Suresh Kumar, of Jind’s Radhana village with the arrest of a dhaba owner.The arrested man has been identified as Sukhbir alias Sukha of Dumerkha village in the district.Narwana SHO Manoj Verma said the parents of Suresh, who used to drive a cab in Gurugram, had lodged a missing person report five months ago at a Gurugram police station.“Suresh’s disappearance remained unsolved for five months. On the basis of solid inputs, we arrested Sukhbir, who had eloped with Suresh’s wife on Thursday, and recovered a pistol from his possession. During questioning, he confessed that Suresh had visited his dhaba five months ago. They both had consumed liquor on that night and Sukhbir killed Suresh with a pistol as the latter was aware about his affair with his wife,” the SHO added.He further said they extracted the body of the victim that was buried in the area adjoining the accused’s dhaba.“We will produce him in a court and seek his remand,” the cop added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-crack-case-of-missing-cab-driver-with-arrest-of-dhaba-owner-from-narwana/story-1pXfqQYy0NkmeqNWCJ09qM.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||A room filled with 275 plants: Thane biomedical engineer makes his green dream come true||Thane resident Vijaykumar Katti, 60, brought home a potted plant 18 months ago, but it died within a few days. Undeterred by the initial defeat, the former technologist from Tata Memorial Hospital’s radiotherapy department learnt everything about safeguarding and growing plants at home. “Taking care of a plant is not as simple as it looks. It requires dedicated effort and I set out to find what plants need,” said Katti, who began acquiring plants from around his residence and studied their requirements. While he started his work on plants at that time, the Covid-19-associated lockdown gave him enough time to achieve what he set out for. Today, Katti, a social worker since 1993, has dedicated one room filled with 275 plants of seven different species in his two-bedroom flat at Balkum-Saket road, Thane. He has also set up a 3ftx6ft kitchen garden with over 25 species in his backyard, and consumes only home-grown vegetables. Katti will open his project to public on Saturday which is Teacher’s Day. “This is an opportunity for me to share and express my knowledge and gratitude to my teachers, parents and guides who have supported me,” he said. A 2015 study by Japanese and Korean researchers showed that plants help suppress psychological and physiological stress signals released by the nervous system. Taking care of them, however, is complicated. “There is a difference between putting up a plant for show, and actually monitoring its growth from a sapling. When the first plant died on me, I needed to learn about the correct temperature, moisture availability, need for adequate sunlight, water provision or correct soil content,” said Katti.He started off by bringing home plants that were neglected or dried. “I was lucky that my family (wife and child) were willing to devote one room to nurturing these plants,” he said. The room has flowering plants as well decorative and high carbon-absorbing plants. It also has 17 bonsais created from cuttings plants found on the road. Experts in urban rooftop greening said neglect and over-enthusiasm are the primary reasons why plants may not survive. “Most people ensure their efforts are not wasted by keeping a close watch, while others forget about them beyond visual pleasure. Some overwater their plants while others are unaware of which season to grow them,” said Monisha Narke, founder and CEO of RUR Greenlife. “A balance is always needed,” she said. During the Covid-19 lockdown, Katti was involved in disinfecting vehicles for the Thane road transport office and other government offices. “I came across farmers coming from Nashik who explained why their vegetables were immunity boosters. So I decided to put together my own kitchen garden with tomato, potato, onion, kadi patta, tea leaves, ginger, spinach etc. Four months on, I don’t need to depend on the local vegetable market anymore,” he said. Therapists said the power of nature has a calming effect on mental health. “Caring for house plants requires more patience and a focused approach. We need to connect with nature before adopting a plant,” said Roshan Mansukhani, music therapist and counsellor. Katti said not a single plant has died under his care over the past year. “With correct knowledge and attention to basic requirements, these plants have become my best friend. As I move into the latter stage of my life, this experiment, which requires zero investment and 100% engagement, is my way of giving something back to the environment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/a-room-filled-with-275-plants-thane-biomedical-engineer-makes-his-green-dream-come-true/story-O04niKNA0VoUtQ0TeKdm2H.html
05-09-2020||City||JEE Main, Day 4: Exam was easy, but lengthy, say Ludhiana students||As many as 290 students appeared for Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main on day four at the ION digital zone near Sherpur Chowk on Friday. The examination was conducted by Tata Consultancy Services at nine exam centres in Punjab. Students found the exam easy, but slightly lengthy. The question paper consisted of 75 questions with three sections, comprising 25 questions each. Of the three sections (physics, chemistry, and mathematics), students found maths lengthy. The exam was conducted in two shifts — morning and evening. As many as 140 appeared in the first shift, which began at 9am and concluded at noon, while 150 turned up for the second which was held from 3pm to 6pm. The students were satisfied with the arrangements made by the authorities to prevent the spread of Covid-19.They said their body temperature was checked at the entrance and they were given masks. They were allowed to carry sanitisers, however, proper sanitisers were kept at the centre.Srishti Verma, a student, said, “I found the exam easy and balanced.” She added that the it was a bit lengthy and physics and chemistry sections were slightly tricky.Another student, Gaganpreet Singh, said that the exam was balanced. Maths section was lengthy, while physics and chemistry sections were easy, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jee-main-day-4-exam-was-easy-but-lengthy-say-ludhiana-students/story-FNfMEDmZsNRga54po3hHjJ.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC seeks NIA reply to Gautam Navlakha’s petition||The Bombay high court issued notices and directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to respond to a criminal appeal by Elgar Parishad accused Gautam Navlakha who moved the court against the order of a special NIA court rejecting his default bail plea. The HC will hear his plea on September 15. A division bench of Justice SS Shinde and Justice MS Karnik was hearing Navlakha’s plea filed through advocate Ragini Ahuja against the trial court’s July 12 order. Navlakha in the plea submitted that while section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) stipulated that the charge sheet should be filed within 90 days, NIA had failed to do so and as kept him in detention for more than 90 days. In view of this, he said he was entitled to be released on default bail as per law. The NIA court on July 12 had refused his plea on the grounds that the period of house arrest could not be included in the period of detention and also held that during house arrest, Navlakha was never under the detention of police for investigation. Earlier in April, Navlakha had surrendered before NIA in Delhi due to the Covid-19 pandemic and was lodged in Tihar Jail. He was brought to Mumbai on May 25 for further probe in the first information report (FIR) pending in Mumbai and was shifted to Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh for NIA said while the criminal appeal against July 12 special NIA court order was to be filed within 30 days as per law, the same was filed two weeks after the 30-day period and added that NIA had no objection for condoning the delay. After hearing submissions, the bench issued a notice to NIA seeking its response and posted further hearing to September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-seeks-nia-reply-to-gautam-navlakha-s-petition/story-0LYklEmGFw56h0NqPYzJfO.html
05-09-2020||City||Teen held for raping minor in Bhayandar||Navghar police has arrested a 19-year-old for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl in Bhayandar. The police have also arrested his accomplice.The parents of the minor approached Navghar police earlier this week after the minor was found to be pregnant and narrated the ordeal to her mother. She named the accused in her statement to the police while the medical report confirmed rape.Navghar police said the sexual assault took place in a car in June while the accused’s accomplice kept a watch outside. The vehicle has been seized.The accused has been arrested for rape under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. Both the accused have been remanded in police custody till September 11 by Thane court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teen-held-for-raping-minor-in-bhayandar/story-Cu6WhqdGJLM3Y8y8Jby6UI.html
05-09-2020||City||Three arrested for duping people in Navi Mumbai||Taking advantage of the financial crisis during lockdown, three men cheated Navi Mumbai residents to the tune of ₹8 lakh under the pretext of issuing personal loans from a fictitious co-operative bank. The gang had been operating for the past three months, soon after the trio were released on bail from Thane prison, where they were lodged in a cheating case. The accused Rohit Nagwekar, 30; Bhalchandra Palav, 27; and Omkar Mhatre, 35 have been arrested following a complaint from a Nerul resident who suspected something amiss with the trio’s cooperative bank. The police laid a trap and nabbed them on Wednesday in Navi Mumbai. “Soon after being released on bail [from Thane prison], the trio hatched a plan to set up a new con. They printed fake chequebooks and fake letters of loan applications under the name of Vijaydip Co-operative Bank. They also printed pamphlets under the name of Akruti Finance Services promising loans,” said Satish Nikam, senior inspector at APMC police station. The group targeted men who needed money due to the financial crisis amid lockdown. They advertised a phone number and spoke to loan applicants posing as officials of the bank, allegedly located in Dahanu. The letters had a registration number and a detailed address of the bank’s location, both of which police suspect, was randomly selected. The men would lure the applicants by presenting lucrative interest rates and quick sanctioning of loan. Once the victim was ready to apply for the loan, one of the accused would meet the applicant and seek money for various charges required for the loan, said police adding the trio has duped at least three people. The arrested accused were produced before a magistrate court and have been remanded in police custody till Monday. Police are recording statements of the three victims and are questioning the accused to identify more victims. Police have also seized two cars along with false documents including letters, chequebooks and rubber stamps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-duping-people-in-navi-mumbai/story-eMMn3K98t05PWFjNFCnSEK.html
05-09-2020||City||Oil lamp leads to minor fire in a flat in Thane; no injuries||A minor fire broke out at a residential complex in Thane on Friday morning. The fire started due to an oil lamp burning in a small temple in one of the flats on the fourth floor of the building. There were no injuries or casualties in the incident and the fire brigade doused the fire within 20 minutes while cooling operations were on for an hour. The fire took place in Siddheshwar building in Patilwadi. “The lamp lit in a small temple in a flat seems to have led to the fire. It was doused immediately by the fire brigade. The family members are unhurt,” said Santosh Kadam, chief of regional disaster management cell, Thane. According to fire department officials, the cooling operations took time as the small apartment did not have enough windows for smoke to escape. “Due to the lockdown, it was getting difficult to find flowers so we started using garland made of sandalwood in the temple. We had no idea that sandalwood is flammable and it instantly caught fire,” said Deepak Chalke, the owner of the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/oil-lamp-leads-to-minor-fire-in-a-flat-in-thane-no-injuries/story-qQBaD2BbbAod3uHML7Zr8M.html
05-09-2020||City||Senior citizen from Bhayandar loses ₹7.13 lakh in online friend||A 65-year-old retired government employee was duped of around ₹7.13 lakh by a ‘friend’ she met on a social media platform. The victim befriended one Richard Jack, who claimed to be a civil engineer settled in London, in June. The accused used to chat with the victim for hours and won her trust. In July, Jack told the victim he was in New Delhi for a project and requested for ₹38,000 citing he was short of money. Following this, the victim transferred the money, said senior inspector Sampatrao Patil, Bhayander police.A few days later, Jack called her saying he was sending her a phone and ₹50,000 to show his gratitude for helping him out. When the victim refused to accept it, the accused said he had already sent the gifts. In late August, the victim received a call from an unidentified man saying she would have to pay ₹6.75 lakh towards ‘customs, taxes and courier charges’, following which she sent the money to a bank account.On Wednesday, the caller again demanded ₹1.5 lakh as ‘miscellaneous charges’ and told to collect the parcel from the counter of a Mumbai hotel. The woman then suspected foul play and found that Jack had deleted his account from the social media site and his number was switched off, following which she lodged a complaint.“We have registered a case of cheating under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code against Jack and the other caller. We are going through the bank accounts of the fraudster and investigating further,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-citizen-from-bhayandar-loses-7-13-lakh-in-online-friend/story-WK7g8QR44D1J2Gqejeup9M.html
05-09-2020||City||Three arrested for vehicle theft in Bhiwandi||Three people were arrested by Narpoli police in Bhiwandi in different cases of two-wheeler thefts last week. The three accused stole two two-wheelers worth ₹90,000 which have been seized by the police. The three arrested are Istiyak Ali Ansari, 35, a resident of Bhiwandi; Anwar Sayyed, 22, a resident of Saki Naka; and Saif Ansari, 21, a Bhiwandi resident. Senior inspector Maloji Shinde of Narpoli police station said, “We undertook a special drive to nab those involved in vehicle thefts and started investigating such cases. With the help of our informers and evidence, we zeroed in on a few suspects and questioned them. In two of the cases, we seized the stolen vehicles from them. The third case led us to the actual culprits.” The three have been booked under section 379 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code for theft. “All police stations have started special patrolling and taking immediate note of vehicle thefts to nab the culprits soon,” said Rajkumar Shinde, assistant police commissioner, Bhiwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-vehicle-theft-in-bhiwandi/story-GO7z95OJ5LhwIvjpwcsbEO.html
05-09-2020||City||Ferozepur railway division loads 116% more freight in August this year||With the average speed of goods trains seeing an increase of 46%, the Ferozepur railway division loaded 1.77 metric-tonne freight in August, which is 116% more than the same period last year. Revenue generated in August this year is Rs 327 crore, which is 134% more than the same period last year.Rajesh Agarwal, divisional railway manager, said Ferozepur Division is ensuring supply of essential commodities to different parts of the country through freight and parcel special trains in an effort to strengthen the economy. He added that due to less time taken, there has been an increase in frequency of freight trains and the division can load more goods. Agarwal said the use of a diesel engine has improved by 25% compared to the previous year, electric engines by 45% and punctuality of mail and express trains by 7% to 98%.“Due to the marketing efforts of the business development unit of the division, the freight and revenue have increased significantly in this financial year. Due to the BDU’s efforts, load was registered for the first time in the newly constructed freight terminal in Khasa on August 31,” the DRM said.“The board has set new records in freight shipments despite various challenges due to the pandemic,” he added.Agarwal added that the board shipped 1.58 million-tonne food grains in August 2020, 155% more than the corresponding period of the previous year and is a record in the history of the division. He said the previous record was 1.20 million tonnes in July 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ferozepur-railway-division-loads-116-more-freight-in-august-this-year/story-Rlk8hzNb05WyPZnhYCMbnL.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana asks neighbouring states to allow interstate movement of roadways buses||Haryana government on Friday shot off letters to the neighbouring states, seeking nod to start interstate bus operations and politely reminding about the Centre’s explicit guidelines to not stop interstate movement of persons and goods. Government sources say the two-page letters written in Hindi were dispatched on Friday after the neighbouring governments — barring UT Chandigarh — didn’t respond to a similar request sent via e-mail on Monday. However, Chandigarh administration referring to the August 28 guidelines of the Centre informed Haryana on Friday that it “has decided to resume” interstate bus service of Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses and other state transport undertakings from September 16. In its ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines, the Union ministry of home affairs had said that there will be no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement of persons and goods, and no separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movement. According to transport minister Mool Chand Sharma, the letters were sent to Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi and Uttarakhand governments. “Please let Haryana Roadways buses enter your states as per the directions of the Union government and as per the agreements,” Sharma said, hoping to receive permission to resume interstate bus operations. He said it was for the neighbouring states to decide if they wanted to ply their buses on interstate routes or not. “But at least allow our roadways buses to resume operations in your states as per the agreements. And we have already given consent to all the states that they can run their buses in Haryana,” the minister said, pointing out that large number of the roadways buses used to go to Himachal before the lockdown. Haryana Roadways has already been running about 53 buses in Uttar Pradesh and about 100 in Rajasthan regularly. “The interstate operations could not be started till date due to lack of permission by the neighbouring states, including Delhi,” the transport department said in an internal note circulated on Friday. LOSSES MOUNTING The bus operations in Haryana were stopped on March 21 in view of ‘Janata Curfew’ and subsequent nationwide lockdown. Haryana Roadways started driving out of the lockdown on May 15 by initially running 29 buses on intrastate routes while adhering to social distancing norms. As per the official data, in four months (April to July), the average kilometre per day per bus slipped to 34 against 282 during the corresponding period last year. During this period the ‘receipt per km was Rs 15 against near Rs 27 last year. Officials said the roadways earned Rs 22 crore in four months (April to July), while during the same months last year, the total traffic receipt was Rs 348 crore. “Ghaata hi ghaata ho raha hai...,” the transport minister said. However, as per the data of the roadways, there had been an encouraging rise in revenue and the number of passengers travelling within the state in its buses last month. In August, the total receipt from the sale of tickets was Rs 29 crore and the total number of passengers travelled in the roadways buses rose to 49 lakh as the buses covered over one crore kilometres in a month. The receipts per km grew to Rs 25. “As per the report received from the depots, 1,596 buses were being operated on September 3,” said an official. In the past three days, 53 roadways buses travelled to UP and 104 between Rajasthan and Haryana. About six lakh passengers opted for the roadways buses on interstate as well as intrastate routes, generating Rs 3.34 crore in three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-asks-neighbouring-states-to-allow-interstate-movement-of-roadways-buses/story-5rLzTekBg7CRZzd7qQrOkN.html
05-09-2020||City||Ludhiana mayor directs officials to submit report on shifting dairy units||With an aim to shift dairy units situated in Haibowal road and Tajpur road dairy complex, a meeting of high-powered committee was held under the chairmanship of mayor Balkar Sandhu at his camp office on Friday.Officials from Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), animal husbandry and Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) participated in the meeting Authorities have been told to submit a feasibility report after conducting inspections of different earmarked sites situated in villages outside MC limits. As directed in the last meeting, GADVASU officials apprised the mayor of a proposed design and requirement of land for shifting the units. However, the mayor was not satisfied as the officials said at least one-acre land is required for every dairy unit.“There are around 600 dairy units and 600-acre land is not available at any site. The proposal was not viable and the officials have been told to submit a feasibility report by visiting different sites. Also, they have been told to finalise a design for a modern dairy complex, where the units have to be shifted. No decision has yet been taken regarding change of land use charges for the existing dairy units,” Sandhu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mayor-directs-officials-to-submit-report-on-shifting-dairy-units/story-R1OJF42jAaJ208S7vgJJzK.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC to decide on bail, parole pleas on September 10 as Maharashtra jails see spike in Covid-19 cases||With the number Covid-19 positive inmates across jails in Maharashtra touching 1,668, the Bombay high court (HC) took cognizance of the spike in infections at Kolhapur Central Prison and directed the state to take immediate measures to safeguard the inmates, officers and jail staff across all jails. The court also said that it would decide on cases of interim bail and parole on September 10 after it was informed that nearly 150 of the 300 inmates in the Kolhapur jail who were tested for Covid, were positive. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik was hearing the applications by two in Kolhapur Central Prison inmates for interim Covid parole and furlough, respectively. The court was informed by advocate NN Gavankar that there was an alarming rise in Covid cases in the jail, and hence, there was an urgency for allowing the applications. While referring to the application of Sachin Khambe who was convicted and sentenced to life in 2002 for murder, Gavankar said that as Khambe was already behind bars for around 20 years, in light of the Covid situation, he could be granted interim Covid bail. With regards to the second application of Narendra Giri who is serving a 12-year sentence for colluding in the murder of Shiv Sena corporator Kamlakar Jamsandekar, Gavankar said that given the pandemic, Giri’s application for furlough should be heard favourably. Gavankar submitted that as on September 3, of the 300 inmates who had been tested for Covid, 150 were found positive. He further submitted that as the isolation facilities for the inmates were not sufficient, his clients should be granted Covid parole. However, according to data released by the prison department, as on September 3, of the 1,887 inmates lodged in the Kolhapur Central Prison, around 473 had undergone swab tests, and 95 had tested positive, of which seven recovered. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “We are aware that there is an increase in the number of cases, and the Covid infection is spreading fast among jail inmates.” Justice Shinde further said that it would include all prisons in the state while hearing the applications by Gavankar if the government did not take immediate steps to safeguard the inmates and jail staff. When the court heard an application by another inmate of the Kolhapur jail seeking interim bail on the grounds that the Supreme Court (SC) had issued directions to decongest jails to avoid the spread of Covid-19, justice Shinde said the bench would decide on all interim Covid bail and parole pleas once and for all on September 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-to-decide-on-bail-parole-pleas-on-september-10-as-maharashtra-jails-see-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-e94dbjVzs94s2zBQJGJllL.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Online classes: Maharashtra education department warns schools of action for SOP violation||After receiving several complaints about schools not adhering to the standard operating procedure (SOP) for conducting online classes, the state education department has warned schools of action. In a circular issued on Thursday, the education department has asked all private-aided schools in Mumbai to ensure that norms with respect to time limit of online classes are followed. “Several complaints have been received stating that some schools are conducting classes for as long as five to six hours a day which is a violation of SOP. Similarly, complaints have been received about schools conducting examinations of 40-80 marks which is not allowed. Schools should strictly follow SOPs laid down by the government,” stated the circular. An official from the education department said action will be taken if schools do not comply with laid down SOPs. “This circular is a warning but action will be taken if they continue to violate rules,” he added. As per a Government Resolution released on July 22, pre-primary students can be asked to attend online instructions for up to 30 minutes from Monday to Friday. This has to primarily consist of assisting and guiding parents about the learning of their children. Students of Classes 1 and 2 can be asked to attend two sessions of 30 minutes each. Students of Classes 3 to 8 can attend up to two sessions of 45 minutes each, while Classes 9 to 12 can be asked to sit for four such sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/online-classes-maharashtra-education-department-warns-schools-of-action-for-sop-violation/story-QNYR6iadSCPzQoKnJYeo8J.html
05-09-2020||City||As Covid cases in Thane city surge, civic body starts mandatory antigen tests at malls||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) issued guidelines stating that citizens will have to undergo mandatory antigen testing before entering any mall in the city from Friday. The civic body has also deployed four teams at Thane railway station to test passengers coming to the city from other states or districts. “As per the state government’s directives, malls have been reopened in Thane city. As more and more people are likely to visit them in the coming days, especially during the weekends, we plan to test every individual, including the staff, visiting the malls. The teams to conduct the tests are stationed at the entrance of the malls. As more number of people are also visiting the city from other states and cities, four of our teams have been stationed at Thane railway station,” said municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma. Manoj K Agarwal, chief executive officer of Viviana Mall, said, “As a part of the safety drive to break the chain of the spread of the pandemic, antigen testing of customers has been initiated. We are providing complete cooperation [to the civic corporation] and this is an additional safety measure along with the other precautions taken by us within the mall premises.” However, residents who visited the malls have claimed that antigen tests are being conducted randomly and not everybody is getting tested. “I visited the mall on Friday evening and there were people with testing kits. But they randomly chose a few people for the tests. I was let inside the mall after my temperature and oxygen levels were checked,” said Aakruti Pandit, 32, a resident of Panchpakhadi. TMC has refuted these claims. “We have initiated testing for every customer in the mall,” said TMC deputy commissioner Ashok Burpulle. With an aim to curb the spread of the virus, TMC has increased testing across the city and also initiated antigen tests at crowded areas. On Thursday, 5,052 antigen tests were conducted across various spots in the city as a part of this initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-cases-in-thane-city-surge-civic-body-starts-mandatory-antigen-tests-at-malls/story-GdSdwyL6JZKHkILgpUuMLN.html
05-09-2020||City||32 of family in Kalyan test positive for Covid; cluster cases on rise in housing societies in KDMC||With clusters of Covid-19 being reported from well-to-do neighbourhoods, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has shifted its focus to upscale residential complexes. Health officials said Covid-positive patients who opt for home isolation don’t follow guidelines, which leads to the infection spreading. Thirty-two members of a joint family from Joshibaug Colony in Kalyan (West) tested positive for Covid-19 on August 30. A 62-year-old member of the family said, “My 40-year-old nephew was showing symptoms so he was admitted in hospital and tested positive. As we live in a joint family, we decided to get everyone tested. Unfortunately, everyone tested positive. Our kids used to meet each other and that is how it might have spread to other members. My nephew has returned home while others are receiving treatment.” The Covid-positive family members are being treated at A & G Hospital in Kalyan (West) and Metro Hospital in Kalyan (East). KDMC says there are other cases like the Joshibaug cluster. On Wednesday, KDMC recorded 508 new cases of Covid-19, followed by 394 cases on Thursday. As per records, 117 cases were reported from Kalyan (West) and 111 in Dombivli (East) on Thursday. These areas are predominantly made up of housing complexes.On Friday, KDMC recorded 558 positive cases. Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC, said residents opting for home isolation don’t follow guidelines and can’t be monitored properly. “In our slum pockets, we have managed to control the cases completely in August. This could be done only because of strict monitoring and also compulsorily sending the Covid-positive person to institutional quarantine. In big residential complexes, we don’t have control as residents prefer home isolation,” said Panpatil. Activists claimed the civic body needs to track patients. “Several guidelines are meant to be followed in residential buildings, which are not being followed. The civic body needs to give clear guidelines to residents and keep monitoring them,” said activist Rupinder Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-of-family-in-kalyan-test-positive-for-covid-cluster-cases-on-rise-in-housing-societies-in-kdmc/story-uxUsBjBOh0uhJxWvGEMcZM.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s poor don’t get government scheme benefits, says NGO’s report||While the Central and state governments have announced several schemes to help low-income groups tide over the crises caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, a ground report by Mumbai-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action (Yuva) found many households do not have access to or are not beneficiaries of these schemes. Yuva surveyed 25,589 households from 10 cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including 13,801 migrant workers who were returning to their villages. The NGO had also conducted 172 in-depth interviews with workers between March and June. Their report is titled “Living with multiple vulnerabilities: impact of Covid-19 on the urban poor in MMR” and was released on Friday. According to the report, of the 8,315 households surveyed, only 297 households (3.57%) had access to the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), which offers clean cooking fuel for those below the poverty line (BPL). In the wake of Covid-19, the Centre had announced that it would provide free gas cylinders to all BPL families and the scheme was extended till September. “While BPL coverage of the PMUY appears limited, a possible expansion of beneficiaries of the PMUY in the given economic situation is much needed,” the report states. According to Yuva, almost 17% of Maharashtra’s population qualifies BPL and 22% of the state’s poorest live in Mumbai, Pune, Thane and Nagpur. Under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, the Centre had announced ₹1,500 would be transferred to all Jan Dhan bank accounts registered in women’s names in three instalments of ₹500 each. However, of the 14,750 households surveyed by Yuva, only 23.13% had bank accounts in the women’s names. Also only 284 of the 963 construction workers registered with the Maharashtra Building and Other Construction Workers’ (BoCW) Welfare Board, who were surveyed, received a cash transfer of ₹2,000 as promised by the government of Maharashtra. Roshni Nuggehalli from Yuva said, “We have also included people’s demands in the report which in a way questions the accountability on the way the city has developed. The lockdown has showed us how people’s rights have been violated and through this research we want the government to focus on these issues and address the demands made by the people.” The recommendations for the Centre and the state include increased access to clean cooking fuel and nutritious food, effective implementation of relief measures, and increased financial assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-poor-don-t-get-government-scheme-benefits-says-ngo-s-report/story-o0VjXIWuOCfiXXlHy5CgCM.html
05-09-2020||City||HSPCB issues show-cause notice to 11 Panipat hotels||Eleven hotels of the Panipat City were found violating environmental norms by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB).HSPCB’s regional officer Kamaljit Singh has issued show-cause notices to these hotels under Section 33-A of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act and 31 A of the (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. As per the notices, the said hotels have not applied for consent to operate under the water and air acts.The hotels were being run illegally without valid consent to operate and have not submitted any application for same. The orders categorically mentioned that if the hotels failed to comply with the deficiencies within the stipulated period, further action will be taken against the owners of these hotels.Kamaljit Singh said the hotels have been asked to give their reply why they failed to fulfil the terms and conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hspcb-issues-show-cause-notice-to-11-panipat-hotels/story-rY9LVWoGTuWt84j2U1BWKP.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||BMC conducts 90,000 antigen tests across Mumbai with 6.3% positivity rate, 1 lakh more kits ordered||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has tested around 90,000 people in the city for Covid-19 using rapid antigen kits, since July. Counting those conducted at private hospitals, more than one lakh rapid antigen tests have already been done in Mumbai. To further boost testing, the civic body is procuring one lakh new kits.On Friday, 2,068 people were tested with rapid antigen kits, of which 19 were diagnosed with Covid-19. This reflects a 9.2% positivity rate. Cumulatively, from July till September 4, 89,126 people have undergone antigen testing under the supervision of BMC. Of this, 5,674 have been detected with the novel coronavirus infection, which accounts for a positivity rate of 6.3%.Mumbai’s positivity rate from real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, antigen tests and repurposed TrueNat tests (originally used to diagnose tuberculosis) stands at 5.3%.Antigen testing is conducted on swabbed nasal samples that detect antigens that are found on or within the virus Sars-Cov-2 that causes Covid-19. It is performed outside the conventional laboratory setting and gives results within 30 minutes.“The positivity rate is the highest in major civic-run and private hospitals as other than high-risk contacts, the tests are also conducted on suspected patients for faster results. However, we have seen that false-negative cases are only around 2%, despite the kit’s sensitivity rate being 50%,” said a senior health officer from BMC.To boost rapid antigen testing, BMC has acquired 50,000 additional kits, and the remaining 50,000 are expected to be delivered by Saturday.“We have plans to expand antigen testing to all corners of the city. In the next phase, we will provide testing kits to civic-run dispensaries and maternity hospitals, for which we placed the second order to procure the 50,000 antigen testing kits,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.In August, BMC had instructed wards like R Central (Borivli), R South (Kandivli) and D (Grant Road) among others to conduct 1,000 tests daily, which will include both antigen and RT-PCR.However, a section of medical experts has opined that too much dependency on antigen testing may lead to several false-negative cases.Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India, warned against overuse of the kits. “As per ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), antigen tests have a moderate sensitivity of around 50%. If we start using them more than RT-PCR, we might fail to detect many infected patients. They should be used as an additional testing tool, not the primary one,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-conducts-90-000-antigen-tests-across-mumbai-with-6-3-positivity-rate-1-lakh-more-kits-ordered/story-kydhYauhKu5RjjA84guCxM.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Ganesh fest, easing of curbs may push up Covid-19 cases in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) anticipates a spike in Covid-19 cases because of easing of lockdown restrictions and the Ganesh festival, even as the number of infections has come down gradually over the past three months. Experts have advised caution saying the curve has gone a little upwards since the last week of August, stressing the need to optimise testing and tracing. Mumbai has since August 26 been reporting between 1,100 and 1,800 cases daily. BMC started screening people for Covid-19 at the Mumbai airport from January 18. It conducted the first test on February 3. The first positive case was reported on March 11. According to the Maharashtra health department, Mumbai had around 7,000 cases until April 30. In May, it reported 31,874 cases, 36,559 cases in June, 35,139 cases in July, and 30,474 cases in August. As many as 238,000 tests were conducted in August, 203,000 in July, 120,000 in May, and 132,000 in June, according to BMC data. In May, around 3,872 tests were being conducted daily, 4,422 in July, and over 7,600 in August. The overall positivity rate came down to around 18% in August. As many as 792,000 tests have been conducted in Mumbai till date, with a positivity rate of 18.74%. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said a small upward trend has been observed since the last week of August. “We have to ramp up the testing, considering we are currently under-testing and under-tracing. We have to optimise the testing considering our capacity, which is not happening currently,” he said. “...we have liberalised testing where anyone can go and get tested, but if people are not coming out and testing, we will have to go to them and test them.” Madhav Sathe, a former microbiology professor at BYL Nair Hospital, said he has been vocal about increasing the daily testing for two months now. “In September too, we are testing around 9,000 samples in Mumbai daily, whereas we should be testing at least 15,000. We have given an option to citizens to get tested, but we should also enforce testing if that is required. Also, at least frontline staff or those who come in contact with multiple people daily should be tested to control the spread.” Suresh Kakani, BMC’s additional commissioner, said the spike may not be very high. “There will be a little spike in the number of cases being reported daily, and it is because we are having many relaxations... During the Ganesh festival, many went out and this might increase our tally,” he said. “The active cases in the city are around 20,000 and in the coming days, it will be anything above 17,000. ...Our constant effort has been to increase testing. Our capacity is to conduct around 14,000 to 15,000 tests daily and we are doing around 9,000 now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ganesh-fest-easing-of-curbs-may-push-up-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai/story-7ozi4g8m9dlrzg6OjCqpVK.html
05-09-2020||City||Ludhiana MC issues warning to company tasked with solid waste management||The municipal corporation (MC) has issued a last warning to officials of A2Z Group, the private company which has been tasked with handling solid waste management in the city, to improve their working.Mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with the officials of the A2Z Group at the Mayor’s camp office on Friday. The officials of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) were also present in the meeting. The MC officials said that apart from its failure in processing over 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage generated in the city on a daily basis, the company had also failed to lift garbage from secondary dumping points in time.Out of the total 27 vehicles deployed for the lifting of garbage, only 16 have been put to work. The company officials claimed that the remaining vehicles need repairs. The officials said that a certain period would be given to the company to improve its working failing which the MC might terminate their contract. Joint commissioner Swati Tiwana said, “The mayor and the MC commissioner have given strict instructions to the company to improve the working otherwise the MC will be forced to look for an alternative. The MC will be left with no other option but to terminate the contract.” The monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has been tightening the noose around the MC and the A2Z Group over the solid waste management issue. Recently, the NGT had asked the MC to deposit Rs 22 lakh as a bank guarantee in favour of PPCB for their failure in dealing with the solid waste and delay in upgrading sewer treatment plants. The PPCB has also encashed Rs 10 lakh bank guarantee which was submitted by the A2Z Group in the past. PPCB to grant consent to operate RDF plantAfter the intervention of the MC, the PPCB has agreed to give consent to the A2Z Group for operating the refuse-derived fuel (RDF) plant but the company will have to give an undertaking that the plant would be run at full capacity and no garbage would be dumped at the main dumpsite of the MC at Tajpur road. Earlier on August 21, the PPCB had rejected the consent application submitted by A2Z company to run the RDF plant at the main dumpsite due to anomalies and the operations at the plant were put to halt by the company on August 26.Owing to which, the waste generated in the city has been getting accumulated at the main dumpsite of the MC. As per officials, around 16 lakh tonnes of legacy waste is already dumped at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-issues-warning-to-company-tasked-with-solid-waste-management/story-a8bO7hLXNdBpsEPhMbgGQO.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||As schools in Maharashtra switch to online mode amid Covid-19 pandemic, teachers get busier, but still pass with flying colours||Every year, Manju D, a teacher from an English-medium school in Chembur, looks forward to Teachers’ Day. “It is one day where students take over classrooms and we get appreciation for our entire year’s work,” she said. This year, however, she has to conduct a class in the morning, a test in the afternoon and learning videos to be shot in the evening. Since the lockdown began in March, Manju and other teachers have been busier than before, as they have been trying to adapt to online teaching owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Teachers across the state have been facing challenges as schools have been conducting classes online since the start of the new academic year in June. The biggest onus of making the online learning model work lies with the teachers. While many private schools have asked a significant number of teachers to go on ‘leave without pay’ until physical schools reopen, several others have imposed salary cuts. Those who are able to retain their jobs are now working round the clock to adapt to online teaching. “I wake up at 5.30am every day to finish my household chores before the classes begin at 8 am. I teach for a couple of hours, then conduct special classes for students appearing for the scholarship and other competitive exams. Afternoons are spent in studying and creating online learning material such as PPTs and videos,” said Manju, adding that teachers also have to file daily reports on what is taught, along with their teaching plan. “For primary students, homework is sent on social messaging apps and their parents have to be informed about what is to be done. All of this takes up almost our entire day,” said Manju. While private schools adapted to the online mode almost instantly, zilla parishad and aided schools – which teach students belonging to the lower economic strata – are still coping with the challenges related in the transition. Rajan Garud, who works with the zilla parishad school in Kardak, Saphale, said teachers have to be even more active at places where students cannot attend online classes. “Merely 20-30 of the 100-odd students have access to a mobile phone and internet. For the rest of the students, we have to visit their homes, take the daily follow-ups and make learning material available offline,” he says. For subjects such as maths and science, teachers said the challenge lies in teaching the concepts that require live demonstrations. Ruiee Kapoor, a teacher from St Elias School, Khar, has created a set-up at home to teach students maths problems with ease. “I have mounted a mobile phone with a stand on plastic containers and have kept a white board in front of it, where I solve maths problems during the live classes. In the beginning, recording videos was becoming very hectic because one has to handle the camera, solve problems and talk at the same time. Live classes are much easier once you create a simple set up,” she added. For a section of the teachers, the attitude of the parents of students is also posing a hurdle. As parents can now see the classes that take place online, a teacher at a Kandivli-based Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) school said, “Many parents comment on the method of teaching and point errors with respect to pronunciations, etc. Teachers are exposed to this constant scrutiny. While we do take constructive feedback, sometimes, parents become too intrusive.” Mumbai-based educational consultant Neeti Nagarkar, who conducts teacher training sessions across preschools in Maharashtra, said that with younger children, the challenges of online teaching increase manifold. “We need parents to sit with the kid through the 30-minute sessions. Teachers have to ensure they can connect with the kids in a short span of time. This is a challenge because a child in nursery for instance, has never met the teacher,” said Nagarkar. In addition to the challenges associated with adapting to the new technology, teachers are also bearing the brunt of the policies of their schools. “Schools have clubbed several divisions and retained one teacher, instead of three-four. So a teacher often ends up teaching 200 kids at the same time. The not-so-tech-savvy teachers have been asked to join only once schools reopen physically,” said Manju.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/as-schools-in-maharashtra-switch-to-online-mode-amid-covid-19-pandemic-teachers-get-busier-but-still-pass-with-flying-colours/story-ajwLlhpTw4o99ASK32WA6M.html
05-09-2020||City||13-year-old Ludhiana girl chokes to death as dupatta gets stuck in factory machine||A 13-year-old girl died after her dupatta got stuck in a machine while working at a factory on Wednesday evening. Despite being a minor, she was working at the factory for the past two months.The deceased has been identified as Khushboo, a resident of Bhagat Singh Colony of Sherpur. The Moti Nagar police on Thursday booked the factory owner, Vinod Gupta, and his son for causing death by negligence. However, no sections of the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act were included in the FIR.Manorama Devi, mother of the victim, told the police that Khushboo was working at the Rishi Enterprises Company, Phase 4. She alleged that the factory had no safety measures around the machineries, and yet her employer forced Khushboo to work on them.She added that on September 2, when Khushboo was working in the factory, her dupatta got stuck in the machine, which choked her and she died on the spot.ASI Meva Singh said the factory owner and his son had been booked Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.He said the factory owners should have installed net or mesh around machines to avert such incidents. However, absence of safety measures caused the girl’s death.On not booking them for child labour, the ASI said the girl was pushed into labour by her family to support them financially.When contacted, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 4) Kuldeep Sharma, said they will add the Child Labour Act in the FIR and will investigate why it was not done in the first place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-year-old-ludhiana-girl-strangled-to-death-as-dupatta-gets-stuck-in-factory-machine/story-IuoMWRPzqF07w2ysDduhMJ.html
05-09-2020||City||Software glitches mar registration of land deeds in Haryana||Four days after the revenue department started e-appointments for deeds registration (both in urban and rural areas) in Haryana, a software glitch hampered the process in Hisar, Rohtak, Sonepat, Bhiwani and other districts in the region, said officials. Hisar naib tehsildar Lalit Jakhar said the web portal is showing errors in the data of the properties and people are unable to get a token for the registration of land deeds. “Only two registries were done on Friday wherein properties were transferred from parents to their descendants. We have forwarded a few complaints to senior officers and apprised them of the software-related problems,” he added. A revenue official from Rohtak, who wished to remain anonymous, said they too are facing problems in e-registration of deeds as the data of the departments concerned is yet to be updated. “We have found that data of properties with the municipal corporation have anomalies. A land owner has already cleared dues, but still the status is shown as pending on the portal. There is a mismatch in the data of properties on the portal and we, along with people, have to suffer at the end of the day,” the official added. He further said there were several lapses in the web application, WEB-HALRIS Haryana, due to which applicants were unable to book e-appointments on the portal. As per the new process, the applicants will have to get an e-appointment by furnishing the land details on the web portal for the issuance of a token for appointment of the deed registration in the tehsil office. A total of 18 land registries had taken place in Dadri and 12 in Rohtak’s Meham from August 31 to September 3. Three registration of deeds took place each in Hisar and Sonepat tehsils in the past two days. Deepak Dhanger, Meham naib tehsildar, said the record of plots under the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and plots of licensed colonies (like Omaxe City in Rohtak) were not updated on the portal. “There are many irregularities related to the names of landowner and the measurement of land in records at several areas, especially those under the Haryana local bodies department,” he added. Ravi Kumar, a resident of Dadri, said the data of a plot in the city was not visible on the portal and they faced issues while applying for land registration deeds. “The government should bring in a new system until the new software is updated and made foolproof,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/software-glitches-mar-registration-of-land-deeds-in-haryana/story-7sn7u32K9NgYpEvWhWfmWI.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs 1,884 new cases, 19 deaths||Nineteen persons infected with coronavirus in Haryana succumbed to the respiratory illness on Friday, taking the state’s death toll to 759. Among the dead, two persons each were from Faridabad, Rewari, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Kaithal and one each from Ambala, Rohtak, Panipat, Panchkula, Hisar, Jhajjar and Yamunanagar. The state reported 1,884 new coronavirus infections with three districts throwing more than 200 cases and three other registering more than 120 cases. They are Gurugram (229), Karnal (223) and Faridabad (220); and Panipat (138), Ambala and Panchkula (127 each). The six districts accounted for about 56% of the new infections. Substantial numbers were also reported from Sonepat (98), Yamunanagar (90), Rewari (89), Sirsa (74), Mahendergarh (68), Hisar (55), Kaithal (54), and Kurukshetra and Jind (53 each). The fresh cases pushed the patient tally to 71,983. Four districts — Gurugram (1,371), Karnal (1,265), Panipat (1,253) and Panchkula (1,054) — accounted for more than one third of active cases on Friday. As per a medical bulletin, 1,282 infected persons recovered from the virus on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 57,171. The number of active cases stood at 14,053. The recovery rate was about 79% and the fatality rate came a shade lower to 1.05%. The bulletin said there were 222 critically ill patients, including 37 on ventilator support. Among other districts, Jhajjar reported 40 new infections followed by Bhiwani (34), Rohtak (33), Palwal (27), Nuh (23), Fatehabad (17) and Charkhi Dadri (12).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-logs-1-884-new-cases-19-deaths/story-PqbiJoQusrlNBSH4NKw4AL.html
05-09-2020||City||Ferozepur rly division rolls out e-pass facilities to employees||The Ferozepur division of the Indian Railways introduced an e-pass facility for its employees and their families. Now, the railway employees will neither have to go to the respective offices to get a pass or privilege ticket order (PTO) nor will they have to go to the passenger reservation system (PRS) counter to book a reserved ticket. Earlier, railway workers could not book tickets online through IRCTC on pass or PTO. Rajesh Agarwal, divisional railway manager (DRM), said, “The Ferozepur division has around 19,000 employees. The e-pass facility, introduced on September 2, 2020, is a paperless version of the pass/ PTO issued to railway employees and their families. To use this feature, employees can apply on the HRMS app or at https://hrms.indianrail.gov.in/HRMS.” Once the e-pass is generated, employees can download it and book tickets online at their convenience, he added.The DRM informed that the physical issuance of the passes will be stopped from November 01, 2020. This new initiative will facilitate transparency and efficiency, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/railways-rolls-out-e-pass-facilities-to-employees/story-or1RZKbXx7SR6GA7EJK9VK.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Political row erupts in Maharashtra over actor Kangana Ranaut’s remark on Mumbai||Actor Kangana Ranaut’s comments about Mumbai and the city’s police force sparked a political row on Friday, with Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh saying “she has no right to stay in Mumbai”. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut and the Congress targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), alleging that she is “toeing their [BJP] party line”, while the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) threatened to file a case against Ranaut for “anti-national activity”. The BJP, however, distanced itself from the actor’s remarks, saying it “does not subscribe to anti-Mumbai or anti-Maharashtra sentiments”.The controversy erupted after Ranaut tweeted that Raut had issued an “open threat” to her to not return to the city if she had no faith in the Mumbai Police. “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?” she tweeted. The tweet drew criticism from ministers and political parties. “The manner in which she has commented on Mumbai Police, she doesn’t have the right to live in Mumbai,” Deshmukh said. Transport minister Anil Parab, too, said if she does not have faith in the state government and Mumbai Police then she has no reason to live in the city.The Shiv Sena women’s wing even staged protests against the actor in Thane, Dindoshi and Dadar. Sena’s Thane legislator Pratap Sarnaik called for a case of sedition to be registered against Ranaut. “If she comes here, our warriors will break her mouth. I urge the home minister to file a sedition case against Kangana Ranaut for calling Mumbai, as Pak occupied Kashmir (PoK),” Sarnaik tweeted. The actor, meanwhile, in response, sent out a series of tweets challenging anyone to stop her from entering Mumbai and slammed Deshmukh for making “Taliban-like threats”. “He [Deshmukh] is taking his own calls on my democratic rights, from PoK to Taliban in one day,” she tweeted, followed by another tweet that read, “After Sushant and Sadhus murder now beating my posters with chappals for my opinions on administration, it seems Mumbai is addicted to blood.” Parab, who was speaking on behalf of the government, said that there is a pattern to defame Maharashtra government and Mumbai Police. “Some actors are enjoying everything that Mumbai gave them and are still criticising the city. We see a pattern where Maharashtra and Mumbai are being constantly defamed. Investors want to come to Maharashtra; attempts are being made to discourage them to not come to Mumbai and Maharashtra by creating such an atmosphere. Mumbai’s International Financial Service Centre went to Gujarat, several major companies have shifted to Gujarat. Therefore, by defaming Mumbai, is there a conspiracy to move Bollywood out of the city too?” said Parab, , who is known to be close to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “Nearly 15 days have passed since the probe [in Sushant Singh Rajput case] has gone to the CBI. During this time, Kangana Ranaut hasn’t sought any protection from CBI, nor has she given any information to the central agency. Tweets were only meant to vitiate the atmosphere… I appeal to Kangana Ranaut to hand over any and all material [to the investigating agency]. She should expose and uproot the ‘drug mafia’ nexus in Bollywood that she claims is connected to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death,” the minister said.The Sena minister also backed party colleague Raut and said, “When has she visited PoK, how was her experience there compared to what she has achieved here in Mumbai? Therefore, we say that if she does not have faith in the [Maharashtra] government or Mumbai Police, then she does not have any reason to stay here. Whichever state government she trusts, she should go there and stay, and that’s what Sanjay Raut also said,” said Parab. Raut, meanwhile, attacked BJP, but without naming the party or the actor. “Any political party, which is backing the one calling Mumbai as Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, do not have the right to seek votes in Mumbai and Maharashtra. Their representatives, who are elected from the city, have they been voted in by people from PoK?” The BJP distanced itself from the actor’s remarks, fearing backlash. BJP MLA Ashish Shelar clarified that BJP does not support the actor’s statement. “Some political parties are trying to twist and turn the Sushant Singh Rajput case. On the statements made by Sanjay Raut, we wish to say that we do not support the statement of Kangana Ranaut on Mumbai. Kangana Ranaut shouldn’t try to teach Mumbai, Maharashtra and its people how to behave,” said Shelar. “We also request Sanjay Raut not to try and attack BJP and misdirect the investigation in the death case of Sushant Singh Rajput.” Ram Kadam, BJP MLA, in a tweet, said, “We do not support any offensive statement of Kangana Ranaut. Now that she is showing the readiness to spill out the politician-actor ‘drug mafia’ nexus, has that become a cause of fear for the Maharashtra government?” Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant, in a statement, said that @KanganaTeam, the official handle of the actor, is “Kangana + BJP IT Cell”. “For the past few days, Kangana Ranaut through the IT cell has been continuous defaming the Mumbai Police. Now she has compared Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir and insulted Maharashtra. Instead of condemning her actions, BJP’s Ram Kadam is supporting her, which is utterly shameful,” Sawant said in a statement, in an offensive against the BJP, demanding a narco test for Ram Kadam, pointing out that the latter has “inside knowledge about the drugs and Bollywood links”. “We also want to know the BJP connection to drugs and who producer Sandeep Ssingh was speaking to in BJP’s Maharashtra unit office when he called there 53 times.” The MNS film workers’ union, meanwhile, said they plan to petition the Mumbai Police to file a case against Ranaut for indulging in “anti-national activity”. “The Mumbai Police should book her for anti-national activity and also take her to a psychiatrist. If she continues to make such statements, our women workers will teach her a lesson,” said Ameya Khopkar, president of the union.Union minister Ramdas Athawale, however, said that Republican Party of India (RPI) will provide security to Ranaut. “Everyone is entitled to air their views and stay in any part of the country. It is wrong on the part of Sena to threaten her. My RPI activists will offer her protection,” said Athawale.Ranaut, too, tweeted at night, thanking those supporting her. “No words to express my gratitude for my friends from everywhere including Maharashtra, they know my intentions and I don’t need to prove my love for my Karmbhoomi Mumbai who I always referred to as Maa Yashodha who adopted me, Jai Mumbai Jai Maharashtra #indiawithkanganaranaut.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/political-row-erupts-in-maharashtra-over-actor-kangana-ranaut-s-remark-on-mumbai/story-o2GjN39zM9gxQmvDtO0III.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Man kills friend after dispute over ₹3,000 in Mumbai||A 19-year-old man was killed by his friend over a dispute involving ₹3000 in Antop Hill area. The brother of the victim who was also attacked is undergoing treatment at the Sion Hospital. The police have arrested the accused, Sabir Shaikh. According to police the accused attacked Naki Sayeed Khan after he refused to pay back the borrowed money.According to police, the victim Naki Sayeed Khan had borrowed ₹3,000 from Shaikh. On Thursday night when Khan was passing by the Saraswat Bank in Antop Hill along with his brother Mustakeem, Shaikh stopped him and asked about his money. “On getting a negative response, a heated argument broke between the two and Shaikh attacked Khan with a knife. Mustakeem tried to help his brother, but Shaikh attacked him too,” said an officer. Shaikh then escaped while locals rushed the two injured to the Sion Hospital. Khan was declared dead, while Mustakeem survived. He is undergoing treatment.The police immediately registered a murder case and launched a manhunt for the accused and managed to nab Shaikh within eight hours, the police statement said.Shaikh has been booked under sections 302, 304, 323, 504 and 506 of Indian Penal Code.The police said that they are also probing there was any dispute between the two involving a sword which later became the cause of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-kills-friend-after-dispute-over-3-000-in-mumbai/story-lDc9ixBdlxS4karERrU3GO.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 70,521 Covid-19 cases in first four days of September||Maharashtra recor-ded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Friday as the 24-hour tally crossed the 19,000-mark for the first time. It was also the third consecutive day when the state recorded most infections in a day. Maharashtra’s overall case count rose to 863,062 after addition of 19,218 cases on Friday, with active cases increasing to 210,978 – 24.44% of the total Covid-19 infections in the state.The surge, which has been witnessed after relaxations in lockdown curbs during Ganeshotsav, has resulted in the state reporting 70,521 Covid-19 cases in the first four days of the month. According to state health department, Maharashtra recorded 15,765, 17,433 and 18,105 infections on September 1, 2 and 3 respectively. The state’s Covid-19 fatalities, too, rose to 25,964 as 378 deaths were reported on Friday. However, of these, 248 were from past 48 hours, 78 from last week and 52 from the period before that. The sudden rise in infections in Maharashtra is also a result of the state getting new hotspots, with a significant number of cases being reported in rural areas. On June 3, when the state started relaxing lockdown restrictions in phases under its ‘Mission Begin Again’, majority of cases were from 19 cities – declared as red zones – but inter-district movement of people has changed the scenario. The 19 cities were Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar, Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Nashik, Malegaon, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur.Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health expert, said the virus has spread in the rural areas where health infrastructure is weak and people lack awareness. “The cases are rising as the virus has spread in the rural areas and new places are getting added to the list. The health infrastructure in rural areas is still weak and people are still not aware of the seriousness of the disease,” said Pattiwar, adding that the state government should also involve medical colleges in monitoring and analysing the daily situation. “A team of doctors from each medical college can be assigned a district and they will analyse the situation and discuss it with the local authorities, so that decision can be taken according to the situation and things can come under control.”State health officials are wary that the surge in cases is likely to continue as fresh round of relaxations has come in to effect from September 2. The state has allowed inter-district travel by removing a mandatory condition of e-pass and allowed private passenger buses, mini-buses to operate. It has allowed an increase in workforce in government and private offices and also given hotel, lodges and guest houses permission to operate at full strength.Meanwhile, the state government has decided to start house-to-house survey – ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ – from September 15. It aims to cover each and every citizen for Influenza-Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and citizens with co-morbidities. A team comprising a health worker and two others will conduct the survey and inspect every person and also suggest to them available services for the diseases. The state will make available one doctor against five teams. A swab test will be recommended to those having Covid-19 symptoms. The state will survey 2.25 crore families twice a month during the survey. The first phase will be conducted between September 15 and October 10 and the second phase between October 12 amd October 24. The survey will help get data of all citizens and that in turn will help in early detection and treatment. This will enable the state to bring down Covid-19 deaths. A presentation about the survey was made to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday. HT was the first to report about the survey on August 28.On Friday, Mumbai recorded 1,929 cases, highest in the state, which is also more than the average daily infections (900-1,400) reported in August. The city’s tally rose to 152,024, with 22,222 active cases. Mumbai’s toll stands at 7,799 after 35 deaths were reported on Friday.Pune City becomes second highest contributor of infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,689 cases, taking its tally to 108,117. Nagpur recorded 1,500 cases, pushing its case count to 26,444. The state has also witnessed a high number of fatalities this month, with 1,381 deaths recorded in the first four days. The state’s overall case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 3.01%, slightly lower than Gujarat that had a CFR of 3.06% with 3,062 deaths (100,213 cases) on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-70-521-covid-19-cases-in-first-four-days-of-september/story-2bT4gL0kxZVTdiKVgFapTM.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||CBI arrests Jalgaon bank manager, agent in graft case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested two persons, including the branch manager of Bank of Baroda (BoB) at Jalgaon in Maharashtra on Friday in a graft case. The accused allegedly agreed to sanction an agriculture loan of ₹7.10 lakh in exchange for bribes. CBI arrested Kiran Thakre, the branch manager of BoB’s Parola branch, and Narendra Patil, a loan agent. According to CBI officers, the incident came light a month ago after a complainant approached them and filed a case alleging that Thakre had demanded a bribe of ₹56,000 to sanction and disburse an agriculture loan of ₹7.10 lakh. The complainant also alleged that an agent who met him at the bank also demanded ₹25,000 to process the amount. CBI started an inquiry and learned that the bank manager and loan agent had agreed to accept ₹75,000 in total, after reducing their bribe demand by ₹6,000. The branch manager then told the complainant that he would not accept the money in cash and instead obtained a blank signed cheque from the complainant. He then asked the agent to withdraw the amount, said CBI officers. Once the amount was withdrawn, CBI officers arrested Thakre and Patil from their residences on Friday. They conducted searches in the office and residential premises of the accused at Jalgaon and recovered various incriminating documents, including the loan file, cheque, and ₹10 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cbi-arrests-jalgaon-bank-manager-agent-in-graft-case/story-IauoKwYfmnTtfhfDg2NWTI.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Auto driver held for molesting, stabbing minor in Mumbai||A 23-year-old autorickshaw driver was arrested on Thursday by Kurar police for molesting and attempting to kill a 16-year-old minor. According to Kurar police, the auto driver accosted her while she was on her way to the market and proposed her. When she refused, the auto driver molested her. When the minor started shouting for help, he took out a knife from his pocket and stabbed her three to four times, said an officer. The minor in her statement told police that she had accepted his proposal a month back. But after she got to know that he was addicted to alcohol and drugs, she asked him to quit. But when he did not give up on his habits, she broke up with him. On Thursday, when the incident took place, the locals tried to help the minor. “But the auto driver flashed his knife towards them, and also injured himself,” said Balasaheb Salunke, senior police inspector at Kurar police station. “People somehow caught him and contacted police. We reached there and rushed them to Shatabdi Hospital for treatment,” said Salunkhe.At Shatabdi Hospital, the accused was given first aid. “The accused later requested to use the toilet, so the constable allowed him. When the constable saw him trying to escape, he broke a washbasin and attacked him with it. But he was overpowered and arrested,” said Salunkhe. The constable Sagar Bhosle suffered seven stitches on his hand in the incident, added Salunke. The auto driver has been booked under sections 307(attempt to murder), 325 (Punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 354 (molestation), 354D (stalking), 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and section 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and section 37(1), 135 of Maharashtra Police Act.And another case was registered against him for attacking a policeman under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) of Indian Penal Code at Kandivli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/auto-driver-held-for-molesting-stabbing-min-in-mumbai/story-XaJoSILqv9uzleIiQUyb2L.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||25-year-old booked for stalking, molesting minor in Mumbai||The MHB police on Thursday booked a 25-year-old for allegedly stalking and molesting a 14-year-old girl. The accused also threatened her to kidnap if she refused his proposal. According to the police, the accused and the survivor stay in the same society. On August 1 he accosted her in an isolated lane and again proposed her. Survivor told police that since January, 2020, the accused stalked her and proposed on many occasions. She had refused each time. On August 1, at around 11pm she was going home that when he followed her and proposed her again. According to the minor, he threatened to kidnap her if she did not accept his proposal, following which she decided to lodge a complaint against him. An officer from MHB police station said, “On the basis of her complaint a first information report (FIR) under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) 354-d (stalking) , 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and section 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-year-old-booked-for-stalking-molesting-minor-in-mumbai/story-15Lh6JyczR5dRzqyolfX1O.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Woman loses ₹6 lakh in a matrimonial fraud in Mumbai||Twenty-nine-year-old woman has lodged a complaint with the Borivli police station after a man from Kolhapur befriended her on a matrimonial site and later duped her of ₹6.19 lakh. The accused took money from the woman under various false pretexts. And when she stopped giving him money, he threatened to make their private photos public and demanded money from her. The complainant a Borivli (West) resident around three years ago had made an account on a popular matrimonial site. In June 2019 she received a request from one Abhiraj Ganpat Mohite-Patil, who claimed to be a builder living in Kolhapur. The complainant accepted his request and then the two started chatting with each other over mobile. Some days later the two met in a Thane hotel and Patil asked her to marry him. She accepted his proposal.Some days later Patil requested her to help him with ₹30,000 as he needs it for the treatment of his grandmother. The woman helped him. Later, Patil extracted money from the woman by giving excuses such as his grandmother’s accident, his brain tumour treatment, floods, etc. The woman was helping him financially. But after her father sensed something fishy, he told Patil that the family did not want to continue with this relationship.However, the woman continued talking to him.“In January 2020 the woman caught his lie and confronted him. But the accused then allegedly assaulted her and abused her in a hotel and threatened to make their private photos public,” said a police officer. She also discovered that the Patil had used some fake name while his real name is something else, the officer added.The family lodged an FIR against Patil for cheating them of ₹6.19 lakh.The accused has been booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-loses-6-lakh-in-a-matrimonial-fraud-in-mumbai/story-PW1wLC88UJRSl0RWLJOaUL.html
05-09-2020||City||Ludhiana MC establishes micro forest alongside Buddha Nullah||In an initiative taken for beautification of the Buddha Nullah, the municipal corporation (MC) has established a micro forest alongside the nullah behind the MC slaughter house in Haibowal Dairy Complex.Under this initiative, around 500 square yards has been converted into a micro forest. Over 150 saplings were planted during a plantation drive which was taken up on site in the presence of MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Friday. Rohit Mehra, additional commissioner, income tax department, has joined hands with the MC for development of the micro forest.The authorities are using the cow dung generated by dairy units in Haibowal dairy complex, along with green waste including leaves etc as manure. They said that the initiative will help the dairy owners with management of the cow dung, which is usually dumped into the nullah and adds to the pollution. Mehra said, “A layer of around 3 feet has been created by mixing cow dung and green waste with sand. Saplings have been planted on this layer. The initiative will also be taken up at other points identified by the MC and cow dung will be procured from the dairy owners for this purpose.”MC commissioner Sabharwal said, “As directed by the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal, bio-diversity parks are already being established alongside the nullah. Under the new initiative taken up by the MC, micro forests will also be developed wherever a chunk of land is available with the MC alongside the nullah. Apart from working on cleaning the nullah, the MC is also working on its beautification.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-establishes-micro-forest-alongside-buddha-nullah/story-KkrESoydPkpW8Pai6Nt9aL.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Man kills stepfather after he refused him money for alcohol in Mumbai||A 22-year-old man hacked his 45-year-old stepfather to death early on Friday morning after the latter refused to give him money to buy alcohol. The incident took place between Kings Circle and Mahim railway station. Government Railway Police at Wadala arrested the accused Suraj Kamble. Kamble will be produced before a court on Saturday. Rajendra Pal, senior police inspector at Wadala GRP said, “After Ganpati visarjan, the family was having a get-together. After it got over, the deceased Chandrakant Mohan Solanki went towards the railway track and was drinking liquor.” Kamble came to him and asked him for ₹400 to buy alcohol, which Solanki refused. Kamble left in a fit of rage and when he found a sharp-edged weapon near the railway track, he came back and stabbed Solanki on his neck, and then fled from the spot, said Pal. “When Solanki did not return for hours, his wife went in search of him and found him lying in a pool of blood. She along with family members rushed him to Sion Hospital where he was declared dead before admission,” said Pal. On Friday morning, in a joint operation with Shahu Nagar police, we arrested Kamble for murder, added Pal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-kills-stepfather-after-he-refused-him-money-for-alcohol-in-mumbai/story-fIWQC1rSuz3Hn8cdznkVAK.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Resolve issues, expedite BDD chawls redevelopment plan, says Maharashta CM||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took a review of the redevelopment of Bombay Development Directorate (BDD) chawls at Worli, NM Joshi Marg and Naigaon and directed officials to resolve the issues over which the revamp projects are stuck for over three years.In a meeting held at his official residence, Varsha, Thackeray asked state housing department to hold a special camp to look at the eligibility and documents of the 9,600 tenants of the BDD chawl in Worli. He also directed officials to iron out the rehabilitation process for 2,500 tenants of NM Joshi Marg’s BDD Chawl and 3,300 tenants of the chawl at Naigaon.State tourism minister and Worli MLA, Aaditya Thackeray, who was present in the meeting tweeted, “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed authorities to provide houses to the common man and remove all obstacles. He has asked authorities to carry out redevelopment on time, and a review of it must be done every few days.”The tenants at the two locations had refused to vacate their homes resulting in Larsen and Toubro, which had won the ₹2,800 crore contract in 2017 for the Naigaon project, pulling out of the project citing cost escalations after zero progress.A senior housing department official said that the “complexity” and “scale” of the project has delayed take-off of the revamp. “Some of the occupants want the redevelopment under 33(5) (which is for the redevelopment of Mhada properties) and not under 33 (9) (cluster redevelopment). Besides that, eligibility survey is an issue, tenants are seeking more area, parking, which changes the project design. Some have also demanded more corpus fund. All these issues have to be resolved in a time-bound manner,” an official said requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/resolve-issues-expedite-bdd-chawls-redevelopment-plan-says-maharashta-cm/story-7asgpxGgZhFd2ertrcPhzK.html
05-09-2020||Mumbai||Crawford market mishap: Accused unfit for driving, license to be revoked permanently, says Mumbai traffic police||he city traffic police officers have started preparing a report to request the regional transport office (RTO) to permanently revoke the driving licence of Sameer Ali Sayyed alias Diggy, 45, who was arrested by the Pydhonie police after he lost control of his car and killed five people on August 31.After the arrest, Sayyed told police that he had an epileptic attack on Monday night, because of which he lost control over the wheels and ended up ramming into people on the street and footpath opposite Cafè Janata restaurant, the police said. Among the three victims who survived the accident, one is critical and also undergoing treatment for Covid-19.Before this, Sayyed was involved in another accident in the jurisdiction of Sir JJ Marg police on May 12. In that accident, he had crashed his vehicle into another vehicle and a woman had sustained minor injuries. The police had then booked him and seized his vehicle. Later, he had bought a second-hand car.“Considering the nature of two accidents, including the Crawford Market accident in which five people were killed, prima facie it is clear that Sayyed is not physically and mentally fit for safe driving. He is booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Hence, we have sent the report to the RTO, strongly recommending that his driving license be permanently revoked,” said Somanth Gharge, deputy commissioner of police (local arms division-4), holding additional charge of city traffic police.If Sayyed’s driving license is not revoked, then he may again drive the vehicle in future in the unfit condition and may put the lives of citizens at risk, Gharge added. Deputy RTO has discretionary powers and can immediately revoke the license under such circumstances. Sayyed, a scrap dealer by profession, was not drunk at the time of accident. The police are awaiting forensic report to ascertain if he was under the influence of any drug.Meanwhile, the accused was produced in court on Friday and has been remanded in police custody till September 9.He has been booked by the police under sections 304(B)(2) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 183 (speeding) and 184 (driving dangerously) of Motor Vehicle Act. He would be produced in court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/crawford-market-mishap-accused-unfit-for-driving-license-to-be-revoked-permanently-says-mumbai-traffic-police/story-nGtLj6Xl7saZpUibfCS8ZI.html
05-09-2020||City||Haryana govt to run demo classes in two schools||The Haryana government has decided to open two schools- Government High School at Sonepat’s Bazidpur Saboli village and Government Senior Secondary School at Karnal’s Nigdhu village, to run demo classes for board students next week onwards. Dharmpal, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu village, said that the parents of these students had given written consent which had been sent to the education department. “The board class students and their parents expressed the need for schools to be reopened for them as they are facing problems with online learning. Many of the students are lagging as they do not have phones to access the study material. We will open the schools from next week while following the standard operating procedures (SOP),” he added. The principal further said that they are planning to reduce the class strength and to train the staff in maintaining the SOPs. “We will provide masks and sanitisers at the main gate. The body temperature of all students will be checked before they enter the premises,” he added. Sonam, a student of Class 12 of Government Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu village, said that she was waiting for the school to reopen. “It is a privilege for us that the government is going to start demo classes in our school. We have lagged due to the lockdown. Now, the situation is getting better. The Covid cases are increasing but fatalities are decreasing. We are ready to go back to school,” she added. SCHOOL ADMIN, VILLAGERS OPPOSE DECISION However, the school administration and few villagers are against the government’s decision to start demo classes at government high school in Sonepat’s Bazidpur Saboli village. Randhir, a resident of Bazidpur Siboli village said the Covid cases are on the rise and the government is playing with the students’ lives by starting demo classes. “ If any teacher or other staff is Covid positive and the virus spreads among the students, then who will be responsible?” he questioned. Sonepat district education officer Joginder Hooda said that they had received an order to start demo classes at Bizidpur Siboli’s government school. “ We are expecting cooperation from the students and villagers for smooth conduct of the demo classes. The education officials have asked us to make a video of the students entering the premises, maintaining social distance in the classrooms, and wearing face masks. If all goes well, the education department will share these videos with other schools before re-opening them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-govt-to-run-demo-classes-in-two-schools/story-SwDgzMihO0mVUyMiTWAc4N.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Coordination is key to unlockdown||Lockdown has outlived its utilityDespite the lockdown since March 2020, India is now among the countries with the highest number of cases and the tricity is no exception with 12,000 infections and 200 deaths until Friday. This proves that the lockdown has outlived its value. So, all business activities with educational institutions should be reopened in a graded manner to move towards normalcy as is happening the world over. In areas with a high number of cases, symptomatic patients should be treated at home or hospital depending on the degree of severity of infection. Safety measures such as wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and increased testing should be implemented strictly. SK Khosla, ChandigarhFor all practical purposes, local residents consider all three towns as one with people crossing the borders regularly for work, entertainment and other reasons, not restricting movement to just one place. Any strategy to control spread of Covid19 has to take into account its effectiveness for adjoining towns. People tend to visit malls on a weekend or holiday, and in case there’s lockdown in one area, they will need to travel further ahead for essential purchases. This should be avoided at any cost.DS Banati, MohalChandigarh is also the capital of the tricity, hence restrictions and relaxations related to locking, unlocking, fixing operating hours of malls, restaurants and markets should be the same in all three cities. Any changes planned by the Mohali and Panchkula administrations should be coordinated with the Chandigarh administration. Subhash ChughThe authorities should work together now with the firm resolve to control and vanquish Covid-19. Strict policies to impose safety measures should be enforced in all tricity malls and markets, and timings restricted. An odd-even plan should also be implemented on all floors of malls. Mall parking contractors should ensure social distancing and wearing of face masks and gloves.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliThe need of the hour is to set up a joint panel of top bureaucrats and stakeholders from Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali to take unanimous decisions, thereby benefiting the residents in general. Usually the workplace and residence for most of the citizens are in two different cities and, therefore, a coordinated lockdown will help in controlling infections. Avik Seth, ZirakpurCovid-19 cases are now peaking in the tricity with new records of infections and deaths being set each day. The situation is alarming as almost all the sectors in Chandigarh have reported infections. The director of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research had also warned about cases peaking in September and October with a warning to all residents to follow precautionary measures prescribed by the authorities. With almost no restrictions in Chandigarh or Panchkula, people from across Punjab are driving in to enjoy late night sessions in bars/malls or during weekends. Therefore, a decision on issuing imposing rules uniformly is required in the tricity. Suresh Verma, ChandigarhOne feels dejected seeing that people are not taking this pandemic seriously, crowding markets and throwing garbage everywhere at will, even when all of us should understand the importance of keeping our homes and our surroundings clean during the pandemic. People of the tricity as well as the authorities should make coordinated efforts to take safety measures. First of all people should stay at home in case they do not have urgent work. Shops should observe social distancing and sanitise all products. Opening of malls and markets can be planned better with restricted entry and that too after thorough sanitisation. A large part of the population should have daily temperature and oximeter checks.Ishita NaraLike crime, Covid knows no barriers and boundaries, so why should lockdown rules vary in the tricity? The alarming surge in Covid-19 cases requires synergistic strategies to thwart it.Thousands of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula residents commute daily within the tricity but multiplicity of power centres create different sets of curbs and relaxations, confusing the public. At times different political dispensations at the helm act on extraneous considerations, even flout the Centre’s guidelines. It is prudent that Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula (with Chandigarh as coordinator) nominate their respective representatives to liaise for uniform rules in the tricity. Better and quicker communication can help officials, the press and the public at large to spread awareness about the disease and lockdown or unlockdown measures.People should visit malls and markets only if necessary as these are no picnic spots.Only genuine customers can give a boost to business. Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula Different political parties rule Chandigarh’s neighbouring states so this is bound to lead to lack of coordination between the authorities. One set of rule in one city and another in the other is leading to confusion and harassment of the public. The Centre should appoint one special officer to oversee all the unlockdown rules in the tricity. The residents don’t need unnecessary harassment at this point. Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhTraders,vendors and restaurateurs of the tricity have suffered heavy losses during the lockdown, so even though shops are shut down on weekends, arrangements should be made to ensure home delivery of goods. Usha Verma, ChandigarhFirst of all, the masses should understand the gravity of the situation and step out of their homes only in an emergency, and that too after following protocols. Shopkeepers must restrict the entry of a specific number of persons at a time. A person should be recruited to sanitize customers’ hands at entry and exit points of malls, restaurants and other spots. The government should enforce stricter checks on shopkeepers when it comes to safety protocols (wearing masks, regular sanitisation of shops) as many of them seem to be neglecting their duties. Rule breakers should be penalised. Restaurants, bars and discotheques can allow entry by advance bookings only. Shopkeepers should promote their products online or by text messages or by social, electronic and print media and encourage customers to avail facilities of home delivery. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliAll three cities, Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali have reported a steep rise in cases so opening of malls and markets should also be done uniformly as one mall open in a city will attract people from the other where shops are closed. The administrations of all three cities should get together to chalk up an unlockdown plan that works for all. Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhWhile joining of hands by tricity authorities to enforce uniform lockdown norms may or may not control the rapid spread of the pandemic, what surely can work is the rigid enforcement of existing norms of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Yes, people are flouting norms, but there is hardly anyone to stop them from doing so. Despite having announced penalty for not sticking to safety norms, the tricity hardly has any law enforcement personnel to keep an eye on offenders. These are the weak links in the chain which require immediate attention to check the virus spread.SC Luthra, ChandigarhThe creation of a Northern Zonal Council had been a landmark step for the macro-development of north India, but for the micro-development of the tricity, a co-ordinated approach is required between UT, Punjab and Haryana. A tricity development board (TRIDEV) should be set up. As the tricity is the gateway to the heart of north India, TRIDEV will undertake and oversee developments and infrastructure in Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi, Kharar and the peripheries. It should be the highest decision making body for infrastructure in/around Chandigarh. This will enable overall development of around 50 kilometres around Chandigarh. Health services provided by government hospitals too should be overseen by the board.Rajiv Boolchand JainThe UT administration, Punjab and Haryana should push for a single governing body which takes care of transportation, health infrastructure, industries, tourism and all other sectors of the three cities. A separate budget should be allocated for the tricity with all three sharing profits from revenues. More “joint ventures” should be planned, with food and entertainment hubs, organic vegetable bazaars, the works. An honest has to be made to help the tricity recover from Covid.J Ravindran, Mohali||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-coordination-is-key-to-unlockdown/story-FltXN1E4dNMrRljz6kdCfK.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||As cases spike, Delhi’s containment zones inch closer to 1,000-mark||The number of containment zones in Delhi is inching closer to the 1,000-mark, along with an uptick in the number of new Covid-19 cases reported daily. Over the past five days, at least 125 new containment zones were notified in the capital – taking the total of such areas to 949 as on Friday, Delhi government records showed. Delhi on Friday recorded 2,914 new Covid-19 cases taking the total number of infected individuals to 185,220 so far, even as 161,865 people have recovered from the disease. This is the highest number of new cases reported since June 28, when 2,889 cases were recorded. Over the past five days, Delhi recorded 2,366 new Covid cases per day on average, government records showed.New Covid cases started witnessing an increase once again from mid-August, after a lull of around three weeks. On August 4, the seven-day average of daily new cases had dropped to 983.Containment zones are sealed areas – its size ranging between one house to a few houses in a lane or a block – in which the government scales up testing and surveillance after having detected potential Covid-19 clusters. Movement of individuals and economic activities are prohibited in these zones, even as lockdown restrictions are eased in the rest of the city. Zones have come up over the past five days in areas such as Sitaram Bazar and Old Rajendra Nagar 3 in central Delhi; Ganesh Park and School block of Shakarpur in east Delhi; Sri Ram slum clusters in New Delhi’s Moti Bagh; Lane 7 of Jawaharlal Mohalla in Shahdara; Block A in south Delhi’s Panchsheel Vihar; Valmiki Colony in Bijwasan and RZ Block of West Sagarpur in south-west Delhi; several parts of Qutub Vihar locality in the same district; Block BE of West Delhi’s Hari Nagar, and Block C of north-east Delhi’s Karawal Nagar, government records showed. Currently, south-east Delhi revenue district has the highest number of containment zones at 210, followed by north Delhi (127) and west Delhi (122). “We have created containment zones under the guidelines issued by the Union government. Each area has been assessed before surveillance was scaled up. The idea is to break the chain of transmission. Essential goods are delivered to residents in these sealed areas,” said Rahul Singh, district magistrate (south-west). District magistrate (west) Neha Bansal said, “Usually, three cases in close proximity is enough to declare that area as a containment zone. The rule, however, is flexible. If there is adequate space, all individual cases can be allotted home isolation. But that is not possible in congested areas with high population density. Currently, as cases started spiking again, we have scaled up both testing and containment strategies.” Earlier, Delhi used to have larger containment zones – which had led to the sealing of several lanes, blocks and pockets in localities across the city until a new strategy was drafted on June 26, on the intervention of Union home minister Amit Shah. Under the new strategy, district administrations may create micro containment zones which comprise one house or a group of houses in a lane or block, with fewer number of residents under heightened surveillance, senior government officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-cases-spike-delhi-s-containment-zones-inch-closer-to-1-000-mark/story-YwFcsiI9XlN3KyRdxcdeHI.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Crowd management a challenge, we’ll need public support: DMRC chief Mangu Singh||With the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) all set to resume train services after five-and-a-half-months, Mangu Singh, the managing director of India’s largest Metro network, spoke about the challenges in running the service even as Covid-19 cases rise, the preparations needed to ensure safety norms are followed, and the repercussions of the hiatus on the corporation’s finances, among other issues.Edited excerpts:What are the main challenges before DMRC in running its services during a pandemic?The biggest challenge will be to ensure social distancing because our capacity will be reduced drastically. For instance, during peak hours, we used to carry about 360-400 people in one coach.Now we will be able to accommodate only 50 passengers in a coach. If more people come into the system, we will be facing the challenge of accommodating and managing the crowd.Another challenge will be to keep the system hygienic at all times. Trains run in high frequency, and there is very little time for them to be disinfected and returned to service... Our aim is to push all our trains into service in order to ensure maximum frequency.How will DMRC avoid crowding on trains and at stations?We want to ensure that there is no peak in crowding; that there is an even flow. We want people to support us and plan journeys accordingly because this is the best way to utilise the system. And we will also be able to provide the best service.To ensure social distancing on trains and at stations, we have a system in place by which the driver will get real-time information about the number of passengers on the train. This is done based on the total weight of passengers in a particular coach. We have the technology in place. This will allow him to skip stations if required until the number is balanced.There is another system in place for crowd management. For example, if the train is full from the terminal station, and it is not possible to accommodate more passengers in the next few stations, then we will take the decision that the next train will not board passengers from the terminal station. By this, we will ensure that the capacity is maintained for the next stations. Once operations begin, the monitoring and management will be dynamic. All our officials will constantly keep a watch on this. We will depute one official per line to monitor operations from the control room.Won’t not stopping a train only add to the crowding at a particular station?The decision to not stop a train at a particular station will be a rare instance and this will be done in an extreme situation. If trains skip stations, it will unnecessarily cause inconvenience and crowding, but that will be the last resort.Wearing masks is mandatory while commuting in the Metro. Will passengers without masks be penalised? Does the DMRC Act have any such provision?We have requested the Delhi government to authorise us to issue fines under the Disaster Management Act (DMA). However, it appears that there is some difficulty in that as of now. Even if that authority is not granted, we are confident that a situation of penalising people will not arise. The only problem will be that a passenger enters wearing a mask but removes it afterwards. As for taking action, we have the authority that if anyone defies the norms, then we can ask them to leave the station; that will be a deterrence. We can also file an FIR against them or take action under the Operations and Maintenance Act (2002) of the Delhi Metro.In March, DMRC had registered nearly six million passenger journeys in a day. What is the kind of ridership you are expecting when services resume?Our estimate is that once our system opens up, we will be operating with 30% of our original (pre-Covid) ridership of 2.7 million. This means we will be carrying 800,000 to 900,000 passengers. Our passenger journeys (line utilisation) will be reduced from six million to two million.But during Covid, we are not making any effort to bring more people or increase the ridership. Rather, our effort is to discourage people from undertaking unnecessary journeys. People should make only essential journeys. Once the pandemic is over, people will come back.Covid-19 cases are on a rise in Delhi. Do you think this was a good time to resume operations? This aspect of decision-making is not of DMRC. We are not experts on it. The people concerned have taken this decision. They had decided not to operate Metro for five-and-a-half months. We don’t’ have anything to comment on it.Transport experts say that the low frequency of trains (proposed wait time is 5-7 mins) will prove to be counterproductive and result in crowding at stations.Our effort is to use all the trains to provide maximum frequency. We will run the operations more or less on the frequency that used to be there earlier. There will be only a slight reduction due to the increase in dwell time at stations to allow passengers to board/de-board the train. How will you address the concerns of air circulation inside trains and in underground stations?We have prepared a detailed plan for the air conditioning system in the trains and inside stations. From 4.30am to 8.30am, we will have to operate on 100% open mode, where fresh air will be infused into the system for thorough ventilation. From 8.30am to 10.30am, we will have fresh air ventilation along with water cooler chillers. During the day, the air circulation will be reduced a little. This might cause the temperature inside the trains to be higher than usual, and it might create some discomfort to passengers, but it’s the safest mode.Technical glitches were a problem for many lines even before the lockdown. With the system shut for over five months, are we likely to face an increase in technical glitches in the system once it is revived after such a long gap?We have anticipated this problem. The complete shutdown of the system even for 2-3 weeks can lead to technical glitches. Apart from this, there are also chances of theft of crucial items such as cables. So, we decided to keep the system operational. We used to run two trips each in the morning and evening. That way our system is fully functional. The lines will be opened in a phased manner. What factors were considered to arrive at this decision?There is no particular reason for opening the Yellow Line first or the Airport Express Line last. We were asked to open the network in a phased manner and we thought since the Yellow Line covers more area, we could open that first. Anyway, within five days, all the lines will be opened.How many additional people has DMRC deployed just to ensure enforcement of new rules drafted for this pandemic?Our requirement for manpower has reduced in several departments such as at token vending counters. So we have re-planned the deployment of staff. We will be able to manage with the present strength. In addition, we have asked the Delhi government to provide some civil defence volunteers. Hopefully, they will provide 1,000 of these. What is the financial loss incurred by DMRC due to its services being shut due to pandemic? Will it be cost-effective to run services at such low capacity?We have incurred a loss of close to Rs 1,500 crore on passenger revenue in the last five-and-a-half-months, which is about Rs 10 crore per day on an average. How much the total loss would be by the end of this financial year, we can’t make that assessment yet. It will be done once the train services resume. But we are confident that people will come back once the pandemic is over, as there is no alternative to Metro in public transport.There will be more losses if we don’t run the services. We have to pay salaries to our employees, electricity charges, etc. Once we resume services, the loss will reduce.Is DMRC reworking the revenue model to meet the operational losses?As for re-modelling our revenue model, we have hardly anything (option). The fare structure is not in our hand; it is done by the fare fixation committee. We will approach the government to bail us out and help us if needed.Covid had slowed down the pace of infrastructure projects due to the shortage of labour. Will the pandemic have an impact on the overall deadline of Phase-4, which is already delayed by three years? No, it will not impact the ongoing construction. The revenue problem is only for the operational cost. There is absolutely no problem for lines in phase 4, which are already sanctioned. But yes, the other three lines (Rithala-Narela, Inderlok-Indraprastha and Lajpat Nagar Saket corridors), which have not been sanctioned so far, will probably get slightly delayed because there is a guideline from the Centre that no new project will be planned for one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crowd-management-a-challenge-we-ll-need-public-support-dmrc-chief-mangu-singh/story-ugix0yu2sRoHZ9UKBVI0kK.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 testing lab set up at Delhi airport||Delhi airport has set up a diagnostic lab at Terminal 3 to conduct Covid-19 tests for arriving international passengers, the airport operator said on Friday. The facility is expected to be operational within a week. Officials said it will not be mandatory for passengers to undergo the test at the airport. HT had on August 18 reported about the proposed facility. Airport operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) said it has collaborated with a Delhi-based laboratory — which is associated with the Delhi government — to test Covid-19 samples. “Constructed in a 3,500 square metre area at the multi-level car parking of Terminal 3, this is the first such arrangement among Indian airports. Results of samples collected at the laboratory will be declared within 4-6 hours for incoming passengers. Until the results are confirmed, passengers can wait in the lounge or may choose to stay in a hotel,” DIAL said. The lab has been built and equipped to handle up to 2,500 samples per day.In case of a positive result, the passenger will be either sent to a hospital, institutional quarantine or home quarantine, as applicable as per the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) protocols. “This will help the authorities to keep the infected passengers away from others. Those testing negative can continue their onward journey,” the airport operator said. At present, all international passengers arriving in Delhi need to undergo institutional quarantine in Delhi. Those with a connecting Vande Bharat flight are allowed to undergo quarantine at their destination. Those carrying a RT-PCR negative report are allowed onward air journey and can seek exemption from institutional quarantine. For this exemption, RT-PCR test has to be conducted at least 96 hours before the journey. An airport official, who wished not to be named, said the charge for the test at airport will be Rs 5,000, which will expense for a passenger’s stay along with food and beverages at the lounge till the time the results are out.Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL, said the initiative has been taken to ensure testing of all arriving international transfer passengers scheduled to board a domestic connecting flight after arrival at the Delhi Airport. “The Covid-19 testing laboratory at Delhi Airport has been adequately equipped for testing and sample collection, which will be conducted in compliance with the protocols established by ICMR and National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). In a statement, Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, with which Delhi airport has collaborated, said they will test incoming passengers at the airport and the reports will be ready within 4 hours, which will ensure they are tested before entering the city as well as the forward journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-testing-lab-set-up-at-delhi-airport/story-UosN8fejUJf759jl8AlSaP.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Feud over funds continues, Delhi civic officials plan protest||Senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation office-bearers, including the mayor, standing committee chairperson and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors of the civic body, will on Monday march from their headquarters to the Delhi Secretariat , demanding dues from the state government, officials said on Friday.. North corporation officials said the Delhi government owes them ₹1,200 crore. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said the civic body has not been able pay its employees due to a funds shortage. “The Delhi government in its interim budget mentioned they would give ₹2,022 crore to the north corporation over the entire year, and had to give us ₹1,600 crore in the first two quarters. But so far, we have got only ₹400 crore, and the government still has to give ₹1,200 crore due from the first two quarters. To demand these dues we along with our employees comprising teachers, doctors, engineers will march to Delhi secretariat from Civic Centre [the body’s headquarters] on Monday,” Prakash said. He alleged that the Delhi government wants to “cripple” the corporation by not giving funds owed, to “obstruct” development work and “derail the functioning of corporation”. Teachers, engineers and doctors of the north civic body said they have not been paid salaries for three to four months. Teachers have from Thursday also been striking for two hours everyday at the headquarters and schools . “The civic body and the government both should worry about their workforce. Our salaries of June, July and August are pending. How long shall we keep working without salaries?” said Ram Niwas Solanki, president, MCD Teachers Association. Meanwhile, in a separate conference South Delhi mayor Anamika Mithilesh also accused the Delhi government of not releasing funds and said they would also stage a protest at the chief minister’s residence on September 10 to demand immediate release of funds.The Aam Aadmi Party said in a statement, “If the BJP cannot run the MCD, it should give it to us. AAP will run it within the same budget... Ever since BJP has been running the MCD, the people have got only corruption and excuses from the BJP.”When asked about the allegations of dues, a Delhi government spokesperson did not respond for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/feud-over-funds-continues-delhi-civic-officials-plan-protest/story-GhAdTnQrkiCnjjen3yUW3O.html
05-09-2020||Jaipur||Parts of Rajasthan receive light to moderate rainfall||Light to moderate rainfall occurred in East and West Rajasthan in the last 24 hours, a MeT department official said on Friday.  According to the Meteorological Department, Chidawa in Jhunjhunu recorded 139 mm rainfall.So far, Rajasthan has received 9 per cent more rainfall than the normal for the state in the monsoon season, it said.During the last 24 hours, 85.6 mm rainfall was recorded in Kota, 45.4 mm in Dabok, 25.3 mm in Jaipur, 23.8 mm in Ajmer, 18.2 mm in Churu, 14.3 mm in Jodhpur and 14 mm in Jaisalmer, the MeT department said.  From Friday morning till evening, 51.4 mm rainfall was recorded in Jodhpur, 29 mm in Bhilwara, 17.6 mm in Jaisalmer and 16 mm in Vanasthali. During the same period, 8.2 mm rainfall was recorded in Phalodi, 8 mm in Alwar, 4.7 mm in Pilani, 3.2 mm in Dabok and 1.8 mm in Sri Ganganagar.The MeT department has forecast heavy rainfall in isolated places in Alwar, Bharatpur, Dausa, Jaipur, Sikar and Jhunjhunu districts during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/parts-of-rajasthan-receive-light-to-moderate-rainfall/story-zy6QF9nc2LxE7XmJ7UtxKJ.html
05-09-2020||Delhi||Govt website for welfare funds logs out daily wagers||For the last three days, Sunil Kumar (31), a daily wager, has been visiting one of the special labour camps organised by the Delhi government to help construction workers register for a state-run welfare fund in east Delhi’s Kalyanpuri.For three days, Kumar has missed out on his daily wage, as he waits patiently in a queue for his turn to apply. Everyday, he is turned away at the end of the queue after being told by an official that the website server — where applications and relevant documents need to be uploaded — has been slow and was delaying the process.And he is not alone.Kumar is likely one of the many daily wagers who have not been able to take advantage of the government scheme which was started on August 24 via 70 special camps set up in assembly constituencies across the city.The camps, all set up in Delhi government schools, will continue till September 11 and promises benefits like ₹51,000 for wedding of daughters, old age pension and accidental cover of ₹ 2 lakh, among others, for all construction workers who register themselves. The process of registration, so far, has been marred by technical glitches and poor internet connectivity. At some of the camps HT visited, besides server issues, the staff had been provided only a single laptop to fill up forms as well as to carry out verification of documents. As per estimates, since August 24, at least 17,000 workers have appeared and been attended to across the 70 camps, of which only around 6,000 have been verified, renewed or registered. The special registration drive follows a Delhi High Court May 2 order that directed the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, which is under the aegis of the Delhi government’s labour department, to take steps to renew the membership of all workers and register those in the unorganised sector . Employees of the labour department and para legal volunteers have been deployed at the camps to assist in the registration process. At a government school in Zeenat Mahal, Ajmeri Gate, a para legal volunteer was spotted filling up the registration form of a daily wager for the fourth time in an hour, as the website — Edistrict Delhi — had crashed thrice previously while his form was being submitted. It was 1pm, and the volunteer said work was progressing at an extremely slow pace and this was only the second applicant he was attending to that day. The camp starts at 10am and winds up by 4.30pm. “For a new registration it takes about 45 minutes to fill up the application form with all the documents. If the site crashes at the time of submission, the entire process has to be repeated again from scratch . This is the fourth time, I am trying to submit this form. There are days when just two or three forms are submitted in the entire day and applicants have to be told to return the next day. The Wi-Fi is too slow and at times I have to use my own internet connection to do the work,” said Avinash Kumar, the para legal volunteer. According to officials in the labour department, the issue of the server has already been flagged to the National Informatics Centre (NIC), which has developed the website. While laptops, scanners and printers are provided by the department, the para legal volunteers are required to get their own laptops. Contacted, NIC officials said that they were working on the issue and that it will be resolved soon. Delhi government did not respond to the queries sent by HT. Thaneshwar Adigaur, secretary of the Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union and also member of the advisory committee of the board, said that issues are being faced by workers because little awareness has been spread about the camps and the staff has not been trained well. “Only 10-15% of the workers have been verified or registered by now,” said Adigaur. Sunil Kumar Aledia, who runs Centre for Holistic Development, an NGO that works for the homeless has written to the Delhi labour minister raising concerns about workers missing on their earnings in order to get registered.“We prepared a report from all 70 camps where it was found that workers had to wait for days to get registered. Also, at many places the staff and equipment is inadequate,” said Aledia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-website-for-welfare-funds-logs-out-daily-wagers/story-8eRjIG8nRVzLKf0BUf1mEO.html
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Life lessons learned from teachers||Teachers bring out the best in us. On the occasion of Teacher’s Day, Hindustan Times speaks to students who have emerged successful in their chosen fields and asks them about their favourite teachers and the values they taught that they still cherish. ‘He showed us the right path, left indelible mark in formative years’ VP Singh Badnore, Punjab governor and Chandigarh administrator A teacher I remember the most: JTM Gibson (Jack Gibson) Principal of Mayo College, Ajmer, Rajasthan, from 1954-69 The values he taught that I still cherish the most: He focused on simultaneous development of the student’s mind, body and character. He showed us the right path, something for which we Mayo boys will always remain indebted. His towering personality had an indelible mark on me, especially during the formative years. I attribute each of my achievements and position in life to this great teacher of mine and the Mayo College faculty. Gibson is credited to have brought Mayo College to national prominence. ‘Teachers shape tomorrow’s leaders’ Jai Ram Thakur, Himachal Pradesh chief minister The teacher I remember the most: Bihari Lal Sharma, headmaster Institution: Government High School, Bagsaid Year: In the ’70s The values he taught me: A disciplinarian, he taught me punctuality, patience, compassion, understanding, and the willingness to put in my best. A teacher can transform lives and guide students to achieve their goals. Teachers shape leaders of the future and inspire generations. In a way, they design society both at the local and on the global scale. ‘Leadership should be for the common good’ Sanjay Kundu, director general of police, Himachal Pradesh The teacher I remember the most: Professor John M Bryson, former McKnight presidential professor of planning and public affairs at the Hubert H Humphrey School of Public Affairs, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA. Subject: Public management; policy and programme implementation; strategic planning; collaborative governance; and integrative leadership. Class: Hubert H Humphrey Fellowship year 2005-06 (under Fulbright Scholarship Scheme). The values he taught that I still cherish: Professor Bryson taught me that leadership should be for common good. Leadership is not just about holding a position. He taught us to think and plan strategically. His classes helped us improve our communications skills, write lucidly and speak clearly. ‘Be punctual, consistent and focused’ Dushyant Chautala, Haryana deputy chief minister The teacher I remember the most: Inder Raj Singh Sahu Subject: English Year: 1995 Class: 5 Place: Sirsa The values he taught that I still cherish: Sahu sir taught me how to compose and present my thoughts with clarity and laid the foundation of my oratory skills in English. Besides academics, I learnt the value of punctuality, consistency and focus from him. I learnt a lot about Ch Devi Lal, the former deputy PM and my great grandfather, from Sahu sir. Though I went to the US and the UK, the kind of shiksha and gyan I got from him in my formative years continues to help me every day. ‘Serve society and earn respect’ Keshni Anand Arora, Haryana chief secretary The teacher I remember the most: Professor Jagdish Chander Anand Subject: Political science Year: 1979-81 Class: MA, MPhil Place: Panjab University, Chandigarh The values he taught that I still cherish: My father, professor Jagdish Chander Anand, was also my political science teacher and guide at Panjab University, Chandigarh. He would say: Always be useful to society if you want society to look up to you. Maintain integrity and honesty in all spheres of life. ‘Humanity, hard work and integrity go hand in hand’ Vini Mahajan, Punjab chief secretary The teacher I remember the most: Urmila Mahajan, my mother The values she taught that I still cherish: Our parents, particularly our mothers, are our greatest teachers in so many ways because we learn from seeing their behaviour towards us and other people. She taught me the values of humanity, integrity and hard work. ‘Speak up, stand by the truth’ Manish Tewari, Anandpur Sahib Congress MP The teacher I remember the most: Ms Winnie Anderson Subject: English Class: Standard 1 School: St John’s High School, Chandigarh Year: 1971 The values she taught that I still cherish: She taught me to speak the truth and stand by it. For Class 1 students, the most intimidating presence is of a stern school teacher. Yet, she encouraged us to speak up and never be afraid. While teaching, she would give us examples and her lessons have stayed with us for life. Today, whatever I am is because of her guidance. ‘Be empathetic towards one and all’ Dr Dinesh Kumar Singh, executive director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bathinda The teacher I remember the most: Jatashankar ji Subject: English Institution: Government Primary School, Deruwan village, Bhadoi district in Uttar Pradesh Year: 1962-68 The values he taught that I still cherish: Jatashankar ji played a key role in shaping my life. My family had financial constraints, so my teacher not only gave extra attention to my studies but also supported our family. He gave me the confidence to overcome the odds due to limited resources and emerge successful. I imbibed the value of being empathetic towards all from his life. He is like an extended family member and I’m in touch with him even today. ‘Hard work, sincerity will never let you down’ Kuldeep Handoo, the first Dronacharya awardee of Jammu and Kashmir The teacher I remember the most: Late Vishal Sharma Class: Wushu and taekwondo training Place: Training at Shri Raghunath Temple, Jammu Year: 1993 The values he taught that I still cherish: He taught me that hard work, dedication and sincerity will never let me down. He encouraged me to keep moving on despite the financial constraints my family was undergoing in my formative years. Whatever I’ve achieved is because of his support. He died in a road accident in 2006 at the age of 40.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/life-lessons-learned-from-teachers/story-ZR8yVaY5U54Spxzkmsl3JP.html
05-09-2020||Pune||Muslim volunteers help husband perform the final rites of Hindu blind poetess in Pune||The final rites of blind poetess and social activist Pratibha Moreshwar Bhole was performed by her husband with the help of a social group run by a Muslim activist. The poetess passed away due to diabetes and kidney ailment at Deenath Mangeshkar Hospital on September 1. She was 64.As the family and relatives of the couple, mostly senior citizens, did not come forward due to fear of Covid-19 infection, Sunil Parmar, Pratibha’s husband, took the help of a Muslim activist for performing the final rites.“My wife’s friend circle is big, but most of them are above 60 years of age and it is not advisable for them to venture out because of the Covid situation. When I told one of my friends that it is not possible for me to perform the final rites alone, he asked Muslim Mulnivasi Manch’s Anjum Inamdar for help. Later, I got a call from Inamdar and the group’s volunteers reached the hospital and made arrangements.”Parmar, who hails from Mumbai before settling in Pune and is into printing business, said, “Some ambulance drivers agreed to carry the body to crematorium, but denied to help in performing the final rites saying that they have to attend to many calls from hospitals. At least four persons are required at the crematorium and the Muslim volunteers managed everything.”Inamdar said, “Since the first virus case was reported in the city, our organisation has been voluntarily performing the final rites of Covid and non-Covid deaths when relatives are not coming forward. We came to know that the deceased was a blind poetess and social activist from her husband when we were performing the final rites.”The senior couple lived at Sadashiv peth area near Bharat Natya Mandir auditorium. “Prathibha became blind due to an accident when she was in Class 10. She was interested in literature from childhood. She has written two books and aired over 50 programmes on radio. She has received many awards for her poetry, including those presented by former Maharashtra governor PC Alexander and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar,” Parmar said, adding that they got married in 2009 and do not have any children.Prathibha used to work at Union Bank of India as telephone operator and remembered phone details of 4,000 people, according to Pawar, who said that she was an active social worker and organised many programmes for the disabled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/muslim-volunteers-help-husband-perform-the-final-rites-of-hindu-blind-poetess-in-pune/story-NPI3jr3TPqIt06rMZneOsI.html
05-09-2020||World||Racial tensions across United States pose target for 2020 election meddling||The tensions coursing through the United States over racism and policing are likely targets for adversaries seeking to influence the November election, lawmakers and experts warn — and there are signs that Russia is again seeking to exploit the divide.Earlier this year, Facebook, Instagram and Twitter pulled down dozens of accounts with names like “Blacks Facts Untold” that had been followed or liked by hundreds of thousands of people. The accounts were fake, created by an organization in Africa with links to Russia’s Internet Research Agency.Similarly, this past week Facebook announced it had removed a network of accounts linked to that “troll factory” that had pushed out stories about race and other issues. The network had tricked unwitting American writers to post content to the pages.It’s a troubling but familiar pattern from Russia, as the Internet Research Agency overwhelmingly focused on race and the Black Lives Matter Movement when targeting the US in 2016. The goal, part of the Russian playbook for decades, was to sow chaos by posting content on both sides of the racial divide. Indeed, “no single group of Americans was targeted by IRA information operatives more than African-Americans,” concluded a report from the Senate Intelligence Committee.With the election just two months away, some lawmakers are worried that the Russian efforts, now evolved and more sophisticated than four years ago, could again take hold. They fear the Trump administration’s decision to limit what it tells Congress — and by extension the American people — about election threats will allow the propaganda to spread.“Race was a big piece of what they did in 2016, and given heightened racial tensions this year, there’s no reason they wouldn’t be doing the same thing again,” says Maine Sen. Angus King, an independent who is on the Senate Intelligence Committee. He says the information that is now being limited “belongs to the American people.”Democrats were furious last weekend after Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe, a close Trump ally, informed Congress that the office would supply written information to the intelligence committees about election threats but would no longer be doing in-person briefings, denying lawmakers the chance to ask questions.The cancellation came a few weeks after US intelligence officials publicly stated that Russia is using a variety of measures to denigrate Trump’s opponent, Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, ahead of the election. Trump responded to that assessment by saying that “nobody has been tougher on Russia than I have.”Election interference has always been a sensitive subject for Trump. The president has often dismissed the idea that Russia interfered at all in 2016, and has replaced many long-serving intelligence officials with his own appointees.The intelligence statement did not offer specifics about what tactics Russia is using, but the past provides important clues.In 2016 the Internet Research Agency had an “overwhelming operational emphasis on race” that was apparent in the online ads it purchased — more than two-thirds contained a term related to race. The company targeted that content to “African-Americans in key metropolitan areas with well-established black communities and flashpoints in the Black Lives Matter movement,” according to a Senate Intelligence Committee report. One of its top performing pages, “Blactivist,” generated 11.2 million engagements with Facebook users.Bret Schafer, an expert on foreign disinformation with the bipartisan group Alliance for Securing Democracy, said stoking racial animosity is a Kremlin strategy that goes back decades. His group tracked a major uptick in social media activity on racial issues from Russian state-sponsored media and political figures this summer, especially after the killing of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police.“We have seen a constant messaging theme being race and racism in the US,” Schafer said. “They’re very good at it.”There is evidence that the recent police shooting of a Black man in Kenosha, Wisconsin, and the resulting protests — the focus of political sparring between Trump and Biden this week — have fueled a new round of social media activity from foreign governments.English-language media outlets linked to the Russian government have published stories supporting the protests, and “Cop Injustice in Kenosha” is the headline on a video posted by an online news organization with ties to Russia. Another video from the Kremlin-backed outlet Redfish shows Trump supporters driving aggressively through protesters in Portland, Oregon, where there have been protests for weeks.The stories are precisely the kind of content lawmakers are trying to keep tabs on.The acting chairman of the Senate committee, Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., told a local news outlet this past week that has spoken to Ratcliffe and expects the in-person briefings to continue. But it is unclear whether they will. A spokeswoman for Ratcliffe would not confirm Rubio’s remarks.The committee’s top Democrat, Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, says he has been working with Rubio to urge Ratcliffe to reverse the decision.“Ninety percent of the information I’ve ever gained from any briefing is not from the briefing, it’s from the questions,” Warner said.The briefings are less likely to be reinstated in the House intelligence committee, which is led by Democrats. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff said cancelling the briefings is a “shocking abdication of its lawful responsibility.” He has urged vigilance on the Russian meddling, noting that the tactics have evolved but “the underlying malign goals remain the same.”The intelligence committees are receiving some information from the social media companies themselves, notably Facebook and Twitter. The companies were slow to respond in 2016, but are now waging sophisticated efforts to root out foreign interference. Twitter stopped accepting political ads, while Facebook began verifying the identity of ad buyers in 2018 and this week said it will restrict new political ads in the 7 days before the election.Nina Jankowicz, disinformation fellow at the nonpartisan Wilson Center, says there has been an improvement in tracking, but because the issue of interference has been so politicized, Congress and the public aren’t getting enough information.“What people need to be looking for is stuff that is seemingly trying to get a rise out of them,” Jankowicz said. “Don’t think you are going to find a troll. It’s about guarding yourself from emotional manipulation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/racial-tensions-across-united-states-pose-target-for-2020-election-meddling/story-QI1ZCwXUfWwCCcRfTgY56I.html
05-09-2020||World||Trump orders end to ‘un-American’ diversity training for federal workers||The White House has ordered federal agencies to end taxpayer-funded diversity training for employees about “critical race theory” or “white privilege”, calling them “divisive, un-American propaganda sessions”.“It has come to the President’s attention that Executive Branch agencies have spent millions of taxpayer dollars to date ‘training’ government workers to believe divisive, anti-American propaganda,” Russell Vought, director of the White House’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB), wrote in the memo.He went on to direct agencies to “begin to identify all contracts or other agency spending related to any training on ‘critical race theory’, ‘white privilege’, or any other training or propaganda effort that teaches or suggests either (1) that the United States is an inherently racist or evil country or (2) that any race or ethnicity is inherently racist or evil”. The OMB will issue more detailed guidance shortly.Also read: Jacob Blake pleads not guilty to charges prior to Kenosha shootingThe memo comes amidst a national discussion about racism triggered by the killing of George Floyd, an African American man, by a white police officer in Minneapolis in May.While President Donald Trump has condemned the incident, he has denied there is systemic racism in the country and has opposed ‘Black Lives Matter’ and defended the police. He has used anti-racism protests and unrest to the protests to stoke fears of lawlessness, seeking it to tie it to Democrats and Joe Biden, their presidential nominee, more specifically.Jacob Blake, the black man whose shooting in Kenosha, Wisconsin, added another flashpoint to the unrest, pleaded non-guilty on Friday in a virtual appearance in a court hearing charges of sexual assault and disorderly conduct stemming from a complaint filed by an ex-girlfriend prior to the shooting. Blake survived the shooting but is paralyzed waist down.Amid the national debate on racism, a professor at the prestigious George Washington University in Washington has admitted to pretending to be black for years. “To an escalating degree over my adult life, I have eschewed my lived experience as a white Jewish child in suburban Kansas City under various assumed identities within a Blackness that I had no right to claim,” Jessica A Krug, who is white, wrote in an online post. “First North African Blackness, then US rooted Blackness, then Caribbean rooted Bronx Blackness.”Krug teaches African and Latin American studies. The university has said she will not be teaching while her case is being reviewed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-orders-end-to-un-american-diversity-training-for-federal-workers/story-7TPTg7m8Me4puwSPNzaqoJ.html
05-09-2020||World||Covid-19: France expects more severe infections in next two weeks||France must stay vigilant as more people will be hospitalised in intensive care units in the next two weeks, reflecting a flare-up in Covid-19 infections in recent days, health minister Olivier Veran said on Saturday.Veran however ruled out the need for a new nationwide lockdown, telling BFM television that France had other means to fight the virus, including testing.“I cannot envision a general lockdown. The lockdown was a lid on an overflowing cooking pot,” he said.Health authorities on Friday reported 8,975 new confirmed cases, almost 1,500 higher than the previous daily peak of 7,578 on March 31, when France was in one of Europe’s strictest coronavirus lockdowns.The death toll in France stood at 30,686 people as of Friday.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAs the rise in infections has mainly affected young people, who are less likely to develop complications, there has so far been less strain on French hospitals, which were almost overwhelmed at the end of March.But after falling steadily for months after an April 14 peak of 32,292, the number of people hospitalised was up by 28 on Friday to 4,671, rising for a sixth day in a row.“We are not all on the same epidemic wave as last spring. We are on a slower trend but one that must alert us,” Veran said.“This week, 55 patients on average were hospitalised in intensive care units (ICU) each day, this means we are on an average of 1,500-2,000 people hospitalised in ICU units per month in our country. This is not neutral and we must be extremely vigilant,” he added.Current hospitalisation numbers reflected infections contracted two weeks ago, Veran said. “So it is obvious that in the next 15 days there will be an increase, it will not be massive but there will nevertheless be an increase in the number of severe cases and in the number of people hospitalised and in ICU units”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-france-expects-more-severe-infections-in-next-two-weeks/story-MOT2834cZbLXygBnOobY8O.html
05-09-2020||World||Typhoon Haishen: Japan deploys 22,000 soldiers on full alert||Typhoon Haishen, which is expected to hit southwestern Japan in the next few days, has prompted the country’s military to put 22,000 troops on full alert, Japanese defence minister Taro Kono said on Saturday.“In case something happens, 22,000 members of the self-defence forces are on full alert. The self-defence forces must gather all their strength and be ready for anything,” Kono said, as quoted by the NHK broadcaster.Earlier in the day, Japan’s Meteorological Agency said that the typhoon may cause high waves that can be comparable to tsunamis.Atmospheric pressure in Haishen’s centre is 920 hectopascals, while its wind power is 180 kilometres per hour and gusts are up to 252 kilometres per hour. Haishen is expected to hit Japan’s Kyushu island on September 6 and 7.Nearly 100 flights in southern and southwestern Japan were cancelled on Saturday due to the approaching typhoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/typhoon-haishen-japan-deploys-22-000-soldiers-on-full-alert/story-ON8xdq5pDPLCxmh5e09T6K.html
05-09-2020||World||Taliban delegation returns to Doha setting stage for peace talks with Afghanistan||Taliban officials say a senior delegation returned early Saturday to Qatar, paving the way for the start of peace talks with the Afghan government that are expected to take place in the tiny Gulf state.The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the media.The negotiations are the second, critical part to a peace deal the US signed with the Taliban in February in Doha.The Taliban delegation’s arrival in Qatar, where the group keeps its political office, came as a top Afghan government body blamed the militants for delays in starting talks.In a tweet on Saturday, the spokesman for Kabul’s High Council for National Reconciliation, Faraidoon Khwazoon, said the government was ready to start direct negotiations.“The process of releasing the prisoners is over and there is no excuse for delaying the talks, but the Taliban are still not ready to take part in the talks, ” he said, without further elaboration.Until its February deal with the US, the Taliban refused to directly negotiate with the Afghan government.Washington has ramped up pressure on Afghans on both sides of the conflict to open up negotiations over what a post-war Afghanistan might look like, how rights of women and minorities would be protected, and how the tens of thousands of armed Taliban and government-allied militias are disarmed and re-integrated.The US Security Adviser Robert O’Brien had a long call with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani last week. American officials have also pressed neighboring Pakistan to get the Taliban to the table.Relentless delays over the exchange of prisoners —5,000 held by the Afghan government and 1,000 by the Taliban — have hindered efforts to get intra-Afghan talks started.In late August, a delegation led by the Taliban’s political office head and the chief negotiator of the February deal with the United States, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar came to Pakistan. While little was revealed about the details of his meetings with Pakistani officials, it is believed he was pressed to get started with intra-Afghan talks.With many of the Taliban leadership council living in Pakistan, Islamabad has been pressed by Washington to use its influence to push negotiations forward. Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan has repeatedly said he wants peace talks started and that a military solution for Afghanistan is an impossibility.Pakistani officials reportedly met a second time with Baradar on Friday before his return to Doha again pressing for a swift start to Afghan peace talks, it is believed.US and Afghan officials have both said they want to see a reduction in violence in the conflict going into talks with the Taliban, but the militant group maintains that a cease-fire would only be on the agenda once talks begin.Washington’s February agreement with the Taliban was reached to allow the exit of American troops after nearly 20 years at war in keeping with a promise President Donald Trump made during the 2016 US election campaign. The withdrawal, which has already begun, is not dependent on the success of the Afghan negotiations but rather on commitments made by the Taliban to fight terrorist groups and ensure Afghanistan cannot be used to attack America or its allies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-delegation-returns-to-doha-setting-stage-for-peace-talks-with-afghanistan/story-IMrg3zzf7gQCZyWUaQxkHN.html
05-09-2020||World||Toddler killed in shootout between vehicles in US||A toddler was killed while riding in a vehicle along a Louisiana road in a shooting that was condemned by the city’s mayor.The 4-year-old girl was wounded late Friday night in Baton Rouge and later pronounced dead, news outlets reported.Shots were fired between two vehicles during an altercation, police spokesperson Sgt. L’Jean McKneely told WBRZ-TV. The toddler was struck by gunfire, and then the driver lost control of the vehicle, police said. A photo from WAFB-TV appeared to show a car overturned at the scene.Police told news outlets the driver was injured and taken to a hospital for treatment. A description of the other vehicle reportedly involved in the shooting was not immediately available.Baton Rouge Mayor-President Sharon Weston Broome denounced the fatal shooting on Twitter.“What happened tonight is absolutely unacceptable and my heart is heavy,” Broome tweeted. “The community has to honor this child’s life. If you know who did this, please contact the authorities immediately.” The names of the toddler and the driver were not immediately released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/toddler-killed-in-shootout-between-vehicles-in-us/story-bN8dJcpS40ROj4UaeCaaNP.html
05-09-2020||World||United Nations chief warns of famine, food insecurity in 4 conflict-hit nations||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres warned that there is a risk of famine and widespread food insecurity in four countries affected by conflict — Congo, Yemen, northeast Nigeria and South Sudan — and the lives of millions of people are in danger.In a note to Security Council members obtained by The Associated Press on Friday, the UN chief said the four countries rank “among the largest food crises in the world”, according to the 2020 Global Report on Food Crises and recent food security analyses. But funding to help is very low, he said.“Action is needed now,” Guterres said. “Having endured years of armed conflict and related violence, the people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Yemen, northeast Nigeria and South Sudan are again facing the specter of heightened food insecurity and potentially famine.” The UN chief said key indicators “are similarly deteriorating” in a number of other conflict-hit countries including Somalia, Burkina Faso and Afghanistan.“The situation varies from country to country, but civilians are being killed, injured and displaced; livelihoods are destroyed; and availability of and access to food disrupted, amid growing fragility,” Guterres said. “At the same time, humanitarian operations are attacked, delayed or obstructed from delivering life-saving assistance.” He said food insecurity in conflict-affected countries “is now further exacerbated by natural disasters, economic shocks and public health crises, all compounded by the Covid-19 pandemic.” UN humanitarian chief Mark Lowcock said in an interview with AP that the economic fallout from the pandemic including lock downs, border closures and restrictions on movement have all had “a big effect on food security and agricultural productivity.” And extremists have taken the opportunity “to make hay out of all this,” he said.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“Everybody is very preoccupied by Covid and the virus,” Lowcock said. But “it is not the virus that’s creating most of the carnage. It is other things, and we need to focus on the things that will really cause the biggest loss of life.” Lowcock said many of those things are consequences of Covid-19 -- the economic contraction, the declining availability of basic public services, “the insecurity into which extremist groups are occupying themselves.” He said a lot of effort has gone into things like providing personal protective equipment, public information campaigns on the virus, water and sanitation campaigns, “all of which are good things.” “But if you do those at the expense of basic humanitarian needs in these badly affected places, what you end up with is not a reduction in loss of life but an increase in loss of life,” Lowcock said. He said having four countries meet the requirement in a 2018 Security Council resolution to report to the council when the risk of conflict-induced famine and widespread food insecurity occurs is highly significant. According to the secretary-general’s note, escalating violence in volatile eastern Congo “is again driving disastrous levels of food insecurity and hunger,” and the latest analysis “indicates that over 21 million people are in crisis or worse levels of acute food insecurity.” With only 22% of the UN humanitarian appeal currently funded, Guterres said, “core programmes will need to be reduced or suspended.” In Yemen, where the international community mobilised to prevent famine two years ago, he said, “the risk is slowly returning”. Escalating conflict and economic decline brought the Arab world’s poorest nation to the brink of famine two years ago, and similar conditions and worsening key indicators are emerging today, he said. A recent survey indicated that 3.2 million people in government-controlled areas are now “highly food insecure,” and food prices are 140% higher than averages before the conflict began in 2015, Guterres said. “But with only 24% of humanitarian requirements funded in 2020, agencies are now forced to reduce or close core programs.” In northeast Nigeria’s Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states, he said, “alarming levels of food insecurity and hunger have arisen largely as a result of the actions” of extremists affiliated with armed groups. Guterres said estimates suggest more than 10 million people in the three states — about 80% of the population — need humanitarian assistance and protection, an almost 50% increase since last year and the highest recorded since humanitarian operations began. Yet, the UN appeal is only 33% funded, its lowest level, he said. In South Sudan’s Jonglei and Greater Pibor administrative area, Guterres said the situation deteriorated rapidly in the first half of 2020, “fuelled by escalating violence and insecurity,” Guterres said. Fighting has been accompanied by widespread attacks on agricultural and pastoral land and the looting of livestock and food, leaving more that 1.4 million people in the area “facing crisis or worse levels of acute food insecurity, he said. In addition, at least 350,000 children suffer from severe or moderate acute malnutrition.” Guterres said the latest outlook from the Famine Early Warning Systems Network “is flagging worsening catastrophe conditions...in areas affected by the violence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-nations-chief-warns-of-famine-food-insecurity-in-4-conflict-hit-nations/story-ujReF5H6UZtg9F9938ZwgP.html
05-09-2020||World||Amid Covid-19 crisis, religious figures worry about losing followers, funding||The Covid-19 pandemic is testing the patience of some religious leaders across Africa who worry they will lose followers, and funding, as restrictions on gatherings continue. Some evangelical Christian leaders in Uganda have launched a campaign with the now-universal phrase of protest: “I can’t breathe.”Their members vow to occasionally put on the burlap costumes they say resemble the sackcloth worn by biblical prophets.“Uganda is a God-fearing nation but, unfortunately, due to the lockdown, the citizens of our great country cannot gather to seek God’s intervention,” Betty Ochan, leader of the opposition in Uganda’s national assembly, recently wrote in the local Daily Monitor newspaper. “The devil is taking dominance. If people do not worship God together, they are spiritually derailed.”From Nigeria to Zimbabwe, people are speaking out — or sneaking out to worship — as they argue that limits on religion could lead to a crisis of faith.“I am appalled that some people have the audacity to tell us how many hours we can spend in church,” said Chris Oyakhilome, president of the Lagos-based megachurch known as Christ Embassy. “How dare you. What in the world do you think you are?”Church services in Nigeria resumed last month but are limited to an hour, a severe test for some in a country where worship can spill from a Sunday morning into the afternoon.Some ministers in Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, have sparked a separate controversy for saying followers should continue paying their tithes into designated bank accounts. Some ministers have long been accused of maintaining lavish lifestyles at the expense of their followers.But the larger concerns are rooted in the very nature of belief.“Coming together is very important from an African point of view,” said Christopher Byaruhanga, a professor of systematic and historical theology at Uganda Christian University. “We Africans want to live in a community. So the coronavirus is now redefining that community.”Coming together to worship is part of the “accountability” that builds trust as people share their testimonies, he said.The “overall levels of religious commitment” in sub-Saharan Africa are among the highest in the world, according to a 2018 study by the Pew Research Center. The region’s number of Christians grew from about 7 million in 1900 to 470 million by 2010, when it was home to 21% of the world’s Christians and 15% of all Muslims.Christians strongly associate their faith with the brick-and-mortar buildings of their parishes, said the Rev. Charles Odurkami, an emeritus bishop in Uganda.“Africans are notoriously religious,” he said. “Of course, in Africa some people worship with two feet. One foot in traditional culture and another foot in Christianity.”Another religious leader in Uganda, a self-described prophet who leads a congregation of thousands in Kampala, has criticized attempts to negotiate with the government to reopen houses of worship.“It’s disrespectful ... if a so-called pastor goes on his knees and begs a politician to open up,” Elvis Mbonye recently told a local broadcaster. “I will not ask any man to give me the permission, the right, the directives.”Hajji Ramadhan Mugalu, secretary-general of the Uganda Muslim Supreme Council, said Muslims “are losing out on the ... social aspect” while mosques remain closed.“If arcades and malls have been opened, our prayer is that these places of worship should also be opened,” he said. “Yes, they can pray at home, but congregational prayer is very powerful.”Authorities in Uganda and other countries say they will follow the advice of health experts on allowing places of worship to resume normal operations. In Tanzania, however, President John Magufuli has alarmed health experts by asserting that divine power would offer protection from the virus. The country hasn’t updated its number of infections — just over 500 — since April.In South Africa, which makes up roughly half of the African continent’s 1.2 million confirmed coronavirus infections, the pandemic has challenged people’s relationship with their faith, said Mosa Sona, bishop at Grace Bible Church in the Johannesburg township of Soweto.“Am I a believer that practices his faith in the midst of a crowd, at a building called a church, or does it matter when I am all alone at home?” asked Sona, whose church was among the first to stream sermons online.Others insist on staying physically in touch with their coreligionists, no matter what pandemic restrictions say.In Zimbabwe, the government has encouraged people to pray at home. But that wasn’t an option for Amos Mazikande, who recently went to a “prophet” with his apostolic group to seek a cure for his daughter’s persistent headaches.The family used back roads to avoid police on their way to an open ground where services are held in the capital, Harare.“Coronavirus will be defeated by the Holy Spirit, so we don’t have to fear it,” Mazikande said.Across the country, apostolic believers line up to collect “holy” water, oil, pieces of cloth and clay pots that they believe offer protection from “evil spirits” that bring poverty and disease.At a recent service, about a dozen worshippers huddled to sing and dance, some with face masks dangling from their chins. Under a nearby tree, a woman knelt while the leader sprinkled water and vigorously shook her head in an apparent healing session.Some say such scenes show the pandemic is strengthening people’s faith no matter how they worship.Etienne Bonkoungou, a chaplain in Burkina Faso’s capital, Ouagadougou, said he has noticed that since normal church services recently resumed, people who didn’t attend regularly before the pandemic now show up every week.“People found it necessary to get closer to God because they said it’s only God that can deliver them,” Bonkoungou said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-religious-figures-worry-about-losing-followers-funding/story-Kl7iZo4PWIPUVhptL1iW0H.html
05-09-2020||World||Jacob Blake pleads not guilty to charges prior to Kenosha shooting||Jacob Blake, the 29-year-old Black man whose shooting by a white police officer in Kenosha, Wisconsin, reignited nationwide protests over racism and police brutality, pleaded not guilty on Friday to criminal charges filed prior to the shooting.A complaint accuses Blake of criminal trespass, third-degree sexual assault and disorderly conduct based on statements by his ex-girlfriend at the time, the mother of three of his children, who told police Blake broke into her home on May 3 and sexually assaulted her before stealing her truck and debit card.Blake entered the plea through his lawyer during a livestreamed court hearing, his first public appearance since he was shot in the back by a white Kenosha police officer on Aug. 23.Blake, who was left paralyzed from the waist down by the shooting, was propped up in his hospital bed, dressed in a blue shirt and yellow tie, with his lawyer, Patrick Cafferty, sitting in a chair to his side. Cafferty noted that Blake had been working as a painter and that he had no prior criminal record or convictions in any state. Blake raised his hand to greet Loren Keating, a Kenosha County judicial court commissioner, when addressed, saying “Yes sir,” when asked if he could hear clearly and whether he understood the terms of his $10,000 signature bond.“The state recognizes that these are serious charges but also that the defendant has serious injuries and he’s recovering at the hospital,” said Zeke Wiedenfeld, a prosecutor.The court set trial to begin on Nov. 9 with jury selection. The complaint does not identify the ex-girlfriend by name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jacob-blake-pleads-not-guilty-to-charges-prior-to-kenosha-shooting/story-LN6SLTTWlmnhDWWKERZ3JO.html
05-09-2020||World||Rochester, New York police union says officers acted by book in using hood in man’s arrest||The head of Rochester, New York’s police union on Friday defended the actions of officers involved in the March arrest of Daniel Prude, a Black man whose death triggered protests, saying they followed protocols in using a hood to restrain him.“They had to do exactly what they did,” Rochester Police Locust Club President Michael Mazzeo told a news conference on Friday, adding that there was a “substantial amount of evidence to show why the protocols” used by the officers were employed.Prude, a 41-year-old Black man, died after an encounter with police in Rochester, New York, in March. His family this week released body camera footage from his arrest, showing a group of officers putting a mesh hood over Prude’s head - apparently to prevent his spit from possibly transmitting the novel coronavirus - as he kneels naked and restrained on the street.Release of the video was followed by protests in Rochester, turning the city of 200,000 people in the northwest corner of the state into the latest flash point in a summer of civil unrest over racism and police brutality.Seven police officers were suspended Thursday over the arrest. The medical examiner ruled his death a homicide caused by “complications of asphyxia in the setting of physical restraint”, with intoxication by phencyclidine, or the drug PCP, among additional contributing factors.Rochester police chief La’Ron Singletary and mayor Lovely Warren, both Black, have faced questions over why the officers were not disciplined until the videotape became public five months later. Singletary has said internal and criminal investigations were underway. Mazzeo, in his first comments since the body camera footage was made public, said he had been told by Singletary’s office after the arrest that there were “no concerns” with the officers and that they had followed training. Maria Haberfeld, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, said that based on the known facts and the video evidence available online she believes the officers acted properly, including in their use of a so-called “spit hood”.“This device is intended to protect officers and others from somebody who threatens to bite or spit, or uses their mouth to infect them,” Haberfeld said, describing their response to the situation as “absolutely by the book”. The video footage also shows officers forcing Prude’s face down on the ground. Prude can be heard shouting, “Take this ... off my face!” and “You’re trying to kill me!” in response to the hood. Officers are heard saying “Calm down” and “stop spitting.”Prude’s head was then pressed onto the pavement for two minutes, according to video footage and records released by Prude’s family. He died a week later at the hospital.Pressing a person’s face down is also a common procedure among police departments as a way to gain control over someone who is resisting arrest or who appears to be under the influence of drugs, Haberfeld said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rochester-ny-police-union-says-officers-acted-by-book-in-using-hood-in-man-s-arrest/story-7npJhQa611gsthHxOkcFaL.html
05-09-2020||World||China says US visitors will need negative virus-test results||China will require passengers arriving on direct flights from the US to provide negative Covid-19 nucleic-acid test results taken within 72 hours of the flight.Passengers traveling from the US to China, and those transiting in any country that the Chinese government has listed as requiring the screening results, must have negative Covid-19 results from a test done within three days of boarding at the last layover destination before arriving to China, according to a statement from the Chinese embassy in America on Friday. Both sets of rules will take effect September 15.Passengers who transit in the US before flying to China will be required to submit a health declaration to the airlines or hold a green health code, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-us-visitors-will-need-negative-virus-test-results/story-u7c2XMjIc39GHlHso8uguL.html
05-09-2020||World||Must continue talks to ensure full restoration of peace: Rajnath Singh to Chinese defence minister||Defence minister Rajnath Singh held “frank and in-depth” discussions with his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe on Friday over the border stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh as well as on India-China relations, the government said on Saturday.Singh, the defence ministry statement said, categorically conveyed India’s position on the developments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) including in the Galwan valley in the Western Sector of the India-China Border areas in the last few months.Singh held the talks with Wei on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting.Here is what the statement by the defence ministry said:• Singh, the statement said, emphasised that the actions of the Chinese troops, including amassing of a large number of troops, their aggressive behaviour and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo were in violation of the bilateral agreements and not in keeping with the understandings reached between the Special Representatives of two sides.• Singh stated clearly that while the Indian troops had always taken a very responsible approach towards border management, but at the same time there should also be no doubt about our determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.• Wei said that both sides should scrupulously implement the consensus reached between Prime Minister Modi and President Xi Jinping and continue to solve the issues through dialogue and consultation, strictly follow the various bilateral agreements, strengthen the regulation of frontline troops and not undertake any provocative actions that might escalate the situation.• The two sides should focus on the overall situation of India-China relations and work together to de-escalate the situation as soon as possible, and maintain peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas, Wei said according to the statement. The Chinese defence minister suggested that both sides should maintain communication at all levels including between the two ministers, it added.• Singh said that both sides should take guidance from the consensus of the leaders that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas was essential for the further development of our bilateral relations and that two sides should not allow differences to become disputes. Accordingly, the two sides should resolve the ongoing situation and outstanding issues in the border areas peacefully through dialogue.• The Chinese defence minister, the statement said, conveyed that Chinese side too desired to resolve the issues peacefully. Singh advised that it was important therefore that Chinese side should work with the Indian side for complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas including Pangong Lake as well as de-escalation in border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols on the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas, strictly respect and observe the line of actual control and should not make attempts to unilaterally change status quo.• Singh further said that the current situation should be handled responsibly and that neither side should take any further action that could either complicate the situation or escalate matters in the border areas. Singh conveyed that the two sides should continue their discussions, including through diplomatic and military channels, to ensure complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity along the LAC at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/must-continue-talks-to-ensure-full-restoration-of-peace-rajnath-singh-to-chinese-defence-minister/story-y19cbxp07Z7uxD3f1uL7II.html
05-09-2020||World||‘Severe’ punishment for North Korea officials after typhoon casualties||North Korea has pledged severe punishment for local officials it says failed to protect residents from a typhoon which caused a “serious incident” with dozens of casualties, the ruling party’s newspaper reported.Typhoon Maysak brought heavy downpours across the country earlier this week, with footage showing a street inundated with water in the eastern port town of Wonsan, Kangwon province.Saturday’s Rodong Sinmun, an official newspaper, reported that leaders had decided to punish “irresponsible” city and provincial officials for causing “a serious incident involving dozens of casualties”.The report did not say how many were injured, missing or dead.The officials failed to “immediately organise a project to thoroughly identify properties at risk and evacuate all residents” despite being ordered by the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea headed by leader Kim Jong Un, it added.“A decision was made to impose severe party, administrative, and legal punishment to those responsible for the casualties.”Maysak also hit the South, killing at least two people. More than 2,200 people were evacuated to temporary shelters in the southern city of Busan.Natural disasters tend to have a greater impact in the North due to its creaking infrastructure, and the country is vulnerable to flooding as many mountains and hills have long been deforested.Punishing the local officials is a “way for the North Korean leadership to avoid blame” for the casualties, Ahn Chan-il, a defector turned researcher based in Seoul, told AFP.“They are sending out a message that Kim Jong Un never does anything wrong, but damages occur only because those who work for him fail to follow his order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/severe-punishment-for-north-korea-officials-after-typhoon-casualties/story-CJS2YZ1XTDMcAFteATbUHM.html
05-09-2020||World||Gas pipeline blast kills 11 praying at Bangladesh mosque||An underground gas pipeline near a mosque exploded during evening prayers outside the capital of Bangladesh, leaving at least 11 Muslim worshipers dead and dozens injured with critical burns, officials said Saturday.The blast occurred Friday night as people were finishing their prayers at Baitus Salat Jame Mosque at Narayanganj, local police chief Zayedul Alam said.By Saturday morning, a young boy and 10 others succumbed to their injuries as doctors at a burn unit of a state-run hospital were treating at least 37 people with up to 90% of burns on their bodies, said Samanta Lal Sen, a coordinator of the unit.Most were in critical condition, Sen said.TV stations reported that because of the impact of the blast, at least six air conditioners also exploded inside the mosque. Firefighters were investigation the cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gas-pipeline-blast-kills-11-praying-at-bangladesh-mosque/story-blGkXnEYXHbWVyUYcOmLMO.html
05-09-2020||World||Russia quashes criticism of Covid-19 vaccine, says ‘all boxes checked’||Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, which has backed the country’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has shot down criticism concerning the safety of Sputnik V after western experts warned against its use until all internationally approved testing and regulatory steps have been taken.“With this (publication) we answer all of the questions of the West that were diligently asked over the past three weeks, frankly with the clear goal of tarnishing the Russian vaccine,” said Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF).Also Read: India registers highest single-day spike with 86,432 new Covid-19 cases; death toll reaches 69,561“All of the boxes are checked. Now... we will start asking questions of some of the Western vaccines,” he told Reuters.Dmitriev complained that certain politicians and media were not concentrating on the research that led to the development of the vaccine but are busy in negative publicity against Russia.The vaccine, named Sputnik-V in homage to the world’s first satellite launched by the Soviet Union, is a human adenoviral vector vaccine which fights against Covid-19.Dmitriev also lauded India for expressing interest in locally producing the vaccine.“India has historically been a very important partner of Russia. India is one of the leading countries in production. Around 60% of all the vaccines in the world are produced in India. We are in close dialogue with the corresponding ministries and the India government and the leading manufacturer of the country regarding localisation of production of Sputnik V vaccine in India,” he said, according to ANI.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine developers plan pledge, Russian shot ‘passes early trial test’: All you need to knowResults of the clinical trials of Sputnik V were released on Friday and the clinical trials showed that 76 participants who participated in the trial developed strong immune responses. The research team said that the heterologous rAd26 and rAd5 vector-based COVID-19 vaccine “ induced strong humoral and cellular immune responses in participants”, according to results published on Friday by The Lancet medical journal.The participants in the study were followed for 42 days and the scientists said the sample of study participants was small and there were no placebo or control vaccines used. The Lancet study stated that two Russian hospitals involving healthy individuals, both men and women, aged between 18-36 years were enrolled between June 18 and August 3.The study headed by Dr Denis Logunov of the NF Gamaleya National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology, Moscow said that participants were administered with “heterologous COVID-19 vaccine consisting of two components, a recombinant adenovirus type 26 (rAd26) vector and a recombinant adenovirus type 5 (rAd5) vector, both carrying the gene for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) spike glycoprotein (rAd26-S and rAd5-S).”The study authored by Logunov and his team of researchers pointed out that there were no adverse effects barring some “common systemic and local reactions.”The study said, “The most common systemic and local reactions were pain at the injection site (44 [58%]), hyperthermia (38 [50%]), headache (32 [42%]), asthenia (21 [28%]), and muscle and joint pain (18 [24%]). Most systemic and local reactions were mild. Changes in laboratory variables were mild and transient. In volunteers who received both vaccine components (rAd26-S and rAd5-S), most adverse events occurred after the second vaccination (appendix pp 5–7). No adverse events, either during phase 1 or phase 2, led to the withdrawal of a participant from the study or withdrawal of study drug.”Criticism regarding Russia’s Sputnik V continues as experts say that the approval has been immature. Russian president Vladimir Putin’s daughter was also among the participants and in a cabinet meeting, he said that his daughter feels fine.“I know [the vaccine] works quite effectively, helps to develop strong immunity, and has gone through all the necessary tests,” Putin said.According to another Lancet report, Peter Openshaw, professor of experimental medicine at Imperial College London, raised concerns about the effectiveness of the vaccine based on the immune response. “Immune response might not be directly proportional to the degree of protection—you can only find this out in large-scale trials,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-quashes-criticism-of-covid-19-vaccine-says-all-boxes-checked/story-wkDH19Gy8BpLpNKBE6MVgI.html
05-09-2020||World||Would love to help India, China resolve border dispute, says Trump||US President Donald Trump on Friday expressed his readiness once again to “help” India and China resolve their border situation, which he described as “very nasty”.Answering questions at a White House briefing, the president also expressed confidence that Indian Americans will vote for him in the November 3 elections citing the “incredible” turnout at the Howdy Modi event in Houston last September.India and China are “going at it pretty good on the border, as you know, it’s been very nasty, it’s been a very nasty situation,” the president said at the briefing, segueing into the conflict in response to a question about his campaign’s outreach to Indian American voters spearheaded by his son Donald Trump Jr and his partner Kimberley Guilfoyle.He added, “We stand ready to help with respect to China and India if we can do anything we would love to get involved and help. And we are talking to both countries about that.”The American President had extended an offer to mediate the standoff way back in May. “We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute,” he had written in a tweet. Both sides turned him down. Trump had offered earlier to mediate between India and Pakistan following the spike in tensions after the Pulwama terrorist attack in February 2019 by Pakistan-based terrorists. India had rejected that offer also, and swiftly. Responding to a question about his expectations from Indian American voters, the president said, “We have great support from India. We have great support from Prime Minister Modi and I would think that Indian people would be voting for Trump.”Trump referred to the Howdy Modi event in Houston to back his optimism. “We had an event in Houston, as you know, and it was a fantastic event. I was invited by Prime Minister Modi … it was it was it was incredible. It was actually incredible and the Prime Minister could not have been more generous.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/would-love-to-help-india-china-resolve-border-dispute-says-trump/story-jZWe6f7HQiHsZS8o4Fj00O.html
05-09-2020||World||China’s Xi promises more market opening at trade fair||President Xi Jinping pledged to open China’s service industries wider to foreign competitors as its first in-person trade fair since the coronavirus outbreak opened under intensive anti-disease controls.Xi gave no details in his speech Friday night, but Chinese leaders are emphasizing development of tourism, retailing and other services. They are part of a campaign to nurture economic growth driven by consumer spending instead of exports and investment.China will “relax market access for service industries” and “actively expand imports of high-quality services,” Xi said at the China International Fair for Trade in Services.Xi appeared on a video screen before Chinese businesspeople and a handful of foreign VIPs who wore masks and sat in widely spaced chairs at a convention center adjacent to the site of the 2008 Summer Olympics. Most exhibitors from abroad are participating via the internet because Beijing has yet to relax curbs that bar most foreign visitors from the country.The annual export-oriented Canton Trade Fair in southern China, the world’s biggest sales event, was held online in June.China’s manufacturers are flexible, efficient global competitors, but its fledgling tourism, finance, health care and other service industries lag their Western counterparts. Regulatory barriers limit the ability of foreign banks and other providers to compete in China two decades after Beijing joined the free-trading World Trade Organization.U.S. officials who are waging a tariff war with Beijing over its trade record point to services, in which the United States runs a surplus with China, as a promising area.Organizers say 18,000 companies and 100,000 people from 148 countries and regions signed up to take part in the trade fair, which runs through Wednesday.China, where the pandemic began in December, was the first economy to shut down and the first to begin the struggle to revive business after the ruling party declared victory over the disease in March. Factories, office towers and shopping malls have reopened but visitors to public buildings in Beijing still are checked for fever by masked guards.China became the first economy to return to growth with a 3.2% expansion over a year earlier in the three months ending in June, rebounding from the previous quarter’s 6.8% contraction.The trade fair has three-dimensional technology for foreign vendors to show goods and secure online communications to talk to customers, the director of the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Commerce, Yan Ligang, told reporters on Thursday.Guests and staff must wear masks and will be checked throughout the day for fever, according to Yan. He said organizers will “restrict the flow” of people and the building will be tested for the virus and disinfected every day.Some 200 medical, disease control and first aid staff will be on duty, Yan said.Chinese companies plan to showcase possible coronavirus vaccines that are under development, according to the Beijing Health Commission. It said some will display tools that can detect the virus in 30 minutes.Other planned exhibitions include cultural, financial and public health services, next-generation telecoms and service robots.The coronavirus “cannot stop the development of service trade, nor can it stop our confidence and action to work together,” Xi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-xi-promises-more-market-opening-at-trade-fair/story-SR7SwFIyuC2YQQrWXDtyzM.html
05-09-2020||World||Me and my family’s relationship to India is very good, says Donald Trump||The First Family of the United States is in love with India, US President Donald Trump indicated as he noted that both his daughter Ivanka and son Donald Trump Jr along with Kimberly Guilfoyle think a lot about India and so does he. “I know India and I understood those young people (Kimberly, Donald Trump Jr and Ivanka) that you mentioned. They’re very good young people. And I know their relationship to India is very good and so is mine,” Trump told reporters at the White House. The president, who describes himself as the best friend ever of India and Indian Americans in the White House, was responding to a question about the role the three important members of his family are going to play this election cycle along with respect to the Indian American community. “Would Kimberly, Donald Trump Jr., and Ivanka Trump, who are very popular among Indian Americans, would be campaigning on your behalf among the Indian Americans with your views on India-US relationship?” the president was asked. “I appreciate the nice sentiments. They think (Kimberley, Don Jr and Ivanka) a lot of India and so do I. And think a lot of your prime minister (Narendra Modi),” Trump said in response to the question. In the 2016 elections, the Trump family had reached out to the Indian American community, particularly in the battleground states of Virginia, Pennsylvania and Florida where both Ivanka, and Donald Trump Jr along with his other son Eric and daughter-in-law Lara Trump held meetings with the community members and visited Hindu temples. Ivanka, was the first member of the Trump family to make a trip to India after Trump came to power. She led a high-powered US delegation to the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in India in 2017. Ivanka, frequently tweets about issues related to India. Having a star appeal in India, Ivanka is also special advisor to the president. Donald Trump Jr, who is heading the re-election campaign, has also made trips to India. Last December he held a special book-launch event for Indian American community in Long Island.  “A Key Advantage in Battleground States Could Secure 2020 for Trump,” Don Jr said in a tweet last month. He along with his girlfriend Kimberley, who is national chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee, have been instrumental in the campaign maintaining a close relationship with Indian American community. The two quite often tweet about the key role that the Indian American community can play in the battle ground states. On India’s independence day on August 15, Donald Trump Jr had tweeted: “Sending Best Wishes to India on its Independence Day.” “Grateful for all my friends there and my Indian-American friends here.” “Congratulations to India who is celebrating their 74th Independence Day and to all those Indian-Americans who now call the USA home. The bond between our countries is stronger than it has ever been as we share a deep appreciation for family, peace, and prosperity,” Kimberly said in tweet greeting India on its Independence Day. “America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian Americans!,” she said about a fortnight ago releasing the first video commercial of the Trump Campaign targeting Indian Americans.  Titled “Four More Years”, the 107 second video starts with the iconic footage of Modi and Trump walking hand in hand at the NRG Stadium in Houston during his visit to the US last year wherein the leaders of the two largest democracies of the world made their joint address before a strong crowd of Indian Americans numbering more than 50,000. Amidst cheering of thousands of his supporters in the US, Modi is seen as saying that Trump “needs no introduction” and that “his name comes up in almost every conversation.” He is the president of the United States of America “Mr Donald Trump,” the prime minister says at the start of the video, that has been conceptualised by Al Mason, co-chair of the Trump Victory Indian American Finance Committee.  It is well known that Modi is highly popular among Indian Americans. His star appeal has attracted record crowd, hitherto unknown for a foreign leader, on the American soil. Starting with his address at the Madison Square Garden in 2015 and then in the Silicon Valley two years later, both attracting more than 20,000 people, Modi is perhaps the only foreign leader in recent memory to have addressed such huge rallies in the US. His “Howdy Modi” address in Houston last September was attended by a record 50,000 people. Trump made a solo trip to Houston to join him in the addressing the historic rally. While Modi introduces Trump to the crowd whom he addressed as “my family”, the second part of the commercial has clips form Trump’s historic address in Ahmedabad this February. “America loves India. America respects India. And America will always be faithful and loyal friend to the Indian people,” Trump is seen as saying in the commercial in which he praises the contribution of four million Indian Americans. “They are truly spectacular people,” the president said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/me-and-my-family-s-relationship-to-india-is-very-good-says-donald-trump/story-DnTDldBqNXb5g9u9DdDUlL.html
05-09-2020||World||Rajnath Singh meets Chinese counterpart, calls for getting ties ‘back on right track’||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday pushed for the restoration of status quo ante at all friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and called for disengagement of troops in an expeditious way during the much-expected meeting with his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe in Moscow.The meeting between Singh and Wei, on the sidelines of the defence ministers’ meet at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), was the first high-level political face-to-face meeting between India and China since the border row erupted along the LAC in eastern Ladakh in early May.A Press Trust of India report from Moscow said at the meeting on Friday, which lasted for more than two hours, the Indian delegation strongly objected to Chinese army’s fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake and insisted on the resolution of the standoff through talks.According to China’s official news agency, Xinhua, Wei told Singh that the responsibility of the ongoing tension lies entirely with India – an allegation that New Delhi has brushed off repeatedly, saying that the border aggression has actually been shown by the troops of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).The same Xinhua report in Mandarin from Moscow quoted Singh as saying that India hoped that two sides will “…adopt a responsible attitude, fully disengage front-line forces as soon as possible, avoid taking measures that may escalate or complicate the situation, and avoid turning differences into disputes so as to bring bilateral military relations back to the right track as soon as possible.”External affairs minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval have previously held separate telephonic talks with Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi to resolve the standoff.On Thursday, New Delhi squarely blamed Beijing for the tensions along the LAC over the past four months and said the only way forward was through negotiations – reflecting the impasse created by fresh attempts by Beijing to alter the status quo along the disputed border over the weekend.At the meeting, Wei said that recently the relations between the two countries and the two militaries have been seriously affected by the border issue and that it was very important for the two defence ministers to have a face-to-face and candid exchange of views on relevant issues, according to Xinhua.Wei added that the “cause and truth” of the current tension on the China-India border are very clear, and the responsibility lies entirely with the Indian side.“Not an inch of China’s territory should be lost. The Chinese military has the resolve, capability and confidence to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity,” the Chinese defence minister said.The two sides should earnestly implement the important consensus reached by President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and stay committed to resolving the issue through dialogue and consultation, Wei said.The Chinese defence minister said that Beijing hoped that the Indian side would strictly abide by the series of agreements reached by the two sides, effectively strengthen the control over front-line troops, and refrain from provocations across the current LAC.India should not take any actions that may cause the situation to escalate, and not deliberately hype up or spread negative information, the Chinese said.The two sides should bear in mind the overall interests of China-India relations and regional peace and stability, make joint efforts to meet each other halfway, cool down the current situation as soon as possible and safeguard peace and tranquillity in the China-India border areas, Wei said at the meeting.“The focus of the talks between the two defence ministers was on ways to resolve the prolonged border standoff,” an unnamed source told PTI. Defence secretary Ajay Kumar and Indian ambassador to Russia DB Venkatesh Varma were part of the Indian delegation at the talks that began at around 9:30pm IST at a prominent hotel in Moscow.Several rounds of talks have been conducted through diplomatic and military channels to end the standoff that began in May.The progress suffered a blow when Chinese troops resorted to what were described as “provocative military movements” on the south bank of Pangong Lake during August 29-30. They were thwarted by counter-measures by the Indian side, which quickly occupied several strategic heights and hilltops, and talks between local brigade commanders since Monday to ease the fresh tensions have been inconclusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-remains-in-denial-blames-india-for-border-impasse-at-sco-meet/story-qjcbHktfmHXWrDNFBcMnxI.html
05-09-2020||World||Vaccine developer Moderna could slow Covid-19 trials to add at-risk minorities||Moderna Inc has been asking sites that are conducting clinical trials of its experimental coronavirus vaccine to focus on enrolling at-risk minorities, even if that slows down the trial speed, the company said on Friday.Shares of Moderna, one of the few companies in the final stages of developing a safe and effective Covid-19 vaccine, closed down about 3.5%.The company said it has enrolled 21,411 participants in the study so far. It had 17,000 participants as of last week, with 24% from communities of color.The drug developer aims to recruit 30,000 healthy volunteers and said it expected enrollment in the late-stage study, which began in late-July, to be completed in September.A growing body of evidence has shown that long-standing health and social inequities have resulted in increased risk of infection and death from Covid-19 among communities of color.Nearly a fifth of 11,000 people enrolled so far in a 30,000-volunteer U.S. trial testing a Covid-19 vaccine from Pfizer and German partner BioNTech are Black or Latino, groups among the hardest hit by the coronavirus, a top Pfizer executive told Reuters last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-developer-moderna-could-slow-covid-19-trials-to-add-at-risk-minorities/story-h6tJeb8pZjnLBS6YjQkNUM.html
05-09-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine distribution not expected until mid-2021: WHO chief scientist||The large-scale global distribution of vaccines against Covid-19 is not expected until mid-2021, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan told a press briefing on Friday.“So realistically speaking, probably the second half, the middle of 2021 - maybe the second quarter, the third quarter of 2021 - is when we can start seeing doses actually flowing into countries so that they can start to immunize their populations,” Swaminathan said.This timeline is based on the fact that Phase 3 trials of many candidate vaccines are not expected to be concluded until the end of the current year, the WHO’s chief scientist added.“We expect results from some of the candidates, which are already in Phase 3 trials, to come by the end of the year or beginning of next year, following which they’ll have to be scaling [up] manufacturing to produce the hundreds of millions of doses that are going to be needed. In fact, the world is going to need billions of doses, and that is going to take time to manufacture. So we have to be optimistic and realistic at the same time,” Swaminathan commented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-distribution-expected-to-start-in-mid-2021-who-chief-scientist/story-jzFzgjKhE3CmLwWiK1awdK.html
05-09-2020||World||Indigenous Brazilians launch coronavirus tracing app||Indigenous and environmental organizations in Brazil launched an app on Friday aimed at alerting indigenous communities to the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in their lands.“The application maps and periodically updates the situation regarding the pandemic in cities within a 100 kilometer radius of indigenous lands,” said the Coordination of the Indigenous Organizations of the Brazilian Amazon (COIAB) and the Amazon Environmental Research Institute (IPAM) in a joint statement.The app, called “Covid-19 Indigenous Alert” aims to help indigenous people identify areas with high infection rates.Provided free on the Android system, the app uses data from Brazil’s health ministry, people working in the indigenous health system, leaders from indigenous organizations and the COIAB network.“This collection of information, as well as directing our strategies and actions to combat Covid-19, has exposed the lack of notification from public authorities and the serious way in which the new virus affects us,” said Mario Nicacio Wapichana, the deputy co-ordinator of COIAB.With four million cases and 125,000 deaths amongst its 212 million population, Brazil is the worst affected country in the world by the virus after the United States.Amongst the 900,000 indigenous people there have been 30,000 infections and 785 deaths, according to The Articulation of Indigenous Peoples of Brazil (APIB.)“Indigenous peoples are especially vulnerable to the new coronavirus, presenting an incidence rate 249 percent higher than the national average and a 224 percent higher mortality, according to analysis of the registered cases up to August 28,” said COIAB.The network said low levels of immunity, the invasion of indigenous land by outsiders, the introduction of foreign pathogens and a weak health system “are some of the motives behind such alarming numbers.”Several high-profile indigenous leaders have died of Covid-19.However, earlier on Friday the 90-year-old iconic chief Raoni Metuktire, one of the most famous defenders of the Amazon rainforest, was released from hospital after a week receiving treatment for Covid-19.The leader of the Kayapo people, known for his colorful feather headdresses and the large disc inserted in his lower lip, has returned to his territory in Xingu National Park, in the center-west of Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indigenous-brazilians-launch-coronavirus-tracing-app/story-fNR0HYT39mNjZVBQARNrsJ.html
05-09-2020||World||Very nasty situation along India-China border: Trump||Asserting that the situation along the India-China border has been “very nasty” and the Chinese are “going at it” much more strongly, US President Donald Trump said he would love to get involved and help. “While we’re at it, we’re talking about China and India are going at it pretty good on the border, as you know. It’s been very nasty,” Trump told reporters on Friday evening at a White House news conference. Trump reiterated that he is talking to both India and China about the situation. “And we stand ready to help with respect to China and India. If we can do anything, we would love to get involved and help. And we are talking to both countries about that,” he said. When asked if China is bullying India, he said that he hoped it is not the case but noted that China is “certainly going at it”. “I hope not... But they (China) are certainly going at it. They are going at it much more strongly than a lot of people even understand,” Trump said in response to a question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/very-nasty-situation-along-india-china-border-donald-trump/story-5o6BNCdkLmaHOG33dO1L6I.html
05-09-2020||World||Donald Trump says US doesn’t know if Russia’s Navalny was poisoned||President Donald Trump said Friday the U.S. doesn’t know directly whether Alexey Navalny was poisoned, failing to accept the German government’s assessment that the Russian opposition leader was attacked with a nerve agent.German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Wednesday that medical tests showed “unequivocally” that Navalny had been poisoned by a military-grade novichok nerve agent. Asked about the German conclusion at a news conference Friday, Trump said, “I hear Germany has made it definitive, or almost definitive, but we have not seen it ourselves.”Navalny, a leading critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, fell ill on a domestic flight to Moscow from Tomsk in August. He was evacuated to a German hospital under international pressure.Kremlin officials have challenged Germany’s conclusion, saying that Merkel’s government hasn’t provided proof.A novichok agent was used in the March 2018 attempted murder of former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter on British soil, prompting a concerted expulsion of 150 Russian diplomats from NATO nations.Later in his news conference, though, Trump agreed that it was likely Navalny had been poisoned. “Based on what Germany’s saying, that seems to be the case,” he said.But he didn’t say whether the U.S. would take any specific action in response. “We have to look at it very seriously if that’s the case,” he said.Trump has tried to nurture a closer relationship with Moscow despite the Kremlin’s interference in the 2016 election. Earlier Friday, the president’s National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien said that China should be considered a greater threat to U.S. election integrity than Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-us-doesn-t-know-if-russia-s-navalny-was-poisoned/story-FcPG8236pGTS4yr23bQjMO.html
05-09-2020||World||Trump says he wants to give leftover $300 billion to taxpayers||President Donald Trump said Congress should authorize sending taxpayers checks from about $300 billion left over in a pandemic lending program.“We have $300 billion sitting in an account that we didn’t need,” Trump said at a news conference on Friday. “It would be a very appropriate thing to release that to the American people and I am willing to do it.”Trump wasn’t able to say where the $300 billion came from. A White House official later said it was part of a more than $450 billion fund Congress established at the Treasury Department to support emergency lending programs created by the Federal Reserve to combat economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.There hasn’t been as much demand for the Fed’s emergency pandemic programs, particularly its Main Street program for small- and medium-sized businesses. The Congressional Oversight Commission, a panel that oversees Treasury and Federal Reserve responses to the pandemic, reported last month that lenders had issued loans using only about $472 million of more than $600 billion available under the Main Street program.About half of the Treasury fund has been committed to support the Fed’s programs.“We have $300 billion, it’s there, we don’t need the money, we don’t need anything,” Trump said. “I could give it to the people as a very powerful stimulus.”He added that “there’s a theory” he could issue the money without congressional approval, but that he would like lawmakers to approve it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-he-wants-to-give-leftover-300-billion-to-taxpayers/story-EowjB8mhr3aeCggevoCj8I.html
05-09-2020||World||Biden says he will meet Dalai Lama, sanction China over Tibet||Joe Biden, the Democratic presidential nominee, has said that as president he will meet the Dalai Lama, continuing a decades-old practice followed by American presidents with the exception of President Donald Trump, and press China to resume talks with Tibetans for “meaningful autonomy”.The nominee also vowed to impose sanctions on Chinese officials responsible for human rights abuses in Tibet and “step up” support for Tibetans.Biden accused Trump of maintaining a “deafening silence” on Chinese actions in Tibet and focussing instead on an “empty trade deal” and nurturing his “very good friendship” with China’s President Xi Jinping.“As President, I’ll put values back at the center of American foreign policy,” Biden said in a statement Thursday. “I’ll meet with His Holiness the Dalai Lama; appoint a new Special Coordinator for Tibetan issues.”The nominee called out Trump for not meeting the Tibetan leader yet, saying “It’s disgraceful, though not surprising, that Trump is the first American president in three decades who has not met or spoken with His Holiness the Dalai Lama”.The appointment of a special coordinator is mandated by the US Tibetan Policy Act of 2002 — “to promote substantive dialogue between the Government of the People’s Republic of China and the Dalai Lama or his representative”. The position has been vacant since January 2017, when President Trump took office.Biden went on to say: “I’ll work with our allies in pressing Beijing to return to direct dialogue with the representatives of the Tibetan people to achieve meaningful autonomy, respect for human rights, and the preservation of Tibet’s environment as well as its unique cultural, linguistic and religious traditions.”He will also “step up” support for the Tibetan people, he said, by, among things, expanding Tibetan language services at Radio Free Asia and Voice of America to get information from the outside world into Tibet.But the Trump administration has not been soft exactly on China over Tibet, as charged by Biden. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced visa restrictions in July on some Chinese officials because of Beijing’s restrictions on US diplomats, journalists and tourists from travelling to Tibet and for “human rights abuses” there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-says-he-will-meet-dalai-lama-sanction-china-over-tibet/story-Iya0MSwzhXnDg0mqcJ03dL.html
05-09-2020||India||Cong asks PM to give details of Rajnath’s Moscow meet||New Delhi: The Congress on Saturday said it was the “rajdharma” (the ruler’s duty) of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh to inform the nation about the outcome of talks with China on the border standoff in Ladakh. “What is the conversation about? What is happening? Will the Prime Minister and the defence minister take the country into confidence?” asked the Congress’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala.The remarks came a day after Singh and his Chinese counterpart Gen Wei Fenghe held an over two-hour-long meeting in Moscow on the border row in eastern Ladakh. Surjewala said it was the “rajdharma” of the Prime Minister and the defence minister to take the nation into confidence on the important issue. He also sought to know the outcome of talks at various levels — from foreign ministers to corps commanders and defence ministers. “What is the outcome of these repeated conversations? How will we ensure that Chinese transgressions are defeated,” Surjewala said in a video posted on his Twitter handle. Referring to foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s remarks that it was an “unprecedented” situation at the India-China border, Surjewala said: “We have never had this sort of a situation since 1962.” He said the people want answers to questions such as how the Chinese will be repulsed to “reclaim our motherland”. Later, addressing a virtual news briefing, Congress leader Rajeev Shukla expressed the hope that the issues between the two countries are resolved through talks. He, however, demanded that the government should give a clear picture of the situation. “Conflicting statements coming from the government are a matter of worry for us,” added Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-asks-pm-to-give-details-of-rajnath-s-moscow-meet/story-QCYO3G5bxFb9cUdLksowPI.html
05-09-2020||India||Kannada film producer, 11 others booked in drugs case||BengaluruThe Bangalore police have registered FIR against 12 people in the drugs haul case, which has put the scanner on several personalities of the Kannda film industry, locally known as Sandalwood.On Friday, the police had arrested Ragini Dwivedi, a noted Kannada actress, in connection with the case.The police have named, Shivaprakash, who reportedly produced some of Dwivedi’s movies, as the main accused in the case. Apart from the producer and Dwivedi, the FIR names Viren Khanna, Prashant Ranka, Vaibhav Jain, Abhiswamy, Aditya Alva, Simon, Prashant Babu, Ashwin, Rahul Tonse, Vinay and a Sengalese national, Loum Pepper. According to officials, the Sengalese national was the main supplier of the drugs.Various sections of the IPC including 120b (criminal conspiracy) and sections 21, 21C, 27A, 27B and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act have been invoked in the FIR against the 12. A regional transport office employee, Ravishankar, considered close to Dwivedi, and Rahul Shetty, a real-estate businessman, have not been named in the FIR. Both men are undergoing interrogation, people familiar with the matter said.Meanwhile, Dwivedi’s bail plea is scheduled to be heard on Monday, even as her mother insisted that she is innocent.On Saturday, the Karnataka police continued their sweep against drug peddlers across the state.In the first case, the anti-narcotics branch of Central Crime Branch of Bangalore police arrested three people -- Shejin, Vidhus and Subramani -- for peddling drugs on Saturday. Police also seized 2.1 kilogram of hashish and 2 kilograms of Ganja from the three. Bangalore police commissioner Kamal Pant said that this was one of the “larger seizures particularly of hashish, in the recent past”. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Crime, said that the three used to fill coconut oil boxes with hashish and ship them. In a separate incident, Athani police on Saturday arrested Sagar Kattikar and Gurulinga Dhole and seized 2 kilograms of marijuana. Police have registered a case and investigations are on in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-film-producer-11-others-booked-in-drugs-case/story-ynstMMx18MeImJNq7WJSfM.html
05-09-2020||India||Andhra tops ease of doing business rankings||Andhra Pradesh has bagged the top rank among states for the third consecutive time in the annual ease of doing business ranking of states and Union Territories. The rankings — based on the implementation of the Business Reforms Action Plan 2019 — were announced by the Department of Industrial Promotion and Internal Trade (DPIIT) in a video-conference chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal, too, was present on the occasion. Andhra industries minister Mekapati Gautam Reddy said these rankings were a testimony to the investor-friendly commitment of the state. The exercise was aimed at promoting competition among states with a view to improving the business climate to attract domestic as well as foreign investments.Registering a jump of 10 places in the rankings, Uttar Pradesh occupied the second position in 2019 as against 12th in 2018. Telangana slipped to the third position from second in 2018. It was followed by Madhya Pradesh (4th), Jharkhand (5th), Chhattisgarh (6th), Himachal Pradesh (7th), Rajasthan (8th), West Bengal (9th) and Gujarat (10th). Delhi’s position improved to 12th from 23rd in the last edition, while Gujarat slipped from 5th place in 2018. Among the laggards, Assam stood at 20th, J&K at 21st, Goa at 24th, Bihar at 26th and Kerala 28th place. Tripura was ranked at the bottom 36th.Releasing the report, Sitharaman said states had taken the exercise in its true sense and it would help states and UTs to become better place to do business.“Some states have shown extraordinary energy in putting together action plans and making sure that reforms happen. States have embraced the true spirit behind the State Business Reforms Action Plan,” she said.Goyal said these rankings reflected the efforts that states and UTs were doing to better their systems and processes. It is also a wake-up call for those states which have slipped in the ranking, he said.Goyal said the ministry was working on steps such as creating a single-window system for approvals and clearances.In the 2015 index — when it was first released — Gujarat featured at the top, with Andhra Pradesh grabbing the second position and Telangana 13th. In 2016, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana jointly topped the chart. In the last ranking released in July 2018, Andhra Pradesh topped the chart, followed by Telangana and Haryana (3rd).Haryana slipped to 16th position in the latest ranking.The Business Reform Action Plan 2018-19 includes 181 reform points covering 45 business regulatory areas such as access to information, single window system, labour, and environment.The DPIIT, in collaboration with the World Bank, conducts an annual reform exercise for all States/UTs under the Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP).In the World Bank’s latest ‘Doing Business’ report, India has jumped 14 places to the 63rd position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-tops-ease-of-doing-business-rankings/story-iB1nl9JQuVdLPCt2mMafnI.html
05-09-2020||India||Kangana, Sena spar on Twitter||A public spat between actor Kangana Ranaut and the Shiv Sena continued on Saturday with the party’s parliamentarian, Sanjay Raut, telling her to use her own Twitter handle and not make post through the IT cell of a political outfit. This came in the wake of a row triggered by Ranaut’s allegation that Raut issued an “open threat” asking her not to return to Mumbai if she had no faith in the city police. “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan-occupied Kashmir?” she tweeted earlier this week.The Shiv Sena and Congress have alleged that the BJP IT cell was behind Ranaut’s Twitter account. The BJP, however, has distanced itself from the actor’s remarks, saying the party “does not subscribe to anti-Mumbai or anti-Maharashtra sentiments”.Ranaut’s comments sparked a political row with state home minister Anil Deshmukh saying on Friday that “she has no right to stay in Mumbai”. “I don’t want to say anything on the issue,” he said on Saturday. Deshmukh also evaded a question on Raut’s demand that the home ministry should act against Ranaut for casting aspersions over the credibility of Mumbai Police.Meanwhile, Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik said on Saturday that Sena’s women workers will slap Ranaut when she arrives in Mumbai. “This issue concerns the pride of Maharashtra and there will be no compromise on this front. Ranaut needs to apologise for her PoK remarks or else she will face the music from our women’s wing.”The National Commission for Woman (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday demanded Sarnaik’s arrest. “These are highly objectionable statements...will write to the DGP of Maharashtra to take action and arrest this man,” Sharma told ANI.The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, which has threatened to file a case against Ranaut for “anti-national activity”, said on Saturday that the Sena was adopting diversionary tactics to cover its government’s failure to handle Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-sena-spar-on-twitter/story-eDB0h7MQxg11ZaLFpG1t6H.html
05-09-2020||India||‘Ahead of state polls, Nitish busy wooing SC/STs for votes’: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday slammed the Janata Dal (United) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Bihar over what she called enticing the scheduled caste and scheduled tribes (SCs/STs) for their votes just ahead of the assembly polls in Bihar. Mayawati, a four-term Uttar Pradesh chief minister, was reacting to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s move to provide jobs to family members of people from the SC/ST community killed in the state.On Friday, the CM had instructed the chief secretary to frame rules for providing jobs to next of kin of persons from the SC/ST community killed in the state. He also directed officials to dispose of all pending cases registered under Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe Act within a time frame.Also read: Jobs to kin of SC/ST killed in Bihar. What about OBCs, asks Tejashwi YadavAdvising people not to get swayed by allurements offered by the Nitish government, Mayawati tweeted that the Bihar government should have learnt from the rule of the BSP government in Uttar Pradesh. “Now, ahead of the Bihar polls the government is trying to woo SC/STs by making tall promises to them though the fact is that throughout their tenure the government didn’t pay attention to SC/STs and remained indifferent to them,” she tweeted. “If the Bihar government was actually so serious about the welfare of this section of society, why did it sleep over their demands and needs?” she stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-state-polls-nitish-busy-wooing-sc-sts-for-votes-mayawati/story-MoE0SxRjFVDPkCtYZRhJVL.html
05-09-2020||India||Bomb hoax stirs panic in Madhya Pradesh’s Chambal town||A bomb hoax created panic in a town in Bhind district of Chambal region in Madhya Pradesh, 502 kilometres north of Bhopal, and kept the police on their toes for several hours on Saturday. According to the police, an object was found on the premises of a private school in Mehgaon town, more than 20 kilometres from the district headquarters, and a letter was placed near it which read, “7 more bombs are placed in seven big schools of the town”. In the letter, the miscreant dared the police to avert the explosions on the school campuses.A heavy police force was called to the town along with bomb disposal squads from Gwalior and Bhind. No bomb or any bomb-like object was recovered after an extensive search by the police. However, schools are not running these days due to Covid-19 situation. Also read: New Telangana secretariat complex to have temple, church and two mosquesSuperintendent of Police Manoj Singh said, “The object found on the school premises was not a bomb. Soil was found wrapped in paper. It was nothing but mischief by someone to create panic in the town. Police will arrest the miscreants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bomb-hoax-stirs-panic-in-madhya-pradesh-s-chambal-town/story-elsrsY1Ly55J0rH2h2DH4L.html
05-09-2020||India||India’s security would be maintained in ‘extended neighbourhood’ as well: Gen Bipin Rawat||In the emerging defence paradigm, India’s security would be maintained not only along the northern and western borders but in the strategic space of the “extended neighbourhood” as well, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat said on Saturday. He also said that India values its emerging relationship with the US and cherishes its traditional relationship with Russia, adding the country shares a mature and robust defence and security framework with both these powers. Addressing a symposium on defence exports, Gen Rawat said the armed forces will have to work through the budgetary constraints by finding the best solutions through new acquisitions and optimisation considering the macro-economic parameters. Referring to proposed reforms in the military structure, Gen Rawat said the Chief of Defence Staff and the theatre commanders would “conjointly” provide “unity of command” while the service headquarters and the “component commanders” could provide “unity of effort”. Under a big-ticket reform initiative, India is working on setting up of a number of theatre commands, integrating some of the commands of the three services, to deal with future security challenges facing the country. Each of the theatre commands will have units of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force and all of them will work as a single entity looking after security challenges in a specified geographical territory under an operational commander. The government had appointed Gen Rawat as India’s first Chief of Defence Staff on December 31 last year to bring synergy in the functioning of the three services. Talking about the regional security paradigm, he touched upon key aspects of India’s security doctrine. In this context, he mentioned International Border (IB) and Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan as about Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. “In the emerging security paradigm, India’s security would be maintained not, as hitherto, on the IB, LC or the LAC alone, but in the strategic space of the ‘extended neighbourhood’ and the ‘strategic frontier’,” he said without elaborating further. India has been ramping up defence and security ties with a number of countries in its extended neighbourhood like Indonesia, Singapore and several countries in the Gulf region in the last few years. Delving into the evolving security matrix in the region, the Chief of Defence Staff pitched for seamless integration of surveillance and communication resources of the three services, saying such a convergence is essential for evolving a framework for having a composite real-time air situation “picture”. Gen Rawat said robust interaction between the CDS, COSC (Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee) and political executive (Cabinet Committee on Security) must ensure single-point military advice, strategic direction and resource optimisation. On the modernisation of the Indian armed forces, he said it has been in line with the changing global security environment and with a focus on the utmost optimisation of resources. “We are witnessing seismic changes in geopolitics shaped by a ‘nation first’ approach and geo-economics,” he said, adding the armed forces should be structured in a manner that they provide the operational flexibility to pursue “wider strategic objectives”. The country’s first CDS also said the pursuit of disruptive technologies like artificial intelligence, robotics, big data analytics, drone technology, militarisation of space, quantum communications, along with manipulation of social media is leading to new threats, and further complicating the security environment. He said the asymmetric advantages created by unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are being seen as opportunities by non-state actors, adding future defence systems must be qualitatively and quantitatively capable of dealing with the new threats. “In this era of multidimensional technology, we must focus on constant innovations and modern technological solutions, to keep ourselves ahead of the adversaries,” he said. Gen Rawat said the creation of the Department of Military Affairs headed by the CDS, having a central staffing scheme along with amendments to the business rules, in effect, admits the military into the central edifice of the government of India. “This restructuring of the Ministry of Defence gives us the opportunity to embrace forward-looking strategies to seize and exploit the moment and set in motion a dynamic transformation process,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-security-would-be-maintained-in-extended-neighbourhood-as-well-gen-bipin-rawat/story-EqBHzKsoOKoCiuT8x2mClI.html
05-09-2020||India||In absence of rains, Mumbai witnesses hot and sultry weather; pollution levels rise||Over the past two days, Mumbai witnessed hot and sultry conditions in the absence of rain activity. On Saturday, a thin layer of smog across the city skyline indicated a rise in pollution with a sepia-coloured sky during sunset.The city and suburbs witnessed recurrent flashes of lightning and loud claps of thunder between 1.30 am and 3 am on early Saturday morning. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted the possibility of thunderstorms in the evening or late night on Saturday and Sunday.Saturday’s maximum temperature in the suburbs was recorded at 33.6 degrees Celsius, 2.5 degree Celsius above normal. It was 33.8 degrees Celsius on Friday. Humidity levels were 90 percent during the day which dropped to 85 percent by the evening.The air quality index (AQI) for PM2.5 pollutant - particles that can easily enter the lungs and cause ailments - was at 78 (’satisfactory) for the first time this monsoon. AQI levels had been below 50 throughout the Covid-19 lockdown between March 21 to May 31 followed by monsoon onset on June 14. Also read: ‘Courts provide checks and balances, can’t be unelected governments’ - SC JudgeHowever, during the unlock phases there were isolated days when ‘satisfactory AQI’ was recorded. Saturday’s AQI was collated from all 10 locations where the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) monitors air quality.Bandra Kurla Complex was the most polluted location with an AQI of 215, falling under the ‘poor’ category followed by Worli at 149 (moderate). Remaining eight locations in the city either recorded ‘good’ or ‘satisfactory’ levels of air quality. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as ‘good’; 51-100 as ‘satisfactory’; 101-200 as ‘moderate’; 201-300 as ‘poor’; 301-400 as ‘very poor’ and above 400 as ‘severe’. An AQI of 73 has been predicted for Sunday.Researchers said a drop in rain activity, increase in vehicular pollution and low wind speed, led to higher pollution level.Meanwhile, rumbling thunder on early Saturday morning sounded almost like mini explosions, citizens said on social media as they were awakened by the weather activity. However, there was hardly any overnight rain. Between 11.30 pm and 8.30 am, the suburbs recorded 6.9 mm rain while 15 mm was recorded in south Mumbai. No rain was recorded on Saturday. “On early Saturday morning, radar images showed very intense echoes over Alibag that slowly moved over Mumbai leading to thunder and lightning with light drizzling but faded soon enough. Similar weather is expected on Saturday and Sunday night or Monday early morning,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.After record-breaking rain in July and August, September began with a break in a rain activity with less than 20 mm rain over the first five days. “Hot and sultry conditions, combined with land heating during the day, is allowing tall cloud formation by the evening or late night. Rain activity is likely to be subdued over the next week for Mumbai,” said Hosalikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-absence-of-rains-mumbai-witnesses-hot-and-sultry-weather-pollution-levels-rise/story-Ay0SrdYbBdiE1x1zC86tRN.html
05-09-2020||India||New Telangana secretariat complex to have temple, church and two mosques||The new secretariat complex to be built by the Telangana government in place of the recently demolished old structures in front of the picturesque Hussainsagar lake in Hyderabad will reflect religious harmony.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday announced that the new secretariat premises will have a temple, a church and two mosques. He said he would lay the foundation stone for these places of worship soon. Rao said the government respects all religions equally and hence it had decided to build places of worship of all faiths at the secretariat. He made the announcement during his interaction with a delegation of Muslim leaders led by All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi. Also read: Chandrababu Naidu escapes unhurt as cars in his convoy collide in TelanganaThe delegation met him to discuss the plans of rebuilding the two masjids that were pulled down along with the other structures during the dismantling of the old secretariat complex in July. The chief minister said two mosques would be constructed in the same places where there were located in the past in the old secretariat premises. Each mosque would be built in an area of 750 square yards (total 1500 square yards) including a quarter for Imam. After the construction, the mosques would be handed over to the State Wakf Board. Similarly, a temple will be constructed in 1500 square yard area and after the construction, it will be handed over to the endowments department. Since there was a demand from the Christian community, the government will construct a church as well.KCR told the delegation that he would lay the foundation stone for all three places of worship on the same day after the completion of the monsoon session of the assembly commencing on September 7. “Construction works will be launched and completed on a fast note mirroring the true ‘Ganga Jamuna Tehjeeb’ of the state,” he said.KCR further said the government had decided to set up an Islamic Centre in Hyderabad with international standards. A piece of land was allocated for the purpose and works on this project would also be put on fast track very soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-telangana-secretariat-complex-to-have-temple-church-and-two-mosques/story-kIqKixSCL6un7Iz56bvVYP.html
05-09-2020||India||‘Courts provide checks and balances, can’t be unelected governments’: SC Judge||The role assigned to the judiciary by the Constitution of India is to provide checks and balances within the system and it cannot perform the role of unelected governments, Supreme Court judge Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said on Saturday underscoring the importance of courts and executive remaining within their spheres of functioning.The judge said that courts today are increasingly being asked to decide on political matters which are brought before it under the guise of public interest litigation and they face a lot of criticism due to the handling of such cases.“But I do believe that we have adopted a constitution where we have an elected government in power. Segregation of powers requires the judiciary to perform its role and executive to perform its role. Courts cannot be unelected governments. They provide check and balance,” justice Kaul, who was delivering the keynote address at a webinar organized by non-governmental organization, CAN Foundation on the topic, ‘Dissents that made a difference: India & Abroad’, said. Courts, he maintained, have their limitations and have not been tasked with the responsibility of running the system.Also read: Chandrababu Naidu escapes unhurt as cars in his convoy collide in Telangana“They (courts’ views) are inherently minoritarianism because the majority view is reflected by the government in power. There are limitations to the judiciary. The judiciary has not been assigned the role of running the system but (a role) to put check and balance on the system,” justice Kaul added.The judge pointed out that there is a “shrill discourse” today surrounding political cases and the courts bear the brunt of the attack.“They (courts) honestly face criticism today on how far it should go. Some say courts go too far while others say it is not going far enough. But I think the separation of powers must be kept in mind on this issue,” he said.Justice Kaul said that the system offers space for dissent – for the political system it is in the Parliament and on the streets, while for judiciary it is through dissenting judgments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-provide-checks-and-balances-can-t-be-unelected-governments-sc-judge/story-oohArHFJ14kqLEXiCCA8oK.html
05-09-2020||India||FIR registered against 12 in drug probe, Ragini Dwivedi’s bail plea on Monday||The Bengaluru police have registered FIRs against 12 people following investigations into the drug racket by some well-known personalities from the Kannada film industry. On Friday, the police had raided the residence and subsequently arrested Ragini Dwivedi a famous Kannada actress.Shivaprakash who is said to have produced a few movies, in which Ragini had acted as the heroine has been named as the A1 (or the lead accused), Viren Khanna who was arrested in Delhi and flown to Bengaluru on Friday night has also been named as one of the 12 accused.The other people named in the FIR registered in Cottonpet police station include, Prashant Ranka, Vaibhav Jain, Aditya Alva, Simon, Prashant Babu, Ashwin, Rahul Tonse, and Vinay apart from a Sengalese national Loum Pepper. The Sengalese national is said to have been the main supplier of drugs.They have been charged under various sections of IPC including 120b (criminal conspiracy) and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances act of 1985 under sections 21, 21C, 27A, 27B and section 29.However, interestingly neither Ravishankar a government RTO (regional transport office) employee said to be close to Ragini nor Rahul Shetty a real estate businessmen who have been detained have been named in the FIR. Police sources told HT that interrogation of both of them are “ongoing and there are many layers to this”.The bail plea of Ragini is scheduled for Monday. Her mother has tried in vain to meet her daughter who has been kept at a women’s remand home. She claimed that Ragini was innocent of all charges levelled against her.Meanwhile, in several unrelated incidents Karnataka police continued their sweep across the state against drug peddlers.In the first case, the anti-narcotics branch of Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru , police arrested three people Shejin, Vidhus and Subramani an inter-state gang for peddling drugs on Saturday. Police also seized 2.1 kilogram of hashish and 2 kilograms of Ganja. Announcing this Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said that this was one of the ‘larger seizures particularly of hashish, in the recent past.’ All the three arrested are from Kerala and are said to have been selling drugs across all the Southern states.Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Crime said that the trio would fill coconut oil boxes with hashish and ship them. Vidhus one of the arrested holds a Masters degree in Computer Science from a college in UK, Patil disclosed.In a separate incident, Athani police on Saturday arrested Sagar Kattikar and Gurulinga Dhole both said to be residents of Sangli, Maharashtra and seized 2 kilograms of marijuana. Police have registered a case and investigations are on in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-police-register-fir-against-12-in-drug-probe-ragini-dwivedi-s-bail-plea-on-monday/story-mBERcgjlG4UxyhKbwGeEZI.html
05-09-2020||India||Poacher arrested from south Bengal with 13 kg of deer meat, snare||A 37-year-old man was arrested from a village in South 24 Parganas near the Sunderban forest early on Saturday and police have seized around 13 kilos of deer meat from him. “The man has been identified as Manindranath Das. We have seized around 13 kilograms of deer meat from him along with a 40’ snare,” said VK Yadav, chief wildlife warden of West Bengal. Preliminary investigations have revealed that the Chital was killed somewhere in Ajmalmari, a compartment in the Sunderban. The Sunderban is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and home to the world’s only tiger that lives in mangroves. “Further investigation is on and joint raids are also being conducted with the police to nab the rest of the gang members,” said Yadav. Even though the incident has raised apprehensions of poaching activities in the Sunderbans that has around 100 tigers, this is not the first time that such cases have surfaced. In April 2019, a decomposed tiger was found dead with a snare around its waist in Ajmalmari. A decade ago in 2009, the skeleton of a tiger was recovered from the same area – Ajmalmari. In 2008, a tiger carcass with bullet injuries in its head was found floating in a river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poacher-arrested-from-south-bengal-with-13-kg-of-deer-meat-snare/story-O5cSJt73nmXlgglgOfSUxI.html
05-09-2020||India||Families allege 5 men kidnapped by China’s PLA from Arunachal, probe underway||Arunachal Pradesh police has launched a probe following reports that five people, who had gone hunting in a forest in Upper Subansiri district on the Sino-India border, were allegedly kidnapped by the Chinese military, a senior official said on Saturday.The alleged incident occurred on Friday in Nacho area of the district, their families said.Two others, who were in the group, managed to escape and informed police.“I have sent the officer-in-charge of the Nacho police station to the area to verify the facts and directed him to report immediately. However, the report will be available only by Sunday morning,” Superintendent of Police Taru Gussar said.Those allegedly kidnapped have been identified as Toch Singkam, Prasat Ringling, Dongtu Ebiya, Tanu Baker and Ngaru Diri. All of them belong to the Tagin community.Their family members living at district headquarters Daporijo said some of their relatives had left for Nacho Saturday morning to discuss the matter with the Indian Army.Nacho is around 120 kilometers from the district headquarters.The families urged the authorities to take steps to bring them back.The Army could not be reached for comments.Pasighat West MLA Ninong Ering said that befitting reply must be given the China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) for the incident.“Five people from Upper Subansiri district of our state Arunachal Pradesh have reportedly been abducted by Chinas Peoples Liberation Army (PLA). Few months earlier, a similar incident happened. A befitting reply must be given to #PLA and #CCPChina. @PMOIndia,” he tweeted.In March, a 21-year-old man was abducted by the PLA from Asapila sector near the McMahon line.While his two friends managed to escape, Togley Sinkam was taken away at gunpoint, his family had said.After 19 days in captivity, the youth was released by the Chinese Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/families-allege-5-men-kidnapped-by-china-s-pla-from-arunachal-probe-underway/story-UuXBSyCs6LMjevUdmh0VaK.html
05-09-2020||India||Near escape for Chandrababu Naidu after cow on road causes cars to collide||Telugu Desam Party president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu had a miraculous escape when vehicles in his convoy collided with each other in Telangana’s Yadadri Bhongir district on Saturday evening, the police said. Three National Security Guard (NSG) personnel received minor injuries, while the bullet proof vehicle which they were travelling in was badly damaged. The incident happened at Dandumalkapuram village of Choutuppal block on the Vijayawada-Hyderabad national highway (NH-65) when Naidu was returning to Hyderabad from his Amaravati residence in his convoy of vehicles. According to Choutuppal police inspector Ch Venkanna, Naidu was travelling in a convoy of seven vehicles – three in front and three behind. “The former chief minister was in the fourth vehicle. The driver of the first vehicle applied sudden brakes in a bid to avoid hitting a cow crossing the highway,” he said. As a result, the second car in the convoy collided with the first escort car from behind and the other vehicles in the convoy also were forced to apply sudden brakes. “The third car, which was bullet proof, rammed into the second car and its front portion got mangled,” the inspector said. Naidu, who was in the fourth car in the convoy, escaped unhurt, as his car also came to a sudden halt but did not collide with the vehicle before it. Out of eight vehicles in the convoy of Chandrababu Naidu, three vehicles collided with each other.Though a TDP functionary familiar with the development said three security personnel of the NSG in the second car received minor injuries, the inspector said he had no such information. “They abandoned the damaged vehicle and left for Hyderabad in another car,” he said. The police did not register any case as no complaint was lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-escapes-unhurt-as-cars-in-his-convoy-collide-in-telangana/story-gELLCz187jKt2MyilHmGFL.html
05-09-2020||India||Rebuilding faith for displaced Sikh and Hindu Afghan families||A home is not just a physical place made of bricks and mortar; it is an eco-system cultivated with love. But when the very place that once was a refuge turns hostile, where does one go? The Afghan Sikh and Hindu families found themselves in a similar situation when radicals attacked a gurudwara in Kabul on March 25. In a bid to safely evacuate them and bring them to India, Vikramjit Singh Sahney, international president of World Punjabi Organisation (WPO) sprung into action. He arranged for three chartered flights, and not only helped these families, but also brought back the holy book, Guru Granth Sahib ji from Kabul. The last of these flights arrived in India on September 3.“The first challenge was to evacuate them. There were no flights, so we arranged approvals for chartered flights. We brought back 420 Sikh and Hindu families in three flights. We also brought back Guru Granth Sahib ji with full dignity”, says Sahney, who bore the expenses for these flights. These families were spread in various cities of Afghanistan, including Jalalabad, Kandahar and Ghazni, which further lead to problems. “We had to cancel a flight twice because the people were unable to reach Kabul due to the civil unrest in that country. We chose not to go to the media because we didn’t want anyone to face threats,” he explains.Read: Vande Bharat: 153 stranded Indians depart from Thailand for New Delhi in Air India flightFrom this experience, Sahney says that one thing is very clear: that the people do not want to fight. “Their Muslim neighbours never wanted them to leave. They lived like families and were in tears as they left. They were discouraging them from leaving. There is no animosity among people; only some radical groups create trouble,” he says.With the doors closed on their homes, the only way forward is to help rehabilitate these families in India. “I, along with Dalip Singh Sethi (Los Angeles) and Paramjit Singh Bedi (New York) have launched a programme called My Family My Responsibility, under which all the families are being sponsored by Sikh NRIs, World Punjabi Organisation and Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee under MS Sirsa. Three quarantine centres have been set up for them in Gurudwara Rakab Ganj, Bangla Sahib and Moti Bagh. They will stay there for two months till we can find them furnished accommodation,” he says. Under the progamme, they will help meet their household expenses for two years, including education of children. In addition to his duties at the WPO, Sahney is also the chairman of Sun Foundation, an NGO. “We set up a world class skill centre at Jail Road and will train some of these kids with job-oriented courses like data entry operator, mechanic, freighter, and for girls, fashion designing and embroidery,” says Sahney, with a hope that these families do not meet the fate of other displaced people.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rebuilding-faith-for-displaced-sikh-and-hindu-afghan-families/story-uzWjIzQCg3eMoGu9cwH61N.html
05-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Hyderabad to resume metro services amid strict Covid-19 norms on Monday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.With abundant precautions in place, Hyderabad metro to resume service from MondayAfter nearly five-and-a-half months, Hyderabad metro rail services will resume on Monday under stringent guidelines to avoid the spread of Covid-19. Briefing reporters on Saturday, Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director NVS Reddy said on the first two days, the metro trains would be operational in two high-density corridors in two durations – from 7 am to 12 noon and again from 4 pm to 9 pm. Read more9,746 fresh cases push Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally to nearly 390,000Karnataka on Saturday registered 9,746 cases and 128 deaths due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, taking the overall tally to 389,232, the state health department said. The total cases include 283,298 discharges and nearly 6,300 deaths. Read moreTop 10 states and region-wise position holders in ease of doing business ranking 2019Andhra Pradesh retained the top spot in the State Business Reform Action Plan 2019 rankings, while Uttar Pradesh and Telangana bagged the second and third positions respectively. The ranks were announced by the Department of Industrial Promotion and Internal Trade (DPIIT) during a virtual event chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Read moreCovid-19: France expects more severe infections in next two weeksFrance must stay vigilant as more people will be hospitalised in intensive care units in the next two weeks, reflecting a flare-up in Covid-19 infections in recent days, health minister Olivier Veran said on Saturday. Veran however ruled out the need for a new nationwide lockdown, telling BFM television that France had other means to fight the virus, including testing. Read moreIPL 2020 schedule to be announced on September 6, confirms chairman Brijesh PatelThe full schedule for IPL 2020 which is slated to begin from September 19 in UAE will be announced on Sunday, September 6, confirmed Indian Premier League chairman Brijesh Patel. “It (IPL 2020 schedule) will be announced tomorrow,” Brijesh Patel told Hindustan Times over phone. Read moreChaitanya Tamhane brings India back to Venice Film Festival after 19 years with The Disciple, cast and crew take over red carpetFilmmaker Chaitanya Tamhane is making India proud at the Venice Film Festival with his latest film, The Disciple. The film will mark India’s return to the main competition at the festival for the first time in nearly two decades. The festival’s official Twitter page shared pictures of Chaitanya and the rest of the cast and crew as they descended on the red carpet. Read moreThis soulful rendition of Arijit Singh’s Laal Ishq will soothe your soulHave you ever come across such a video which instantly brings a smile on your face? If yes, you know what we’re talking about. In case you are yet to experience that, let this video be your first. It’s a clip which captures a beautiful rendition of the song Laal Ishq from the movie Goliyon Ki Rasleela Ram-Leela sang by Arijit Singh. Read moreTeacher’s Day 2020: The funny side of online classes during pandemic“I gave a half-an-hour trial class to a pre-schooler and she started running all over the place,” says a Gurugram-based teacher, and another teacher adds, “Apne aap ko unmute aur camera off kar lete hain.” Read moreWatch| Chinese army kidnapped 5 youths from Arunachal Pradesh: Congress leader||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-hyderabad-to-resume-metro-services-amid-strict-covid-19-norms-on-monday-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CRbCVldj7g8zQfNtqJmBgN.html
05-09-2020||India||Pak violates ceasefire in Kashmir’s Nowgam sector, one soldier killed||An Army soldier was killed and two others got injured during an incident of ceasefire violation in north Kashmir’s Nowgam sector on Saturday.Defence spokesman said that Pakistan initiated an unprovoked Ceasefire Violation (CFV) along the Line of Control in Nowgam sector, Baramulla on the morning September 5 by firing Mortars and other weapons. “Befitting response was given. One soldier laid down his life in the line of duty. Two soldiers sustained injuries and have been evacuated to 92 Base Hospital. Their condition is stable.” The soldier who was killed has been identified as gunner Bhupinder Singh of 17 Brigade.Officials said that Pakistani troopers used light weapons and mortars. The Indian soldiers deployed on the forward posts also responded to the ceasefire violation.Also read: Congress urges PM Modi, Rajnath Singh to take nation into confidence on India-China border rowNowgam sector falls under the jurisdiction of strategic 19 infantry division. This year, Nowgam sector has been very volatile as many ceasefire violations were reported in the sector in the last four-five months. Last month, the army also foiled an infiltration bid in the same sector and killed two militants.Senior army officials blamed Pakistan for frequent ceasefire violations in the sector to facilitate infiltration. Recently army’s top commanders in Kashmir had said that militants are waiting to sneak into Valley from the launching pads, however, the army is alert to face any challenge, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-violates-ceasefire-in-kashmir-s-nowgam-sector-one-soldier-killed/story-5kABLOVZPvtyR7Fc8avF7K.html
05-09-2020||India||Railways to reassess timeline on Bullet Train project, timeframe to emerge after few months||The timeline of the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor will need to be reassessed due to Covid 19, but the real timeframe for its completion can be provided only within the next three to six months, railway board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said on Saturday.Hindustan Times on Friday had reported that the work on land acquisition and tendering for the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor may face delays due to Covid-19 and the Bullet Train may fail to meet its 2023 deadline.Yadav said that the bullet train project was “progressing well” but the project can only be assessed over the next few months when the status of land acquisition will be clearer.ALSO READ | Bullet Train project may face delays due to Covid-19“In any linear project like the bullet train project, work can only begin when a certain amount of land is available. Within three months we are expecting to acquire 95-100% land in Gujarat. In Maharashtra also we are expecting that in next three to six months the land acquisition will improve a lot and that is why I am mentioning that once the land acquisition is clear the tenders for the civil work and we will start the physical work. So that will be the appropriate time to reassess project implementation time,” Yadav said at a press conference on Saturday.“As of now I can just mention to you that we are fully geared up, as far as design is concerned, tender documents are concerned everything is fully ready and we will definitely start the work. But yes, as far as timeline is concerned, we have to make reassessment of all these components and work, and that can be done only when there is some sort of the clear picture about the land acquisition. We will come back within a period of three months and then we will share the timeline,” he added.So far 63% land has been acquired for the project, according to the project implementing agency National High-Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRCL).The project connecting Mumbai and Ahmedabad has a deadline of December 2023. The Railways had said last month that the high-speed rail corridor is expected to be completed on time despite the Covid-19 outbreak.Yadav said that 82% of the land has been acquired in Gujarat while in Maharashtra land acquisition stood at only 23%.The project has had to contend with issues ranging from protests by landowners to rising costs because of a widening gap between the Indian rupee and the Japanese yen; 80 percent of the Rs 1 trillion needed to fund the project will come from a 20-year Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) loan. The estimated total cost of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad project is Rs 1.08 trillion, of which 81 percent cost is planned for funding through the loan from the JICA, officials said.ALSO READ | Land for Bullet train project: Tendering to start within three months, says Railway board chiefThe Centre has signed a loan agreement with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for providing Rs 15,000 crore, of the total loan amount of Rs 88,000 crore.“At this stage its impact is not known in certainty as the pandemic is still continuing,” NHRCL spokesperson said. One section of the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor is likely to be tendered out within three months after nearly 90 percent of the land acquisition for the project is completed, according to railway board chairman VK Yadav, Hindustan Times had reported on August 4. Yadav had said there has been a “slowdown” in land acquisition due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-reassess-timeline-on-bullet-train-project-timeframe-to-emerge-after-few-months/story-VaOMGG9lOFHrSyu9fEFJdJ.html
05-09-2020||India||With abundant precautions in place, Hyderabad metro to resume service from Monday||After nearly five-and-a-half months, Hyderabad metro rail services will resume on Monday under stringent guidelines to avoid the spread of Covid-19.Briefing reporters on Saturday, Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director NVS Reddy said on the first two days, the metro trains would be operational in two high-density corridors in two durations – from 7 am to 12 noon and again from 4 pm to 9 pm. From the third day, services would be operational across the three corridors from 7 am to 9 pm. “The frequency of trains will be around 5 minutes and it will be increased or decreased based on passenger traffic and to avoid crowding,” he said.In order to ensure social distancing, suitable markings at stations and inside the trains are being done for passengers to stand and alternate seats will be kept vacant. “Social distancing will be monitored through CCTV cameras,” he said.Also read: Top 10 states and region-wise position holders in ease of doing business ranking 2019Wearing of face mask is mandatory for all passengers and staff and for those who come to the station without masks, the HMRL authorities would supply them on payment basis. “Those who don’t wear a mask during the travel would be penalised as per the rules,” Reddy said.All passengers entering the station would be subject to thermal screening and those who showed higher temperature would be advised to go to nearby Covid Care Centre or hospital for testing and medical attention. Use of Aarogya Setu App would be encouraged but not mandatory, he said.The passengers would have to sanitise their hands before entering the stations which will be disinfected thoroughly in the night hours. All human contact areas like lift buttons, escalator handrails and customer handling points will also be disinfected every four hours.All the employees and security personnel would be provided with PPE kits and sanitizers as they are likely to be in proximate contact with commuters and for a longer duration. “Considering the potential of coronavirus to spread quickly, security personnel and private guards have been instructed to ensure adequate safety while frisking commuters without diluting security drills,” the official said.The HMRL has done away with the sale of tokens to the passengers for travel. Instead, only Smart Card and Mobile QR ticket with cashless and online transactions would be allowed. Intake of fresh air in the air-conditioning system will be increased to about 75 percent. Temperature inside the train would be maintained in the range of 24-30 degree Celsius depending on local climatic conditions. “Train doors shall remain open at terminal stations to let fresh air in,” Reddy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-abundant-precautions-in-place-hyderabad-metro-to-resume-from-monday/story-vn4zRz4Y4lg4QqCVkcYXNO.html
05-09-2020||India||Sushant’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant arrested by NCB||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested Sushant Singh Rajput’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant in connection with the drugs probe being linked to the late actor’s death.“NCB has arrested Dipesh Sawant, the house helper of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, in connection with the late actor’s death case,” said KPS Malhotra, Deputy Director, NCB. “The arrest has been made based statements and digital evidence against Sawant for his role in procuring and handling drugs. He will be produced before court tomorrow at 11 am. Cross-examination of arrested people underway,” Malhotra added.Main accused Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik Chakraborty and Rajput’s hourse manager Samuel Miranda were arrested by the NCB under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Friday and remanded to NCB custody till September 9. Showik will be confronted with his sister who will be summoned for questioning on September 6.The NCB launched an investigation after it received communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-domestic-help-dipesh-sawant-arrested-by-ncb/story-kgqijwN6jutJrRz57rlBwO.html
05-09-2020||India||Railways to run 80 special trains from Sept 12, will add more where occupancy is high||The Indian Railways will deploy 80 special trains from September 12, in a bid to cater to demand which will be in addition to the 230 special trains that are currently operating, the railway ministry announced on Saturday.The reservation for the special trains will begin from September 10, the ministry said. The government will also deploy ‘clone trains’ on routes where the occupancy is more depending on the waitlist for the trains.“We will notify 80 new special trains or 40 pairs of trains that will start operations from September 12. The reservations will begin from September 10. This will run in addition to the 230 trains already in operation,” Railway board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said.“Wherever there is demand for a particular train, wherever the waiting list is long, we will run a clone train ahead of the actual train, so that passengers can travel,” he added.Yadav said the stoppages of the clone trains will be less than the special trains. “The idea is to have stoppages at major stations for clone trains to meet demands of people,” he said.In July, the overall occupancy of the special trains stood at 75%. According to railway ministry data, only a fourth of these trains had an occupancy rate of 100%. Yadav said the occupancy of the trains has gone up to 80-85% now and about a dozen trains are low occupancy now.Yadav said that the key factors in deciding the 80 new trains was the fact that there were many stations from where the migrant workers are going back to their workplaces from their hometowns. Railways is also coordinating with the state governments while deciding on the introduction of new trains, he added.“Many of these trains are running in reverse direction of the Shramik Special trains. So, they are leaving their homes and going towards their workplaces. The occupancy of 12 trains is very less among the 230 trains, so we are running them, but will reduce the number of coaches. We are monitoring the occupancy of trains and will run more trains as per demand,” Yadav said.He also said that the Railways will run trains whenever there is demand from states for exams. The railway ministry had said it will run special trains across states for students appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEE) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) . The National Testing Agency (NTA) is conducting the NEET on September 13 and JEE from September 1 to September 6.The announcement comes in the backdrop of the Unlock 4 plan announced by the Centre on August 29. While issuing “Unlock 4” guidelines, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said the latest plan was aimed at reopening more economic activities outside containment zones and that it was issued after receiving feedback from states and Union Territories, and extensive consultations with the central ministries and departments.Under the plan, metro services across India, except in Maharashtra, will resume in phases from September 7, with all becoming operational by September 12, according to the ministry for housing and urban affairs -- a move that will significantly increase public transport capacity across India, and especially Delhi, but also one that comes against the backdrop of a surge in cases in the country.The Railways have currently suspended all regular passenger trains indefinitely. Regular trains have remained suspended since March 22. Earlier in June the ministry had said passenger trains, including express and suburban services that were earlier suspended till June 30, will not operate till August 12. The 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country, which began on May 12, and 100 pairs of long-distance trains, which began on June 1, will continue to function.On August 11 the ministry had clarified that all regular trains will continue to remain suspended but additional special trains will be operated based on the requirement.“This is to bring to the notice of all concerned that, as decided and informed earlier on as well, regular passenger and suburban train services will continue to remain suspended till further notice. It may be noted that 230 Special Trains, which are running at present, will continue to operate…The occupancy of special trains is being monitored on a regular basis. Additional special trains may be run based on the requirement. However, all other regular trains and suburban trains run before lockdown, will remain suspended for the time being,” the ministry had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-run-80-special-trains-from-september-12-will-add-more-where-occupancy-is-high/story-xAkZWIx2sG0gKMgX8TxBGM.html
05-09-2020||India||Give credit to central schemes instead of hijacking them: JP Nadda tells Naveen Patnaik||BJP President JP Nadda on Saturday said Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik should be “large-hearted” to give credit to the Centre for its welfare schemes, which were being “hijacked” by the BJD government in the state.Nadda said he has received reports of the state government inserting its logo on central schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.“Naveen Babu... ‘chhota dil chod dijiye, bada dil rakhiye’ (shun meanness and be large hearted),” he said, urging the ruling BJD to acknowledge welfare programmes of the central government in the state.Also read: Congress urges PM Modi, Rajnath Singh to take nation into confidence on India-China border rowThe BJP chief also came down heavily on the Odisha government for not adopting the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, which he said would benefit around 2.40 crore poor people of the state.Those people could not avail the Rs 5-lakh medical coverage because of the BJD government’s refusal to adopt the scheme, he said.“It has been two years since the Ayushman Bharat Yojana was introduced, but it has not been implemented in Odisha. Naveen Babu, please do not become a hurdle for the poor, who face difficulties in getting proper healthcare services,” Nadda said, addressing the party’s state executive meeting through video conference.“The state government is there to look after your (Patnaik’s) health issues. But, what about the poor and needy who suffer from different deadly diseases like cancer? I appeal to you to adopt the Ayushman Bharat scheme,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed towards the development of Odisha and has sanctioned several projects for the state and its people, the BJP president said.Also read: Govt took care of economy, turned tragedy into opportunity: JP Nadda“I am informed that the state government is taking credit for central schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) by putting its logo on the housing projects. This is not fair to deny credit to the Centre, which funds such schemes,” Nadda said.He further said there were reports of corruption in the implementation of the PMAY in the state, reiterating that politics should not come in the way of Implementing programmes meant for the poor.“We have been in politics for decades, but never seen such kind of central funding to states to the tune of thousands of crores. The states should also give credit to the Centre for that,” he said.Nadda said the people of Odisha have recognised BJP’s contributions and that is why it emerged as the state’s main opposition party.“We got 38 per cent votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, much higher than 21 per cent votes in the 2014 polls.“Similarly, the party also bagged 32 per cent votes in the 2019 assembly elections as against 18 per cent five years ago,” he said, appealing to BJP workers to ensure that it gets over 50 per cent votes in the next Lok Sabha and assembly elections.Nadda also asked BJP state president Samir Mohanty to prepare a plan for the ensuing urban polls in the state.“Days are not far when we will form the government in Odisha. We take a vow to achieve this,” the BJP chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-credit-to-central-schemes-instead-of-hijacking-them-nadda-tells-patnaik/story-LfhFrAi16kaUuYz8lPFNwO.html
05-09-2020||India||Congress urges PM Modi, Rajnath Singh to take nation into confidence on India-China border row||The Congress on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to take the nation into confidence on talks with China on the border row in Ladakh, saying people want to know about the outcomes of the repeated conversations with the Chinese side. The Opposition party’s demand comes a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe held an over two-hour-long meeting in Moscow with a focus on easing escalating border tension in eastern Ladakh. Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said it was “Rajdharma” of the prime minister and the defence minister to take the nation into confidence on the important issue. Listing the various levels of talks held with the Chinese from the foreign ministers level and corps commanders level to the defence ministers’ discussions, Surjewala asked what is the outcome of these talks. “What is the conversation about, what is happening. Will Prime Minister Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh take the country into confidence?” he asked. Surjewala also referred to Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s remarks that it was an “unprecedented” situation at the India-China border and “we’ve never had this sort of a situation since 1962”, to underline the seriousness of the issue. “The important part is what is the outcome of the repeated conversations with the Chinese counterparts by our government.... How will we ensure that Chinese transgressions are defeated,” Surjewala said in a video posted on his Twitter account. He said people want answers to questions such as how the Chinese will be repulsed to “reclaim our motherland”. “We hope Prime Minister Modi and the defence minister will come forward and take the nation into confidence. That is the true Rajdharma. We will await an answer,” he said. Later, at an online briefing, Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said, “We hope that the issue can be resolved through talks.” He, however, demanded that the government should give a clear picture of the situation. “Conflicting statements coming from the government is a matter of worry for us,” he added. The tension between the two sides had escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-urges-pm-defence-minister-to-take-nation-into-confidence-on-india-china-border-row/story-HXUwlbrzyxnjH0iqJ6muvK.html
05-09-2020||India||President Kovind confers National Award to 47 educators in virtual ceremony||A teacher from Odisha who worked on developing technologies for visually impaired children, another who used theatrical concepts to inculcate the love of learning among tribal children in Uttarakhand and a third who works on ways to encourage gender parity were among 47 educators who were conferred with the National Award by President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday.This was the first time that the awards were given in a virtual ceremony.In his speech, Kovind observed that about 40 percent of the winners were women and appreciated the role women have played as educators. Paying tributes to Dr. S Radhakrishnan, President Kovind said that he was a visionary, statesman and most significantly an extraordinary teacher. Celebrating his birthday as Teachers’ Day is a mere token for the services he had rendered.Emphasizing on the importance of digital technology in the challenging times of the Covid-19 pandemic, President Kovind said that our teachers are taking the help of technology to reach out to children. Pointing out the digital divide, he also emphasized that steps should be taken so that children from tribal and far-flung areas are also benefitted. Talking about the National Education Policy, President Kovind opined that it is now the teachers who would be at the center-stage for making the policy successful and productive.Union Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said the main responsibility of a teacher is to be aware of the changing social needs and individual needs of the learners and also to take into account the past experiences, educational priorities and national development goals in the teaching-learning process.Among the teachers who have won the awards were Tapas Kumar Mohanty, Teacher, Bhima Bhoi School for the Blind in Khorda, Odisha. Mohanty has brought out many publications dealing with teaching practices for the visually challenged as well as many audio books for them to keep up with learning needs at higher education levels.Sudha Painuli, as a Vice Principal in an Eklavaya Model Residential School near Dehradun created programmes in order to inculcate the love of learning amongst tribal children through innovative concepts like theatre education, youth parliaments and ecological projects.Snehil Pandey, as a Head Teacher of a government Primary School has transformed her school with innovative and joyful learning activities, emphasis on gender parity, the use of ICT for learning support and regular early grade reading practices.Jyoti Arora of Delhi’s Mount Abu Public School was also among the awardees. Surender Singh of MCP School in Adarsh Nagar in Delhi also won the award. Singh has shown himself to be a dedicated and motivated teacher who has worked very hard for the improvement and performance of his school. The school caters to some of the most deprived sections of the society and he has worked hard to make the school attractive and effective, the citation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-confers-national-award-to-47-educators-in-virtual-ceremony/story-Nw57mMYusHsTtXTB3GX9ZM.html
05-09-2020||India||‘Ram mandir construction to begin after Sept 17’: Temple trust general secy||Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust’s general secretary Champat Rai has said that the construction of the Ram mandir at Ayodhya would begin after September 17 after the fortnight-long ‘pitru paksha’ ends. Pitru Paksh refers to the period when Hindus express gratitude to their ancestors. Rai said country’s leading construction company Larsen and Toubro is all set to lay the foundation of the grand temple, which would come up in 12,879 sq metre area on Ram Janmabhoomi campus. The company is carrying out construction without charging any fee. Around 1,200 pillars will be laid around 100 feet below the surface to prepare the temple’s foundation. These pillars will be of stone and no iron will be used. Again on these pillars, another layer of foundation will be laid. The construction company has sourced machines from Mumbai and is in the process of sourcing machines from Hyderabad. To start with, the Trust is expected to engage around 100 labourers to lay the foundation of the temple.Also read: 80 new special trains to start from Sept 12 - Here is the full list In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, these labourers will be tested for the virus and thermal-scanned before allowing entry into the Ram Janmabhoomi campus. Earlier this week, the Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) approved two layouts - one of Ram mandir and another of the entire Ram Janmabhoomi campus. The ADA also handed over the layouts to the Trust on September 4 after it deposited requisite fee of Rs 2.11 crore in the development authority’s bank account. The proposed Ram mandir will be 360 feet long, 235 feet wide and 161 feet high and will have five domes.According to the Trust, the temple’s foundation will be laid by using modern techniques so that it could be preserved for over 1,500 years and its structure for 1,000 years.Experts from the Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Roorkee and IIT Madras have been roped in to make the temple’s foundation strong so that it can withstand earthquakes and storms. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court had ruled in favour of Ram mandir ending decades-old Ayodhya title dispute. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the temple during the groundbreaking bhoomi pujan of the mandir in Ayodhya last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-mandir-construction-to-begin-after-sept-17-temple-trust-s-general-secretary/story-nHizXn7331oSV0HPgFQzTL.html
05-09-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh tops ease of doing business rankings, Telangana on 3rd spot||Andhra Pradesh has bagged the first rank among all the states in the country in the state business reforms action plan-2019 (BRAP-2019), representing ease of doing business for Atmanirbhar Bharat.The ranks were announced by the Department of Industrial Promotion and Internal Trade (DPIIT) during a virtual event chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in the presence of Union minister of commerce Piyush Goyal and all state industries ministers on Saturday.While Uttar Pradesh stood in the second position, Telangana bagged the third spot in the overall ranking of the state business process reforms undertaken during 2019.Andhra Pradesh minister for industries Mekapati Gautam Reddy said these rankings represent the ease of doing business in the state with increased transparency, efficiency and effectiveness of the government regulatory functions vis-a-vis the business enterprises. He said these rankings, which were done through a survey of the investor community during January and February 2020, truly stand testimony to the investor-friendly commitment of the state and a transparent governance in place.Highlighting the efforts taken by the state government in ensuring true business reforms, Reddy said the state government had initiated steps for starting an enterprise with low-cost and quick single desk approvals. He said Andhra Pradesh was the first state to have come up with the “ReSTART” package in post-Covid scenario for business continuity of micro-small-and-medium enterprises (MSMEs).Andhra Pradesh has undertaken several reforms in the last year, ranging from the development of online systems, enhancing transparency to regulating inspections covering the entire lifecycle of the business. “The Business Reform Action Plan 2019 released by the Centre contains a list of 80 reforms (187 reform action points) to be implemented by 19 State departments. Andhra Pradesh has achieved 100 percent compliance to the 187 reform action points by DPIIT-World Bank as a part of BRAP 2019,” the minister pointed out.Some of the reforms for facilitating setting up of industries included exemption of all shops and establishments from renewal under AP Shops & Establishments Act, 1988, the introduction of single Integrated returns under all labour laws; the amendment to Single Desk Policy, 2015 to include new features and services and setting up of special court in Vijayawada with a jurisdiction to exclusively deal with commercial disputes in addition to the special court in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-tops-the-list-of-states-in-business-reforms-action-plan-brap-telangana-on-third-spot/story-nL6ylra8zdITH007ZrsJBJ.html
05-09-2020||India||80 new special trains to start from Sept 12: Here is the full list||Amid the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak in the country, Indian Railways on Saturday said that 80 more special trains will start from September 12 adding that reservations for the same will begin from September 10. Railway board chairman VK Yadav said these 80 trains will run in addition to the 230 trains already in operation. He also said that trains will operate whenever there is a demand from states for examinations or similar purposes. Also read: Railways to start 80 more special trains from Sept 12, reservations from Sept 10Here is a list of the special trains that will begin operations on September 12 and reservations for these will start from September 10:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-new-special-trains-to-start-from-sept-12-here-is-the-full-list/story-qtrsdKoKggUDpfQUpSjyDJ.html
05-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: P Chidambaram seeks explanation from PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.‘PM must explain’: Chidambaram targets govt on Covid-19, economy“I had predicted that total number of infections will reach 55 lakh by September 30. I am wrong. India will reach that number by September 20. By end September, the number may touch 65 lakh,” Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. Read more‘Situation under control in Delhi, spike in Covid-19 cases due to increased testing’: CM KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Covid-19 situation in the national capital is “totally under control” despite the recent spike in daily cases, and urged people not to hesitate to go out and get tested. Read moreMust continue talks to ensure full restoration of peace: Rajnath Singh to Chinese defence ministerDefence minister Rajnath Singh held “frank and in-depth” discussions with his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe on Friday over the border stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh as well as on India-China relations. Read hereJacob Blake pleads not guilty to charges prior to Kenosha shootingJacob Blake, the 29-year-old Black man whose shooting by a white police officer in Kenosha, Wisconsin, reignited nationwide protests over racism and police brutality, pleaded not guilty on Friday to criminal charges filed prior to the shooting. Read more‘Every woman who is with relatively more successful man isn’t a gold digger’: Taapsee PannuActor Taapsee Pannu is calling out the treatment meted out to actor Rhea Chakraborty online. Rhea was the girlfriend of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and is accused of abetment to suicide by his family. Read moreThese are the top ten selling cars in AugustMaruti’s dominance in the top selling cars in India is a no-brainer. As many as seven of them are expectedly on the list, including some of the models which have been ruling the segment for years. Read moreHow an animator created creepy yet fascinating video of himself sitting inside his eyeballKevin Parry shared a video which shows himself sitting inside his own eyeball, and it’s absolutely intriguing to watch. However, it’s not just that video which has now enthralled people. Read moreMan, his car swept away by flash flood in UP’s MathuraA man and his car were swept away by flash flood in Uttar Pradesh. The scary incident took place in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura. According to locals, the man is a police inspector and had come to drop a girl. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-p-chidambaram-seeks-explanation-from-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-pavRTSqTkd1Upph0IlcUEK.html
05-09-2020||India||Railways to start 80 more special trains from Sept 12, reservations from Sept 10||Railway Board chairman VK Yadav on Saturday said 80 new special trains will start from September 12 and reservations for the same will begin from September 10 adding that trains will be notified later in the day. “Eighty new special trains or 40 pair of trains will start operations from September 12. Reservations will begin from September 10. This will run in addition to the 230 trains already in operation,” Yadav said.The chairman of the railway board pointed out that all trains that are currently in operation will be monitored in order to determine which trains have a long waiting list. Railways will run trains whenever there is demand from states for exams or other similar purposes, Yadav added. Also read: 80 new special trains to start from Sept 12: Here is the full listEarlier, the Indian Railways said it will run special trains across states for students appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEE) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) . The National Testing Agency (NTA) is conducting the NEET on September 13 and JEE from September 1 to September 6. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-start-80-more-special-trains-from-sept-12-reservations-to-begin-from-sept-10/story-4QjpbrDZjhCBUARtUErLQP.html
05-09-2020||India||PLA faces off Indian Army at two points in Chushul, China talks peace||The tough meeting between Indian and Chinese defence ministers in Moscow on Friday evening converged on both sides willing to explore the peace option albeit the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has beefed up its positions south of Pangong Tso with its troops facing the Indian Army at two points.According to diplomats based both in New Delhi and Moscow, Indian defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe both held their positions while indicating that both countries were willing to give peace a chance in Ladakh. Singh is en-route to Delhi via Tehran.Also Watch | Amid tiff with China, Rajnath Singh heads to Russia for SCO meet: Key details Also read: Rajnath meets Chinese counterpart amid border tensions. Here’s what they saidWhile General Wei wrote down all the points raised by Singh during the two and a half-hour meeting, he claimed that the Indian media was very negative and also said that just like India was not of 1962, the PLA had also moved way ahead of skirmishes with Indian Army in 1962. Minister Singh expressed his helplessness in controlling the Indian media saying that India was a democratic country and the media was totally free.Although both sides refused to give in an inch of land in Ladakh or occupied Aksai Chin, there were indications and hints towards both the armies returning to the previous positions. Perhaps the difference was that the Chinese wanted the previous positions of May, while India was clear that PLA goes back to the positions it occupied in April this year.Also read: At SCO meet, Rajnath Singh tells China to restore status quo at LACHowever, even as the two senior leaders discussed the issue, the PLA continued to be aggressive mode south of Pangong Tso as it faces Indian Army troopers at the bump feature and at Rechin La in the Chushul Valley. According to senior officials, around 150 PLA troops are deployed at the bump feature with an anti-aircraft gun being moved up the Black Top by the Chinese army on its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Indian and Chinese troops are face to face at Rechin la with the PLA moving in armour early this week to cow down Indian troopers. The Chinese PLA Air Force is continuing with combat air patrols in the area and the troop build-up continues not only in Ladakh but there are signs of force accretion on the Chinese border with Bhutan.With India matching the PLA in not only troop build-up but also heavy artillery, the road to disengagement and de-escalation is long and tenuous. Now that the two defence ministers have had candid conversations, the stage is set for external affairs minister S Jaishankar to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the SCO sidelines on September 10 to give a further push to peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-defence-ministers-agree-to-give-peace-a-chance-but-pla-build-up-in-ladakh-continues/story-RqzQnnklnhPHdUyjJQKq5J.html
05-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand excludes Vigilance Dept from RTI purview, Opposition and experts call move regressive||The BJP-led Uttarakhand government has decided to exclude the state vigilance department from the purview of Right To Information (RTI) Act in its Cabinet meeting held on Friday. The move has drawn sharp criticism from Opposition Congress and experts who have termed the move “regressive and an attempt to hide corruption”.The decision was taken in the Cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat.Also read: Uttarakhand BJP MLA writes to JP Nadda, expresses anguish over lack of development works in his areaTalking about the decision, minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “The government has decided to exclude the state vigilance department from RTI’s purview because there is confidential information with it which should not be revealed to the public.”He, however, added, “Under the move, information will be shared regarding corruption in the department but if anyone seeks information about any probe, trapping of accused or filing of charge sheet in any case by the vigilance department, that it won’t be shared.”The Vigilance Bureau investigates cases related to corruption against public servants and the Cabinet decision has blocked seeking of any information from the commission. The RTI laws clearly state that information related to cases of corruption has to be shared in the larger public interest.The Opposition Congress and RTI experts have criticised the decision. Haldwani-based RTI activist Hemant Gauniya, who has been actively filing RTI applications to seek information from various government departments to expose corruption, termed the move as an attempt to ‘cover-up corruption.’He said, “Every department should be covered under the RTI which is a law enacted by the government itself to provide information to public. Then why is the state government excluding vigilance department from its purview? The public should know everything about how the government is functioning.”“The move will surely decrease the importance of RTI Act and stop exposure of corruption in the government departments which should not happen,” said Gauniya. Legal experts have called the decision ‘regressive’. Kartikeya Gupta, senior advocate in Uttarakhand high court, Nainital said, “There is a democracy in the country where nothing should be hidden from the public.”“This is not the British era where information will not be shared with the public citing the Official Secrets Act enacted in 1923. The RTI Act aims to bring more transparency in the governance and reduce corruption. But this move seems to be regressive on the government’s part which is condemnable,” said Gupta. The Congress termed the move as contrary to the government’s claim of zero tolerance to corruption. “On the one hand, CM Rawat and his government claims that they have zero-tolerance towards corruption and on the other, they are excluding vigilance department from RTI’s ambit. This just proves the difference between its words and actions,” said Pritam Singh, Congress state president. Singh said, “RTI was a weapon given to the people to make governance more transparent and corruption free, but the government seems to weaken it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-excludes-vigilance-dept-from-rti-purview-opposition-and-experts-call-move-regressive/story-Ng7ckAaQ1Nhbzr7Ngty9PO.html
05-09-2020||India||Congress MP Remya Haridas heckled, two held in Kerala||Congress member of parliament (MP) from Kerala Remya Haridas was allegedly waylaid and verbally abused by a group of workers belonging to the CPI(M) youth wing, Students Federation of India (SFI), on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday. The police have arrested two SFI workers in the matter.The state has been witnessing a series of attacks against Congress offices in the wake of the murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India activists. While the ruling CPI(M) alleges they were killed by Congress workers, the latter said both lost their lives in a gang rivalry.In her complaint, the young MP said her vehicle was forcibly stopped and she was showered with verbal abuses by a group of people. She said they forcibly tied a black flag on her vehicle and threatened to eliminate her. She was on way to Kottayam from the state capital.Also read: ‘PM must explain’ - Chidambaram targets govt on Covid-19, economy“Angry protestors did not consider I am a woman. They showered choicest abuses at me and tried to damage my vehicle. I was literally in tears,” she said. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has condemned the attack on Haridas.Tension is brewing in many parts of the state since the murder of two DFYI activists, Midhilaj (30) and Mohammad Haq (28), on last Sunday. While the Congress disowned the murder saying it was part of a gang rivalry between two groups the ruling CPI(M) insisted that it was a political murder. The Congress party later released the CCTV visuals which showed the deceased also carried lethal weapons and resisted the attack which continued for 15 minutes. State Congress president Mullappally Ramachandran said more than 140 party offices were vandalised since Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-remya-haridas-heckled-two-held-in-kerala/story-lmarlj3X9uDPBfmKPUhfEN.html
05-09-2020||India||Shiv Sena continues tirade against Kangana Ranaut; party MLA Pratap Sarnaik says willing to go to jail||The public spat between actor Kangana Ranaut and Shiv Sena continued on Saturday with Sena leader Sanjay Raut advising her to use her own social media handle and not run it through the IT cell of a political party. Raut said, “One needs to use their Twitter handle themselves instead of allowing the IT cell of a political party to do so.” The Shiv Sena and Congress have been alleging that BJP IT cell is behind Ranaut’s tweets.Also read: BJP under attack over Kangana comparing Mumbai to PoKMeanwhile, Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik stuck to his stance that his party’s women workers will slap Ranaut when she arrives in Mumbai and he was willing to go to jail for that.National Commission for Woman (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday had demanded Sarnaik’s arrest for threatening Ranaut.The legislator said that Ranaut had insulted Maharashtra with her PoK remarks. “This issue concerns the pride of Maharashtra and there will be no compromise on this front. Ranaut needs to apologise for her PoK remarks or she will face the music from our women’s wing,” he said.On Saturday, Sena workers held demonstrations across the state and key leaders continued their tirade against Ranaut.The issue had started on Thursday when Ranaut tweeted “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffiti in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?”This was in reaction to Raut’s article in Saamna, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, where he asked Ranaut not to return as she criticised the Mumbai Police.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has called the whole controversy diversionary tactics adopted by the Shiv Sena to cover up its government’s failure to handle the Covid-19 pandemic. “She (Kangana) is just hungry for publicity and I cannot understand why the Sena gives so much importance to her. This seems to us a tactic to divert attention from its mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said MNS leader Sandeep Deshpande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-continues-tirade-against-kangana-ranaut-party-mla-pratap-sarnaik-says-willing-to-go-to-jail/story-R88CwhNsfg4kKYIHJ3zd3J.html
05-09-2020||India||4 held for two murders aimed at stirring communal tensions in MP||Madhya Pradesh police has arrested four people in connection with two murders—committed in the last three months with an aim to stir up communal tensions in Khandwa district-- following the death of a Hindu group leader in a clash between two communities in May earlier this year, the police said on Friday.Police in Khandwa, 271 km south west of Bhopal, arrested four persons on Thursday in connection with the two separate murders committed in July and August with a common link --- murder of a Hindu group leader Rajesh Phoolmali.“Murder of Phoolmali in May led to the murder of Abdul Hafeez as revenge in July, whose murder led to the killing of Dhanraj Kanade in August,” said Khandwa superintendent of police Vivek Singh.Both Hafeez and Kanade were innocent, with no link to Phoolmali’s murder, he said.It all started with a clash between two religious communities on May 18 which resulted in the death of Rajesh Phoolmali, a former member of a Hindu group. He died in a hospital on May 31. The clash took place following a social media post hurting religious sentiments of one community.The police arrested 24 persons in connection with the clash and murder, according to town inspector of Kotwali police station, Khandwa, Neeraj Mandloi. On July 20, the police found the body of Abdul Hafeez, 48, a truck driver, with stab and gun-shot wounds near a railway line. Singh said six persons, including Nikhil Deware and Amit Jain, were arrested on September 3 for murdering Hafeez with the motive to take revenge for Phoolmali’s killing.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh HC grants 2-month bail to rape accused to marry survivorOn August 10, Dhanraj Kanade, 20, a resident of Chhota Aanwaar Padmkund ward in Khandwa city, was found with stab wounds. He died during treatment at Khandwa hospital.Police said that it arrested Sohel alias Sonu and main accused Feroz, both residents of Khandwa city, on August 11 and 13 with the help of CCTV footage.During interrogation, they said they killed Kanade to avenge Hafeez’s murder.Also Read: Farmer commits suicide in Bundelkhand region“As Feroz and Sohel believed that the members of Mahadevgarh Sangthan were behind the murder, they planned to kill a member of the said organisation. Kanade, a vegetable vendor, who was wearing a T-shirt that had ‘Mahadevgarh’ written over it, was stabbed near a car showroom on Pandhana road. Kanade was not a member of the organisation,” the statement said. Police said the murders of Hafeez and Kanade were committed with the sole motive of disturbing communal harmony in Khandwa district and both the victims were innocent persons from the weaker section of the society and had nothing to do with any of the earlier incidents.Singh said that despite the murders, people of the area have remained calm and maintained communal harmony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-held-for-two-murders-aimed-at-stirring-communal-tensions-in-mp/story-5KzTsIUML6MzMdfShIOlIO.html
05-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Showik, Samuel Miranda sent to NCB custody till September 9||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is looking into the allegations of drug use by the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his actor-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, produced Rhea’s brother Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and Kaizan Ebrahim before a magistrate court on Saturday. Also read: CBI officials visit Rajput’s Bandra house with his sister Meetu and staff membersNCB was granted Showik and Miranda’s custody till September 9, while Kaizan was send to judicial custody till September 19. Showik and Miranda were arrested under sections 8 (c), 20 (b) (ii), 27A, 28 and 29 of the NDPS Act. In its remand application, NCB has not mentioned drug seizure or any other material evidence, in the searches conducted, either from Showik or Miranda. In its remand application, NCB said that Showik had to be confronted “with other accused who are in its custody to uncover the linkages of network which indulged in selling and purchasing drugs”. The agency also claimed that it needed Showik’s custody to confront him with his sister Rhea and Rajput’s manager Dipesh Sawant. The agency also claimed that it had to verify the financial trail of all transactions. According to NCB, there are other ‘characters’ who are absconding and were, as per call data record analysis, part of the drug syndicate. Showik and Miranda were arrested after NCB arrested two Bandra residents, Abdel Basit Parihar, 23, and Kaizan Ebrahim, on Friday on charges of peddling drugs. The other three arrested for drug peddling are Zaid Vilatra, 20 (arrested on Thursday), Abbas Lakhani, and Karan Arora (arrested on August 27-28). Lakhani and Arora were arrested based on a specific input in another case and curated marijuana was seized from their possession. Their questioning led NCB to Vilatra, who told officials that he ran an eatery in Bandra (West), but was suffering losses owing to the lockdown and so started to peddle drugs. Vilatra claimed he was in touch with Ebrahim and Parihar. Parihar reportedly told NCB that he used to procure drugs from Vilatra and Ebrahim on the instructions of Chakraborty’s brother Showik who asked him to give it to Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda. Showik’s chats on a messaging application showed that on March 17, he shared Vilatra’s contact number with Miranda and asked to pay him ₹10,000 for 5gm. Miranda and Vilatra were tracked to the same location on March 17, said NCB officials. A senior IPS officer from NCB said, “We conducted searches at Miranda’s and Showik’s homes and collected some evidence. The investigation is at a preliminary stage and details of the evidence gathered can’t be revealed at the moment.” NCB officials said they have recovered Indian currency worth ₹955,750 and foreign currency – US$ 2081, 180 British Pound, 15 Dirham – from Vilatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-showik-samuel-miranda-sent-to-ncb-custody-till-september-9/story-9ma6fVFyFiiK91F8u16PtM.html
05-09-2020||India||With Bollywood dreams put on hold, UP artistes stare at uncertainty||Monika Shilpkar, a 24-year-old TV actor, returned home in Lucknow for Holi in March thinking she would be back in Mumbai later than month. But six months on, she is still in Lucknow even as shooting for serials has restarted after it was halted in March as part of measures to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a limited number of artistes and technical staff have been allowed to resume shooting, Shilpkar is unsure whether she would get enough work to sustain herself as many artistes are finding it hard to make ends meet in Mumbai.Also read: TV shoots resume post Covid shutdown“Actors go to Mumbai with dreams to make it big. They mostly depend on the money they get from assignments on a daily basis. But with no shooting these days, they are finding it difficult to survive. That is why most of the artistes have returned [to their homes]. Some serials have begun to be shot again, but [with] a limited number of artistes and technical staff,” said Shilpkar, who has worked in Ram Siya Ke Luv Kush serial. “My father has been diagnosed with cancer. In Mumbai, my rent deposit with the landlord has exhausted. I do not know what to do.”Shilpkar is not alone. Amit Sinha, 38, who has worked in Mumbai for 15 years, said even he found it difficult to survive there and now is back in Lucknow despite working in films like Mission Mangal and Mardani.Akanksha Awasthi, 22, who has worked in serials like Crime Patrol, CID, Shapath, Crime Alert, said artistes in Mumbai get paid after 90 days of work. “There are many producers who pay after three months of the date of telecast [of a serial]. The money of most of the artistes is held up there even as they face hardships.”Cine and TV Artistes Association joint secretary Amit Behl said they have written to the Union government seeking help for artistes. “[Actor] Hema Malini, who is an MP [member of Parliament] from Mathura, has spoken to finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman for help to artistes. The good news is that the government has asked for the account number and IFSC codes of all artistes registered with us and we have shared the same with them,” he said. “We have urged producers to follow the 30-day payment cycle instead of 90.”Veteran actor Anil Rastogi said he knows a number of artistes affected adversely due to the sudden closure of the Industry. “If they do not get help from the government, they would be in trouble. I have also lost a lot of work.”Uttar Pradesh Kalakar Association general secretary Vinod Mishra said they have helped over 40 artistes forced to return to their homes. “I have started making a data bank of such artistes to provide further help.” Mishra said he met Uttar Pradesh Film Vikas Parishad chairman Raju Srivastava to discuss the situation and also sought an appointment with chief minister Yogi Adityanath to highlight their problems.Srivastava said he has written to Adityanath seeking help for the artistes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-bollywood-dreams-put-on-hold-up-artistes-stare-at-uncertainty/story-5UADiQcbNkjUZwacVXbjBL.html
05-09-2020||India||Minor fire in operation theatre of Pune Cantonment Board hospital||A fire broke out in an operation theatre at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital of the Pune Cantonment Board on Saturday morning. Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot.The fire is suspected to have started as a result of a short circuit in the air-conditioning unit inside the operation theatre, according to a fire officer.“There were 3-4 attendants inside the operation theatre. They were preparing for surgery when the air-conditioner caught fire. Four ACs and furniture was damaged in the fire. Nobody was injured in the blaze,” Prakash Hasbe, Fire Superintendent, PCB fire brigade said.Amit Kumar, CEO of PCB, has not yet responded when he was contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-fire-in-operation-theatre-of-pune-cantonment-board-hospital/story-RMQAYV2qQPgTwaqPiuDHYL.html
05-09-2020||India||‘Delhi declares war on corona’: Kejriwal after city records over 10K cases in 4 days||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Capital will tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak with more testing and isolating patients amid a spurt in the number of infections.“Delhi declares war on Corona. We have doubled testing, started testing at markets, bus stands, Mohalla Clinics etc. Test, test, test. Isolate infected people and provide them good treatment,” Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi declares war on Corona. We have doubled testing, started testing at markets, bus stands, Mohalla Clinics etc. Test, test, test. Isolate infected people and provide them good treatment. I have told officers not to worry if the numbers increase due to multifold testing. pic.twitter.com/0F5rabHAagThe Delhi chief minister’s tweet came after he said that the recent rise in the cases of the coronavirus disease is due to increased testing. “I want to assure you that Covid-19 situation in Delhi is completely under control but there is no room for complacency,” Kejriwal said during a press conference.Also read | Don’t panic, Delhi’s Covid-19 cases rising due to more testing: Arvind KejriwalThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader added that he has told officers not to worry “if the numbers increase due to multifold testing”.The call for the war on the virus outbreak in the national capital comes after Delhi recorded more than 10,000 cases in the last four days. Delhi on Friday recorded 2,914 fresh cases -- the highest single-day spike in 69 days.Kejriwal also assured citizens of the national capital, saying that the recent rise in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is due to increased testing.Kejriwal said, “I want to assure you that Covid-19 situation in Delhi is completely under control but there is no room for complacency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-declares-war-on-corona-kejriwal-after-city-records-over-10k-cases-in-4-days/story-oeD0P5rLIUK2Sso46TxknJ.html
05-09-2020||India||Tripura ministers to stay at Covid hospital to prevent deaths by negligence||To ensure that no Covid-19 patients in Tripura dies due to negligence, the state government has decided to deploy cabinet ministers, if necessary, at Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) hospital-- the first dedicated Covid hospital in the state—for strict monitoring. “Unfortunately, cases of deaths are on a rise in our state. But no one should die due to negligence. In case negligence is observed, one Cabinet minister will take turn to stay at the hospital,” Law minister Ratan Lal Nath told the media. Almost eight days ago, a case of negligence was lodged against doctors after the death of a three-day old infant in August. The baby’s mother alleged that the infant died after his swab samples were collected. The samples were taken since the mother had tested Covid-19 positive. The state has recorded a total of 134 Covid-19 deaths from amongst the 13,836 Covid-19 cases registered so far. 8,483 of these infected patients have recovered. Two Covid-19 patients in the state have died by suicide. On Friday, Tripura BJP legislator and former health minister, Sudip Roy Barman, alleged that the health department has failed to tackle the Covid-19 situation as many patients are dying untreated. Roy Barman was removed from his ministerial position in June last year. The health portfolio is currently with chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb.Also Read: 1st vessel to arrive in Tripura from Bangladesh using Indo-Bangla inland waterways route He also demanded that a full time health minister be appointed for dedicated management of the health care system. He said that a total of 28 departments, including health, were currently with the chief minister. “The current authorities have failed to tackle the Covid-19 situation. How will the chief minister manage the health department when he is holding charge of 28 departments alone? The state requires a separate dedicated health minister,” Roy Barman told media persons in Agartala. He alleged that the body of a person remained in the hospital for three days and his relatives were not informed. “Daughter of the dead person managed to get photographs of the body and take it for cremation with the help of a sweeper. I have documents to prove that,” he said. He also alleged that the state government was not procuring enough anti-viral medicines and not adopting plasma therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-ministers-to-stay-at-covid-hospital-to-prevent-deaths-by-negligence/story-R4iQrg16YfhreGtA7FgbBJ.html
05-09-2020||India||Showik remanded to NCB custody, to be confronted with Rhea Chakraborty tomorrow||Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik Chakraborty and Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda were on Saturday remanded to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) custody till September 9. According to the NCB, Showik will be confronted with his sister who will be summoned for questioning on September 6.“We will be asking her (actor Rhea Chakraborty) to join the investigation,” said Mutha Ashok Jain, Deputy DG, South-Western Region, NCB.WATCH | 4 days in lock-up for Rhea’s brother, Sushant’s house manager as NCB gets custodyChakraborty and Miranda were arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Friday.Kaizen Ebrahim, also apprehended by the NCB on Friday, was granted bail by Mumbai’s Esplanade court after he was sent 14-day judicial custody earlier today.On Friday morning, teams of NCB searched the residences of Showik Chakraborty in Santa Cruz (West) area and Samuel Miranda in suburban Andheri (West) area, news agency PTI reported.The NCB launched an investigation after it received communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.The ED had on July 31 registered a case in the late actor’s death after a First Information Report (FIR) was filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh against Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28.Rhea is the main accused in the death case of the 34-year-old actor. The case is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on money laundering charges and the NCB. Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-s-brother-showik-chakraborty-samuel-miranda-remanded-to-ncb-custody-till-september-9/story-pUIZ6xpXZ2LlXoGHGadfxJ.html
05-09-2020||India||1st vessel to arrive in Tripura from Bangladesh via Indo-Bangla waterways route||After a long wait, Tripura is going to witness the arrival of the first vessel from neighbouring Bangladesh on Saturday, connecting the state’s Gomati river with India’s national waterways through Bangladesh’s Meghna river. The trial run of the inland waterways protocol route between India and Bangladesh started on Thursday with a boat carrying 50 metric tonne of cement from Bangladesh, set to arrive later today at Sonamura in Sepahijala district, 60 kilometres from Agartala. The Sonamura (Tripura)-Daudkandi (Bangladesh) route was included in the Indo-Bangladesh Protocol (IBP) routes signed by Indian high commissioner in Bangladesh, Riva Ganguly Das, and Bangladesh shipping secretary, Mohammad Mezbah Uddin Chowdhury, at Dhaka this May.According to a survey conducted by the Bangladesh authorities, 89.5 kilometres out of the 90 kms of the Sonamura-Daudkandi protocol route falls in Bangladesh and the remaining 500 metres falls in India.Earlier in July, a floating jetty on Gomati river was launched as part of the Indo-Bangla international inland waterways project.Also Read: India-Bangladesh inland waterway route to be operational from today: All you need to knowSince 2018, a series of expert visits from the inland waterways authority of India and the land port authority of India were carried out to check the feasibility of using river Gomati, the longest river of the state, for the waterways connectivity route. According to the plan, dredging of the Gomati riverbed would be done enabling small boats and ships’ movement from Sonamura to Bangladesh’s Ashuganj port. Construction of a terminal building was also part of the plan to check the imported goods. Earlier in July, chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said the project would boost Indo-Bangla bilateral trade making Tripura a key trade hub in the northeast region. He predicted that the export volume would increase from Rs 30 crores to Rs 400 crores and the state would import goods worth of Rs 2,000 crores in one year.Also Read: India, Bangladesh to create new mechanism to monitor bilateral projectsCurrently, goods worth Rs 645 crores are imported.Welcoming the new project, president of the Tripura chamber of commerce and industries ML Debnath said, “Unidirectional rivers like Gomati river are without tidal waves and don’t have large volume of water across the year. Except the monsoons, proper dredging may keep the route in operation for at least six months a year. As it is first of its kind, we welcome the move.” According to an economic expert, 150 times higher volume of goods are imported through roadways via Akhaura Integrated Check Post (ICP) compared to the 50 metric tonnes of goods that could come through the project jetty. The expert also said that the potential of the project for local employment generation might not be so high. All Tripura merchant association sees hope in the waterways project saying that imported goods from Bangladesh would be available at affordable rates. An Agartala-based export-import trader said that Tripura would benefit from the transit charges of goods transported through Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-vessel-to-arrive-in-tripura-from-bangladesh-using-indo-bangla-inland-waterways-route/story-nxzljSKXWe0MBiZyfoM8tN.html
05-09-2020||India||Govt took care of economy, turned tragedy into opportunity: JP Nadda||India not only took the bold and timely step of imposing a lockdown to save the lives of 1.3 billion people from Covid-19 but also took care of the economy to turn the tragedy into an opportunity, BJP president JP Nadda said on Saturday.Addressing a meeting of the party’s Odisha executive committee, Nadda said that while powerful nations were helpless in combating the pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was clear in his mind as he took the decisive action of imposing the lockdown in order to save the lives of the people.PM Modi made it clear that the lives of 1.3 billion people must be saved. He said Jaan hai to Jahan Hai as public health was at the top of his mind, the BJP chief said.The lockdown was imposed well in time and also implemented effectively across the country as a weapon against the pandemic, he said.Besides taking care of the health-related matters, the Modi government also addressed the economic issues through several programmes such as the ‘Garib Kalyan Yojna’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, Nadda said.Even the UN secretary-general has acknowledged Indias steps in this regard, he added.The tragedy and challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic were effectively turned into an opportunity by the BJP-led government at the Centre, he said.Nadda’s comments came amid the criticism of the government by the opposition over the sharp decline in the GDP.The countrys economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product (GDP) contracting by 23.9 per cent as the coronavirus-related lockdowns weighed on the already-declining consumer demand and investment.Noting that all the political parties except the BJP became “inactive” after the lockdown was imposed, Nadda said his party took to the virtual mode and continued to serve the people.Asserting that the healthcare infrastructure of the country was given a major boost by the government, he said that when the lockdown was imposed India did not have a single Covid hospital, and over 1,500 such facilities with 2.5 lakh beds have been set up in the last few months.Similarly, daily Covid-19 testing has also increased to over 10.10 lakh, he said.Nadda also hit out at the BJD government in Odisha, accusing it of refusing to implement the ‘Ayushman Bharat’ programme because of narrow and petty politics, depriving 2.74 crore people of quality healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-took-care-of-economy-turned-tragedy-into-opportunity-jp-nadda/story-ZKR8tRgUEfPvMiR8npLrrK.html
05-09-2020||India||No need to panic, Covid-19 situation is completely under control in Delhi: Kejriwal||Amid a rise in the number of coronavirus cases in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday sought to assure people that there is no need to panic as the situation is completely under control. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal asserted that the number of cases is rising as the AAP government has doubled testing in the city. Appealing to Delhiities to follow preventive measures against Covid-19, the chief minister said there is no scope for negligent attitude. He said that his government has taken several steps to reduce deaths due to the virus in the national capital. Kejriwal said that there is no shortage of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients in Delhi and added that out of 14,000 beds, only 5,000 are occupied. “Out of 5,000 beds, 1,600-1,700 beds are occupied by those who belong to other states,” he said. On Friday, Delhi recorded 2,914 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike here in 69 days. This is the fourth successive day in September when over 2,000 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in a day. Also, over 36,000 tests were conducted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-panic-covid-19-situation-is-completely-under-control-in-delhi-kejriwal/story-0qENEFHjbHJcfMDRAjGogP.html
05-09-2020||India||Modi dispensation’s thinking - minimum govt, maximum privatisation: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at the Centre over the issue of recruitment to government posts, alleging that the Modi dispensation’s thinking is “minimum government, maximum privatisation”. With his tweet attacking the government, Gandhi tagged a media report which said there would be a freeze on creation of new posts except with the approval of the expenditure department. “Modi government’s thinking -- ‘Minimum Govt Maximum Privatisation’,” Gandhi said in a tweet. The Covid-19 pandemic is just an excuse and the intention is to make government offices “free” of permanent staff, he alleged. “(Intention is to) Rob the future of the youth and promote (his) friends,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi targeting the prime minister, and urged people to speak up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-dispensation-s-thinking-minimum-govt-maximum-privatisation-rahul-gandhi/story-EWAUvwlCsK1HLfub13TEDM.html
05-09-2020||India||CBI team visits Sushant Singh Rajput’s flat again||A team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, visited his flat in suburban Bandra again on Saturday as part of its investigation, an official said.In the last two weeks, the central probe agency had visited the flat at least two times to reconstruct the sequence of events leading to the actor’s death, among other things, he said.“The probe team along with forensic experts reached the late actor’s flat in Mont Blanc Apartments around 11.30 am,” the official said.Rajput’s cooks Neeraj and Keshav, and his flatmate Siddharth Pithani accompanied the team, he said.“After inspecting the flat, the investigators went to the terrace of the building. Later, the team members left the place for the DRDO guest house at Santacruz, where they are stationed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-team-visits-sushant-singh-rajput-s-flat-again/story-OJNB0MpR6A17zXWe73vNCP.html
05-09-2020||India||‘PM must explain’: Chidambaram targets govt on Covid-19, economy||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday criticised the government’s response to coronavirus pandemic in the country as he predicted India’s infection tally may touch the 6.5-million mark by the end of September.“I had predicted that total number of infections will reach 55 lakh by September 30. I am wrong. India will reach that number by September 20. By end September, the number may touch 65 lakh,” Chidambaram said in a series of tweets.I had predicted that total number of infections will reach 55 lakh by September 30. I am wrong. India will reach that number by September 20 By end September, the number may touch 65 lakh“PM Modi who promised that we will defeat coronavirus in 21 days must explain why India failed when other countries seem to have succeeded,” he added.The only country that is not reaping the benefit of the lockdown strategy appears to be IndiaPM Modi who promised that we will defeat coronavirus in 21 days must explain why India failed when other countries seem to have succeededAlso read: GDP estimates a matter of shame for Modi government, says ChidambaramIndia registered the highest single-day jump of 86,432 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s caseload past the 4-million mark, according to the Union health ministry on Saturday. With 1,089 more deaths in the last 24 hours, the cumulative toll reached 69,561, it said.The former Union finance minister also alleged that the country has not been able to reap the benefit of the lockdown strategy.Chidambaram also hit out at the Union finance ministry for the state of India’s economy. Targeting the Nirmala Sitharaman-led union finance ministry, Chidambaram said, “MoF does not have a word of explanation for the unprecedented negative growth in Q1 of 2020-21. But it is back to its old game of misleading the people of India and predicting a V shaped recovery.”Also read | ‘Will the messenger of god answer?’: Chidambaram’s jibe at Sitharaman“The people have not forgotten that the V shaped recovery has been promised by MoF for the last 15 months,” the former finance minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-must-explain-why-india-failed-chidambaram-targets-govt-on-covid-19-economy/story-kucwbm1BOgBNjG1sfEnupK.html
05-09-2020||India||India-Bangladesh inland waterway route to start from today: All you need to know||India and Bangladesh are set to operationalise a new riverine trade route on Saturday, when a Bangladeshi vessel will transport a cargo of cement to Tripura, as part of efforts to boost connectivity between the two countries.A trial run of an inland waterways protocol route between the two nations began on Thursday with a cargo vessel leaving for Sonamura port in Tripura from Munshiganj in the neighbouring country.Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb in a tweet on Thursday night said, “First Vessel with consignment started its trial run today from Munshiganj, Bangladesh for Sonamura port, Tripura.” First Vessel with consignment started its trial run today from Munshiganj, Bangladesh for Sonamura port, Tripura.With the successful run, Indo-Bangla waterways will open up new avenues for economic development in both the countries where Tripura will play an important role. pic.twitter.com/Y2vV90XA45Here’s all about India-Bangladesh inland waterway route:• The route connects Tripura with the National Waterways of India through Bangladesh. With the successful run, India-Bangladesh waterways will open up new avenues for economic development in both the countries where Tripura will play an important role.• The boat-sized vessel with a consignment of cement set sail for Sonamura port in Sepahijala district of the northeastern state from Munshiganj on Thursday.• Union minister for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya will welcome the vessel carrying 50 tonnes of cement from Daukandi in Bangladesh to Sonamura on Saturday through video conferencing from Delhi, officials said.• The inland waterways protocol route would be made operational in the presence of the chief minister and chairman of the Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI) Aditya Mishra, secretary of Tripura’s Industry and Commerce Department Kiran Gitte said.• The 90-km long Sonamura-Daudkandi route, included in the list of Indo-Bangla protocol (IBP) routes in May this year, is expected to boost trade, Gitte had told reporters on Sunday.• A floating jetty was set up on the Gomati river on July 4 as part of the Indo-Bangla international inland waterways connectivity project.• A high-level team of officials of the Bangladesh shipping ministry had surveyed the riverine protocol route on August 12, Sonamura sub-divisional magistrate Subrata Majumder had said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-inland-waterway-route-to-be-operational-from-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-zTdnz9Gz9mP4lJAOPXOytI.html
05-09-2020||India||R40 lakh incentive for mobile towers in select Uttarakhand border villages||Uttarakhand government has decided to offer incentives of up to ₹40 lakh to telecom companies for installing mobile signal towers in ‘dark’ villages of the state in an attempt to boost mobile phone connectivity, said officials. The decision was taken during the state Cabinet meeting led by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday.Dark villages are those situated in remote areas, without mobile phone and internet connectivity. There are over 200 such dark villages in the state, especially in the districts of Pithoragarh, Chamoli and Uttarkashi, bordering China and Nepal. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, an official privy to the development, said, “The decision was taken after amending the Information & Communication Technology and Electronics Policy of the state to facilitate installation of mobile signal towers in such villages by telecom companies.”He informed that it was decided last year during a meeting on the policy, in the presence of CM Rawat, to attract investment from telecom companies by offering them an incentive of 30% of the total cost of project or ₹50lakh, whichever is less, in case they install mobile signal towers in remote areas. “The aforementioned policy was amended on Friday, clearing an incentive of ₹40 lakh or 30% of the total cost of the project, whichever is less, for telecom companies,” the official said. Also Read: At SCO meet, Rajnath Singh tells China to restore status quo at LACHT had earlier reported that villagers in the hill districts bordering Nepal are using SIM cards of Nepalese telecom companies as their signals are stronger in their area in comparison to the signal strength of phone service provided by Indian telecom companies.The official added that the decision was also strategic in nature considering the recent border tensions with Nepal and China, countries, with which Uttarakhand shares borders. Also Read: Very nasty situation along India-China border: TrumCabinet minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik refused to reveal much on the development, saying “There have been certain decisions taken during the Cabinet meeting on the telecom sector, which are related to policy matters.”He added that any announcement on policy decisions will be done in the approaching assembly session as per the tradition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/r40-lakh-incentive-for-mobile-towers-in-select-uttarakhand-border-villages/story-3Bl8fy1ZyGS2CYNaVNT40K.html
05-09-2020||India||Centre plans to tighten law against manual scavenging||The Centre is considering making the law against manual scavenging more stringent and forcing someone to manually clean a sewer could soon attract up to seven-year imprisonment and also a fine, people aware of the matter said. The Union social justice and empowerment ministry is working on legislation in this regard even as it was not immediately clear whether it would be introduced during Parliament’s monsoon session from September 14. The new law may provide for a fine of Rs 10 lakh to discourage the practice of manual scavenging.In September 2013, Parliament passed a bill prohibiting the employment of individuals as manual scavengers. It prescribed stringent punishment, including imprisonment of up to five years, to those employing such labour.The law also provides for the rehabilitation of manual scavengers and their family members.Despite the strong legislation on the issue, manual scavenging has continued to be one of the concerns.The Supreme Court last year equated the practice with “sending people to gas chambers,” while expressing concerns over the working conditions of manual scavengers. A three-judge bench questioned the Centre over the lack of protective gear like oxygen cylinders and masks given to those involved in such work.According to the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (sanitary workers), 50 workers died cleaning sewers in the first half of 2019 alone. A survey of The Centre in 2018 identified around 40,000 manual scavengers across 14 states.Most scavengers belong to the economically weaker and socially backward strata of the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-to-tighten-law-against-manual-scavenging/story-jhUXkxrmGfYC6x4wzSRe2M.html
05-09-2020||India||Rajnath meets Chinese counterpart amid border tensions. Here’s what they said||Marking India’s first high-level political meet with China amid a simmering border row, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday met his Chinese counterpart, General Wei Fenghe, in Moscow. India and China have been involved in a bitter border standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.India has accused China of making a fresh attempt to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong Lake and said that the Chinese side “engaged in provocative military manoeuvres in the late night of 29th and on 30th August”.Here’s what happened during Singh’s meeting with China’s Wei:• The meeting between Singh and Wei took place on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in the Russian capital Moscow.• Singh left on Tuesday for the SCO meet and on the same day, India accused China of resorting to provocative action a day earlier when it attempted to change the status quo on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake even as military-level talks were underway. China’s actions this year have been in clear violation of agreements, India said in a statement issued by the ministry of external affairs.• A day later, the Chinese side sought a meeting with Singh, HT had reported earlier this week. This was the third attempt made by the Chinese defence ministry for talks with Singh after the standoff erupted in early May.Also read: Rajnath Singh meets Chinese defence minister, calls for bringing ties ‘back on right track’• On his third day in Moscow, Singh delivered an indirect message to China at the SCO’s ministerial meeting. “Peace and security in the SCO region demand a climate of trust, non-aggression, respect for international rules and peaceful resolution of differences,” he said.• The Indian defence minister also spoke about the unilateral aggression between states and the need to refrain from it. “This year marks the 75th anniversary of the end of the Second World War as well as the formation of the United Nations which underpins a peaceful world, where international laws and sovereignty of states are respected and states refrain from unilateral aggression on another,” Singh said at the meet on Friday.• After the defence minister’s address, Chinese and Indian delegations held their first high-level political face-to-face meeting later in the evening.• In the meeting that lasted over two hours, Singh pushed for the restoration of status quo ante at all friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and called for disengagement of troops in an expeditious way during the much-expected meeting.Also read | ‘Committed to inclusive global security’: Rajnath Singh reaffirms India’s stance at SCO meet• According to China’s official news agency, Xinhua, Wei told Singh that the responsibility of the ongoing tension lies entirely with India – an allegation that New Delhi has brushed off repeatedly, saying that the border aggression has actually been shown by the troops of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).• Singh was quoted by a Xinhua report in Mandarin from Moscow as saying that India hoped that two sides will “…adopt a responsible attitude, fully disengage front-line forces as soon as possible, avoid taking measures that may escalate or complicate the situation, and avoid turning differences into disputes so as to bring bilateral military relations back to the right track as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-meets-chinese-counterpart-amid-border-tensions-here-s-what-happened/story-xQIxN3w66wBq0248tw7LWJ.html
05-09-2020||India||Oil tanker on fire off Sri Lanka coast towed to safety||An India bound vessel from Kuwait with a crude shipment that caught fire off the Sri Lankan coast has been towed to safe waters while fire fighting continues and there has been no oil slick, defence authorities said here on Saturday. The blaze in the oil tanker, which also bore the brunt of two explosions and a two metre crack, has now subsided, they said. “Indian Coast Guard and Sri Lankan ships and aircraft along with tug ALP Winger successfully towed MT New Diamond more than 35 NM (Nautical Mile) away from Sri Lanka coast to safe waters. Fire Fighting continues and fire now reduced. No oil slick reported,” a defence release said. An oil tanker carrying crude from Kuwait to India burst into flames off the eastern coast of Sri Lanka on Thursday, leaving one of its 24 crew members missing and another injured while explosions and a crack was noticed on September 4. The Panama registered tanker New Diamond was carrying 2,70,000 tonnes of crude oil from Kuwait to India when its engine room caught fire off the coast of Sangamankanda in the eastern district of Ampara. Indian and Sri Lankan authorities are liaisoning continuously to put off the fire expeditiously and they have deployed various assets for the purpose. An Indian Coast Guard Dornier aircraft (with Oil Spill Dispersants and Pollution Response Spray pods)was sent from here on Friday for aerial assessment and to tackle oil spill if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-tanker-on-fire-off-sri-lanka-coast-towed-to-safety/story-3zSMg3mhQvSIquXKdArLiM.html
05-09-2020||India||8 migrant workers killed in Chhatisgarh bus accident||At least eight migrant workers from Odisha’s Ganjam district on their way to Surat in Gujarat were killed and seven others injured when a bus carrying about 59 of them collided head-on with a truck at Cherikhedi in Chhattisgarh on Saturday.Also read: 5 friends headed to Nagarjunasagar dam crushed to death in Telangana car accidentOdisha police chief Abhay said he has spoken to his Chhattisgarh counterpart about the accident and added the bus had left for Surat from Ganjam’s Aska area at 12 am on Saturday. He added the injured were being treated at Raipur Medical College and Hospital.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced an ex-gratia relief of Rs 2 lakh each from his relief fund to the next of the kin of those killed in the accident and free medical treatment to the injured. He sent state labour minister Sushant Singh to Raipur to extend necessary assistance to the victims and asked Abhay to remain in touch with Chhattisgarh police for coordination.Tens of thousands of migrant workers left jobless by the lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 pandemic spread returned to Odisha this summer. Ganjam emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in June and July with the return of over 500,000 migrant workers from Gujarat, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Kerala, and Karnataka.The migrant workers have begun returning to their places of work with an increase in testing and recoveries.The state government has tried to offer jobs to migrant workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme but there is hardly any work for skilled workers.Many textile mill agents from Surat have been camping in Ganjam to take back the migrant workers to Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-migrant-workers-killed-in-chhatisgarh-bus-accident/story-pW1pXDUByT6mBH5VTDbIDP.html
05-09-2020||India||Pakistani troops shell three sectors along LoC in J-K’s Poonch||Pakistani troops engaged in firing and intense mortar shelling in three sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday in violation of a ceasefire agreement, a defence spokesman said.The firing and shelling from across the border in Shahpur, Kirni and Degwar sectors started around 9.15 am.Indian Army personnel guarding the LoC gave a strong and befitting response to the cross-border fire, the spokesman said. He said the exchange of fire was going on when last reports were received.There was no report of any casualty on the Indian side, the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-troops-shell-three-sectors-along-loc-in-j-k-s-poonch/story-GTtbPOfzBLICwYcVaHCiHI.html
05-09-2020||India||Sushant’s family lawyer suspects bigger forces at play after Showik’s arrest||The lawyer of Sushant Singh Rajput’s family alleged on Saturday that Mumbai Police were hiding “something very big” after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik Chakraborty and the late actor’s housekeeping manager, Samuel Miranda.“Arrests by NCB prove the fear of the family that there was something very big that Mumbai Police wanted to hide. Clearly, there are several angles in this case. The family hopes that more angles will come out,” Vikas Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.ALSO WATCH | 4 days in lock-up for Rhea’s brother, Sushant’s house manager as NCB gets custodyNCB arrested Rhea Chakraborty’s brother and Rajput’s housekeeping manager Miranda under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act late on Friday night. Basit Parihar, Kaizan Ebrahim, Zaid Vilatra, Abbas Lakhani, Karan Arora and two others have also been arrested by NCB, which is looking into allegations of drug use by the late actor and his actor-girlfriend Chakraborty.Showik, Miranda and Ebrahim, are at Sion Hospital and are scheduled to undergo medical tests, including a coronavirus test, before they are produced in a court. Vilatra and Parihar have applied for bail at the Mumbai sessions court.Apart from NCB, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) are also probing the case. Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Bandra on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-arrests-show-there-were-bigger-forces-at-play-family-lawyer-says/story-86RivgSys4sw9435MejzeN.html
05-09-2020||India||How India reached the grim figure of 4 million Covid-19 cases||India has become the third country in the world to record more than four million cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after the United States and Brazil.The US has 6,200,186 Covid-19 patients and Brazil has confirmed 4,091,801 infections, according to Johns Hopkins University.With the highest single-day spike of 86,432 fresh Covid-19 cases and 1,089 deaths on Saturday, India’s tally stands at 4,023,179, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll in the country reached 69,561. India has registered more than 80,000 new Covid-19 cases for the third day in a row.The rise from three million to four million Covid-19 cases took just 13 days. India passed three million coronavirus disease cases on August 23. India had recorded 3,041,463 Covid-19 cases after 70,182 fresh infections and 914 new deaths were reported on that day.India took 17 days to jump from two million to three million Covid-19 cases. On August 6, India reported more than 62,000 cases of the coronavirus disease, for the first time in a single day, and over 880 deaths across the country, the Union health ministry’s data shows.The country, which had been recording over 50,000 fresh cases every day since July 30, saw 62,538 Covid-19 cases and 886 fatalities between August 6 and 7, pushing its infection tally to 2,027,074 and death toll to 41,585, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.India crossed two million Covid-19 cases, three weeks after it crossed a million cases on July 16. According to an HT analysis, nearly 38% of new cases since the day India’s tally crossed a million Covid-19 infections have come from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar. These five states together were responsible for less than 19% of cases before July 16 when India hit the million-mark.The number of Covid-19 cases in India reached five lakh (or half a million-mark) on June 26, in just a little over 19 days. The next half-million came on July 16, according to an analysis of data from states and Union territories. After the one million-mark, India crossed the 1.5 million milestone on July 28.It took 110 days for coronavirus infections in the country to reach one lakh, while just 39 days more to go past the five lakh-mark.The case fatality rate (CFR) due to the coronavirus infection has further declined to 1.73%. There are 846,395 active cases of coronavirus infection, which is 21.04% of the total caseload, according to the health ministry data on Saturday.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 4,77,38,491 samples have been tested up to September 4 with 10,59,346 samples being tested on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-india-reached-the-grim-figure-of-4-million-covid-19-cases/story-BCnUUHzWBiamPSFGM63qNM.html
05-09-2020||India||3 die in road mishaps on Kashmir highway in Ramban||Three people died in two separate road accidents on Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Ramban district on Saturday morning with a truck and a mini-truck plunging into a deep gorge.“A driver of a mini truck and his helper died when their Srinagar bound mini-truck (JK-19-7275) rolled down into a deep gorge at Digdol near Ramban this morning,” said a police officer.The dead were identified as driver Rouf Ahmed, 32, and his helper Usman Ahmed, 18, of Magerkote in Ramsu.Earlier, at about 6 am, another truck (JK18 A -0557) on its way from Jammu towards Srinagar, rolled down into a 120 feet deep gorge near Chamalwas in Banihal.Truck driver Mayssar Ahmed, 24 of Pampore in Srinagar, died while two others identified as Basid Ahmad and Furkan Ahmad of Pampore were injured.Also Read: After brief disruption, traffic resumes on Jammu-Srinagar highwayThey were shifted to the district hospital in Banihal for treatment.The 270 kilometre-long Jammu-Srinagar, the only all-weather surface link to Kashmir-- has seen disruptions in the last few days due to heavy rains and landslides. The highway reopened for traffic on Friday afternoon after a brief disruption caused by landslides due to persistent rains. Earlier, this week, fresh traffic on the highway was affected for about 5 days due to landslides washing away a portion of the road in Ramban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-die-in-road-mishaps-on-kashmir-highway-in-ramban/story-tSQkjYxHz7dJrqrh3cTdlO.html
05-09-2020||India||India allows testing on demand for Covid-19||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has allowed testing on-demand for Covid-19 even as it has allowed states to adapt to the recommendation as per their requirements. “ICMR’s advisory is generic in nature and may be modified as per the discretion of state health authorities,” said the national research agency in its advisory.Also read: India registers highest single-day spike with 86,432 new Covid-19 cases; death toll reaches 69,561The advisory came after the Delhi high court asked the state government to re-strategise its policy to include asymptomatic patients for testing. ICMR told the court it is just an advisory body and states were free to make changes as per their needs.Rapid antigen testing (RAT) is the preferred strategy for screening in Covid-19 containment zones. People with influenza-like illnesses, all direct and high-risk contacts (family members, colleagues, those above 65, immunocompromised, or have conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, or heart, kidney, and lung diseases), are required to be screened.The new strategy lists situations where molecular testing such as reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) should be preferred over the cheaper and faster but less accurate RAT. “Ideally, it is suggested that 100% of people living in the containment zones should be tested by RAT particularly in cities where there has been a widespread transmission of the infection,” say ICMR guidelines.In non-containment areas, the ICMR strategy suggests that preference should be given to molecular methods to test all those with influenza-like symptoms, all symptomatic contacts of confirmed cases, and all asymptomatic high-risk contacts. Testing methods like RT-PCR should also be used for routine surveillance of all symptomatic travellers within seven days of illness and healthcare or frontline workers involved in Covid-19 management.The ICMR strategy says that molecular tests should be preferred over RAT within hospitals for testing those with severe acute respiratory infections, all patients with influenza-like symptoms, all asymptomatic high-risk contacts in need of hospitalisation, asymptomatic patients undergoing surgery or other invasive procedures, and all pregnant women in or near labour.The guidelines say that no emergency procedure should be delayed for the want of a test.Hospitals have been directed not to refuse admission to pregnant women citing lack of testing facility. “All arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to a testing facility. Mothers, who test positive for the infection, have been advised to wear masks, wash hands frequently while handling babies, and cleaning breasts before feeding them.The ICMR guidelines say all neonates with acute respiratory or sepsis-like illnesses– or those with non-respiratory symptoms such as fever, lethargy, poor feeding, seizures, and diarrhoea -- should be tested for Covid-19 using RT-PCR.The strategy also suggests testing those with the atypical presentations for Covid-19 such as stroke, encephalitis, blood mixed sputum, pulmonary embolism, acute heart conditions, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-allows-testing-on-demand-for-covid-19/story-JWprzSKRd4l2ZRXkGBp4AO.html
05-09-2020||India||The significance of dignity in human rights jurisprudence||In Navtej Singh Johar & Others v. Union of India, the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court struck down a part of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code as unconstitutional as it offended right to privacy. As noted in K.S. Puttaswamy, privacy has been treated as a fundamental right and a premise for this upliftment was that the privacy of the individual is an essential aspect of dignity. The Court held that Section 377 of the IPC insofar as it criminalizes consensual sexual acts between adults of whatever sexual orientation is an anathema to a constitutional order in which liberty must trump over stereotypes and prevail over the mainstreaming of culture. The following passage from the said judgement brings home the notion of dignity. “From the aforesaid, it has to be appreciated that homosexuality is something that is based on sense of identity. It is the reflection of a sense of emotion and expression of eagerness to establish intimacy. It is just as much ingrained, inherent and innate as heterosexuality. Sexual orientation, as a concept, fundamentally implies a pattern of sexual attraction. It is as natural a phenomenon as other natural biological phenomena. What the science of sexuality has led to is that an individual has the tendency to feel sexually attracted towards the same-sex, for the decision is one that is controlled by neurological and biological factors. That is why it is his/her natural orientation which is innate and constitutes the core of his/her being and identity. That apart, on occasions, due to a sense of mutuality of release of passion, two adults may agree to express themselves in a different sexual behaviour which may include both the genders. To this, one can attribute a bisexual orientation which does not follow the rigidity but allows room for flexibility.” (...)This evolving concept of dignity has encompassed liberal individualism as well as collective identities into ‘we the people’, thereby bringing the aspects of inclusiveness into our Constitution. Many other facets of dignity jurisprudence, pending before the courts in different forms, are going to enrich the concept of Dignity in times to come. From the aforesaid discussion, it follows that dignity as a jurisprudential concept has now been well defined by the Supreme Court.Its essential ingredients can be summarized as follows:1. The basic principle of the dignity and freedom of the individual is an attribute of natural law, which is manifested as basic or fundamental rights of all individuals in a constitutional democracy.2. Dignity has a central normative role as well as constitutional value. This normative role is performed in three ways: First, it becomes basis for constitutional rights; second, it serves as an interpretative principle for determining the scope of constitutional rights; and third, it determines the proportionality of a statute limiting a constitutional right. Thus, if an enactment puts a limitation on a constitutional right, and such a limitation is disproportionate, such a statute can be held to be unconstitutional by applying the doctrine of proportionality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-significance-of-dignity-in-human-rights-jurisprudence/story-E84el5defLUNJ8WntdSmMJ.html
05-09-2020||India||India registers highest single-day spike with 86,432 new Covid-19 cases; death toll reaches 69,561||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached 4,023,179 after 86,432 new cases were recorded across the country in the highest single-day spike, according to the Union health ministry on Saturday.The death toll in the country – third worst-hit after the United States – reached 69,561 after 1,089 patients succumbed to the viral disease between Friday and Saturday.India has registered over 80,000 new coronavirus cases for the third day in a row.Also read | Covid-19: 4 million milestone paints a grim picture nationallyAs of Saturday, there are 846,395 are active cases, 21.04% of which account for India’s total caseload. After 70,072 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, the country’s recovery rate has reached 77.23%, according to the health ministry data. India had surpassed the four million-mark in terms of the total cases on Friday as the virus’ spread continued to widen in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-highest-single-day-spike-with-86-432-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-reaches-69-561/story-tcXJPJree619J9wVpuXycL.html
05-09-2020||India||Heavy rain expected in east Rajasthan and Uttarakhand today||Heavy rain is likely in some parts of Uttarakhand and parts of east Rajasthan on September 5 and 6. There is also likelihood of heavy rain with thunderstorm activity in some parts of peninsular India for the next 4 to 5 days, India Meteorological Department said in its Saturday morning bulletin.Also read: IIT study reveals South India will witness extreme rainfall by end of centuryThe monsoon trough (line of low pressure) lies north of its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal). A cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Rajasthan and another over northwest Madhya Pradesh. Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation, heavy rain in some places accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning is likely over Uttarakhand on September 5 and 6 and east Rajasthan on September 5.Heavy rain in isolated places is also likely over Bihar and Odisha during September 6 to 9; Chhattisgarh on September 7 to 9 and Vidarbha on September 8 and 9.A cyclonic circulation is also lying over the southeast and adjoining east central Arabian Sea off Karnataka and north Kerala coasts. This circulation is likely to meander over the same region during the next 3-4 days. Under its influence, widespread rain with isolated heavy rain and thunderstorm is likely over Peninsular India during the next 4-5 days.IMD, in its two-week forecast issued on Friday, said below normal rains are likely in most parts of the country except over north-eastern states, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala between September 10 and 16. Development of features for monsoon withdrawal from western parts Rajasthan is likely during the same week||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-expected-in-east-rajasthan-and-uttarakhand-today/story-zrPgCdJKIaZ9pP5VYgwmhI.html
05-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine developers plan pledge, Russian shot ‘passes early trial test’: All you need to know||As the world looks forward to a shot against the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19), several major drug developers have decided to establish a pledge to not seek government approval until their vaccine candidates are proven to be safe.The move is being considered to be a bulwark against increasing political pressure to introduce a vaccine in a pandemic-ravaged world.Additionally, the president of the United Nations General Assembly has warned that a Covid-19 vaccine must be made accessible to everyone as the exclusion of even one country from the global recovery measure will mean that the world will still face the coronavirus crisis.Coronavirus disease outbreak has killed nearly 870,000 people and infected more than 26 million others worldwide as well as upended hundreds of millions of lives and wreaked havoc on the global economy.Also read | Covid-19: 4 million milestone paints a grim picture nationallyHere is all you need to know today about the race for Covid-19 vaccine:• Covid-19 vaccine developers, including Pfizer Inc, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna Inc, have said they will pledge to adhere to high scientific and ethical standards in the conduct of clinical studies and in their manufacturing processes, Wall Street Journal reported. WSJ added the draft of a joint statement that is still being finalised. The companies might issue the pledge as soon as early next week, reports added.* Russia continues to spearhead the race of Covid-19 vaccine as results of early tests have shown encouraging results. The Russian coronavirus vaccine “Sputnik V” was tested in two small trials, with each including 38 healthy adults aged between 18 and 60 who were administered a two-part immunisation. Twenty-one days after the first dose, the candidates were given the second shot with a booster and then were monitored over 42 days. All candidates developed antibodies to fight the virus contagion within three weeks, allowing Russia to lead the race for vaccine despite concerns raised by experts.• Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, the president of the UN General Assembly, said a vaccine for the virus must be made available to everyone who needs it because if just one country is left out the world will still face a crisis from the coronavirus. “Inclusion is key, because without inclusion the suffering of those who are already left behind, will continue — and we cannot guarantee peace in that kind of a context,” Muhammad-Bande said.• The turmoil around Covid-19 vaccine in Brazil sparked a new debate after President Jair Bolsonaro said vaccination for coronavirus should not be mandatory and “no one can force anyone to get a vaccine”. Bolsonaro’s critics and opponents slammed his latest take and said immunization cannot be viewed as a personal decision. “It is sad that once again Brazil’s president is setting a denialist example. It should be obligatory, except in special cases or under health circumstances that justify not taking a vaccine. An infected person infects others, and makes possible the death of others,” Sao Paulo state governor João Doria, a former Bolsonaro ally turned foe, said.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine distribution not expected until mid-2021: WHO chief scientist• Amid rising global expectations to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic, the World Health Organization (WHO) has taken a step back and said it does not expect widespread immunisation against Covid-19 until mid-2021. The statement from WHO comes as the US is expected to release a vaccine within weeks.• WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has also said the global body will not endorse a vaccine that is not safe and effective. Covid-19 has claimed hundreds of thousands and infected more than 26 million people, increasing the pressure on players in the fray to develop a vaccine for the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-developers-plan-pledge-russian-shot-passes-early-trial-test-all-you-need-to-know/story-jHVgnGvw5RoYv83D7stMKJ.html
05-09-2020||India||7 die as bus transporting labourers collides with truck in Chhattisgarh||Seven people were killed and seven others injured on Saturday as a truck and a bus transporting labourers collided in Cheri Khedi area of Chhattisgarh’s Raipur, news agency ANI reported.Ajay Yadav, Raipur’s senior superintendent of police, said the labourers were headed towards Surat in Gujarat and were coming from Odisha’s Ganjam.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-die-as-bus-transporting-labourers-collides-with-truck-in-chhattisgarh/story-OVUjlgxSqUzwhgl8CxEdiN.html
05-09-2020||India||Pro-Khalistan group alleges India disrupted secessionist referendum, Canada rejects theory||Canadian law enforcement has rebutted claims made by pro-Khalistan separatist group, Sikhs for Justice or SFJ, that armed men violently attempted to disrupt a voter registration drive related to its secessionist programme named Punjab referendum 2020.On August 15, as local SFJ activists were proceeding to the Indian consulate in Toronto to conduct the drive, eight men were arrested on a complaint from an unidentified “concerned citizen”, and five were charged with firearms-related offences after a loaded handgun was recovered from their vehicle.SFJ had alleged that the vehicle was flying the Indian Tricolour and the intent was to sabotage their drive, and this was also reported in local media.However, Peel regional police has denied there was a political slant to this incident. Asked whether this had any connection to the pro-Khalistan group’s proposed event and the allegations levelled by SFJ, a spokesperson for the PRP said she had “not received information in regards to the persons being ‘Indian agents’.”In another response to the outlet Indo-Canadian Voice, a different PRP spokesperson said, “There have been comments made by local media outlets referring to threats of a political nature, our investigation did not find this to be so.”Also Read: Canada: 5 found dead after shooting in Ontario home, say policeThe charges specified by the spokesperson did not relate to threats of the nature that were stated by SFJ.The men were picked up from a parking lot in the city of Brampton in the Greater Toronto Area and were identified as Simerjit Singh, 23, from Georgetown, Arundeep Sood, 40, from Brampton, Manpreet Singh, 21, who was cited as having no fixed address, Shivampreet Singh, 21, from Brampton and Mehakdeep Maan, 22, from Brampton.Also Read: HC asks Punjab to submit details of FIRs against all police officers SFJ’s general counsel Gurpatwant Pannun had alleged the men threatened to shoot a local activist belonging to the separatist organisation and termed it as a “wake up call” for the government of Justin Trudeau.The men were charged by investigators from the 21 division criminal investigation bureau with firearms-related offences. They were released on bail after making an appearance before the Ontario Court of Justice in Brampton.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pro-khalistan-group-alleges-india-disrupted-secessionist-referendum-canada-rejects-theory/story-TjlPb2aTQCVwEGArsUipyJ.html
05-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: Pop-up Covid-19 testing centres near govt offices soon and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 pop-up test centres near govt offices, weekly markets soonThe Delhi government will set up next week pop-up Covid-19 testing centres in and around central government offices in the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area, and mobile ones in weekly markets held around the city, a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. Read moreCovid-19: 4 million milestone paints a grim picture nationallyThe number of total Covid-19 cases in India surpassed the 4 million-mark on Friday with little sign of the virus’s pace slowing in the country. Read moreTeachers’ Day 2020: Google honours educators with a quirky doodle on its homepageThe birthday of the second president of India, Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, is commemorated as Teachers’ Day in the country as per the veteran’ wish ever since September 5, 1962. Radhakrishnan was an accomplished teacher himself and while the day is celebrated in India by showing our appreciation for those who have shaped us, search engine Google too did the same through its quirky doodle. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Doesn’t matter whether you get 2 crore or 20’ - Harbhajan Singh’s friend clarifies Covid-19 cases in CSK camp had no role in pull outOff-spinner Harbhajan Singh on Friday became the second high-profile Chennai Super Kings cricketer after batsman Suresh Raina to pull out of IPL 2020 in UAE due to personal reasons. Read moreEveryone loves Pankaj Tripathi: On his birthday, we list his five best performancesFrom gangster dramas to family entertainers, from indie gems to mainstream potboilers, Pankaj Tripathi is the trump card in them all. The actor has made a name for himself for scene-stealing supporting performances and commanding lead roles, and on his birthday, we could not help but talk about our favourites. Read moreKannada actor Ragini Dwivedi arrested in Bengaluru in drug caseKannada actress Ragini Dwivedi was arrested by the Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru. She was arrested in connection with a case related to drug abuse. CCB of Bengaluru is probing the drug menace in the kannada film industry. An FIR has been registered at the cottonpet police station of the city. She is likely to be produced before a magistrate via video conferencing. Earlier in the day, the police had raided her residence. Two people named rahul and viren khanna were also arrested. Police had arrested another person, K Ravishankar on Thursday. A total of four people have been arrested in the case. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-pop-up-covid-19-testing-centres-near-govt-offices-soon-and-all-the-latest-news/story-v9fZfOxhice4wJnNoyK2EP.html
05-09-2020||India||PM Modi tweets on Teachers’ Day, says grateful for their contribution||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed his gratitude to teachers for “their remarkable efforts” in shaping minds and building the nation on the occasion of Teachers’ Day.“We remain grateful to the hardworking teachers for their contributions towards shaping minds and building our nation. On Teachers Day, we express gratitude to our teachers for their remarkable efforts. We pay tributes to Dr. S. Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti. #OurTeachersOurHeroes,” PM Modi tweeted. We remain grateful to the hardworking teachers for their contributions towards shaping minds and building our nation. On Teachers Day, we express gratitude to our teachers for their remarkable efforts. We pay tributes to Dr. S. Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti. #OurTeachersOurHeroesTeachers’ Day is celebrated across the country in the memory of Dr S Radhakrishnan, a philosopher-author and India’s second president who was born on September 5, 1888. His contributions to the field of education are exemplary.The tradition to celebrate Teachers’ Day started in 1962 to honour Radhakrishnan and other teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grateful-to-hardworking-teachers-for-their-contribution-towards-building-nation-pm-modi/story-jbhv8dtJubVaIXVPjZLWUP.html
05-09-2020||India||SC dismisses plea for deferring JEE, NEET||The ongoing Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) for admission to engineering colleges will go on as per schedule and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical colleges will be held as planned on September 13, with the Supreme Court on Friday rejecting the review petition filed by ministers from six non-BJP ruled states seeking a review of the August 17 order of the court allowing the National Testing Agency and central government to hold the exams amidst the Covid-19 pandemic.A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan considered the petitions in the chambers and decided that they had no merit. “We have carefully gone through the review petitions and the connected papers. We find no merit in the review petitions and the same are accordingly dismissed,” the bench which also comprised justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari held.The review petition was filed by ministers Moloy Ghatak (West Bengal), Rameshwar Oraon (Jharkhand), Raghu Sharma (Rajasthan), Amarjeet Bhagat (Chhattisgarh), Balbir Singh Sidhu (Punjab) and Uday Ravindra Samant (Maharashtra) in their individual capacity.Two other review petitions, filed by RKR Anantharaman, a Congress MLA and government whip in the legislative assembly of the Union territory of Puducherry and by one N Vinoba Bhoopathy from Tamil Nadu were also dismissed.“Since the time I filed this review petition, I have been overwhelmed with inquires from aspirants/students on social media who were desperately praying that we succeed in this review and the exams get postponed. I can only imagine the disappointment and anxiety of lakhs of such students. There were so many issues that were yet to be argued that I felt the review petition deserved at least an open court hearing. Anyways, the Supreme Court’s verdict is final and must be respected and accepted by all. I urge the students to focus all their energies on their exams and keep themselves safe at all times,” advocate Sunil Fernandes, who represented the 6 ministers before the Supreme Court said.A 3-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra , on August 17, rejected a plea by 11 NEET/ JEE candidates seeking postponement of the exams until the Covid-19 pandemic passed.The review petition against the August 17 order was filed on August 28 but was listed only on Friday.By the time the petition was listed JEE, scheduled from September 1 to 6 had commenced, thereby, rendering the prayer for postponement infructuous.NEET is scheduled to be held on September 13.The ministers challenged the August 17 order highlighting the safety and security concerns of students and the logistical difficulties in conducting the examinations. “If the order of August 17, 2020 is not reviewed, then grave and irreparable harm and injury will befall the student community of our country and not only will health, welfare and safety of students appearing for NEET/ JEE stand imperiled but also public health at large would be in severe jeopardy in these Covid -19 pandemic times,” the petition stated.A review petition is a legal remedy available after the Supreme Court has pronounced its judgment in a case. The grounds for filing a review petition are limited and the petitioners seeking review should show that new facts have come to light or that the court committed an obvious or apparent error while delivering its judgment. The review petition as per law should also be heard by the same bench which heard the main case unless any of the judges has retired from office. Justice Arun Mishra, who heard the main petition on August 17, retired on September 2 and justice Ashok Bhushan replaced him on the review bench.Justice Mishra while hearing the main case, said that “life has to go on” despite the outbreak of the viral disease and that any order from the court postponing the exams could put the careers of students in jeopardy.“Life has to move on even in Covid times. Covid may continue but postponement of exams is a loss for the country. Are you (petitioners) ready to waste a whole year,” he remarked.The review petitioners rebutted this contending that the “advice of ‘Life Must Go On’ may have very sound philosophical underpinnings but cannot be a substitute for valid legal reasoning and logical analysis of the various issues” involved in holding the exams.“Only two reasons that can be discerned from the (August 17) order for dismissal of the petition — life must go on and students should not lose an academic year. With utmost respect, both the reasons, even if cumulatively taken, do not constitute an authoritative and comprehensive judicial scrutiny of the issue,” the review petition said. On Friday, the court ruled that they indeed did.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-for-deferring-jee-neet/story-wkn13fsZlbnAfyJ2I7MtcJ.html
05-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||A week from now, perhaps a day earlier or a few days later, India will have a million active cases of the coronavirus disease. It will become the second country in the world after the US to have active cases in excess of a million — the US has around 2.5 million active cases currently (the highest it has had). Brazil, which has seen more cases than India, has never crossed 820,000 active cases. At the current pace, India will overtake Brazil early next week to become the country that has seen the second highest number of cases.The number of daily new cases of Covid-19 in the US and Brazil are off their peaks; India’s daily tally continues to rise. Some states are still not testing enough, so there’s no telling when India could reach its peak, or what that peak will be — 100,000? 120,000? Any number would be a guess. India ended Friday with 87,691 new cases, taking its overall case number to 4,016,037 and the number of active cases to 844,396. The country saw 1,056 deaths on Friday. On average, since Monday, it has recorded 1,001 deaths a day. Its case fatality rate, based on Friday evening’s numbers may be 1.7%, but in absolute terms, an average of 1,001 deaths a day is worrying. At this fatality rate, Friday’s new cases may result in 1,517 deaths — and that isn’t a small number either.These are depressing numbers to wake up to on a Saturday morning, but this is the situation India finds itself in — and a struthious mindset isn’t going to help.WHAT INDIA MUST DOTest aggressively and set targets for the statesWork with pharma companies to develop accurate antigen testsReview health care infrastructure in hinterland statesEnforce social distancing, wearing of masks, and ban public eventsEvaluate the costs and benefits of opening upMaharashtra, which along with Delhi and Tamil Nadu was among the early hot spots of the disease, continues to be one, accounting for around a fifth of the daily cases in India on average. Tamil Nadu has been on a long plateau for months. And Delhi, which saw a sharp decline in cases, followed by a slight reduction in testing, is now seeing cases increase as the local administration gets more aggressive with testing. It’s too early to say, but the Capital may well settle into the kind of long plateau Tamil Nadu is seeing. Caveat: anecdotal evidence suggests that at least some of the cases being seen in Delhi are of patients from neighbouring (and hinterland) states who are making a beeline for the Capital’s superior medical facilities. Meanwhile, cases in other states in the peninsula and the hinterland continue to rise.Six months to a day after the first local cases were recorded in India (in Delhi, in early March), it is clear that no Indian state can claim to have defeated the virus. Kerala’s early claims were more a publicity drive than anything else, and Delhi’s rejoicing in early August proved premature.NO RESPITE A week from now, India will become the second country in the world after the US to have active cases in excess of a million. At the current pace, India will also overtake Brazil early next week to become the country that has seen the second highest number of cases. The number of daily new cases in the US and Brazil are off their peaks; and India’s daily tally is continuing to rise. There’s no telling when India could reach its peak, or what that peak will be. As India crosses four million cases, this is the situation in which it finds itself. There is no certainty that a vaccine will be found by the end of the year, and be available to India. The country should work on the sourcing, distribution and administration of the vaccine, but be prepared for the eventuality of it not being available before the end of 2021. And there is no certainty that India will achieve herd immunity. Sero surveys (blood tests for antibodies) are a good way to assess prevalence of the disease, but high (or moderate) exposure levels shouldn’t lull administrations into complacency.This is the 150th instalment of this column, so I will end with five things that I believe India should do now.One, it should test widely and aggressively, set targets for the states, and insist that unless time is a constraint, only molecular tests such as RT-PCR be used.Two, it should work with pharma companies to develop quick antigen tests that are accurate (like the new Abbott Laboratories one, launched in the US), or other tests (such as the Institute of Genetics and Integrative Biology’s spectroscopic test that HT wrote about earlier this week) which can be set up in offices, airports and railway stations, and other public areas for quick and accurate testing.Three, it should review health care infrastructure, especially hospital beds with oxygen facilities and ventilators in the hinterland states which will see a spike in the coming months.Four, it should enforce social distancing, the wearing of masks, and ban all public events (even 50 people is too large a group).Five, it should carefully evaluate the costs and benefits of opening up — especially recreational facilities, public transport and schools (when India crossed a million cases, on July 16, this column recommended that the government work on giving every schoolchild who needs one, a device; there’s been no movement on this).The virus is still at large and spreading. And there’s still no cure for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-SlWhrrpQxiBptpm851DOXP.html
05-09-2020||India||At SCO meet, Rajnath Singh tells China to restore status quo at LAC||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday pushed for restoration of status quo ante at all friction points in eastern Ladakh during talks with his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe in Moscow, in the first highest level face-to-face contact between the two sides after the border row erupted in Ladakh in early May. The focus of the talks that lasted nearly two and a half hours was on ways to resolve the prolonged border standoff, sources said. Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar and Indian Ambassador to Russia D B Venkatesh Varma were part of the Indian delegation at the talks that began at around 9:30 pm(IST) at a prominent hotel in Moscow following a request from Gen. Wei. “The meeting between Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh and Chinese Defence Minister, General Wei Fenghe in Moscow is over. The meeting lasted for 2 hours and 20 minutes,” Singh’s office tweeted.Met with the Chinese Defence Minister, General Wei Fenghe in Moscow. pic.twitter.com/Jex9gKCf98 External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has previously held telephonic talks with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the border standoff. Sources said the Indian delegation strongly objected to Chinese army’s fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh and insisted on resolution of the standoff through talks. The Indian side wanted restoration of status quo ante at all friction points in eastern Ladakh, the sources said. Both Singh and Wei are in Moscow to attend a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) defence ministers which took place earlier in the day. Hours before the talks, Singh, in his address at the SCO ministerial meet, said peace and security in the region demands a climate of trust, non-aggression, peaceful resolution of differences and respect for international rules. Singh’s comments in the presence of the Chinese defence minister was seen as a veiled message to China over the border row in eastern Ladakh. In his address, Singh referred to the Second World War and said its memories teach the globe the “follies of aggression” of one state upon another that brings “destruction” to all. “Peaceful stable and secure region of SCO member states, which is home to over 40 per cent of the global population, demands a climate of trust and cooperation, non-aggression, respect for international rules and norms, sensitivity to each other’s interest and peaceful resolution of differences,” Singh said. The meeting took place amid heightened tensions between the two countries triggered by China’s fresh attempts to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake. As both sides increased deployment of troops in Ladakh, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane, wrapping up a two-day visit to the region, said the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is “tense” but added that the nation can count on the Indian Army. “The situation along the LAC is tense. We have undertaken precautionary deployment in some areas. The troops are prepared for all contingencies that may arise. All these actions have been carried out only along the LAC,” he said after holding a series of meetings with top army commanders. Separately, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said there will be no compromise on India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and asserted it cannot be “business as usual” in bilateral ties unless there is peace and tranquility in the border areas. At the same time, he said India is open to resolving outstanding issues through dialogue. “This is one of the most serious challenges we have faced in many decades,” he said, adding, “we have not seen this magnitude of amassing of forces on the border also in recent years”. Shringla was speaking at an Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA) webinar. In the meantime, Brigade commanders of Indian and Chinese armies held a nearly three-hour-long interaction near Chushul in eastern Ladakh, exploring ways to bring down tensions. The outcome of the interaction is not immediately known. Three rounds of Brigade commander-level talks between the two armies earlier this week remained inconclusive. Tensions flared up again in eastern Ladakh after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake five days ago when the two sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks to resolve the prolonged border row. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has strongly objected to India’s move. However, India has maintained that the strategic heights are on its side of the LAC. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following China’s transgression attempts. Following China’s fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake, India has further bolstered its military presence in the region. “It was very satisfying to see our soldiers and local commanders in high morale and good health. It gives me confidence that they are well prepared to safeguard the territorial integrity of our nation. The Indian Army is known for its commitment and resolve,” Gen. Naravane said. “We will continue to utilise all existing mechanisms to reduce tension and to ensure that the status quo is not unilaterally changed,” he added. “Over the past three months, both sides are engaged in resolving the situation. Military and diplomatic channels are functioning. Indian side is firmly committed to resolve the current situation along the LAC through engagement,” Gen. Naravane said. In a statement, the Army said Gen. Naravane interacted with soldiers and local commanders deployed in difficult high-altitude forward areas. It said he appreciated their high morale and standards of professionalism exhibited by the units in safeguarding the country’s territorial integrity. The Army chief was briefed about the overall security scenario by Lt Gen. YK Joshi, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Northern Command, and Lt Gen. Harinder Singh, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. In Beijing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing earlier in the day that on issues left over from history, like the boundary issue, China always believes finding a fair, reasonable, mutually acceptable solution through peaceful consultations. The tension between the two sides escalated manifold after the violent clashes in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-sco-meet-rajnath-singh-tells-china-to-restore-status-quo-at-lac/story-ylvhTnX21W0A9A8nEsFRRK.html
05-09-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee’s gesture to save East Bengal football club has a political connotation||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has helped the century-old East Bengal football club to land an investor thereby removing the biggest hurdle in the club’s path to play in the Indian Super League (ISL), India’s top football league. As the announcement was being made at the state secretariat on Wednesday and the program aired live on the Trinamool Congress’ social networking page, congratulatory messages were popping up with the club’s fans hailing the Trinamool Congress chief for her efforts to “save the club from being a refugee”. “In their 100th year, East Bengal were nearly deprived of playing in ISL. Mohun Bagan had signed an agreement (to play in ISL) earlier but there was a lot of uncertainty over East Bengal. It was not desirable that millions of their supporters would be deprived,” Banerjee had said while making the announcement from the state secretariat. Political experts said that even though the initiative might have helped Banerjee and her party strike a chord with the club’s millions of fans in one go and woo the sentiments of football-loving Bengalis, they were skeptical whether such efforts would materialise into electoral gains in the crucial 2021 elections. “This would surely help her to strike a chord with the East Bengal club’s fans and gain some political mileage over the BJP in the tussle over establishing control over the clubs. But I don’t think it would give her any electoral mileage in the 2021 elections. Elections are not fought over which party is helping a football club,” said Udayan Bandyopadhyay, professor of political science at Kolkata’s Bangabasi College. Experts said that control over the clubs is an age old practice among the ruling parties. The CPIM did it in the past when it was in power in the state. The BJP does it at the centre and the TMC is doing this at the state level. The BJP’s Bengal unit which had been nibbling at every opportunity to make inroads into the Trinamool Congress’s support base in West Bengal had also been trying to score brownie points in the tussle over the clubs. The party had been trying hard over the past few years to find solution for the crisis the East Bengal and Mohan Bagan clubs have been facing. While in 2017 had written to the Prime Minister requesting his intervention to include Mohun Bagan and East Bengal in the ISL, a year ago the two clubs had approached BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya to find a solution. “Mamata Banerjee knows very well that he is losing ground and her popularity is fading among the youths of Bengal. So she is trying to make every effort to woo them. By these stunts won’t help,” said Rahul Sinha, national secretary of the BJP. And it was not just East Bengal. Banerjee on Wednesday also tried to touch the emotional chord of millions of football loving Bengalis saying that her government is planning to come up with three gates in Kolkata after the three top football clubs – East Bengal, Mohun Bagan and Mohammedan Sporting - in Kolkata. Political experts however feel that such efforts may have given the TMC some edge over its opposition but won’t fetch votes when it comes to elections which are fought out based on hard realities. “In a democratic country, clubs and organsiations should run in an autonomous manner. But that hardly happens now-a-days. The reason is two-fold. While on one hand the clubs lack powerful leaders and need an umbrella for their existence which they get from the ruling party, on the other hand the ruling party also gives them patronage and interfere to grab more power. It’s a symbiotic relation,” said psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty, a professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University. Even though the club was formed in 1920 in Kolkata, the founding fathers of East Bengal hailed from Bangladesh (then known as East Bengakl). As a result it was though that a sizeable chunk of the people who came to settle in India from Bangladesh after the 1971 war, were East Bengal fans. Many of them settled in north Bengal and hence north Bengal has a chunk of the club’s fan base. Interestingly the TMC is eyeing for north Bengal in the coming elections as the BJP had won seven out of the eight seats in the region and the Congress bagging one in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-gesture-to-save-east-bengal-football-club-has-a-political-connotation/story-UqDcw8effeppXvJdUSpatL.html
05-09-2020||India||Covid-19 test mandatory for lawmakers attending Telangana assembly session from Monday||Lawmakers of Telangana have to test negative for Covid-19 if they want to attend the monsoon session of the state assembly beginning on September 7. This was announced by speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy on Friday, while speaking to reporters on the preparedness for the assembly session. He said it was mandatory for all MLAs and MLCs to undergo tests for Covid-19 and only those who produced certificates to prove that they had tested negative for the virus would be allowed to attend the session. “Even if the MLAs do not have fever but are suffering from cold and cough, it is better they avoid attending the assembly,” he said. Reddy said similar conditions would be applicable to the police, assembly staff members, department officials and employees and even mediapersons covering the session. “Before the commencement of the session, they should compulsorily undergo tests for Covid-19. They should produce certificates showing that they tested negative. Only then would they be given passes for entering the assembly,” the speaker said. He said already two of the 119 MLAs had tested negative and others had undergone tests but were awaiting reports. They should come to the assembly premises only with negative reports. “No permission would be given for personal assistants of MLAs, but the personal secretaries of ministers would be allowed to attend the session,” Reddy said. He said all the lawmakers would be given a medical kit that comprises an oximeter, thermometer and sanitiser. “If the blood oxygen percentage is less than 90, they should not come to the assembly at all,” the speaker said. Facilities like thermal screening and sanitisers would be provided at the entrance itself. Thorough sanitisation of the premises would be done twice a day in the morning and the evening. “Even microphone to be used by the member would be sanitised. Unlike in the past, only one MLA would be allowed to sit in one seat. We are hoping that the session would run for 20-21 days,” the speaker said. He appealed to the legislators and others who come to the premises not to visit the residences of their friends and relatives and attend any functions during the period of the assembly session. “No visitor would be allowed to the assembly during the session. Even the visitors’ gallery would be allotted to media persons. There is no separate media point for the MLAs and ministers to address the media this time,” he said. To be on the safe side, ambulances, doctors and paramedical staff would also be kept ready in the assembly premises in case of any emergency for anybody, Reddy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-test-mandatory-for-lawmakers-attending-telangana-assembly-session-from-monday/story-Kx3HOGJ0kzJ2oGLkERFwiN.html
05-09-2020||India||Covid-19: 4 million milestone paints a grim picture nationally||The number of total Covid-19 cases in India surpassed the 4 million-mark on Friday with little sign of the virus’s pace slowing in the country. States with a large number of cases, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka (Nos 1, 2, 3, 4 by cases), continue to exhibit signs that the contagion is spreading fast with no peak in sight, according to data analysed by HT. States such as Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Punjab face the risk of becoming the new hot spots due to a rapid increase in new cases, rising positivity rates and (in the first two) low testing.To identify the new hot spots of the outbreak, HT analysed data from India’s 20 most populous regions, looking for three factors — a rising positivity rate, a high growth rate of daily cases, and low tests per million residents — that have marked all hot spots globally. A similar analysis by HT on July 27 identified Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar as possible outbreak states – and all reported a sharp increase in cases through August.Delhi, the only region in the country that had reported a clear turnaround with performance improving on the three parameters at the beginning of August, saw its performance drop in two of these parameters – it has seen a significant resurgence of daily cases coupled with a rise in positivity rate. To be sure, with improved testing, the Capital has been showing glimpses of improved numbers in the past few days.Bihar, meanwhile, appears to have set an example of how a state can improve its numbers by aggressively improving testing numbers as both its doubling and positivity rates improved. CASE RATEThe rate of increase in cases for a region is generally measured by what is known as doubling rate — the number of days it takes for the total infections in the region to double (the higher the number, the better).At 13.7 days, Chhattisgarh has the worst doubling rate in India and is one of only three states that have seen this metric worsen in the past month (the other two being Haryana and Delhi). It is followed by Jharkhand (16.5 days), Odisha (22 days), and Punjab (24.1 days). To be sure, the national doubling rate is 32.4 days, which has improved from 20.7 days at the start of August, but this has come even as the quantum of cases has risen sharply – India had 1.7 million cases at the start of August and was adding around 55,000 cases a day; this has since increased to around 80,000 daily cases in the last week or so.Among the major hot spots, Karnataka features in the bottom quartile with a doubling rate of 27.2 days. Andhra Pradesh has a doubling rate of 28.6 days. The doubling rate in Maharashtra, the country’s worst-hit state, is only slightly above the national average – 34.6 days. In Tamil Nadu, the plateau of cases is evident in its relatively better doubling rate — 48.3 days.The resurgence of cases in Delhi, meanwhile, has seen its doubling rate drop from nearly 90 days to 57.7 days – the biggest change among the states analysed. However, it still has the best doubling rate in India.Bihar’s doubling rate went from one of the worst in the country in August (11.9 days) to 49.4 days on September 3, the third highest. POSITIVITY RATE AND TESTINGIn 12 of the 20 states analysed, the positivity rate – the proportion of people testing positive to those tested – increased in the last month. Positivity rate shows how widespread the virus is in the region, and when coupled with a rise in new cases, indicates that the virus is spreading fast.Maharashtra continues to have the highest 7-day average positivity rate in the country at 21.7% (up 3.4 percentage points in the last month; the data is for the week ended September 3). Even at the start of August, the state had the highest positivity rate in the country, a statistic that highlights the magnitude of the challenge that faces the western state.Andhra Pradesh, with the second highest caseload in India, has the second highest positivity rate as well — 17.1% (up 2.3 percentage points). Chhattisgarh has the third-worst positivity rate – 13.8% over the last week (an increase of 8.1 percentage points). Though Karnataka’s positivity rate dropped 3 points to 12.9%, it remains in the worst performing zone. Delhi, meanwhile, saw an increase of positivity rate from 5.9% to 9% — which means the Capital had the fifth worst figure in the country.In Punjab, the positivity rate increased 1.8 percentage points (from 6.3% for the week ended August 1 to 8.1%) over the last month.For the week ending September 2, 7.7% of tests came back positive across the country (an improvement of 2.9% from August 1). In total, 8.4% of tests have come back positive across the country till date.Bihar, meanwhile, witnessed the biggest improvement in positivity rate. For the week ending August 1, 14% of the tests were positive for Covid-19 in the state; this dropped to 1.7% for the week ending September 3. Much of this is because of the increased rate of testing – average daily tests in the state went from 20,000 at the start of August to 113,000 by September.In terms of testing rate, Madhya Pradesh was at the bottom, with 17,554 tests performed per million of the population, followed by West Bengal (20,853) against the national average of 35,020. Chhattisgarh was again among the worst performers, with the third lowest testing rate – 21,430. It was followed by UP (26,893) and Jharkhand (27,206).Testing, however, is a parameter that offers hope for residents of Delhi (84,251 tests per million, the highest in India), Andhra Pradesh (74,793), and Karnataka (47,477) — all perform much better than the national average of 35,020 tests per million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4mn-milestone-paints-a-grim-picture-nationally/story-yb6x54tUOtLZBaYQIkNjeK.html
05-09-2020||India||In message to China, India cautions against aggression||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday held talks with his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe on the sidelines of the ongoing Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow at a time when the two nuclear powers have been locked in a bitter border row in eastern Ladakh for around four months, officials familiar with the developments said.In the highest level of government contact between India and China since the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) unilaterally changed the status quo on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in May, the two ministers are understood to have discussed the border stalemate and the way forward to reduce military tensions in the Ladakh sector. The Chinese side had sought the meeting, the officials said.The meeting, details of which were yet to emerge at the time of going to press, came days after fresh tension erupted in the Ladakh sector following provocative Chinese actions on the southern bank of Pangong Lake and India’s counter-manoeuvres to occupy key heights that offer the Indian Army a sweeping view of Chinese military activity in the area.Hours before meeting Wei, Singh, while speaking at an SCO ministerial meeting in Moscow, underscored the need for countries in the SCO region to be sensitive to each other’s interests and resolve differences peacefully, with a climate of trust, non-aggression, sensitivity towards each other.The comments were made in the presence of Fenghe.“Peaceful stable and secure region of SCO member states – which is home to over 40% of global population, demands a climate of trust and cooperation, non-aggression, respect for international rules and norms, sensitivity to each other’s interest and peaceful resolution of differences,” Singh tweeted, summing up his address at the combined meeting of defence ministers of SCO, Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) member states.“I reaffirm today that India is committed to the evolution of a global security architecture which will be open, transparent, inclusive, rules-based and anchored in international laws... This year marks the 75th anniversary of the end of the Second World War as well as the formation of the United Nations, which underpins a peaceful world, where international laws and sovereignty of states are respected and states refrain from unilateral aggression on another,” Singh was quoted by PTI as saying in his address.Singh and his Chinese counterpart met on a day Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the situation along the LAC was “delicate and serious”, and soldiers were prepared for any contingency. In Ladakh for a security review, Naravane said India would use existing mechanisms to reduce tensions and ensure that the status quo along the LAC is not unilaterally changed. The army chief said the Indian side was firmly committed to resolving the current situation through dialogue. The external affairs ministry on Thursday blamed China for the tensions along the LAC over the past four months and said the only way forward was through negotiations.In July, Singh said the progress in negotiations with China should help resolve the ongoing border dispute but he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved”.Tensions flared in the Ladakh sector after the Indian Army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake to stop the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.The PLA made another provocative move on August 31, targeting these positions but the Indian Army’s swift defensive action thwarted the Chinese attempt. Both sides have concentrated a significant number of soldiers, tanks and artillery pieces; and are within each other’s rifle range.The Indian Army has readjusted its deployments at multiple points along the LAC, including the northern bank of Pangong Lake, to prevent the PLA from making aggressive moves to unilaterally alter the status quo in contested areas.In his address earlier during the day, Singh also flagged concerns about the situation in the Persian Gulf region. He said: “India has vital interests and links of civilisation and culture with all states in the Gulf. We call upon countries in the region – all of which are dear and friendly to India, to resolve differences by dialogue based on mutual respect, sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs of each other.” Singh said the security situation in Afghanistan was a matter of concern and New Delhi would continue to support the efforts of the people and Afghan government for an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled inclusive peace process.Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Friday termed the ongoing border tension with China as “unprecedented situation” and said that India remains firmly committed to preserving its territorial integrity and sovereignty.“It is an unprecedented situation; we have never had this kind of situation since 1962. We have lost for the first time, lives of soldiers which has not happened in the last 40 years,” Shringla said while speaking at the Indian Council for World Affairs (ICWA) webinar on India-China border issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-message-to-china-india-cautions-against-aggression/story-ARiPifkWi7x1UkgqgGI2hM.html
05-09-2020||India||Andhra poll panel chief seeks CBI probe into a state CID case filed against him||More than a month after being reinstated as the Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner (SEC), following a prolonged legal battle with the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government, retired IAS officer Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Friday moved the high court again seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against the state Crime Investigation Department (CID).In a petition, the SEC brought to the notice of the court that the Director-General of Police and the CID authorities had filed a false and frivolous case against him on April 21 at the behest of the ruling YSR Congress party.He requested that the high court directs the Central government to order an inquiry through any Central agency, preferably the CBI, into the case filed against the SEC by the CID.Ramesh Kumar also wanted the court to stop the state government, the DGP and the CID authorities from interfering with the functioning of the election commission, thereby stifling its autonomy guaranteed under Article 243 K of the Constitution of India, as being illegal, manifestly arbitrary and in contravention of the spirit of Article 243K of the Constitution.He also asked the court to quash the FIR registered against the SEC and grant a stay on the CID inquiry, pending disposal of the petition. All the material seized by the CID from the office of the SEC be returned forthwith, Ramesh Kumar said.The petition is likely to come up for hearing on September 7.It may be mentioned that the CID, based on a complaint lodged by YSRC general secretary V Vijay Sai Reddy, registered a case on April 21. The CID charged Ramesh Kumar with forcing his staff at the SEC to destroy certain files in the office computer pertaining to his complaint to the Union home secretary seeking protection by the central agency. Ramesh Kumar wrote to the Union ministry stating that he needed security form central forces as he was facing threat to his life from the YSRC leaders. He pointed out that none other than chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy himself made wild allegations against him and his cabinet colleagues had used abusive and threatening language against the SEC.As part of the investigation, the CID seized the central processing unit (CPU), scanner and laptop of the SEC, postal register and mobile phone of one of the employees K Samba Murthy, who allegedly erased all the files in the system. Ramesh Kumar expressed the apprehension that the seizure was aimed at tampering with the election process that was underway.Subsequently, the Jagan government removed Ramesh Kumar from the SEC post through an ordinance but the latter moved the high court challenging the same. After a prolonged battle in the high court and later in the Supreme Court, the Jagan government reinstated him as the SEC on July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-poll-panel-chief-seeks-cbi-probe-into-a-state-cid-case-filed-against-him/story-CN3BnQuWEUmUfImvAYAcOP.html
05-09-2020||India||Man arrested for rape-murder of 3-year-old UP girl||A man accused of raping and killing a three-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district was arrested after an encounter with the police on Friday, police said.The accused, identified as Lekhram, 35, from the girl’s village, sustained a bullet injury on his leg during the gunfight near Bamhanpur village in Nighasan area in the district. He was rushed to Nighasan health centre, where he is undergoing treatment and his condition is said to be stable. A policeman from the special weapons and tactics (SWAT) team also suffered minor bullet injuries in Friday’s encounter that was led by the district police chief, Satendra Kumar.Deputy superintendent of police, Nighasan, Pradeep Kumar Verma confirmed the arrest.The girl’s body was found in a sugarcane field near her village under Singhai police station limits of the district on Thursday, a day after she was reported missing by her family. Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of police, Satendra Kumar, said on Friday the post-mortem examination had confirmed sexual assault. “The postmortem report has confirmed rape... strict action will be taken against the accused,” he said, adding: “If needed, NSA will also be invoked against the accused.”The girl died after being strangled, according to the postmortem report.Kumar said that IPC section 376, pertaining to rape, and charges under the protection of children from sexual offences (POCSO) Act had been added to the FIR on the basis of the findings of the post-mortem report.The police initially suspected it to be a murder over enmity between two families. The girl’s father had then accused Lekhram in the FIR filed on Wednesday, the day the girl had gone missing.This is the third such incident reported from the Kheri district in recent weeks. Last month, two men were arrested for allegedly raping and killing a 13-year-old girl in Isanagar police station area of the district. On August 25,the body of a 17-year-old Dalit girl was found in a pond outside her village under Neemgaon police station limits in the district. She was allegedly raped and killed near her village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-rape-murder-of-3-year-old-up-girl/story-sdXunt6g3KH06IrUgQ5q1M.html
05-09-2020||India||Declassified White House tapes: Criticism over Richard Nixon’s racist, sexist remarks||Richard M Nixon, the late president who left the White House in disgrace, used racist and sexist language to vent his frustration with India over the 1971 War, especially Indian women, possibly triggered by his well-known antipathy towards then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, according to recently declassified White House tapes.The comments have come under severe criticism from the Indian community in the US, and bodies representing them have described the statements as “appalling” but in line with Nixon’s “bigoted views”.“Undoubtedly the most unattractive women in the world are the Indian women,” Nixon said in June 1971, adding, for emphasis, “Undoubtedly.”He continued: “The most senseless, nothing, these people. I mean, people say, what about the Black Africans? Well, you can see something, the vitality there, I mean they have a little animal-like charm, but God, those Indians, ack, pathetic. Uch.”The tapes show that Nixon told his National Security Adviser Henry Kissinger: “To me, they turn me off. How the hell do they turn other people on, Henry? Tell me.”These remarks are from a fresh lot of declassified White House recordings obtained by Gary Bass, writer of “The Blood Telegram”, the seminal book about the independence of Bangladesh, and they were reported by him first for The New York Times on Thursday.Indira Gandhi had met Nixon ahead of the 1971 war that broke out in December with India liberating Bangladesh — then East Pakistan — from Pakistan. The United States had sided with Pakistan in that war and Nixon had sent the Sixth Fleet to intimidate India.Nixon’s antipathy for Gandhi and Indians has been reported before. He had used foul language to describe the late PM in an earlier lot of recordings declassified in 2005. He had also used insulting language for Indians, calling them “a slippery, treacherous people”.In the recently declassified tapes, Nixon used explicitly racist and sexist comments. “They turn me off, he said for Indians. “They are repulsive and it’s just easy to be tough with them.”On November 12, 1971, in another conversation the president said, “I don’t know how they reproduce.”The shockingly insulting language used by the then US president for Indians is in character for Nixon. “I was appalled when I learned about the prejudice against Indians and people of other nationalities exhibited by a former American president and his national security adviser,” said Sanjeev Joshipura, the executive director of Indiaspora, a group that works with the Indian diaspora. “We already knew about Nixon’s and Kissinger’s bigoted views, but the visceral nature of these comments does not behove American government leaders, and is extremely offensive to so many around the world! Moreover, it is disgustingly unprofessional to conduct foreign policy and global diplomacy hinging upon the base instincts of humankind.”“Thankfully,” he added, “the tone and trajectory of US-India relations today is the polar opposite of the attitudes expressed by Nixon and Kissinger.”There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the new tapes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criticism-over-nixon-s-racist-sexist-remarks/story-RL7mz6Nt3PpPfElKqDQ6RO.html
05-09-2020||India||Marking two years of freedom||When the Supreme Court decriminalised homosexuality in 2018, it was a burst of relief for Nikesh Usha Pushkaran after a decade of battling depression, anxiety and bigotry. The 36-year businessman from Kerala came out as gay to his parents and friends in 2009, only to be stung by hostility. He tried to convince them with literature and science that homosexuality was natural and not a disease, but social strictures in conservative Thrissur and Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code – which outlawed “unnatural” sex against the order of nature – swayed their opinion. The prejudice was cemented when the top court in 2013 upheld the 160-year-old colonial law. “I cried all day,” he said. On the morning of September 6, 2018, Nikesh and his partner Sonu, an IT professional, woke up early and parked themselves in front of the television. The couple had got married in July that year in a private ceremony but kept it under wraps, fearing the wrath of family and society. “When the judgment started flashing, I was so happy. India got freedom in 1947. But September 6 was when people like us got freedom,” he said. They came out as a gay couple shortly afterwards, to public adulation and brickbats. “I used to be so afraid to tell anyone I am gay but the verdict gave us the courage,” he said. On September 6, 2018 – responding to 34 petitions – the top court read down Section 377 in the Navtej Johar and Others vs Union of India case. The judgment by a five-judge Constitution Bench lifted a veil of ignominy, violence and bias. Two years down the line, the verdict’s impact is still being felt and while bias hasn’t disappeared – the suicide of a 21-year-old student in May after months of conversion therapy a prime example – the decriminalisation has spurred many ordinary LGBT persons to approach the courts on issues ranging from employment and identity to marriage and police protection.Nikesh is one of them. In January this year, the couple challenged the Special Marriage Act 1954 before the Kerala high court and demanded legal recognition for same-sex marriage. “We all came into the world in the same way so why do heterosexuals have more rights than me? This is not fair,” he said. The case may come up for hearing this month. His hope is not unfounded. In April 2019, the Madras high court upheld the marriage of a transwoman by deciding that the word “bride” in the Hindu Marriage Act encompassed transgender women. The case, Arunkumar vs the Inspector General of Registration, relied on the Navtej Johar judgment as well the top court’s landmark 2014 decision that affirmed the rights of transgender people (National Legal Services Authority vs Union of India).When asked what moved them to go to the court, Arunkumar and his wife Sreeja had a simple answer – they wanted their marriage to be legal and on the same footing as anyone else’s. “This will set an example,” she said. Long battleFor two decades, the battle for LGBT rights in India coalesced around Section 377, which was seen as the root issue for a series of problems – violent “therapy” to cure homosexuality, forced marriages, violence by police or state, lack of access to health care or education. After September 2018, the overarching issue has been replaced by a number of issues important to different groups. “The LGBTQI community after the 377 decision has not articulated anything concrete. While different groups may have certain different concerns… what is unifying is the need for recognition of equality for all…an overarching equality and non-discrimination law is needed in the country,” said Jayna Kothari, a senior SC advocate. The Centre for Law and Policy Research, an organisation that she co-founded, has taken cases related to reservations and concessions in age and cut-off marks for transpersons in police force to the Madras high court, among others. Internationally, too, the 2018 judgment made waves. It was cited in anti-sodomy law challenges in Kenya, Singapore and Botswana – and in the last case, the challenge was successful and the high court of Bostwana decriminalised homosexuality in 2019. Back home, the judgment encouraged a clutch of LGBT persons to approach lower courts to demand police protection from their families or demand constitutional rights. In August this year, the Odisha high court ruled in favour of a 24-year-old transman and his woman partner, saying the two had the right to live with other and relied on the 2014 and 2018 judgments of the apex court. In the last two years, reports of violence against LGBT people, especially transgender persons, have poured in from across India.Moreover, as legal researcher Gowthaman Ranganathan argued, a number of other laws such as anti-beggary, anti-sex work and obscenity statutes exist on the books and police often use them to intimidate LGBT persons. “Plus a host of issues around employment, discrimination, workplace harassment, education have also become LGBT issues. There is a western logic that decriminalisation leads to marriage and inheritance rights. India has a great opportunity to break that logic, focus on questions of basic rights and benefit the most marginalised,” said Ranganathan, currently at the University of Texas, Austin. In his opinion, formal declarations by court – such as in the Navtej Johar judgment – are helpful, but how they play out in everyday life or in police station often varies. This was visible in the Uttarakhand high court in June, when a single-judge bench upheld the right of same-sex couples to live together. The judgment – which came on a habeas corpus petition by one of the partners – was widely hailed in the press and legal circles, but what was largely unreported is that the petition itself failed because the other partner decided to go back to her family after coercion and pressure, reportedly from her parents. Fear and longingFew people embody the dichotomy of the promise and perils faced by the LGBT community better than Delhi residents Kajal and Bhawna [both go by their first name].Kajal, a 26-year-old Dalit woman and Bhawna, a 21-year-old woman who belongs to an Other Backward Class decided to live together after reading about the Supreme Court verdict in an Instagram post. “We felt, we’re not criminals anymore. No one can stop us now,” Kajal said.Yet, barely a few months later, they sought the protection of the Delhi high court. They asked the court to protect their constitutional right to live with a partner of their choice, and said that Bhawna’s family was threatening to harm them.“One of Bhawna’s relatives threatened to kill me and my family members,” Kajal said. Bhawna who grew up facing gender-based discrimination at home was assaulted by members of her family after her relationship came to light. They stopped her from going to college, confiscated her phone and kept her virtually imprisoned.In May 2019, the court ruled that they were free to live with each other, being consenting adults, and provided them police protection. In a later hearing, however, it also asked Bhawna to keep in touch with her family, and withdrew police protection.A year later, Bhawna still faces harassment from her family members. They turned up outside her college in February, while she gave her exams.“My family approached the principal of my college and asked for her help to send me home. So I told the principal that I am a lesbian, and that the Delhi high court has given me an order that allows me to live with my partner. The principal said, no one will touch you,” Bhawna said.“I’m always afraid that my family members will turn up. But the shelter home [where the couple stayed last year after the court order] was amazing to us. I am so thankful for the people who help us to be together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marking-two-years-of-freedom/story-AEFGN8bwX8E0qiyrKBy0UI.html
05-09-2020||India||Review Prashant Bhushan case: BCI to Delhi bar council||The Bar Council of India has asked the Bar Council of Delhi to examine the contempt case conviction and Re 1 fine imposed on Prashant Bhushan by the Supreme Court and take a decision on his role as a lawyer.“Pursuant to the conviction in a criminal case, the Bar Council of India (BCI) can suspend the enrolment, if it so desires,” the judgment said in paragraph 89. The Bar Council of India has now cited the top court’s judgment to ask the Bar Council of Delhi, where Bhushan is enrolled, to examine his tweets mentioned in the case and take action as per law.“The BCI is of the view that the tweets and statements made by Prashant Bhushan and the judgment of the Supreme Court needs thorough study and examination… the General Council of the BCI has unanimously resolved to direct the Bar Council of Delhi, where Bhushan is enrolled as an advocate, to examine the matter and proceed as per law and decide the same as expeditiously as possible,” a statement issued by BCI stated.The Bar Council of a state grants licence to a person to practise as a lawyer and has powers such as suspending or taking away the right of its members in certain situations.Section 24A of the Advocates Act provides that a person shall not be admitted as an advocate on roll of the bar council of the concerned state if he/she is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude. Section 35 of the Act lays down that if an advocate is found guilty of professional or other misconduct, such advocate can be suspended from practice for a limited period or their license can be cancelled altogether. Bhushan was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/review-bhushan-case-bci-to-delhi-bar-council/story-Isfc0DpLEHpcgSE7Lz1VJN.html
05-09-2020||India||Economy to LAC: Opposition charts plan to corner Centre||The Centre’s inability to pay GST compensation to the states, the ongoing border issue in Ladakh between India and China, allegations of Facebook playing favourites when it comes to the Bharatiya Janata Party, and the economic situation arising out of the pandemic will be the focus of the Opposition parties when they meet next week, leaders involved in the discussions said on Friday.Barring last-minute changes, the web meeting, visualised as a show of strength is scheduled for next week, ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament that starts on September 14. The date for the meeting is yet to be finalised.At least 20 opposition parties are likely to meet, which may be chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi with the immediate objective of identifying pressing issues and to look at the possibility of launching a people’s movement on key economic issues faced by people under the current regime. A similar meeting took place on May 22 to discuss the Modi government’s decision to impose a federal lockdown to slow the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. In that meeting, the opposition parties described the ₹20 lakh crore stimulus package announced by the government as a “cruel joke” on the country and noted that “the spirit of federalism is all but forgotten” in the NDA regime.Leaders of the Congress, Janata Dal (Secular), Shiv Sena, Trinamool Congress, JMM, NCP, DMK, CPIM, CPI, Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), RJD, IUML, National Conference, AIUDF and RLD are expected to join the meeting.The Centre’s inability to pay GST compensation to the states is set to be one of the key issues that will be raised by states ruled by non-BJP parties. The Centre has offered two options before the states to meet the ₹2.35 lakh crore-shortfall in GST revenues in the current fiscal. One involves the states borrowing ₹97000 crore from a special window of the Reserve Bank of India, with the interest and principal to be paid from the compensation cess collected on luxury and sin products. Another involves the states borrowing the entire shortfall of ₹2.35 lakh crore shortfall under the special window, but paying the interest themselves. Many non-BJP ruled states have expressed their displeasure with both options. They want the centre to borrow to make good the shortfall. The states also blame the Narendra Modi government for economic mismanagement. India’s GDP fell by 23.9% in April-June quarter. The upcoming meeting will seek to start campaign on these key issues but it will look for a suitable method due to Covid-related restrictions. The leaders have identified the government’s “failure in both containing pandemic and providing relief”, the imperative to “protect constitutional order which is being eroded” and the immediate need for e “immediate relief to people” in the backdrop of the economic woes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-to-lac-opposition-charts-plan-to-corner-centre/story-elS4ZMpOS1TGp4DYqOlDyJ.html
05-09-2020||India||Can’t be business as usual: Foreign secy on China ties||The situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is “unprecedented” and it “cannot be business as usual” in the relationship with China until the status quo is restored on the disputed border, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Friday. The standoff on the LAC is one of the most serious challenges India has faced in several decades and the current “magnitude of amassing of forces” on the border has not been witnessed in recent years, Shringla said while speaking on the theme of Indian diplomacy amid the Covid-19 pandemic during a lecture organised by the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA). “We have had an unprecedented situation on the India-China border, we have never had this sort of situation since 1962. We have lost the lives of soldiers which has not happened in the last 40 years,” he said, referring to the brief but bitter border war fought almost six decades ago. “We have also seen that there has been an attempt to take unilateral action that seems to be an effort to change facts on the ground. We will be firm and resolute in resisting this, and as far as we are concerned, there will be no compromise on our sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Shringla said hours ahead of a planned meeting between the Indian and Chinese defence ministers on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow. Though India remains willing to talk with China and has kept the lines of communication open amid the pandemic, Shringla warned that it “cannot be business as usual unless there is peace and tranquillity in our border areas”. He added, “The normal bilateral relationship will be affected. There is a linkage between what is happening on the border and our larger relationship and that fact is very, very evident.” The only way to take things forward will be “revert to the status quo that existed before such aggressive actions took place” and to de-escalate and disengage front-line troops, he said. India have held several rounds of talks at the military and diplomatic level and even contacts between the two foreign ministers and Special Representatives on border issues haven’t led to a breakthrough since the standoff emerged in the open in May. Following a fresh face-off on the south bank of Pangong Lake, there have been four rounds on inconclusive talks between brigade commanders on the ground. Shringla described the standoff as “one of the most serious challenges we have faced in many decades” but India remains committed to preserving its territorial integrity and sovereignty. He also focused on how India’s foreign policy is coping with the challenges brought on by the pandemic, which he described as “perhaps the greatest shock to the international system since World War 2”. The Covid-19 crisis has made India take a close look at the fundamental drivers of globalisation and the deficiencies and limitations of the existing global system, he added. At a time when every country is looking at its own interests, there is a need for some sort of balance and to broaden the agenda of the international system and institutions, he said. The world order also has to focus on ensuring that a Covid-19 vaccine is accessible and affordable, and that there is “some level of equitable distribution” for it, he added. India also has been at the forefront of digital diplomacy because its “global spread of interests and stakes makes us vulnerable on many fronts”, Shringla said. The government is now working to make the country the nerve centre of global supply chains and promoting it as an alternative manufacturing hub and innovation destination, he said. The government remains committed to its “neighbourhood first” policy, Shringla said. However, he acknowledged that the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) had taken a back seat to the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (Bimstec) because “one of our neighbours has been consistently involved in blocking Saarc in all of its constructive activities”. Though Shringla didn’t name any country, it was obvious he was referring to Pakistan. Bimstec, he said, had emerged as an alternative mechanism because it was a vital link between South and Southeast Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-be-business-as-usual-foreign-secy-on-china-ties/story-IcjQD9knNNpxL2hgy8LO8O.html
05-09-2020||India||Brics wary of global conflicts||The Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping on Friday expressed concern at violence and conflicts in different parts of the world and said such situations should be resolved peacefully through political dialogue. The joint statement issued after a virtual meeting of Brics foreign ministers didn’t refer to any particular conflict, and the grouping has a convention of not taking up bilateral issues between its members. However, the meeting was held against the backdrop of the months-long border standoff between India and China, two of the grouping’s key members. “The ministers expressed concerns at the rise of violence and continuing conflicts in different parts of the world that have significant impact at both the regional and international levels,” the joint statement said. “They concurred that, irrespective of their historic background and distinctive nature, conflicts should be resolved by peaceful means and diplomatic engagement through political dialogue and negotiations in line with principles and norms of international law, particularly the UN Charter,” it added. The ministers pointed to the UN Security Council resolution 2532 of 2020 demanding a general and immediate cessation of hostilities in all situations, with the exception of operations against terror groups sanctioned by the Security Council, and calling for a “durable humanitarian pause” amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The ministers also “underlined the imperative of dialogue to address increasing international peace and security challenges through political and diplomatic means”, the joint statement said. A readout from the external affairs ministry said the discussions at the meeting centred round an overview of the global situation, including “new threats and challenges” and “regional hot spots”. The Brics meeting was to have been held in Moscow on September 11 but was advanced to Friday and made a virtual event after the foreign ministers of Brazil and South Africa said they couldn’t travel because of the pandemic. Besides external affairs minister S Jaishankar, it was joined by China’s Wang Yi, Russia’s Sergey Lavrov, who chaired the meeting. Brazil’s Ernesto Araújo, and South Africa’s Grace Naledi Pandor. Jaishankar spoke to Wang soon after the June 15 clash at Galwan Valley, and the two leaders have joined several virtual multilateral meetings. Jaishankar and Wang are also expected to meet on the margins of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow on September 10. The foreign ministers also discussed Brics cooperation at international forums, including on key issues on the 75 UN General Assembly agenda, and reviewed progress in activities under the grouping. Jaishankar said Brics has an important role to play in the wake of grave challenges in the economic, political, social and health fields. He highlighted India’s “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” initiative to foster mutually beneficial global economic engagement in economy, infrastructure, technology, demography and demand. He also emphasised the need to reform the UN to reflect global realities and called for expansion of the Security Council in the permanent and non-permanent categories. He also called for reformed multilateralism, including reform of international bodies such as the WTO, IMF and WHO. Jaishankar also highlighted the issue of terrorism and sought enhanced Brics cooperation in countering it. He expressed satisfaction at the conclusion of the Brics counter-terrorism strategy. India is set to become the Brics chair in 2021, and Jaishankar said the country will continue to strengthen cooperation under the grouping’s three pillars of political and security cooperation, economics and trade and people-to-people contacts. The ministers also reaffirmed support for a transparent, open, inclusive and non-discriminatory rules-based multilateral trading system, as embodied by the WTO, the joint statement said. They appreciated the role of the New Development Bank (NDB) in infrastructure and sustainable development financing and welcomed the NDB Board of Governors’ decision to establish an emergency assistance facility of up to $10 billion and the approval of four loans for a total of $4 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-wary-of-global-conflicts/story-DEdpmDcY6ZG2dnndgyQiDL.html
05-09-2020||India||Khaki should evoke pride, not fear: PM Modi||The humane side of the police has come to the fore during the Covid-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told a batch of new Indian Police Service (IPS) officers on Friday, saying that rather than trying to inspire awe they should seek to build bridges with society.In a video interaction with officers passing out of the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy in Hyderabad, Modi referred to the image of policemen as conjured in movies such as Singham as compared to his own experience when a steadfast officer ensured that he did not violate any safety norms as chief minister.“Some policemen when they initially join duty feel that they should make people fear them and hold them in awe. And that anti-social elements should feel chills at the mere mention of my name,” Modi said, adding that the movies also created such an impression.Modi said because of such feelings, many things that should be done get ignored.“If you have 100-500 people under you, how to bring qualitative change in them. Do you want to create influence or build bridges?” the prime minister asked. “If you create influence it will be short-lived but if you create bridges of affection people would remember you for years,” he said.Modi said often one of the first interactions that policemen have is with political leaders. In a democracy, public representatives have huge importance, be they from any party, he said. Even if there are differences, there is a way to resolve them, he said.Modi said when he became chief minister for the first time, IPS officer Atul Karwal, now the head of the National Police Academy, was his security incharge.“All the paraphernalia, police arrangements, I do not feel comfortable with it. But I had to stay within them. However, sometimes, I would go and shake hands with people in a crowd or get out of the car. One day Atul Karwal came to my chamber and expressed his disapproval. It was 20 years ago when he was relatively junior. He looked at his chief minister in the eye and told me you can’t do this. You can’t get out of the car on your own or mingle with crowds,” said Modi.Modi said he asked Karwal if he would dictate what to do. “He did not flinch but courteously said you are not just a person but belong to the state and it is my duty to protect you and to ensure that rules are followed.”Responding to a question on Kashmir, Modi emphasised on greater connect with the people of the state and said those taking the wrong path should be dissuaded. “I have connected to the people of Kashmir and found them to be very lovely. The children who adopt a wrong path, we have to stop them from doing so. And this work can be done best by lady officers. To bring these children back, to explain to their mothers, our lady officers can do a superb job,” he said.Khaki should not evoke fear but pride, said Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khaki-should-evoke-pride-not-fear-pm/story-oSus5W5ibn054AlXL1nMjK.html
05-09-2020||India||Situation at LAC is serious: Army chief||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said that the situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) was “delicate and serious”, and the army has taken some precautionary measures to enhance security in the wake of the standoff with China in the Ladakh sector.He said the troops were prepared for all contingencies, and that India would use existing mechanisms to reduce tension and ensure that the status quo along the LAC is not unilaterally changed. “The situation along the LAC is tense. We have undertaken precautionary deployment in some areas. The troops are prepared for all contingencies that may arise. All these actions have been carried out only along the LAC,” the army chief said in Ladakh.Top commanders briefed Naravane on the army’s operational preparedness and the logistics arrangements for sustenance of forces through the winter, the army said in a statement. The army is preparing for a long haul in the sensitive sector, with no immediate resolution of the border row in sight. The Indian Army has moved 30,000 extra troops, several squadrons of front line tanks, additional artillery pieces and mechanised infantry squads to the Ladakh sector, as part of its efforts to strengthen its deployments in response to fortified Chinese military presence in the region during the last two to three months. “We can’t take things for granted in the Ladakh sector keeping in mind the behaviour of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA). No matter what diplomatic statements come from China, we should not trust the PLA. China’s leadership is arrogant, overambitious and land greedy. The PLA is not going to go back in the winter months and we have to stay vigilant 24x7 as a nation and as a military,” said Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd), whose report on enhancing the army’s combat potential is under implementation.Naravane reached Leh on Thursday for a two-day security review of the Ladakh sector, where the Indian and Chinese armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas. He said the LAC situation has been delicate for more than three months and talks were on at the military and diplomatic level to resolve the situation. “I am confident that talks can help resolve the border problem fully. The Indian side is firmly committed to resolve the current situation along the LAC through engagement. We will continue to utilise all existing mechanisms to reduce tension and to ensure that the status quo is not unilaterally changed,” said Naravane, after visiting several forward areas to get a firsthand assessment of the situation along the LAC. He said soldiers were highly motivated and fully prepared to deal with any situation. “Our officers and men are the finest in the world and they will not only make the army proud but also the nation proud,” the army chief said, while appreciating the high standards of professionalism shown by units in safeguarding India’s territorial integrity. He asked them to remain vigilant and maintain a high order of operational readiness. “The Indian Army is known for its commitment and resolve. The nation can count on us,” he said. The Indian Army has rejigged its deployments at multiple points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, including the northern bank of Pangong Lake, to prevent the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from making aggressive manoeuvres to unilaterally alter the status quo in contested areas. Tensions flared in the sensitive sector after the Indian Army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake to stop the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. Brigade commander-ranked officers from the two sides have held a series of talks to de-escalate tensions but the dialogue hasn’t yielded any results with neither army prepared to make concessions. Amid rising tensions with China in the Ladakh sector after provocative Chinese actions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso and India’s counter-manoeuvres to occupy key heights, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Thursday said Pakistan could try to take advantage of any threat developing along India’s northern borders but warned that the Pakistani army would suffer heavy losses if it attempted any misadventure. Rawat highlighted the threat of “coordinated action” by the militaries of China and Pakistan along the northern and western borders and stressed that the Indian armed forces were capable of handling the joint threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-at-lac-is-serious-army-chief/story-4ZEDvIjT9lsdoMywKhd38K.html
05-09-2020||India||Kannada actress held in drug case||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Bangalore police arrested Kannada actress Ragini Dwivedi in connection relation to an ongoing probe into a drugs case following a huge haul of marijuana in late August. An FIR has been registered in the Cottonpet police station of the city and the actress is likely to be produced before a magistrate via video conferencing.Earlier in the day, police raided her residence.The case is related to another one involving a haul of MDMA on August 20 in the state, which lead the police to start investigating personalities from the Kannada film industry, locally referred to as Sandalwood. Some arrests have been made in that case too. The CCB on Wednesday issued a notice to the actress to appear before it for investigations on Thursday, but the actress sent a team of lawyers who had requested time till Monday. CCB police responded by raiding her residence after obtaining a court warrant on Friday.Ragini was detained for questioning and arrested after seven hours of sustained interrogation. Her request for anticipatory bail is pending before the sessions court which has posted it for hearing on September 7.Speaking to reporters at a press conference, Bangalore Commissioner of Police Kamal Pant said the raid was conducted based on credible information provided by two people Ravishankar and Rahul , arrested for involvement in the drug trade. The investigations began after the police seized a truck carrying 204 kg of marijuana on 27 August which lead them to Ravishankar and Rahul. While Ravishankar is a government employee working with RTO (regional transport office) and a close friend of Ragini’s , Rahul is a real estate developer said to be close to another Sandalwood actress Sanjana Galrani. Pant did not specify whether any other Sandalwood personalities would be called for investigation or arrested. “You have only seen the trailer, wait for the full movie,” he said. Both Ravishankar and Rahul have confessed to not only using but procuring drugs and selling them to Sandalwood celebrities. Pant said. “They have told us who used to supply them and we are investigating.” Karnataka home minister Basvaraja Bommai said earlier on Friday that the probe into the drug racket in the state would continue till full details emerged. “Our investigations indicate deeper links which are being probed and we cannot reveal all information at this stage.”Tourism minister C T Ravi said that the government would come down hard on those dealing in illegal drugs. “Drug mafia is trying to influence the investigation but our government will not be cowed down and all those involved will be brought to book.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-actress-held-in-drug-case/story-yhjigQ7b9O44JnIiod3hDO.html
05-09-2020||India||House canteen likely to serve food packets||Parliament’s much-publicised canteen may not dish out its cheap but famous dishes this monsoon session amid strict restrictions meant to control spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead, only food packets are likely to be served this session -- which runs from September 14 to October 1 -- officials involved in the preparations said.That means the thaalis or wide-ranging a la carte dishes are likely to be off the menu.“It has almost been decided not to cook food in the Parliament complex and serve food packets in a bid to reduce entry of people and crowding in Parliament,” said an official who asked not to be named. To be sure, for the past five months, the canteen has only been serving tea and biscuits, and its lunch service has been stopped. From boiled vegetables to Kesari bhat, the Northern Railway-run canteen normally dishes out a sumptuous menu of 48 items at subsidised prices. According to canteen officials, the vegetarian thali (Rs 40) and chapatti (Rs 2) are the most sought-after items.During a normal session, an average 4,500 people eat at Parliament every day. According to the data available with officials, out of Rs 17 crore subsidy for three years, only Rs 24 lakh was spent on account of MPs. The rest was accounted for by visitors, security personnel and officials. In 2015, then Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan approved a proposal to abolish subsidies on Parliament food, and to run the canteens on a no-profit-no-loss basis. The decision came after years of public criticism that Parliament serves a plate of chicken curry for Rs 29 or dal for just Rs 2.Now, under the new prices, chicken curry costs Rs 50, masala dosa Rs 20, and fruit salad Rs 10.But this session, with lower footfall in Parliament due to various Covid restrictions, visitors will not be allowed to enter the complex, and staff strength will be reduced. “All these measures would also mean, the pressure on canteens would be reduced,” said an official cited above.There are also plans in the works to replace Northern Railway with government’s catering arm ITDC to run the canteen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-canteen-likely-to-serve-food-packets/story-sO9pFZqKtUOeuMwEKJ8AGJ.html
05-09-2020||India||‘Not a small case’: SC rejects Sajjan Kumar’s bail plea in 1984 riots case||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a bail plea filed by former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is lodged in Tihar jail after being convicted in 2018 by the Delhi high court for his role in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said that this was not an ordinary case, brushing aside concerns raised by Kumar’s lawyer regarding his health. “This is not a small case. We cannot grant you bail at all,” CJI Bobde remarked.“The application for grant of bail is dismissed,” the order passed by the bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said.The CJI, however, said that he will list the appeal filed by Kumar challenging the high court verdict as soon as physical hearing restarts in Supreme Court.The Supreme Court is functioning through video conference since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. It has been hearing only a limited number of cases -- mostly those which require urgent relief.On May 13, the apex court declined an interim bail plea by Kumar, saying he does not require immediate hospitalisation. The court had called for a medical report from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on March 4 after Kumar’s lawyers first raised health concerns.The Delhi high court, in December 2018, convicted the 74-year-old politician and sentenced him to life imprisonment for his role in the 1984 massacre. The riots, targeting the Sikh community, broke out after the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was killed by her Sikh bodyguards.In Delhi alone, 2,733 persons were killed. Kumar was convicted for murder (section 302 of Indian Penal Code), criminal conspiracy (section 120B), promoting enmity between religious groups (section 153A), destroying houses and places of worship using fire or explosive substances (section 436) and defiling places of worship (section 295).Kumar’s counsel Vikas Singh submitted on Friday that his client has already spent 18 months in jail, and cited ill-health as a ground to release him, but the bench was firm.Singh then pressed for interim bail for one month, saying this would allow Kumar to regain his health and weight. “I will abide by any condition Your Lordships impose. Your Lordships may at least grant interim bail for 1 month,” Singh said.Senior counsel HS Phoolka, along with Jagjit Singh Chhabra, who were representing the riot victims, opposed the bail plea. Phoolka said that loss of weight was merely an excuse, and that Kumar is being given good care in jail.The court, after taking note of the March 11 report of AllMS, remarked that Kumar’s weight has, in fact, increased, contrary to the claims made by him.“We will put it (appeal) for final hearing as soon as the physical court starts,” CJI Bobde said while dismissing the plea.The Supreme Court, on July 1, declined to grant bail to another 1984 riots convict, Mahender Singh Yadav who had approached the top court after he contracted the coronavirus disease. Yadav, who was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash hospital in Delhi, argued that his relatives were not being allowed to visit, and he should be granted interim bail so as to enable his family members to take suitable steps in view of his deteriorating health.The court rejected the plea saying a convict who is coronavirus positive and is in a hospital cannot get any special treatment or favours. Yadav died three days later.“It is a well conceived order. The main plea taken by them was that he (Sajjan Kumar) has lost weight. But the medical report from AIIMS said that he has gained weight. Judges appreciated this fact and said that they cannot grant bail. The order will assuage the feelings of the victims who have been demanding justice for the last 35 years. It is a perfectly good order,” advocate Chabbra who appeared on behalf of riot victim Jagdish Kaur told HT. Kaur was a resident of Palam Colony in Delhi when the riots broke out in which she lost her husband, sons and cousins.“It is a right order. Though he has been convicted for murder, the criminal acts were in the nature of genocide and does not deserve bail. Court has rightly pointed out the emotive nature of the issue,” SC lawyer Philip Mathew told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-sajjan-kumar-s-bail-plea-in-1984-riots-case/story-Iy8LTQ0IFdQAWujwXmGjgP.html
05-09-2020||India||Police framing anti-CAA protestors in Delhi riots cases, allege activists||A group of activists on Friday accused Delhi Police of falsely implicating people, who had participated in protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) in parts of the national capital between December and February, in north-east Delhi riot cases. In a virtual press conference on Friday, a panel consisting of Delhi University professor Apoorvanand, Swaraj Abhiyan founder Yogendra Yadav, activist Harsh Mander, former JNU student Umar Khalid, and president of the Delhi unit of the Left-affiliated All India Students Association (AISA), Kawalpreet Kaur, alleged the police had been trying to collect “false” affidavits (statements) against the protestors in riots cases.Delhi police’s public relations officer, Eish Singhal, did not wish to comment on the investigation. HT tried to contact special commissioner of police Praveer Ranjan, who did not respond to text messages and calls. Apoorvanand, who was summoned by police last month in connection with the riots, said, “Instead of investigating the violence as they should, Delhi Police are investigating who all had participated in the anti-CAA and NRC protests and trying to falsely implicate them. This current witch-hunting of anti-CAA protesters is not only an attack on a few individuals. Such a sinister profiling of the democratic mass movement basically criminalises our basic right to protest.” Delhi Police in their charge sheets before the court had said the riots were planned at the anti-CAA protest sites by some student leaders, activists and local politicians. The police had arrested several student activists, including Sharjeel Imam, Safoora Zargar, Devangana Kalita and Meeran Haider among others, in connection with north-east riots cases. The activists have denied the changes against them and accused the police of launching a witch-hunt against them. Mander, an activist and founder of Karwan-e-Mohabbat, said the conspiracy behind the north-east Delhi violence was to “punish and crush” the largest non-violent movement in Independent India. Clashes between pro- and anti-CAA groups in north-east Delhi had blown into full-scale communal riots between Hindus and Muslims, which left 53 people dead and more than 400 injured in February this year.“Delhi police has claimed that the protests were the conspiracy (behind the violence) and its non-violence nature was just a facade. In pursuit of this story every day for the last several few weeks, the special branch of Delhi Police, which normally investigates grave crimes such as terrorism, is busy summoning mostly young people, and sometimes seniors, grilling them and intimidating them. A large number of youngsters are languishing in prisons since the last few months without bail in the name of the so-called conspiracy,” Mander said. Yadav said when an arrested persons were granted bail in one case, police booked them in another case under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act to keep them behind bars. “Is this a ploy to keep protestors in jail for long periods, without the need to provide evidence or frame charges? Why is a draconian anti-terror law like UAPA being used to probe this case? It has also come to our notice that the police have been coercing people it has summoned for questioning to give false statements,” he said. Khalid and Kaur, who were also summoned in connection with the riots, accused Delhi Police of speaking the language of BJP and RSS leaders. They alleged the police did not investigate the roles of BJP leaders, including Kapil Mishra, in the violence. “Since December last year, leaders and supporters of the BJP have been seen inciting people and making hate speeches. It would have been reasonable to expect any fair investigative agency to probe the impact such speeches had on the gradual breakdown of law and order in Delhi.” Reacting to the allegations, Mishra said, “They want to divert attention from real issues, and that’s why they are targeting me. Now since the reality of the Delhi riots is coming out in public, and Tahir Hussain , Khalid Saifi and others are confessing in their statements, there is a clear desperation among the masterminds of Delhi riots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-framing-anti-caa-protestors-in-delhi-riots-cases-allege-activists/story-idTlgVHLtvhfWFeO3eeLtM.html
05-09-2020||India||Court restrains from publishing book titled ‘Gunning for the Godman : The True Story behind the Asaram Bapu Conviction’||The Patiala House Court of Delhi on Friday directed the defendants to restrain from publishing the book titled “Gunning for the Godman: The True Story behind the Asaram Bapu Conviction” till the next date of hearing.Additional District Judge RS Meena on Friday granted interim relief to Sanchita Gupta and restrain the publication of a book.Sanchita is a co-accused in a case related to self-styled Godman Asaram Bapu and had approached the Court seeking urgent relief against the publication of the book as the pre-released chapter published on a web portal was defamatory of her and was likely to prejudice her appeal pending before the High Court of Rajasthan.Sanchita Gupta had approached the Court in a civil suit filed by her advocates Naman Joshi and Karan Khanuja and the matter was strongly argued by Advocate Vijay Aggarwal.Arguing for Sanchita, Advocate Aggarwal informed the Court that the book was being published by Harper Collins and scheduled to release on September 5, 2020, both physically and online.The book authored by Ajay Lamba, Additional Commissioner of Police, Jaipur and Sanjiv Mathur claims to be a true story, however, is at variance with the trial record and most importantly interfered with Sanchita’s appeal which was sub-judice and where the High Court of Rajasthan had already suspended her sentence.Advocate Aggarwal argued that an appeal is nothing but a continuation of the trial and when the sentence had been suspended, Sanchita was entitled to a presumption of innocence.Aggarwal also argued that it was completely possible that the High Court of Rajasthan could order a re-examination of witnesses or even a retrial and in such a circumstance the publication of the book in its present form could not be allowed. Aggarwal also contended that publication of the book claiming to be the true story would prejudice Sanchita and run counter to her rights under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.Aggarwal cited numerous precedents where courts had restrained publication of books and movies to protect the rights of an accused person including those whose appeals were pending before courts. After hearing substantial arguments, the court directed the defendants to restrain the publication of the book till the next date of hearing which is September 30, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-restrains-from-publishing-book-titled-gunning-for-the-godman-the-true-story-behind-the-asaram-bapu-conviction/story-bQlpi6qn80qT7kKt8jb0xL.html
05-09-2020||India||Covid-19 pop-up test centres near govt offices, weekly markets soon||The Delhi government will set up next week pop-up Covid-19 testing centres in and around central government offices in the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area, and mobile ones in weekly markets held around the city, a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. The centres are part of the government’s effort to scale up testing in Delhi, in light of an increase in cases and positivity rates. Over the past few days the number of tests have increased significantly from 24,198 according the state’s Tuesday bulletin to 36,219 according to the Friday bulletin, even as the positivity rate dipped from 9.55% to 8%. The number of tests was the highest for the third consecutive day. The official said that the locations where the centres will be set up will be decided over the next few days. “The focus will be to make it convenient for central government employees in the city to get tested, even though the centres will be open for all,” added the official.Weekly markets, once a common sight in Delhi, have been restarted on a “trial basis” according to the official, will also see on-site testing through mobile centres using vans that district authorities already have. “This strategy is a part of a larger plan to scale up Covid-19 tests in the city,” the official explained. On August 26, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the capital would double its testing from the around 20,000 level it was at the time and take it up to 40,000 in a week. The official said that the temporary test centres would use rapid antigen kits which are capable of showing results within 45 minutes. Individuals who test negative despite having influenza-like symptoms will be sent for RT-PCR tests, he addedDelhi on Friday recorded 2,914 new Covid-19 cases taking the total number of cases recorded in the Capital to 185,220 so far. It also recorded 13 deaths, taking its death toll to 4,513.Of the total 36,219 tests recorded on Friday, 8488 (23.43%) were RT-PCR tests and the remaining 27,731 were rapid antigen tests. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are considered to be more accurate and the office of the Director General of Health Services in Delhi is working on a plan to increase the number and proportion of RT-PCR tests in the coming days, a second government official said, also on condition of anonymity.Dr Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “It is a good thing that the government has scaled up testing. But they should rely more on RT-PCR tests at this juncture. Rapid antigen tests can be done aggressively in containment zones, in hospitals and among high-risk groups and special surveillance groups.”Currently, 207 government dispensaries and 38 public hospitals in the city have Covid-19 rapid antigen testing facilities open for all, free of charge. Temporary test centres have been set up in the Anand Vihar inter-state bus terminal and New Delhi railway station, which witness a high footfall of migrants who are returning to the city as lockdown restrictions are eased. There are also centres outside the Delhi High Court , Supreme Court, and Delhi Secretariat buildings, said the second government official.The first official said Delhi will reach the 40,000 tests-a-day mark in two to three days. On Tuesday, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal directed officials to draft a policy to introduce a ‘test-on-demand’ programme, where people can call a helpline and fix an appointment at the nearest Covid testing centre without having to wait in a queue. He also directed the government to set up test centres near prominent construction sites in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-centres-around-govt-offices-and-weekly-markets/story-iJZNMxYyRurQ9ebTfSpdoM.html
05-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty’s brother, Samuel Miranda to be produced in court||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is looking into the allegations of drug use by late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his actor-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, arrested Rhea’s brother Showik and Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda on Friday night. Two others – Bandra residents Basit Parihar, 23, and Kaizan Ebrahim – were also arrested on Friday on charges of peddling drugs, taking the number of arrests in the case to seven. Watch | Sushant death probe: Rhea’s brother Showik & Samuel Miranda arrested by NCB KPS Malhotra, deputy director of NCB, said, “We have informed the families of Showik and Miranda and both have been arrested under several sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.” Parihar was produced before a magistrate’s court which remanded him in the NCB custody till September 9. Showik, Samuel and Ebrahim will be produced before a magistrate’s court on Saturday. The other three arrested for drug peddling are Zaid Vilatra, 20 (arrested on Thursday), Abbas Lakhani, and Karan Arora (arrested on August 27-28). Lakhani and Arora were arrested based on a specific input in another case and curated marijuana was seized from their possession. Their questioning led the NCB to Vilatra, who told officials that he ran an eatery in Bandra (West) but was suffering losses owing to the lockdown and so started to peddle drugs. Vilatra alleged he was in touch with Ebrahim and Parihar. Parihar allegedly told the NCB that he used to procure drugs from Vilatra and Ebrahim on the instructions of Chakraborty’s brother Showik who asked him to give it to Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda. Showik’s chats on a messaging application showed that on March 17, he shared Vilatra’s contact number with Miranda and asked to pay him Rs 10,000 for 5 grams of drugs. Miranda and Vilatra were tracked to the same location on March 17, said NCB officials. A senior IPS officer from the NCB said, “We conducted searches at Miranda’s and Showik’s homes and collected some evidence. The investigation is at a preliminary stage and details of the evidence gathered can’t be revealed at the moment.” NCB officials said they have recovered Indian currency worth Rs 955,750 and foreign currency – US $ 2,081; 180 British Pound, 15 Dirham – from Vilatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ncb-arrests-rhea-chakraborty-s-brother-showik-samuel-miranda-over-allegations-of-drugs-use/story-CJzI76nc5uexTUuvmGVofI.html
05-09-2020||India||Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi arrested in Bengaluru in drug probe||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Bengaluru Police arrested Kannada actress Ragini Dwivedi in connection with an ongoing probe of drug menace in the film industry. An FIR has been registered at the Cottonpet police station of the city. She is likely to be produced before a magistrate via video conferencing.Earlier in the day, the police had raided her residence. The CCB on Wednesday had issued a notice to the actress to appear before it for investigations on Thursday, but the actress had sent a team of lawyers who had requested for time till Monday. However, CCB police had raided her residence after obtaining a court warrant on Friday.Ragini was detained for questioning and arrested after seven hours of sustained interrogation. Her request for anticipatory bail is pending before the Session’s court which has posted it for hearing on September 7.Earlier in the evening, speaking to reporters at a press conference, Bengaluru Commissioner of Police said the raid had been conducted based on credible information provided by two people Ravishankar and Rahul who have been seized a truck carrying 204 kilograms of marijuana on August 27 which led them to Ravishankar and Rahul.While Ravishankar is said to be a government employee working with RTO (regional transport office) and very close to Ragini, Rahul is a real estate developer said to be close to another actress Sanjana Galrani. Pant did not specify whether any other Kannada film personalities would be called for investigation or arrested cryptically saying, “You have only seen the trailer, wait for the full movie”.Both of them during interrogation are believed to have confessed to not only using but procuring drugs and selling them to celebrities. Pant said, “They have told us who used to supply them and we are investigating.”Karnataka home minister Basvaraja Bommai earlier speaking to reporters at his residence had said that the probe into the drug racket in the state would continue till full details emerged. “Our investigations indicate deeper links which are being probed and we cannot reveal all information at this stage.”Tourism minister C T Ravi said that the government would come down hard on those dealing in illegal drugs. “The drug mafia is trying to influence the investigation but our government will not buckle and all those involved will be brought to book.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-actress-ragini-dwivedi-arrested-in-bengaluru-in-drug-probe/story-uL9aRflpxHOpw1AbshR8mN.html
05-09-2020||India||Jharkhand farmers allege fertilizer price hike, govt suspends 500 dealers||Jharkhand farmers who have sown 16.66% more crops this kharif season compared to previous year, have alleged facing shortage of fertilizer, or being forced to buy it at a high price by dealers at the crucial time of raising plants. However, the state agriculture department said the situation was created by dealers to raise profit. Taking action, the department has suspended more than 500 such dealers on charges of anomalies in fertilizer distribution, officials claimed. Ram Prasad, 50, a farmer from Hazaribag, said, “The fertilizer is being sold at high price here. A pack, which includes 45 kg, of urea is being sold at Rs 340 to Rs 360, while the actual price of the pack is around Rs 270. The retailers do not give any cash memo.” Another farmer from Ramgarh district, Raju Mahto, 45, said, “Dealers force us to buy non-subsidized chemicals such as calcium or gypsum along with the subsidized fertilizer, which increases the overall prices.”On Tuesday, farmers from dozens of villages under Hussainbad block of Palamu district created ruckus for not getting fertilizer. The farmers alleged that they were called by a retailer at a place in Gamahria at 9am for fertilizer. However, even after waiting for more than three hours, the distribution of fertilizer did not start. Later, agriculture officer Avinash Kumar convinced the farmers and started the distribution. Farmers said if they did not get fertilizer in time, they might suffer harvest loss, despite achieving a record sowing this year. Farmers of the state have sown kharif crops in 25 lakh hectares of area against the target of 28.27 lakh hectare this year. The sown coverage increased by 4.72 lakh hectare this year compared to the previous year. Similarly, paddy sowing coverage this year remained at 21.86% more than the previous year. Total paddy sowing coverage in 2019 was 74.29%, which reached 96.15% this year. It is to be noted that Jharkhand underwent a drought situation in the previous kharif season. However, the drought-hit farmers did not receive any help neither from the state nor Centre for their crop loss. The state government had requested for drought relief for 55 blocks in seven districts from the Centre in May this year, which was rejected as the deadline for seeking drought relief expired on October 31 last year. State agriculture department director Manoj Kumar said, “There is no shortage of fertilizer in any part of the state. We have more than sufficient fertilizer, including urea. The available stock of fertilizer we have right now is over 90,000 metric tonne, including 36,000 metric tonne stock of urea, which is more than the requirement of September month.” Kumar said they, however, have received complaints of artificial crisis, fertilizer being sold at higher prices at many places and at some places dealers forcing farmers to buy non-subsidized chemicals along with urea or other subsidized fertilizer. “We have taken all these issues seriously. More than 500 retailers have been suspended so far on charges of irregularities in fertilizer distribution,” he said. Kumar said district agriculture officers (DAO) are the licensing authority for the retailers and they have been directed to take immediate action when such cases appear. “The suspended retailers charged that they get the fertilizer at a high price from wholesalers. So, they give it at a high price to farmers. I have directed all the joint directors to be in the field for the next 10 days from Friday and inspect the wholesalers. If any wholesaler is found selling subsidized fertilizer at a high price, his licence would be cancelled,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-farmers-allege-fertilizer-price-hike-govt-suspends-500-dealers/story-uqFYCJHKjwY4aUDp1NUhWJ.html
05-09-2020||India||SC says JEE, NEET to be held as scheduled; dismisses plea by 6 states||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain the petition filed by ministers of six states seeking the review of the top court’s August 17 order to conduct NEET and JEE (Mains) examinations as scheduled.A bench of justice Ashok Bhushan, justice BR Gavai and justice Krishna Murari considered the review plea in chambers. West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan had approached the top court on August 28 seeking a postponement of the examinations in view of the coronavirus crisis.The top court had earlier refused to interfere with the conduct of the medical and engineering entrance exams, saying that life must go on and students can’t lose a precious year due to the pandemic.The fresh plea said that only two reasons given by the court - life must go on and students should not lose an academic year - do not constitute an authoritative and comprehensive judicial scrutiny of the issue.JEE, which was scheduled to be held from September 1 to 6, is underway and NEET will be conducted on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-6-opposition-ruled-states-plea-jee-neet-exams-to-be-conducted-as-scheduled/story-CchKhJgxxF4F1agsAc4jAP.html
