08-09-2020||Gurugram||Three held with 798 grams smack worth over ₹1 crore||The police arrested three persons for possessing 798 grams of smack, valued at over ₹1 crore in the international market — according to an estimate given by the police — from Sohna on Monday night. The police said the alleged drug peddlers used to source the narcotic from a supplier in West Bengal and sell it in small quantities in the city and across the National Capital Region (NCR). The accused have been identified as Minrul Sheikh, Mujibur Sheikh and Majnu Sheikh — all natives of West Bengal. The police said, prima facie, the probe has revealed that they had been peddling drugs for the past six years. According to the police, the crime branch of Sector 17 received a tip-off at 10pm, following which they cordoned off an area near Ambedkar Chowk in Sohna near Sohna-Palwal Road and set up a check post. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “A car in which the accused were travelling was stopped at the check post and during the search, a packet containing 798 grams of smack was recovered from their possession. The accused said that their main supplier was in West Bengal and their job was to peddle the narcotic in the city and NCR for a portion of the sales. We are questioning them to trace their aides.” The accused men were booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at Sohna City police station on Tuesday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-held-with-798-grams-smack-worth-over-1-crore/story-f1tbIc2PS4sEu5ILeQcQaM.html
08-09-2020||Gurugram||As Covid-19 cases rise in Gurugram, 60% of ICU beds occupied||With cases of Covid-19 steadily rising, 60% of all Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds in the district are currently occupied, as per the data available with the district health department. This is up from occupancy of about 30% till early August.Officials in the district administration and health department said that a review of the availability of beds was undertaken on September 7 and that they are keeping a close watch on the occupancy rates, in case infrastructure needs to be ramped up in the coming weeks.There are a total of 1,740 hospital beds in the city reserved for Covid-19 treatment across 42 dedicated Covid hospitals and healthcare centres — including 1,541 general hospital beds (with oxygen facility) and an additional 199 ICU beds (which further includes 94 beds with ventilator support).Of the available ICU beds, 121 are currently occupied (including 43 patients on ventilator support). While officials did not provide older data, they confirmed that ventilator bed occupancy has risen in the past two weeks.Despite the increase, officials maintained that there is no cause for alarm. “There are at least 328 ventilators available across the district’s Covid-19 hospitals. We can always allocate more for Covid-19 treatment if need be. The capacity can be created,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), Gurugram, adding that the health department’s goal was to hospitalise less than 10% of the active cases. However, health department data shows that at least 20% of the active cases are currently hospitalised.Vivek Kalia, nodal officer for Covid-19 hospital management said that private hospitals currently reserve 25% of their bed capacity for Covid-19, which can be further escalated to an additional 35% in case there is a surge in the number of cases. According to a state government order, a maximum of 60% of beds can be reserved in private hospitals. “At present, there has been no step towards the further expansion as the existing capacity continues to remain unused. Divisional commissioner Ashok Sangwan reviewed the situation on Monday and we have been told to keep a close eye on bed occupancy, in case we need to ramp it up soon,” Kalia said.On the other hand, despite an increase in ICU bed occupancy and ventilator use, a significant majority of general hospital beds continue to be vacant, despite a 70% increase in active cases recorded over the past seven days. Of the 1,541 hospital beds reserved for Covid-19, just 447 (or 29%) are currently in use. Of these, 75 beds are being used by suspected cases, whose test results have not yet been processed. General bed occupancy on September 3 was higher, at 31%.This discrepancy, experts said, may indicate that the health department’s primary response to Covid-19 is no longer able to keep up with the spread of the virus. “As transmission continues and more people get infected, it may so happen that many cases don’t emerge through testing and tracing, but because an individual’s symptoms have worsened,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine. “In a lot of these cases, ventilator support will be required because the person has tested positive at a later stage of infection. So that may be one reason why ventilators are being taken up more rapidly, though this does not explain why other general hospital beds are vacant.”This view was shared by an internal medicine expert in DLF-4, who claimed to have been approached by at least 16 symptomatic cases in her private practice over the past week. “I am not an epidemiologist, but if these many people are approaching doctors with symptoms and then testing positive, it stands to reason that there are a significant number of infected patients at large,” the physician said, requesting anonymity.Other experts offered slightly a different explanation. Dr Prabahakaran Dorairaj, vice president (research and policy) at the Public Health Foundation of India, said, “More ventilator bed occupation isn’t necessarily a sign of failing surveillance. It could just be a function of the increase in cases. Proportionally, more people will require ventilator support as reported infections increase. However, it is a bit odd that oxygen beds are disproportionately vacant. But, home isolation is also being encouraged in Gururgam and many people are opting for it, so that could be why general hospital beds are going empty. If home isolation is working, especially without oxygen support, then it will keep hospitals beds empty for those who really need them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-gurugram-60-of-icu-beds-occupied/story-JyTmTREvfcouleRv6h9LyL.html
08-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Private schools prepare to call students for practical sessions voluntary basis||Gurugram: Some private schools in Gurugram are preparing to call students on a weekly basis for practical sessions in view of the unlock 4 guidelines allowing pupils of classes 9 to 12 to visit their institutes on a voluntary basis from September 21 to seek academic guidance. Schools said they had sought feedback from parents following the new guidelines. A section of parents were in favour of visits for practical sessions. Most schools said they were creating a roster for calling students. Aditi Misra, principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 45, said the school had sought feedback from parents, and based on the responses, it was working to create a roster for those who had expressed willingness for school visits. “We shared feedback forms with parents to gather their views. An overwhelming number of parents said they are not prepared to send children to school for remedial or extra classes. However, around 25% of parents were in favour of sending children to school once or twice in a week for some hours or for practical exams,” Misra said. She said only a handful of students would be called in a week with written consent from parents. Kunal Bhadoo, director of Kunskapsskolan Schools, said parents wanted the school to facilitate visits while keeping in mind Covid-19 protocols. “Parents of children in senior classes have approached us. There is a realisation that a blended model with occasional visits is needed for students, especially since senior students need to eventually participate in lab sessions. These sessions can’t take place virtually. We are looking at facilitating that,” Bhadoo said. Rashmi Malik, principal, Salwan Public School, Sector 15, said the school was planning to call students for academic guidance after the quarterly exams that start this week. “By the end of September, we will be done with term-end assessments. If we find that there are children who have not been able to cope up with academics, we may call them for guidance sessions in accordance with the guidelines,” Malik said.Other schools said they would wait for the situation to improve before they call students, even for practical sessions. Anita Malhotra, principal of Lotus Valley, said the school would wait for the situation to improve before it starts calling students for such visits in the near future. “Currently, teachers visit the lab once in a while, conduct experiments, and they demonstrate these to the children via videos. In due course of time, when things are better, children can come and practice. Whenever we start calling children, we will ask them to come in batches of 8-10. We have huge laboratories but we will only be calling one-third or one-fourth of students when we do,” Malhotra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-private-schools-prepare-to-call-students-for-practical-sessions-voluntary-basis/story-HVDhdD7FYejPvdnKcdV1DP.html
08-09-2020||Gurugram||No testing camps outside containment zones, says Gurugram administration||With number of containment zones in the city rising from 67 to 108, as per the revised order issued by the district administration on Tuesday, the health department on Tuesday clarified that testing camps will be held only in sealed areas. As part of its revised strategy to curb Covid-19 cases in the district, health officials said that since the number of containment zones has increased in the city, testing camps will no longer be held in condominiums or gated societies until it is declared a containment zone.“Earlier camps were being organised in gated societies and condominiums, even if they were not declared as containment zones. Now, no such testing camps will be organised from now on. Further, in the testing camps so organised, only rapid antigen tests would take place.” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Earlier, every urban Primary Health Centre (PHC) was given a target to conduct a certain number of testing camps to identify the maximum cases to bring down the test positivity rate of that particular area. There are 19 PHCs in Gurugram. Since the containment zones have increased, and each PHC now has six to seven containment zones under it, including towers inside condominiums, office floors and lanes in a gated colony. “Since Covid-19 cases are increasing, the department will focus upon containment zones to prevent the transmission of infection. For the timely identification of the suspected cases, our health care workers are already doing visits in these areas,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer. On Tuesday, 258 new cases were reported in the city, taking the count of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus to 13, 726. Out of these, 760 are active cases, while 11,806 have recovered from the illness. The Covid-19 toll stands at 140, with one death reported on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-testing-camps-outside-containment-zones-says-gurugram-administration/story-LtU4n3HoV98yJhWgamV86N.html
08-09-2020||Gurugram||Haryana allows walk-in Covid-19 tests; Gurugram aims for 3,000 daily tests||Following the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to allow people to test for the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, without requiring a doctor’s prescription, the Haryana government too on Tuesday issued a notification allowing this.Until now, according to ICMR rules, only those with flu-like symptoms or those who are high risk contacts of an infected person were tested after they got a prescription for a Covid-19 RT-PCRT test, which is considered to be the gold standard of frontline Covid-19 testing. As part of a revised strategy to curb the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the district health department has decided to ramp up testing in Gurugram to 3,000 samples per day, with new guidelines facilitating the process. On Tuesday, at least 2,707 tests were conducted, including 1,000 antigen tests 1,004 RT-PCR tests by government labs. The rest of the tests were conducted by private labs. The revised ICMR advisory systematically lists out the scope of testing in containment zones, in non-containment areas, hospitals and for the first time provides for on-demand testing with simplified modalities. While now anyone can be tested, the advisory also includes those with existing respiratory illnesses, patient with atypical manifestations (stroke, encephalitis, acute coronary symptoms, gastrointestinal symptoms, multi-organ dysfunction) of the disease and individuals undertaking travel to countries or states mandating a negative test The ICMR issued revised testing strategy after a Delhi High Court hearing over improving testing in the national Capital. As reported by HT on Sunday, the court asked why the people having no symptoms — comprising a large proportion of Covid-19 patients — could not go for a test. The ICMR stated that it was just an advisory body and states were free to make changes as per their needs. Dr. Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer (CMO), said, “The state health department has issued a notification on walk-in tests after the ICMR issued an advisory earlier this week. With this new strategy, overall testing will be ramped up in the district as people can get directly tested without requiring any prescription. Our plan is to increase the testing to 3,000 samples per day.”To ramp up testing, the state health department had already brought down the cost of RT-PCR test to ₹1,600 for private labs. In the government lab, the test is conducted free of cost. For rapid antigen test too, private labs can charge only ₹650, while for antibody test ₹250. Experts, however, cautioned that people can test negative in the less accurate Rapid Antigen Test (RAT).Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson, Centre for Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) said, “Testing on demand strategy is for all individuals who wish to get themselves tested and those who undertake travel to countries/Indian states mandating a negative Covid-19 test at point of entry. It also approves any of the tests - a single RT-PCR, TrueNat, CBNAAT or RAT positive test to be confirmatory, without any repeat testing. The RAT as is well known comes with its share of false negatives. While the advisory also cautions that if symptoms develop following a negative RAT test, a repeat RAT or RT-PCR should be done. There are no means of the local health authorities following up such ‘walk-in’ candidates.”According to him, senior ICMR officers have cautioned against complacency among people towards following Covid-appropriate behaviour. “There’s a potential worry of RAT-negative status, in the absence of follow-up,” said Dasgupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-allows-walk-in-covid-19-tests-gurugram-aims-for-3-000-daily-tests/story-FC67Agbzaqa7OLprZp2USM.html
08-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Cap on guests is making weddings unprofitable, say banquet hall owners||After several attempts at booking a banquet hall for his wedding in December failed, Gaurav Sharma had to ask a friend to let him use his farmhouse outside the city instead. “I tried a lot of numbers of banquet halls that were given online but most did not even answer their phones,” said Sharma, a resident of sector 45. “Of the three that did take my calls, two said they were closed for business, and the third quoted a price of ₹7-8 lakh, claiming that he had to recuperate his losses in the last five months. It made no sense for me to pay such a high cost for a small wedding,” said Sharma.The city has 72 banquet halls and its owners say that the cap on the number of guests has made resuming operations unfeasible for them. From a total clampdown on weddings when the national lockdown was announced on March 22, to allowing an even with a 50 guest limit from May 23, and now a guest limit of 100 from September 21, the wedding venue business has suffered.“I haven’t opened my banquet hall for bookings yet. With the limitation of 100 guests, it is simply not feasible. My running costs would be nearly double than my earnings under the current scenario,” said Virender Yadav, an owner of a banquet hall on Old Delhi Gurgaon Road. Banquet halls provide a wedding with every paraphernalia that goes with it -- from lighting, sound system and food , among others. And while there were 30,000 weddings annually at these venues, this year it fell to almost zero since March. Hall owners say that the government should adjust the guest limit depending on the size of the venue.“I had initially planned on reopening and received a few enquires as well. However, when people came to my venue, they realised that it was far too big, designed to host almost 1200 people. Further, the prices I was charging to recover the costs and make a marginal profit, was much higher than they were willing to pay for such a small guest list. Hence, I have closed my hall for bookings temporarily,” said Neeraj Verma, owner of a banquet hall on Carterpuri road. Anil Rao, president of Haryana Party Lawns Association that has all banquet hall members in Gurugram registered with it, said that most owners were charging between ₹4-8 lakh. He admitted that such pricing would not be attractive for most people when an independent farmhouse or community centre come at half that price.“The problem in Gurugram is that most banquet halls are large, designed to host a minimum of 500 people and a maximum of around 1,500.” said Rao. “So, when people come with requests, most banquet hall owners decline, while some charge a hefty amount for it.” Rao hopes the situation would improve in a month’s time, when wedding bookings for the “auspicious period” of November 25-December 12.“We are hoping that by next month, the government will allow us to host more guests or changes the cap depending on the space of a banquet hall,” said Rao.Rao said that in the interim, banquet hall owners and association members are figuring out ways to conduct smaller weddings, if there is no change in the government’s stance.“We are also making preparations for that scenario, which we think is the “worst-case”,” he said. “We are planning on leasing banquet halls for a 12-hour period where two sets of guests can be staggered between the day and night events. For hosting two events in short-time, we would need to be certain that we have all adequate disinfection and sanitisation resources as well as staff and other arrangements.”BOX: Key details100- the total number of guests allowed in a wedding from September 21 onwards72- the total number of registered banquet halls in the cityRs 4-8 lakh- the cost for hosting a 100-capped wedding||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-cap-on-guests-is-making-weddings-unprofitable-say-banquet-hall-owners/story-ZiT0VGnhyRB7t4pRwaIaZJ.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid sampling now increased to 1,300, Panchkula ahead of Chandigarh||As Covid-19 cases surge in the district, Panchkula administration has increased sampling to about 1,300 a day, which with 21 collection centres is much ahead of Chandigarh, which samples 800 on an average. Also, from Wednesday, those undergoing rapid antigen tests (RAT) won’t be allowed to leave without their reports, which will be ready in around 30 minutes.RAT involves testing in proximity of the patient and directly detecting presence or absence of an antigen.“The strategy during a surge should be to conduct house-to-house surveillance to identify persons with Influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), to conduct their tests near their homes, isolate the positive ones from others and quickly provide treatment,” said Dr Saroj Aggarwal, deputy civil surgeon, Panchkula.From nine sample collection centres initially when Covid cases were first reported, the number was increased to 19 in the last week of August and to 21 on September 7.“By setting up 21 sample collection centres, we have brought the facility to (residents’) areas,” Dr Aggarwal said. “Earlier, if you asked symptomatic people to visit a hospital in Panchkula, 50% would not turn up... further spreading the infection and creating longer chain. But now, a person from Nanakpur does not have to visit Panchkula to give samples.”Adding that health officials were focused on bringing down the number of fatalities, Dr Aggarwal said the fourth round of house-to-house surveys had started. Till date, 36 deaths have been reported, of which 34 took place since August.About 47,057 samples have also been collected for both RAT and RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction). In five months, from March till July 31, the authorities had conducted 19,370 tests.Sampling has increased rapidly since August after the surge, with 27,687 tests conducted from August 1 till September 7.“On an average we are conducting over 13,00 tests per day, of which over 1,000 are RAT and over 300 tests by using the traditional RT-PCR method. Area-wise, we are getting 20% to 30% positivity,” said Dr Aggarwal.With the population of 5.61 lakh (as per 2011 Census), the sampling rate of Panchkula district is much higher than Mohali district and UT Chandigarh – both with a population of 10 lakh.People sampled won’t leave centresDr Aggarwal also said ‘holding time areas’ were being created for people undergoing RAT to wait for results arriving in 15 to 30 minutes. “According to protocol, positive persons will either be sent for home isolation with kits or to the Covid care centre or hospital,” she said.The decision was taken because people were giving wrong information while being tested, which made contacting them difficult if they tested positive. “At times it used to take us 24 to 36 hours to isolate them and by that time they created clusters,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-sampling-now-increased-to-1-300-panchkula-ahead-of-chandigarh/story-p6Ha1qRKwcl5mkJRQOMEIO.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt clears Bill to allow Mhada to take over revamp of cessed bldgs stuck for years||In a major relief for the residents of the island city of Mumbai, the Maharashtra Assembly on Tuesday passed a Bill for forcibly takeover redevelopment project of cessed buildings if the developer has failed to start the project for many years. Before acquisition, it will also give six months to the landowner and another six months to the tenants to get the project started. The move is expected to give a big push to redevelopment of many cessed buildings that could not be developed for years owing to disputes and are currently in dilapidated condition.The Bill allows changes to the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) Act, 1976, to pave way for redevelopment of the 14,227 cessed buildings. “Cessed buildings have been divided into three categories — those constructed prior to 1940 in A, constructed between 1940 and 1950 in B, and constructed before 1969 in C. Most of these buildings are in dilapidated conditions and need urgent redevelopment. The amendment empowers Mhada to acquire buildings by giving six months to the landowners and six more months to the society for the redevelopment. If they fail to do so, Mhada will take over the redevelopment and complete it within three years for the old tenants. Mhada can also tie up with private builders for the project,” an official from the housing department said.The state Assembly cleared another amendment in the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, in relation to debarring tainted directors of cooperative banks from contesting polls to any cooperative bodies for ten years. The Bill has withdrawn a provision that allows implementation of the above clause with retrospective effect. “If such a person is currently a director of a bank, he will have to resign from the position, if any bank governed by him was dissolved for financial irregularities in the past 10 years,” says the provision that has been scrapped with the fresh amendment. The MVA government has reversed the clause introduced by the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis led government that could have debarred many of its senior politicians including deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. He was chairman of the Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank, which was dissolved by the previous Congress-NCP government for financial irregularities.Fadnavis, now leader of opposition, strongly opposed the Bill. He alleged that the move indicates that the government is encouraging those involved in financial frauds in the cooperative sector.The lower House also passed another Bill for appointing “a suitable person” as administrator on close to 15,000 gram panchayats whose term is ending by this year end. The Opposition leader objected to Bill saying that the high court has clearly said that a public servant can be appointed on the position and not any private person as intended by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-clears-bill-to-allow-mhada-to-take-over-revamp-of-cessed-bldgs-stuck-for-years/story-FEFWDe2Bf4gcClWU9YDwHI.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER nurses call off protest over long duration of Covid duty||Nurses at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have suspended their call for protests after assurance from the administration that they won’t be required to do three months of Covid-19 duties at a stretch.The administration has agreed to reduce the proposed duration of duty at Covid wards to one month from three months, stated a release on Tuesday from the Nurses Association.“The launch of agitation with gherao of the MS medical superintendent’s office on September 9 is postponed till further notice. We hope that the PGI administration will review the decision as assured to us,” the release stated.PGIMER authorities have also appealed to the nurses not to obstruct work in these challenging times.“We all are putting our best efforts and working to contain the situation. However, nurses should not obstruct work and create unnecessary hurdles at this point of time,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director PGIMER. A day earlier when the nurses and the administration agreed to the duty duration, the institute put out a strongly worded release stating that all the demands of nurses were not genuine. “The unions and associations are creating a lot of obstruction in the management of the ever-increasing Covid-19 patient load in the hospital, which is taking care of patients not only from UT but also from the neighbouring three states,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-nurses-call-off-protest-over-long-duration-of-covid-duty/story-0UkWxE37PXJpxODsbZiy5L.html
08-09-2020||City||Private school chairman held for rape of 20-year-old woman in Greater Noida||A 20-year-old woman was raped allegedly by the chairman of a private school, under the under Ecotech 3 police jurisdiction, when she visited the institute to collect her younger brother’s documents.The police said a case has been registered in the matter and the suspect was arrested on Tuesday. A medical examination of the woman has been ordered, they added.According to the police officers, the alleged incident took place on September 4, but the matter was reported to them on Tuesday. “The woman was scared about telling others about the incident, and the family took a couple of days to report the matter to the police. However, as soon as they filed a complaint, a case was registered and the suspect, identified as Neeraj Bhati, was arrested,” said deputy commissioner of police, women and children safety, Vrinda Shukla.The police said that the woman’s younger brother was a student of the school, however, due to limited funds amid the lockdown, they were unable to pay his school fees. They were forced to drop him out of the school and needed to collect all his documents from the school, the police said.The woman had gone to the school to collect her brother’s transfer certificate, when the chairman of the school allegedly raped her, said the DCP. The woman returned home, but was scared to tell her family about the incident initially. However, after the family filed a complaint at the Ecotech 3 police station on Tuesday, a case of rape (section 376) was registered, and the suspect was nabbed. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-school-chairman-held-for-rape-of-20-year-old-woman-in-greater-noida/story-ZaxvWm6qgnzz4PpxtgbEGM.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ensure implementation of business reform action plan to improve Haryana’s rankings||Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora on Tuesday directed the heads of departments to ensure 100% implementation of Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP) by the end of September to improve the ease of doing business (EODB) rankings. The chief secretary reviewed the progress of the BRAP implementation in the backdrop of Haryana slipping from the third to 16th slot in 2018-19 rankings that the Centre announced last week. Director of industries and commerce department, Saket Kumar gave a presentation related to the state and district business reform action plan. There are 213 reforms points to be implemented at the district level and 301 reform points at the state-level under the BRAP. During the meeting, the CS directed the officers of all the departments concerned to ensure coordination and make sure that all services are rendered online within the stipulated time. She directed the administrative secretaries to carefully review the progress of the Business Reform Action Plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ensure-implementation-of-business-reform-action-plan-to-improve-haryana-s-rankings/story-5ejzO65hsPdJKcjTyey1kI.html
08-09-2020||Noida||SI suspended over lapses in missing person case||A sub-inspector with the sector 39 police station was suspended for alleged negligence in a missing person’s case.Heavy vehicle driver Vishal Yadav (21), a resident of sector 17, had gone missing since August 17. According to police, his family had informed sub-inspector (SI) Pawan Kumar the same day, but a missing person’s report was registered only on August 20. The Bisrakh police, meanwhile, found a body on national highway-9 (NH-9) on August 18. An autopsy concluded that it was a death by accident and the body was cremated on August 21, said a police officer privy to the case.It was only on September 5 that the body was identified to be that of Yadav’s when police showed them photographs of the body that matched his description. “Had SI Pawan Kumar, done his job properly, the family might have found out earlier itself that the victim had been killed. He was negligent in his duty which is why he was suspended. He should have immediately filed a report and started looking for the victim. If he had been proactive, then the body could have been identified sooner and the family could have got some much needed ,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.Thought the family did not file a formal complaint, police suspect foul and are conducting a probe. “We are questioning a few people,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/si-suspended-over-lapses-in-missing-person-case/story-7TDCAkUJAzAL0mVhlHURZN.html
08-09-2020||City||Two property dealers shot dead in a high-rise in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Two property dealers were allegedly shot at by unidentified persons in the parking lot of a high-rise in Greater Noida West on Monday night. Both the victims succumbed to their injuries, the police said.The police identified the deceased as Dal Chand Sharma (32), a native of Faridabad in Haryana who was currently living in Panchsheel Greens in Greater Noida, and Arun Tyagi (22), a native of Roza Yakubpur. The incident was reported around 9.30pm from Ajnara Le Garden society where Sharma had his office, the police said.According to police officials, the incident took place when the two victims, along with two other friends, were consuming alcohol in Sharma’s Tata Harrier car. “It seems that two unidentified men walked up to the car, knocked on the window and shot at the victims,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2.Sharma, who was shot at least seven times, was in the driver’s seat while Tyagi, who received three bullets, was in the passenger’s seat. The officials said that there were two shooters who fired from both the windows. Several shots were also lodged in the car as well, they said.The duo was immediately rushed to a nearby private hospital where they were declared brought dead, the police said.“Sharma’s family has named a few suspects. We have a solid lead and are working on it. Arrests will be made soon. The shooters are seen clearly in the society’s CCTV footage,” said the DCP.Seven teams have been formed to for the case, the police said.The police said that a personal enmity could be behind this incident. “In 2011, Sharma’s elder brother Rajendra was killed, along with another man, in a Faridabad village by a few people from the same village who had an issue with the family over their father’s election as the village head. Some of the suspects had gone to jail and were later released on bail. One of the suspects was killed in 2017 in Mathura and in this case, Sharma, his father and a few others had been suspects, gone to jail and were released on bail. Sharma had then moved to Greater Noida West and was known as Virat Sharma, which is actually his seven-year-old son’s name,” said Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station.The Sharma’s family has given names of three people to the police as suspects. “They first killed his elder brother and then him. The whole issue started with them trying to get our family’s property in the village. My brother had left that behind to start afresh, but they are still targeting our family,” said Rakesh Sharma, the victim’s brother.On the complaints filed by the family members of both victims, a case of murder under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Bisrakh police station, the police said.“We don’t know much about the incident. We just got a call around 10pm that Arun had been hurt, after which we rushed to the hospital,” said Santosh, Tyagi’s aunt. The police suspect that the shooters were hired gunners because their descriptions don’t match those of the suspects. They also suspect that Tyagi was an unintentional casualty. The incident has, however, spooked the residents of the Ajnara Le Garden society. According to the police, a group of residents from the high-rise protested on Tuesday evening demanding more security in the area. However, they were dispersed by the police, a local police officer said.In a separate incident, a 24-year-old man from Aligarh was injured after he was allegedly shot at by a person in Jewar. “The victim, Anjuman, was visiting some family friends. There was an argument between a man and his nephew over rent of the house where they lived. The victim was caught in the middle and was shot at in his stomach. A police team was rushed to the spot and he was immediately taken to a private hospital for treatment from where he was referred to Aligarh,” said Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Zone 3.Two suspects were nabbed and the countrymade pistol used in the incident was recovered, Pandey said, adding that a case of attempt to murder (Section 307 of IPC) was registered at Jewar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-property-dealers-shot-dead-in-a-high-rise-in-greater-noida/story-y9x4qp7nJ6Xb8tF44j2oIP.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to get 6 more driver feedback systems||Chandigarh Chandigarh traffic police plan to install six more driver feedback systems or boards indicating speed of vehicles after the success of the previous ones put up in January this year. Revealing plans, officiating senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena said, “The files have been approved by higher authorities for six more systems. We will now go ahead with the tendering process at the Government E-Marketplace (GEM) portal.” Adding that it was too early to comment on costs, Meena said the next step would be to figure out the roads at which the systems were to be installed.He said the decision to get more systems was taken because of the change in habits of drivers that was observed after the boards were set up. “The six systems are all installed at roads which were previously classified under black spots, but since then there have been no fatal accidents.” The driver feedback systems display a vehicle’s speed, alerting drivers going over the 60km/h limit. Data is also collected on the speed of vehicles at these intersections at different times of the day. These have provision for CCTV cameras to issue e-challans for speeding.The previous systems had been provided by Pune-based firm Ador Powerton Ltd for Rs 2.5 Lakh per board. They are connected to streetlights and charge when the lights are switched on at night. After the tendering process this time, which is likely to be completed in six months, authorities will see if they want to give the contract to the same firm, Meena said. On how the boards worked, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), traffic administration, Kewal Krishan said, “The boards act as a tool of awareness as many times drivers themselves aren’t aware of how fast they are driving. Speeding caused 95% fatalities in 2019, and traffic cops can’t be on duty round the clock so the systems are used to ensure people aren’t speeding.” The traffic police have also issued over 15,000 challans for speeding in the past four months.Currently, the systems are installed on traffic intersections at the city periphery. Sources said it was likely that the new boards coming in will be placed similarly at spots where a high number of traffic fatalities had been recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-get-6-more-driver-feedback-systems/story-HFt0488ta8wISlwOwLTR1N.html
08-09-2020||City||Jewar Airport concessionaire agreement may be signed by October 15||The Noida International Airport Limited and the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority on Tuesday said they hoped that the airport concessionaire, Zurich Airport International AG, and special purpose vehicle, the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited, would sign the concessionaire agreement before October 15, if restrictions on air travel in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic are relaxed by that time.On May 19 this year, Zurich International had got requisite security clearance from the ministry of home affairs, paving way for the singing of the concessionaire agreement. The agreement was supposed to be signed by July 2, according to the earlier schedule. Later on June 10, the UP government postponed the agreement signing date to August 17 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.“They (Zurich) have been given time till October 15 for signing of the agreement in view of Covid-19 pandemic restrictions on air travel. Currently, there are no international flights between Zurich and India and that’s why travel is not possible. Once international flights start, they will travel to sign the agreement,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of NIAL and YEIDA.Zurich International and Yamuna International Airport private limited had on January 30 applied for security clearance to the ministry of home affairs. Zurich AG cannot start work at the Jewar airport site before the agreement is signed.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration had acquired 1,334 hectares under phase 1 out of the total 5,000 hectares required for the airport project that has a budget of Rs 30,000 crore, paving way for the construction to begin at the site. But work is being delayed at the site due to the pandemic, officials said. On November 29, 2019, Zurich Airport International AG, the owner of Switzerland’s biggest airport, had emerged as the top bidder to design, build and develop a new airport in Jewar along the 165-kilometre Yamuna expressway in Uttar Pradesh. To be spread over 5,000 hectares, once completed, it will be the biggest airport in India with eight runways and will cater to 70 million passengers a year by 2040-50. The first phase is expected to be completed in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jewar-airport-concessionaire-agreement-may-be-signed-by-october-15/story-1EThIXXSjyMmCVPweUjgUI.html
08-09-2020||City||24% of 140 infected health care workers in Ghaziabad were on Covid duty||Since the first case of Covid-19 was reported in Ghaziabad in March till September 5, 140 health care workers (HCWs) were infected with the disease, of which 24% were on Covid duty and none died.Officials from the health department said that they had not acquired it while on active Covid duty, which is when HCWs must enter Covid isolation wards wearing personal protective equipment (PPE). This would imply that HCWs were more at risk from asymptomatic untested patients more than they would be while dealing with confirmed patients.“Two doctors who were infected and on Covid related duties-- one at a quarantine centre, and the other at the Delhi airport, were not on active duty at the Covid isolation wards. In one of our L-3 (tertiary care) acquired hospitals, five doctors who were on active duty too got the infection, but we believe they acquired it while performing other duties,” said Dr. NK Gupta, Ghaziabad chief medical officer.HCWs are at the highest risk of being infected due to the close proximity with people and are tested regularly. These workers include those who are on surveillance duty, lab technicians deployed to test people, doctors and other hospital staff. “The low positivity in our doctors is due to prevalence and adherence to the infection prevention protocols. We are continuing with precautions. The others who acquired infection were in non-Covid departments. The major share of acquiring infection was among the health care staff members who were deployed for non-Covid duties at non-Covid health facilities,” said Dr Gupta. While five HCW each were found to be positive in April and May, 58 had the infection in June, 56 in July, and 16 in August. The spike in cases came at a time when the healthcare facilities opened up for OPDs and Covid hospitals had to deal with high number of cases which had started coming in after unlock 1 from June 8. “In our hospital only three of 50 nurses, and two other staff acquired infection but it is likely that they acquired it from outside. No doctors in our hospital got infected with Covid-19. It is due to strict schedule which we had prepared so that a doctor gets exposure to any patient only for six hours. So we strictly adhered to the roster and made use of safe delivery kits which were available with us initially when PPE kits were less in supply,” said Dr Deepa Tyagi, chief medical superintendent of district women’ hospital which is a non-Covid facility.The officials of the L-2 (moderate care) hospital at Sanjay Nagar said that none of their doctors acquired infection during the entire period of the pandemic so far. “None of our doctors acquired infection while on duty at the hospital. So far, we have only nine nurses and ward boys, who got infected while on duty. We have been stressing on proper sanitisation, use of masks and strict compliance of the social distancing norms,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of the L2 category Covid hospital. “We made strict compliance of infection prevention training and our major focus was on use of PPE kits. There is specific procedure to wear and take out the PPE kits and any lapses could pass on infection. So, every staff was provided training in this regard and we even sanitized the PPE kits to keep away infection.” The state government as well as the district administration has laid stress on strict adherence to infection prevention protocols so that the frontline healthcare workers do not acquire in times of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-of-140-infected-health-care-workers-in-ghaziabad-were-on-covid-duty/story-LNAAWWmT08yVO2Ixr7v66M.html
08-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad completes 99% contact tracing of Covid patients||The district health department said it has expedited contact tracing of Covid-19 positive cases in the district and has traced contacts of almost 98.9% (till September 7) of people infected with the disease. The officials said almost 10% of the total Covid-19 cases in the district were detected through contact tracing exercise.According to the officials of the district health department, till September 7evening, nearly 69,995 contacts of 9,491(out of 95,587 patients) Covid-19 positive patients in the district were identified.According to health department records, out of the total traced persons, 949—9.9% of 9587 total positive cases in till September 7—had tested positive for Covid-19.“Ideally, we have to trace about 10 contacts for every patient. We have already started working on this since July when six contacts were traced per patient. The figure was about 9 in August. Overall, since March, we have completed contact tracing for over 98% patients. The activity is ongoing and proving helpful in prevention of infection from spreading especially in containment zones,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.“Off late, there has been rise in number of cases. So, it becomes more challenging to complete the task of contact tracing of every patient within time bound manner,” he added.The health department has an overall average of identifying 7.3 contacts per patient. According to the data, about 20,391 (29.13%) of overall 69,995 contacts were traced in the month of July, while 33659 (48.08%) were traced in the month August alone.People with influenza-like illness and severe cute respiratory illness account for almost 44% of the infection, while 43% cases come from random testing at the testing booths, besides 10% cases attributed to contact tracing in Ghaziabad, officials said.“There are about 24 teams which are actively involved in tracing of contacts, and it aims to track contacts of all new Covid-19 patients within 24 hours. Since the contacts are high-risk cases, they need to be identified immediately and tested. During initial months, the contact tracing was less, but currently, we are tracing about 7.3 contacts per positive case,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.The contact-tracing activity is vital to control the spread of infection. The Uttar Pradesh government from time to time has directed the district authorities to focus on contact tracing.“Contact tracing becomes vital it identifies close contacts, friends or family members of the positive patients. These are high-risk cases and their quick identification and immediate testing is important to prevent the infection spread. The process has to be always ongoing, and should be taken up on priority basis in order to prevent others from getting infected,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). “In case there is delay in contact tracing, it is likely that suspected cases may spread infection to many others” he added.Activities under contact tracing are directed by the integrated command and control centre which runs from the district headquarters. Dedicated teams are deployed to coordinate with the teams who reach out contacts on ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-completes-99-contact-tracing-of-covid-patients/story-9ykBz6Wv4gKOx7Tw8xq2XM.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||3 Chandigarh residents fall prey to online fraud||Three persons from different parts of city fell prey to online fraud, losing more than Rs 30,000 between them after callers asked them to share payment links to sell sanitisers, buy a camera and deposit money for a job.  Atul Rai, a resident of GMCH Residential Complex, Sector-32B, complained to the Chandigarh police cyber cell that a man posing as a defence personnel had defrauded his mother of Rs 14,995. Rai said his mother sold sanitisers and received a response to her Indiamart advertisement on June 19 for the product. The caller said he was from the Army and asked for her Google Pay link. As she didn’t have an account, she asked Rai to accept the payment and the caller sent his identity and canteen card in the name of Jora Singh to convince him. After this, Rs 10,000 through the BHIM UPI app and Rs 4,995 using Google Pay were deducted from Rai’s SBI account. A case was registered under sections 120B, 419 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at police station 4. In another case, Vivek of Sector 38W said he was searching for data entry and back office jobs when he got a call from a man claiming he was from Datafortune Solutions and offering online jobs.In his complaint to the police, Vivek said the caller asked him to deposit Rs 4,000 as service charge, after which he could not be contacted.A case under sections 120B and 420 of the IPC was registered at the Maloya police station. Sandeep a resident of Sector-30 reported that he responded to a Facebook post on sale of a digital Nikon D7500 camera and paid Rs 11,050 for it, but no delivery was made. A case under sections 120B and 420 of the IPC was registered at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-chandigarh-residents-fall-prey-to-online-fraud/story-Na6oJ4t41YjCylvlESOYfJ.html
08-09-2020||City||Punjab excise officials to go on strike from today||On the second day of their mass casual leave, the staff of the excise department including inspectors, excise, and taxation officers (ETO), and additional commissioners announced an indefinite strike from Wednesday onwards.The staff was protesting against the alleged unlawful and unwarranted action being taken by the vigilance bureau against the officials of their department in different parts of the state.Owing to the mass leave, all the work at the department’s Ludhiana and other offices remained suspended for two days.The state-wide announcement was made on the call of the steering committee of the confederation of association of senior officers, ETOs, and inspectors on Tuesday. In a representation submitted with the financial commissioner (taxation), Punjab, the members of the association stated that the state government had failed to intervene in the matter despite representations submitted with the high authorities and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on September 3 and 5. Due to this, they announced an indefinite strike by all the cadres of the staff starting from the level of inspectors to additional commissioners.One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said that FIRs are still being registered against the officials on flimsy grounds and arrests are also being made.“Search operations are also being conducted in the houses of officials, which is humiliating. This has inculcated fear in the minds of officials. Further, the vigilance bureau is also making public the details regarding the properties of officials booked without investigating the matter properly,” he added.The association has announced an indefinite strike and has urged the government to intervene in the matter. Rather than directly registering FIRs against the officials, a committee should be formed to investigate the matter, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/excise-officials-to-go-on-strike-from-today/story-eJM3PNbFhKNjna7v58qm4O.html
08-09-2020||City||Anchor of US-based web channel booked for spreading rumour||Ludhiana police on Tuesday booked an anchor of a US-based web channel for allegedly spreading rumours about people being admitted to hospitals as Covid-19 patients and being killed for their organs.It was alleged that the anchor had uploaded a video on his web channel, Fastway TV USA, of accredited social health activists (ASHAs) being asked to get people admitted to hospitals for Covid-19 treatment and getting paid ₹50,000 per patient.An FIR against the unidentified news anchor has been registered at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) police station.PAU station house officer (SHO) Paramdeep Singh said the police received the video, where the anchor was claiming that health activists in a village of Punjab were forcibly taking villagers to hospitals for ₹50,000 each patient.“He (anchor) also claimed that the ASHAs were doing this without verifying if the person had symptoms associated with Covid-19 or not. The anchor also said that in hospitals, staff killed patients for their organs,” the SHO added.He said the accused had tried to create panic among people by spreading rumours.A case has been registered under sections 505 (statements conducting public mischief) and 188 (disobedience to the orders duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anchor-of-us-based-web-channel-booked-for-spreading-rumour/story-g68Tvhe7ML1PTt2vBybA3K.html
08-09-2020||City||Robbers decamp with cloth rolls, SUV from dyeing factory after holding labourer captive||A gang of robbers targeted a dyeing factory in CMC Colony of Jamalpur on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday and decamped with cloth rolls and an SUV after holding two labourers captive. The accused have been captured in the CCTV cameras installed near the factory.The Jamalpur police have launched an investigation and are scanning footage of surveillance cameras to identify the accused. Santosh Kumar, owner of Ankush Processor, said he was informed about the incident in the morning and he immediately alerted the police. His workers Ajay Kumar and Manish told the police that the robbers barged into the factory around 2.30am by scaling the compound wall. The robbers were carrying pistols and sharp-edged weapons, they said, and added that they were overpowered and held captive.As per Santosh, the robbers took away nine rolls of fabric in a Mahindra Bolero SUV registered in the name of the factory. He claimed to have incurred a loss of at least ₹15 lakh. He told the police as one of the portions of his factory was still under construction, he did not install a CCTV camera there.Jamalpur SHO Harjinder Singh said a case has been registered against unidentified accused. He expressed suspicion that the robbers might have an idea about number of labourers working in the night shift.No respite from robberiesOn September 5, a 42-year-old labourer, while trying to resist a robber’s attempt to snatch ₹400 and a mobile phone from him, was stabbed in the throat, on Kakowal Road.On September 1, four men had robbed a money exchanger of ₹5 lakh and SU dollars worth ₹1 lakh from his shop near Samrala Chowk after injuring him. The victim is recuperating at a private hospital. On the same day, three bike-borne men had robbed an elderly man of ₹2.8 lakh at gunpoint on Gill Road. On August 31, after celebrating a Tanzanian student’s birthday, her acquaintance robbed her of ₹9,000 after shooting her in the leg in Sarabha Nagar. On August 29, a group of men attacked a petrol pump employee with sharp-edged weapons and escaped with ₹15,000. The worker had suffered severe injuries in the attack that took place on Gill Road.On August 16, a couple, along with their accomplice, injured a pick-up auto driver and robbed him of his vehicle and ₹17,500 on the pretext of shifting household items from Lalru in Mohali district to Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robbers-decamp-with-cloth-rolls-suv-from-dyeing-factory-after-holding-labourer-captive/story-AoDVQgl6IA11Yx2WYKq4yN.html
08-09-2020||Noida||Noida: Significant surge in Covid-19 cases in the past 11 days||The Gautam Budh Nagar district is witnessing a significant surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. In the past 11 days (August 28-September 7), the district recorded 1,419 positive cases with the daily average of 129 cases, registering a daily growth of 50% over the previous 11-day period. During August 17-27, GB Nagar had reported 943 positive cases with the daily average of about 86 cases, according to an analysis of data from the state health department. Also, the recovery rate has come down to around 60% in the past 11 days, compared to 84% of the previous period. On Tuesday, with 236 new cases, the district recorded the highest single-day spike so far, taking the overall tally of positive cases to 9,126. District officials have attributed the sudden surge in cases to reverse migration of workers and increasing number of tests.“Being an industrial hub, the district has a floating population. The reverse migration of workers is believed to be the main reason of increasing trend of Covid-19 cases. Secondly, if the doctors are to be believed, the season nowadays has maximum viral load, which is always a good carrier for many virus-borne diseases. And most importantly, with the restrictions eased and economic activities started, the cases will keep increasing if people don’t take all the precautionary measures,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. When asked about the measures planned by the district administration to check this sudden surge, Suhas said that early and timely tracking of the cases and providing adequate treatment to the patients have already begun by the district health department. “We appeal to the common people not to give up masks and social distancing in any case,” said the DM. However, GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that the sudden surge in the positive cases are mainly due to increasing number of tests per day. “At present, we are testing 3,000 to 4,000 persons daily. It is obvious that the more we test, the more cases will be recorded. Our mechanism is very systematic in this regard. We allow home isolation to the patients, either asymptomatic or with mild symptoms without any co-morbidity. So far, 750 patients in home isolation have been cured and the remaining 194 are in the recovery stage,” he said. District surveillance officer Dr Manoj Kushwaha said that so far 2,18,921 persons have been tested in the district. “Out of 2,18,921 tests, 1,36,375 were done using rapid antigen kits, while 77,943 through lab-based reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method. The remaining 4,603 tests were conducted through real-time TrueNat machines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-significant-surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-the-past-11-days/story-qXSIjVE02rFoTyYbZTuVhM.html
08-09-2020||City||Weekend restrictions lifted, Ghaziabad and Noida markets to stay open on Sundays too||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday withdrew its previous order that mandated that markets in the district remained shut on Sundays for cleaning, sanitisation..In fresh directions issued on Tuesday, the government said that markets were free to stay open on all days, including Sundays, and could opt to stay shut on one day of their choosing, every week.According to state control room figures, Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts have 9,637 and 9,126 Covid-19 cases, respectively, till September 8. While the number of active cases remain at 1,510 for Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar has 1,599 active cases.The UP government, in view of the Covid-19 situation, had on July 9 announced weekend restrictions and directed that all markets would remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays during which different agencies will take up extensive sanitisation and cleaning drives in their respective areas.The order was later modified on September 1, with the government relaxing norms and stating that markets could stay open from 9am to 9pm on all days, including Saturdays. SUnday was to be used by markets to take up cleaning, sanitisation exercise.“Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed that weekly closure for markets will be as per previous arrangement (pre-Covid times), instead of Sunday. He said that all health protocols should be strictly followed. He has also directed that hotels and restaurants be allowed to operate, except those in containment zones,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).Traders of the district were quick to welcome the move and said it will bring much needed relief for them.“For the past six months, during the lockdown and Unlock phases, the traders had been waiting for the local economy to open up. It is a matter of relief that the government has done away with weekend restrictions. This will help small businesses and traders can now expect their financial condition to improve,” said Praveen Bhati, president of Vyapar Mandal – Sahibabad.In Ghaziabad, majority of markets used to stay shut on Tuesdays, before Covid-19 forced a complete lockdown.“Different associations had been writing to the chief minister and officials of the UP government to allow opening of markets on weekends. With weekend restrictions now gone, traders and customers will benefit. Since the festival season is also coming up, the market sentiments will also improve,” said Pradeep Gupta, president cum convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram in Ghaziabad.Traders in Gautam Budh Nagar said that previously most markets in Sector 18 stayed shut on Tuesdays , those in Atta Market stayed shut on Wednesdays and those in Barola stayined shut on Mondays.“The situation will definitely improve with markets staying open during the weekends now. However, business will still not pick up in a massive way, unless the situation goes back to normal with public transportation becoming functional. Also, Covid cases are on the rise again which will also deter people from coming out,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president of Sector 18 market association.The health department official said there has been rise in number of cases in past fortnight.“With more activities like markets, metro trains opening up, people should be cautious, wear masks and observe social distancing in order to avoid the spread of infection. We do not know when the infection will subside. So, the best way forward right now is to observe precautions,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar said, “The announcement has already been made at Lucknow and a press statement has been issued. We are waiting for the written order which is expected to arrive soon.”His counterpart in Ghaziabad, Ajay Shankar Pandey, too said that he was waiting for a written order. “Activities are opening up but wee expect people to strictly follow health protocols in order to avoid getting theinfection,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weekend-restrictions-lifted-ghaziabad-and-noida-markets-to-stay-open-on-sundays-too/story-AQHLZJL73Gy8RhksYgQoXJ.html
08-09-2020||City||₹1.13-crore embezzlement: 3rd FIR registered against retired panchayat officer in 19 days||Sudhar police on Tuesday booked retired social education and panchayat officer (SEPO) Balvir Singh of Sangrur for embezzling ₹1.13 crore. It is the third such case registered against Balvir in the past 19 days. Till date, embezzlement of ₹1.52 crore has surfaced.The FIR was lodged following the statement of Rupinderjit Kaur, block development and panchayat officer (BDPO). She had filed a complaint to senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vinod Sheel Soni, who marked the inquiry to Dakha deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurbans Singh Bains. After the investigation, the police registered the third FIR. According to the BDPO, during his tenure, Balvir Singh released a grant of ₹2.31 crore, while the department had the record of ₹1.18 crore only. The department is also said to have approached the accused for the record of the remaining money, but to no avail. The accused had stopped responding to the department’s communication, it was said. The FIR has been registered under sections 420 (cheating) and 409 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Sudhar station house officer (SHO) Jasvir Singh said, “This is the third FIR registered against Balvir Singh. We have been conducting raids to arrest him.”On August 28, the Sudhar police had booked Balvir Singh, along with former Pamal sarpanch Manjit Kaur and gram sewak Harpreet Singh for an embezzlement of ₹30.27 lakh.On August 20, the first FIR was registered against Balvir for embezzlement of ₹ 8.62 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-13-crore-embezzlement-3rd-fir-registered-against-retired-panchayat-officer-in-19-days/story-C9FtMLiAPwGBEVOCA3vGzH.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Parallel associations spoiling the broth in sporting powerhouse Haryana||Over the years, the northern agrarian state of Haryana has emerged as a powerhouse in the country’s sporting scenario, sending the maximum number of athletes to Olympics and contributing a lion’s share in the country’s medal tally in the Asian and Commonwealth Games. In the last three Olympics, sportspersons hailing from the state have made the country proud — Boxer Vijender Singh (bronze, 2008), wrestlers Yogeshwar Dutt (bronze, 2012) and Sakshi Malik (bronze, 2016). But when it comes to the role of the sports administrators and associations in the state, it is a divided house, with politics often superseding genuine units. Many sports disciplines have parallel associations and in some cases, there are three bodies running the affairs of the sport, eventually leading to halting of the sports activities. The Haryana Olympic Association (HOA), currently headed by former additional director general of police PV Rathee, has 33 sports associations affiliated to it. Of these, over 10 are parallel state associations that have no affiliation to the national federation and are not eligible to send teams to national championships. However, these bodies will be voting in the state Olympic body polls, set to be held on September 19. Apart from that, there are a few state sports associations, such as those of rowing, squash, modern pentathlon and bowling, which have the national federation affiliation but they are not affiliated to the HOA even as there are no parallel state units in the sport. The state contingent in the National Games participates under the HOA banner. “There are a number of state sports associations, which are not recognised by their national sports federation and despite that, they are affiliated to the HOA. These associations not only have voting rights, but officials from these associations also hold the majority of the posts in HOA,” says Sajjan Kumar, who was the joint secretary of the HOA and resigned from the post on September 4. “In my resignation, I have raised objections over these unauthorised sports associations,” he said. Take an example of football. The All India Football Federation (AIFF) recognises Suraj Pal Amu led-Haryana Football Association and the state teams for all the national championships are participating under his association’s banner. However, the HOA recognises the football body led by former Congress MLA Rao Dan Singh. Similarly, the Archery Association of India (AAI) recognises Haryana unit headed by former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister Captain Abhimanyu and the state teams participate under his unit’s banner, while HOA has given affiliation to a parallel body headed by Raghu Raj. The Athletics Federation of India (AFI) recognises the state body, whose president is Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader and MLA Abhay Singh Chautala, however, HOA recognises a parallel body. “Our association, Haryana Hockey, is a recognised unit of Hockey India and affiliated to HOA, but I am of the view that only those state sports associations should be allowed to vote, that are recognised by the national body and are eligible to send the teams for the national championships,” says Sunil Malik, secretary general of Hockey Haryana. In gymnastics, there are three bodies claiming to be the governing body of the sport in the state, but the Gymnastics Federation of India (GFI) has not given recognition or authorisation any of these to send the team for nationals. Looking into the tussle over the control of the sport in the state, the GFI selects the state team through its observer in open trials. The gymnastics state championship has not been held for the last two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parallel-associations-spoiling-the-broth-in-sporting-powerhouse-haryana/story-TDb3VAg66zVCwDk1zyxygN.html
08-09-2020||City||School bus operators protest outside Ludhiana DC office, seek monetary relief||Struggling to make ends meet due to closure of schools for more than five months, school bus operators, under the banner of School Bus Operators’ Welfare Association, staged a protest on Tuesday outside the Ludhiana deputy commissioner’s (DC’s) office against the Punjab government for not providing any monetary relief to them.The protesters said there were over 3,300 bus operators in the city who were struggling financially after the lockdown imposed in March due to the Covid-19 outbreak and had changed their vocation to earn bread and butter for their families, they claimed.They said the government had announced no relief in terms of either monetary benefits or waiver on motor vehicle taxes and demanded a new safe school vahan (vehicle) scheme allowing operators to use the buses for other purposes after school hours.General secretary of the association, Gurvinder Singh, said, “No relief has been provided by the government since the curfew was imposed in the state in March. Banks are also issuing notices to the bus operators to pay loan instalments as the government has failed to intervene. The bus operators and their families are struggling to make ends meet, but the government is paying no heed to their problems.”In a memorandum submitted to the district administration, the bus operators also threatened to take the agitation to the next level in the coming days and hand over the keys of their buses to the administration.Association president Inderjit Singh said, “We would be left with no other option than to hand over the keys of our buses to the government. The situation is becoming worse every passing day and we demand that the government immediately announce monetary relief for the sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/school-bus-operators-protest-outside-ludhiana-dc-office-seek-monetary-relief/story-cmpkseANmIskA7zca8fSaJ.html
08-09-2020||City||PAU inks pact for commercialisation of saag making and canning technology||The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, has inked a pact with Tiwana Bee Farm, Doraha, for the commercialisation of saag making and canning technology. NS Bains, director of research, PAU, and S Jaswant Singh, proprietor, Tiwana Bee Farm, signed the memorandum of agreement(MoA) on behalf of their respective organisations.According to the memorandum, PAU has offered non-exclusive rights for making and packaging of saag technology within India. Giving details about the technology, Poonam Sachdev, head, department of food science and technology, PAU, revealed that the technology of canned curried saag includes thermal processing of the product without addition of any chemical preservatives. She added that it is a ready-to-eat convenient food product which can be served after heating and is shelf stable at room temperature for more than one year. Canning can be done in fresh crop season and canned saag can be used in the off-season. PAU recommended varieties for canning of saag include Gobhi sarson, Chinese cabbage and Raya RLM 619. SS Chahal, consultant (scientific), technology marketing and IPR cell informed that PAU has signed 227 MoAs and commercialised 55 technologies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-inks-pact-for-commercialisation-of-saag-making-and-canning-technology/story-K7MiM9LqUCGnRcww8AVdcI.html
08-09-2020||City||Two LIT staffers test +ve, office to remain closed today||Panic gripped the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) office after two class IV employees tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The LIT office has been closed on Wednesday and is being sanitised.As a precautionary measure, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam had written to the district health department to conduct Covid-19 tests on the employees. As per information, 48 staff members had undergone rapid antigen tests while samples of 28 staffers were collected for RTPCR test. The two employees, who tested positive, underwent rapid antigen tests. While one of the employees is deputed in drawing branch, the other works in the water supply department. Both were asymptomatic. Balasubramaniam said,”The tests were conducted as a precautionary measure and two of the staff members have been tested positive. They have been placed under home isolation. The office has been closed on Wednesday and is being sanitised. The reports of samples sent for RTPCR tests will be out in 48 hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-lit-staffers-test-ve-office-to-remain-closed-today/story-AgtW7Jwmmw4VGsgPEDXCqK.html
08-09-2020||City||Fatality rate spirals, Ludhiana district sees 111 deaths in September||There is no let-up in Covid-19 casualties in Ludhiana district. With 323 deaths being reported in August accounting for 78.6% of the total 411 fatalities, the death rate spiraled further in the beginning of September as 111 patients from the district succumbed to the virus in merely eight days, whereas 70 deaths were reported during the corresponding period last month. Of the 111 people who died in September, 84 were male and 27 female. Of the total deaths, 96 have been reported in the age group of 30 and beyond. According to cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, who is also a member of the Covid task force constituted by the state government to plug the virus spread, the fatality rate was high in the district as people were not adhering to the government guidelines. “At the time when 15 patients are dying of Covid daily, people are hosting pool parties. What else do you expect,” Dr Mohan said. He also laid the blame on prevalence of diabetes and hypertension among people of Ludhiana for the high fatality rate. “In majority of the cases, we have witnessed diabetes and hypertension to be the reasons behind the high causality rate. We have been requesting the residents suffering from comorbidities to stay indoors and venture out only if it is necessary and that too after taking proper protective measures,” the doctor added. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, meanwhile, said self-medication was also contributing to the rising rate of deaths. Both Dr Mohan and Dr Bagga stressed that early treatment is the “only cure”. “A patient should be rushed to a hospital when his/her saturation level falls below 93. But currently, patients are being brought in when the saturation level drops to as low as 60,” Dr Mohan said. Dr Rajesh Bagga attributed the reason for higher deaths among males to the stronger immune system of females. “Women’s immunity generally has more resistance towards the virus. Moreover, hormones and chromosomes also play pivotal roles,” he added. From 88 deaths between March 29 and July 31 (64 days), the Covid toll rose to 411 by the end of August — a spike of 21 times. The fatality rate spiralled majorly only after the curfew restrictions were lifted on June 8. Before June 8, 11 people had died since March 29 (70 days). March had recorded one death, followed by three fatalities in April and five in May. As the borders reopened and restrictions were eased in June, allowing public to venture out and businesses to reopen, the Covid-positive cases shot up and fatalities rose to 12 in a month. The situation began to worsen in July that saw 67 deaths. Dr Bagga suggested that wearing masks, social distancing and frequent washing hands were the biggest protection against the virus. “I strongly believe that we are reaching a plateau following which the number of cases and fatalities will decline. But that will only happen if we would adhere to the government guidelines and shun social gatherings and parties,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fatality-rate-spirals-ludhiana-district-sees-111-deaths-in-september/story-wI7t345urxy1byVNnh9TpI.html
08-09-2020||City||Tragedy strikes Punjab family twice in a fortnight||Tragedy struck a family in Kharar’s Sunny Enclave twice after a 40-year-old man died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, just 16 days after his mother had succumbed to the disease.Identified as Sukhwinder Singh, he is survived by his wife, who is seven-month pregnant, and a five-year-old daughter. His father, too, had died of heart attack six years ago. The mother, Inderjit Kaur, 67, suffered from both diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala after complaining of stomach ache. On being sampled for Covid-19, she tested positive and died at the hospital on August 23.Sukhwinder, who was a local trader, was admitted to the Sohana hospital in Mohali around the same time after experiencing problem in breathing. A hypertension patient, he too tested positive and despite undergoing several minor operations, he could not survive.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said: “It’s really sad a family lost its two members to Covid. Both patients had comorbidities. We have cremated the man as per health protocol.”“We never took this virus seriously, but when samples of our family members were taken, we got a little worried. The deaths, one after the other, have come as a shock,” said Harpreet Singh, Sukhwinder’s cousin. He said Sukhwinder and his wife had adopted a daughter five years ago, and now for the first time in 18 years of their marriage, the wife had conceived. “They have lost everything. I don’t know how his wife and daughter would cope with it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tragedy-strikes-punjab-family-twice-in-a-fortnight/story-aTa5wsm0PjCqZzh0BHOdtN.html
08-09-2020||City||15 more succumb to virus in Ludhiana district||With 15 more fatalities, the Covid-19 toll touched 522 in Ludhiana district on Tuesday.The patient tally crossed the 12,000 mark to reach 12,302 with the addition of 304 fresh infections till Tuesday evening. The district now has 1,883 active cases, while 9,894 people have recovered so far.Health department officials say Ludhiana’s recovery rate is 80.43%. Among those who tested positive for Covid-19 were 94 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), 40 contacts of infected patients and 82 people who were referred from outpatient departments (OPDs). The new patients included five healthcare workers and a policeman.Those who lost their lives included an 85-year-old man from Rishi Nagar; a 57-year-old man from Sahnewal; a 55-year-old man from Jatani village; a 78-year-old man from Dugri Phase 2; a 48- year-old man from Cheema Chowk village; a 64- year-old man from Manakwal; an 85-year-old man from Haibowal Kalan; a 58-year-old man from BRS Nagar; an 86-year-old man from Tagore Nagar; an 82-year-old man from Jagraon; a 67-year-old man from Khanna; a 68-year-old man from Gaushala road; a 70-year-old woman from Guru Nanak Colony, a 49-year-old woman from Jamalpur, and another woman aged 50 from Civil Lines.17 employees of agri dept test positiveAs many as 17 employees of the agriculture department also tested positive. Confirming the development, chief agricultural officer Narinder Singh Benipal said tests of at least 76 employees working in the department were conducted after two staffers were found infected.He said so far, 17 employees have tested positive. The employees, majority of them working in the common room, have been isolated. The health department, he said, is testing their family members, relatives and close contacts.Benipal said the agriculture department will remain open for farmers. The premises have been sanitised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-more-succumb-to-virus-in-ludhiana-district/story-EIyDDWTNzXAp7oxrAUqGhL.html
08-09-2020||City||Chandigarh sees record surge with 377 Covid cases, tricity breaches 700 mark||The number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 700 mark for the first time in the tricity, with 714 people testing positive for the virus.While Chandigarh, too, recorded its steepest surge with 377 cases, Panchkula and Mohali reported 169 and 168 infections, respectively.The tricity had recorded the previous biggest spike on September 6 with 613 cases, and Chandigarh on September 3 with 276.Meanwhile, six people succumbed to the virus, taking the tricity’s toll to 227. The total number of confirmed cases is inching towards 15,000, as 14, 961 people have tested positive so far, of whom 5,780 (39%) have not been cured yet.Around 1,000 tests were conducted on Tuesday in Chandigarh. With 377 people found to have contracted the virus, single-day positivity rate stood at 38%, suggesting widespread infection. The total has climbed to 6,372, of which 2,334 cases are still active. Meanwhile, another death — 72-year-old woman from Hallomajra — took the toll to 75. As many as 3,960 people have recovered so far.Seeing the surge in cases and spread of infection even among low-risk contacts, the administration has notified 24 areas as micro-containment zones, said UT health secretary Arun Gupta. Dr Jagat Ram, director, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, too called for some restrictions to control of spread.Three deaths, 168 fresh cases in MohaliWith three more people losing battle against Covid-19, the toll in Mohali district reached 116, while 168 fresh cases took the total to 5,274 on Tuesday. Among the fresh cases, 50 surfaced in Mohali city, 36 in Kharar, 31 in Dera Bassi, 27 in Dhakoli and 16 in Gharuan. Meanwhile, with 317 patients being discharged, the number of those cured shot up to 2,952. Now, 2,206 cases remain active in the district.Those who died included a 40-year-old man from Sunny Enclave in Kharar, who was suffering from hypertension, and a 58-year-old man from Mohali, who had liver disease. A 70-year-old woman from Dera Bassi was the third casualty. She too had comorbidities, including diabetes and hypertension.Two succumb, 169 test +ve in PanchkulaTwo people died and 169 tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula district on Tuesday.Both deceased were men, aged around 70, and had diabetes. One resided in Sector 19 and the other in Sector 20 .The total number of confirmed cases has risen to 3,315, of which 1,240 are active. While the death toll has reached 36, 2,039 patients have been discharged so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-sees-record-surge-with-377-covid-cases-tricity-breaches-700-mark/story-oCmHb3aEVD2zHKpGlKsP5N.html
08-09-2020||Kolkata||Eight persons test positive for Covid ahead of truncated West Bengal monsoon session on Wednesday||Eight persons tested positive for Covid-19 during examination conducted on MLAs, Assembly staff and media persons Tuesday, ahead of the one-day monsoon session of the West Bengal House on September 9.A total of 467 persons were tested at a temporary testing centre since 10 am.“A total of eight people tested positive; out of them, two are assembly staffs. Four police personnel who were on duty inside the premises, one media person and a driver examined also tested positive. Necessary steps as per norms have been taken,” Speaker Biman Banerjee said.He had said last week that the session would be held in strict compliance with ICMR guidelines, and every individual will have to undertake the Covid-19 test before entering the House.The tests would continue on Wednesday also.According to sources in the Assembly, MLAs, staff members and journalists, planning to attend the proceedings, formed separate queues on the premises of the assembly, and underwent rapid antigen tests, while maintaining social distancing norms.The West Bengal house monsoon session will be held for only a day on September 9 due to the ongoing pandemic, instead of two-day as proposed earlier.The TMC said the decision to curtail the sitting for a day only was taken at the all-party meeting Tuesday.“We don’t want people to stay in the assembly for a long time. So it has been decided that the house will be adjourned after obituary reference and placing of few reports,” Banerjee said.The decision, however, riled opposition Congress.Leader of the Opposition, Abdul Mannan criticised the TMC government for not accepting proposals for bringing in resolution against the “anti-people” policies of the Centre.“We wanted to bring in a resolution against the National Education Policy and rise in the prices of essentials. But our proposal was turned down by the TMC. This only proves that TMC and BJP have a tacit understanding,” he alleged.There have been instances when resolutions have been passed without any discussions. But the state government was adamant on not bringing any resolution, Mannan said.TMC denied the charge and said the resolution was not allowed as the session will be held for just a day.The state government had sent a proposal to the speaker in August for convening a session either from the first or the second week of September in consideration of the rules that there cannot be a gap of more than six months between two sessions of the assembly.The 294-member state assembly was adjourned sine die on March 17 as the state budget session was curtailed due to coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/eight-persons-test-positive-for-covid-ahead-of-truncated-west-bengal-monsoon-session-on-wednesday/story-DL1c1xosL8F4cGiel4PANL.html
08-09-2020||City||Delhi starts online system of filing complaints||New DelhiChief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday launched an online system for filing complaints in consumer courts. The move, he said, will prove to be “a milestone”, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. Kejriwal said around 7,000 consumer cases in the state commission and more than 8,000 cases are currently pending in the district courts in Delhi . “I hope that these cases are settled soon. Consumers will now be able to file complaints from their homes any time and make payments online. I have been told that Delhi is the first state to start this kind of a facility. It will prove to be a milestone and set an example for other states to follow,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-starts-online-system-of-filing-complaints/story-7DHStaxZNXc7iXWKDbqoGI.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board has outlined plan to augment water supply, says vice- chairman Chadha at business meet||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said the water utility has outlined a plan to augment supply in Delhi in order to avert a water crisis.He spoke about the plan at the ongoing CII Delhi Business Week 2020. “The situation is grave at present. Niti Aayog had last year declared that 21 cities in India, including Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, may face severe water scarcity by 2020. In Delhi, efforts are on to rationalise the distribution and ensure consistent supply in the command areas of the water treatment plants (WTPs)” said Chadha.Parts of Delhi usually faces a water scarcity during the summer months when the demand shoots up exponentially.Currently, of the nine treatment plants in Delhi, seven depend on river water (Ravi-Beas and Yamuna) that comes from Haryana. The remaining two plants in east Delhi get Ganga water from Muradnagar in Uttar Pradesh. Currently, potable water at its optimum production is about 935MGD (million gallons per day) of which 90MGD is from groundwater resources, he said.He added that for efficient water auditing and minimising leakage losses, DJB has considered installing bulk flow meters in the supply infrastructure. “Around 3,000 flow meters will be installed, and 90% of them have been installed already. This will help in better management and rationalisation along with reduction in loss of potable water,” said Chadha.According to a study by the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) , estimates of which were released during the CII event, groundwater level in Delhi is depleting at a rate of 10cm a year. By 2025, the water requirement of Delhi is likely to go up to 1140 MGD ( going by the rate of 44 MGD per person per day).He also said rainwater harvesting is more than necessary in Delhi to augment the city’s water table, which has been depleting over the years.“It’s high time that all buildings, wherever feasible, installed rainwater harvesting (RWH) structures. Recently, rain centres have been established in the east district. Besides these, a 10% rebate in the total monthly water bill is being given to consumers who have functional RWH systems,” he said.He also listed other measures being taken for augmenting supply such as rejuvenation of river Yamuna through in situ treatment of drains, including Shahdara, Barapullah and Badshahpur drains, upgrade of sewage treatment plants (STPs) and laying of the sewerage network in 1,799 unauthorised colonies in Delhi, among others.Chadha also raised a set of challenges being faced by the DJB such as equitable distribution, given the increasing population and the limited resources; misuse of water by residents; and conservation of scarce natural water resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-has-outlined-plan-to-augment-water-supply-says-vice-chairman-chadha-at-business-meet/story-ZGd0HahWq32LBhZUDtx8iI.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC dismisses plea that questioned extension of probe period||The Delhi high court on Tuesday dismissed the plea filed by Khalid Saifi, an accused in the north-east Delhi riots case, challenging a trial court order that granted more time to the investigating agency to conclude its probe in the case.A single judge bench of justice Vibhu Bakhru, while rejecting the plea said the trial court order cannot be faulted on the grounds that the petitioner was not afforded adequate opportunity to be heard.“The requirement of providing the petitioner a notice as well as an opportunity to be heard in opposition to the application for extension of time for completion of the investigation were complied with by the court. A report indicating the progress of investigation, including specific reasons for detaining the accused beyond the specified period, was furnished. The trial court had perused the same as well as examined the case diaries and had recorded its satisfaction in this regard,” the bench said.Saifi, in his plea, sought directions from the high court to set aside the trial court order, dated August 13, extending the time for completing the investigation till September 17. The plea has also sought to issue consequential directions that he be released on bail in terms of Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Saifi, a member of United Against Hate group, was arrested on March 21 for allegedly being a part of those who conspired to start the north-east Delhi riots in February. Police booked him under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act.On August 13, the trial court allowed the application of the investigating agency seeking an extension of the time period to conclude the investigation under Section 43D(2)(b) of the UAPA, and extended the time period by 30 days, till September 17.Besides Saifi, other accused persons in the case are Ishrat Jahan, Tahir Hussain, Gufisha Fatima, Meeran Haider, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Asif Iqbal Tanha, and Shafa ur-Rehman. The accused persons have denied their involvement in the riots and have accused the Delhi Police of launching a witch hunt against anti-government voices. The arrested persons were prominent faces who took part in the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-hc-dismisses-plea-that-questioned-extension-of-probe-period/story-rLZXDNtXxKGxQF4syV0YRP.html
08-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: BJP demands CBI probe into ‘storing of ration bags’ in school||The controversy surrounding the ‘storing of ration bags’ in classrooms of a local school refuses to die down. On Tuesday, Punjab BJP vice-president Praveen Bansal and Ludhiana BJP president Pushpinder Singhal met deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and demanded a CBI probe into the alleged storing of ration bags in a school at Haibowal. The decision was taken after a team constituted by the district food and civil supplies department gave a ‘clean chit’ to Congress leader Baljinder Singh Sandhu in the matter.Bansal along with other party workers had visited the school on August 27 and accused Sandhu, whose wife represents ward no 91 as councillor, and Congress MLA Rakesh Panday for illegally storing 4,000 gunny bags of ration in various classrooms of the school. The next day District Congress Committee chief Ashwani Sharma and other party leaders slammed Bansal for levelling false allegations against Sandhu. As the matter escalated, food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu ordered a probe into the matter. On Tuesday, Bansal gave a pen drive to DC containing videos and written statements of Baljinder Singh Sandhu, the owner of the school from where ration bags were recovered, Congress District President Ashwani Sharma and food supply officers, Harveen Kaur and Sukhwinder Singh Gill.Bansal said that there was a huge disparity between the statement of the Congress leader and the department officials. “In a statement, Baljinder Singh had said that there were 450 ration bags kept in school, however, 4,000 ration bags were recovered from three classrooms of the school,” said Bansal. “The next day, some councillors, including Ashwani Sharma, told the media that they received a total of 31,000 ration bags for the Northern Assembly constituency and there were 700 bags remaining at that time. On the other hand, district food controller Harveen Kaur said that a total of 20,000 bags were sent for the northern assembly. And on August 28, a total of 700 bags were recovered from two rooms during the investigation. I don’t know who is speaking the truth, we are demanding an impartial probe from an independent agency,” said Bansal. On the other hand, district BJP chief Pushpinder Singhal said that no method was followed for distributing the ration. “The department is doing everything possible to save its employees and Congress leaders,” he said. Singhal said that a delegation of BJP leaders will also meet cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu to bring out the truth behind the scam. Besides they will urge the Governor to initiate a CBI probe into the matter, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-bjp-demands-cbi-probe-into-storing-of-ration-bags-in-school/story-wyaEGTFvcGgeR1sb2L4SQM.html
08-09-2020||City||Two arrested for molesting woman at Delhi night shelter||New Delhi: Delhi police on Tuesday said they have arrested two men for allegedly molesting a 26-year-old woman inside a night shelter in south-east Delhi.According to the police, the woman approached them with a complaint on September 2 and accused a security guard and his accomplice of molesting her.“She said she had been living in the night shelter for past 10 months. We have registered a case under section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 34 (Common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The two men were arrested on the same day,” said a senior police officer.The women’s night shelter in Nizamuddin is under the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and is run by an NGO, SPYM.A DUSIB official, who did not wish to be named, said that the matter came to their knowledge on Tuesday evening and that they were in the process of verifying the facts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-molesting-woman-at-delhi-night-shelter/story-1QZTFh7yQ0PCYDI5OT199L.html
08-09-2020||City||67 more succumb to virus, 1,964 new cases in Punjab||Chandigarh/Ludhiana/Amrtisar/Jalandhar/Patiala Punjab health authorities on Tuesday reported 67 coronavirus deaths and 1,964 fresh cases, pushing the state’s numbers to 1,990 fatalities and 67,547 infections, according to a daily medical bulletin. Samana MLA Rajinder Singh of the Congress tested positive for the coronavirus on Tuesday. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the legislator has been home isolated. The Tuesday figures are the second-highest daily count in the state, which had reported its highest 2,110 cases on Monday. Thirteen deaths were reported from Ludhiana; 11 from Amritsar; eight from Patiala; seven from Bathinda; four each from Moga and Jalandhar; three each from Faridkot, Gurdaspur and Sangrur; two each from Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Muktsar; and one each from Barnala, Fazilka, Mansa, Mohali and Rupnagar, the bulletin said. The maximum 311 case were reported in Ludhiana, followed by Jalandhar (265); Amritsar (236); Patiala (206); Bathinda (168); Mohali (127); Gurdaspur (126); Hoshiarpur (104); and Faridkot (83). A total of 2,307 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. So far, 49,327 people have been cured of the contagion, the bulletin said. There are 16,230 active cases in the state as of now, according to it. Eighty-seven patients are on ventilator while 633 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 12,41,120 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. 17 employees of agri dept test positive In Ludhiana, 17 employees of the agriculture department tested positive. chief agricultural officer Narinder Singh Benipal said tests of around 76 employees were conducted, of which 17 were found infected. “The employees have been isolated and the health department has also taken samples of their family members and other close contacts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/67-more-succumb-to-virus-1-964-new-cases-in-punjab/story-9esG7BBQ0A36UKAvhT9vbK.html
08-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: More complaints of inferior road work pour in||Despite inspections and sampling being conducted by the municipal corporation (MC) to monitor the quality of road construction works, complaints against ‘inferior quality’ work being done by contractors continue to pour in.On Tuesday, residents raised concerns over the alleged inferior quality work of interlocking tiles being done in the Harnam Nagar near Model town area.Social activist Gurpal Grewal said, “Inferior quality work is being done in Harnam Nagar area as the tiles are being installed at an uneven level. Despite repeated complaints being submitted by the residents, the MC has failed to take stern action against the contractors.”A resident of the area, Gurwinder Singh said, “There was no need to replace the tiles and the old tiles could have been repaired easily. The work to install the new tiles is also not being done properly and the MC should take note of it. The contractor should be directed to reinstall the tiles and action should be taken against him if he fails to do so.”MC additional commissioner, Rishipal Singh said, “Sampling of newly constructed roads is being done on a regular basis. No payment is released to the contractor after the samples fail the quality test and the report is sent to MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal for further action.”MC fails to blacklist erring contractorsDespite tall claims made by the MC officials regarding strict action being taken against contractors, none of them has been blacklisted by the civic body lately. The MC has however stalled the pending payments.Recently 7 out of 8 road samples of RMC roads collected from Balbir Enclave in the Haibowal area failed the quality test.Earlier seven samples collected from Amantran Colony, Guru Vihar, Chander Nagar, Bal Singh Nagar Road, Ashok Nagar, Daba Road and a road near GNE College (towards Dugri) failed the test. Besides, the samples collected from a stretch near RK Road, Circular Road near Daresi Ground and Baba Mukand Singh Nagar had also failed the test. Road construction projects likely to begin from September 15Mayor Balkar Sandhu conducted a meeting with the officials of the department of bridges and roads of the MC regarding development works on Tuesday. Sandhu said that if the weather conditions remain favourable, the road construction works would begin from September 15. The hot mix plant of the civic body would also be made operational for repairing roads. The MC staff has been directed to keep a check on quality of work, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-more-complaints-of-inferior-road-work-pour-in/story-yPoiVj2pH0q4ym74t7GSaP.html
08-09-2020||City||Stripping case: Former Khanna SHO sent to judicial custody||Suspended Khanna SHO Inspector Baljinder Singh was produced before a local court on Tuesday that sent to 14-day judicial custody in an assault case. The accused through his counsel appealed to the court to send him to Patiala jail citing threat to life in Ludhiana central jail, as many of the accused arrested by him are lodged there.However, no recovery has been made from the suspended cop. Advocate Guninder Singh Brar, counsel to complainant Jagpal Singh, said that the police demanded that Baljinder should be sent to judicial custody as he is not cooperating with them. Brar stated that the police has made no effort to trace the mobile phone that was used to record the video. He alleged that members of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) are hand in glove with the accused cop who are trying their best to save him.Brar added that they are disappointed with the police and would appeal for CBI inquiry in the case.Inspector Baljinder Singh surrendered before the IG on Saturday. after his bail application was rejected by the court. The police were after him for the past two months.The cop was booked for assault, illegal detention, stripping clothes of three men and recording the video. The police had also added sections of the SC/ST Act and the Information and Technology (IT) Act against the inspector in the FIR lodged at City-1 police station of Khanna on July 5.In the nine-second video, three persons were seen standing nude in front of the SHO, whose voice is audible but his face cannot be seen. After the video went viral, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta had directed the inspector general of police (IGP), Ludhiana Range, to carry out a fact-finding inquiry into the matter on April 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stripping-case-former-khanna-sho-sent-to-judicial-custody/story-Y45LMDHcwiA0T7XXIbqMYM.html
08-09-2020||City||Cylinder blast: Woman, three kids with severe burn injuries referred to PGI||A day after five members of a family suffered burn injuries after an LPG cylinder exploded at a shop-cum-house in Basti Mani Singh, near Basti Jodhewal, the woman and her three children have been referred to PGI after their condition deteriorated. Krishan Kumar, 38, his wife, Babita Devi, 35 and three children, Krishna Kumar, 10, Aashiq, 5, and Shivam, 8, were injured in the incident that took place at 8 pm on Monday.The victims were first admitted to ESI hospital and later referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. As their condition deteriorated, they were shifted to PGIMER in Chandigarh.The reason behind the blast is uncertain, however, some neighbours claim that the family used to refill small gas cylinders illegally while others said that they used to run a small dhaba and the blast took place when they were cooking food.Area councillor (ward number 8), Chaudhary Yashpal said that residents of the area have no information about any illegal activity regarding the refilling of cylinders. “The blast took place when the family was cooking food in their dhaba. While Krishan is said to be stable, his wife and three children with severe burn injuries have been admitted to PGI,” he said. Station House Officer, Daresi police station, Inspector Davinder Singh said, “We have not been able to record the statement as the victims are still undergoing treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cylinder-blast-woman-three-kids-with-severe-burn-injuries-referred-to-pgi/story-wk3wpI0D67odO9XhJrUoZO.html
08-09-2020||City||HP logs 4 deaths, 171 fresh Covid-19 infections||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 171 new coronavirus cases, taking the state tally to 7,831. Of the new cases, 59 were reported in Kangra, 25 in Shimla, 20 in Hamirpur, 18 in Sirmaur, 13 in Una, 12 in Mandi, 10 in Chamba, eight in Solan, six in Bilaspur, five in Kullu. The fresh infections have grown at a rate of 3.3% since the beginning of this month. Active cases have climbed up to 2,316 and 5,444 people have recovered so far. In Kangra, District Congress Committee chief and former Nurpur legislator Ajay Mahajan and his wife Veni Mahajan were among 54 people found infected. Mahajan said he followed all Covid-19 norms while being in public but somehow caught the infection. “I was having fever and sore throat for last four days and got our Covid-19 tests done, report of which came out positive,” he said, urging people who came in his contact to home quarantine and undergo test for Covid-19. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati also tested positive late on Monday and is in home isolation. Eleven people have tested positive in Nahan town of Sirmaur district. With 1,770 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra where 1,196 cases have been reported till date. Sirmaur has 1,070 cases, Hamirpur 680, Una 637, Mandi 554, Chamba 543, , Shimla 462, Bilaspur 425, Kullu 364 and 103 cases in Kinnaur district. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state as it has only reported ninteen Covid-19 cases till date. Death toll 58 The virus claimed four more lives in Himachal Pradesh, taking the death toll to 58. Three deaths were reported at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla and one in Kangra. Among the dead was a 75-year-old man from Totu area of Shimla town who was suffering from pneumonia. Another 55-year-old diabetic man from Sarkaghat of Mandi district also succumbed to the virus. A 57-year-old woman was the third victim. In Kangra, a 51-year-old man, who was suffering from type-2 diabetes died at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-logs-4-deaths-171-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-7T1bMeYy7en3GBwDTDyYpO.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||CAG: Fadnavis government’s pet project Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyaan in Maharashtra failed after spending over ₹9K crore||The Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) report tabled in the state legislature on Tuesday slammed the previous Fadnavis government for its failure in implementation of Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan (JSA) envisaged to make villages in Maharashtra drought-free. Besides the deficiencies in planning and lack of provision of adequate funds for maintenance of the works, JSA failed to achieve water neutrality in drought-prone villages and increase the ground water level as intended, the report has stated. The report on the general, social sectors and public undertaking for the financial year ended on March 31, 2019 and tabled in the Legislative Assembly pointed out that even after spending ₹9,634 crore, the Abhiyan had little impact. “The objective of the Abhiyan was to harvest maximum rainwater and arrest maximum runoff. However, it was observed that in 120 villages under test check, the storage planned was less than the estimated runoff by 1.64 lakh thousand cubic meter (TCM). Shortfall in creation of storage vis-à-vis planned storage (was observed) in 83 out of 120 selected villages, the storage created was not sufficient to meet the water requirement for drinking and cultivation to the extent of 61,045 TCM,” stated the report. CAG further observed that “in 37 out of 83 villages, the shortfall in meeting the water requirement was due to less storage created than planned. Further, in 25 of these 37 villages, the shortfall in creation of storage vis-à-vis planned storage was more than 20%. Consequently, in 17 of these 83 villages, water tankers were deployed for meeting the water requirement of the villages”. The report said: “One of the main objectives of the Abhiyan was to increase the level, but audit compared groundwater level in 58 selected villages for which the data on groundwater level pre- and post-implementation of the Abhiyan was assessed. For the purpose of comparison, the year in which rainfall post implementation of Abhiyan was more than the rainfall before implementation of the Abhiyan was taken into consideration.” In another CAG report on state finances for the same year, the auditor has also slammed the government for delay in implementation of irrigation projects. It has stated that out of 345 ongoing irrigation projects, 211 were under execution for more than 15 years, while remaining 69 were incomplete for more than 30 years. After spending ₹92,010 crore, the projects could not achieve the estimated objective and delays resulted in the cost escalation. Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that the objective could not be achieved as the incumbent government scrapped the Abhiyan. “The JSA was planned to be implemented for 10 years. Had it been continued, the objective would have been achieved. The strictures in the report are related to a few works under the scheme and not about the entire JSA. Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court had appointed an expert committee to study the scheme, and the report submitted by it had louded it. It has in details said how the JSA helped in rising the water level in Marathwada and other drought prone areas of the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cag-fadnavis-government-s-pet-project-jalyukt-shivar-abhiyaan-in-maharashtra-failed-after-spending-over-9k-crore/story-CTEEzwcsAGpITGJD49MjZJ.html
08-09-2020||City||16-year-old boy drowns in Sutlej, body fished out||The body of a 16-year-old boy, who drowned in the Sutlej river on Monday, was fished out from the river on Tuesday.The Meharban police have sent the body to the civil hospital for autopsy.The victim has been identified as Pawan Kumar, 16, of Peeru Banda.Station house officer Inspector Kulwant Singh said that five teenagers had gone to Sutlej River near Chuharwal village to take a dip in the cold water. While the four of them were playing near the river bank, Pawan had gone very far in the river and drowned.His friends tried to rescue him but failed. They immediately rushed home and informed his parents, who further sounded to the police.The SHO said that on Tuesday, his body was fished out from near a tomb. Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal had already imposed a ban on diving in the river, canal, ponds and other water bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-year-old-boy-drowns-in-sutlej-body-fished-out/story-0uDIvsRHMGVv8I9OzJsLUO.html
08-09-2020||City||J&K L-G e-inaugurates development projects worth ₹23.40 crore in Udhampur||People-centric governance along with hassle-free public service delivery is the prime focus of the UT administration, said Jammu and Kashmir Lt governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday.Sinha was on his visit to Udhampur district where he reviewed the progress of various developmental activities. He also interacted with scores of public delegations to take stock of their issues and developmental needs of the area.The L-G also e-inaugurated developmental projects worth ₹23.40 crore and virtually laid the foundation for projects under the water supply schemes costing ₹5.17 crore.Reiterating the administration’s commitment for prompt redressal of people grievances, Sinha directed the officers concerned to take comprehensive measures to improve public service delivery and adopt a proactive approach for ensuring more responsive grievance redressal.Laying special focus on the saturation of schemes run by the Centre and UT administration, the L-G directed the officers to take all the requisite measures to ensure 100% coverage of eligible beneficiaries.For ensuring saturation of various beneficiary oriented schemes, the Lt Governor directed the concerned officers to roll out a comprehensive mechanism to take the benefit of Jan Abhiyan programme for mass contact, which is being held from September 10 to 30.He also set September 30 as a deadline for 100% seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana registrations, besides directing for the mandatory payment under MGNREGA within 15 days. He also called for maintenance of inventory and asset register in each panchayat for the record.While reviewing the status of Udhampur to Chenani NH-44, the L-G asked the officers to take necessary measures to remove bottlenecks for timely completion of the project.Meets civil services qualifiers Sinha also met this year’s civil services qualifiers at the Raj Bhavan in Jammu and congratulated them for their entry into the prestigious services.The qualifiers included Majid Iqbal Khan from Nowgam in Anantnag, Abhishek Augustya, Devahuti, Sunny Gupta and Shubham Kundal, from Jammu.He advised the young entrants to discharge their duties with utmost dedication, commitment, integrity and sincerity. He asked them to remain sensitive to the issues of the people and inculcate team spirit and cohesiveness in the public delivery system and work for the advancement of public welfare on all fronts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-l-g-e-inaugurates-development-projects-worth-23-40-crore-in-udhampur/story-4eQgMItEpJRyXMuwHvPbRL.html
08-09-2020||City||Drug addict held for stealing jewellery from kin’s house||Koom Kalan police have arrested a man for stealing gold jewellery from a relative’s house in Chaunta village here on Tuesday. In his complaint to police, Jang Singh, 27, said that his cousin Krishan Singh, 33, of the same village would visit his house on a daily basis to look after his father Dilabar Singh who is bedridden.As Jang would go to work, Krishan would look after his father.“On September 5, Krishan did not come to my house. He is unemployed and a drug addict. On suspicion, when I checked my house, I found gold jewellery worth Rs 70,000 to be missing from the trunk kept in the house,” said Jang.ASI Harmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said that Krishan is a drug addict. “He came in touch with Kulwant Singh of the same village, who is a drug peddler,” the ASI said. The police, after receiving a complaint, lodged an FIR and arrested Krishan who confessed to having committed the theft on Kulwant’s advice in order to buy drugs from him. The police have booked Kulwant who is on the run.A case under Sections 380 (theft) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drug-addict-held-for-stealing-jewellery-from-kin-s-house/story-o8LJ4e2pZ5L8iZAkGTim8N.html
08-09-2020||Pune||PCMC switches from micro to macro containment zones||The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has switched from micro-containment zones to macro zones and currently has 59 containment zones as compared to the 107 earlier.“Earlier, we used to have micro-containment zones, but now to utilise less manpower we have merged a few areas and declared it as a single containment zone (macro-containment zone),” said Santosh Patil, additional commissioner.As on Tuesday, the number of Covid positive cases in PCMC stand at 55,890 while 869 deaths have occurred according to the state health department“Initially, we had been declaring a single building also as a containment zone and now we have changed the strategy,” Patil added.At the beginning of June, PCMC only had 81 containment zone which was increased to 107. A total of 4,000 tests are conducted every day in the industrial townshop.“The increasing number of Covid cases is a worry as the public is still not completely supporting us and ignoring norms,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-switches-from-micro-to-macro-containment-zones/story-Shv1NVe9W9bQ6nxGbSOwvL.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||25 more succumb to virus in Haryana, 2,228 test positive||Twenty five people died of Covid-19 while 2,286 more persons tested positive for the virus in Haryana in the past 24 hours, according to the health bulletin released on Tuesday. While the fatalities due to the infection were spread across 16 districts, the fresh cases were reported in all the 22 districts of the state. The number of people tested positive so far has risen to 81,059 while the death toll has mounted to 854. In past eight days, the virus claimed 148 lives in the state and 14,633 new cases of the infection were detected.Among the 25 fatalities on Tuesday, three deaths each were recorded in Karnal and Kurukshetra districts while two each were in Fatehabad, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Panchkula, Ambala and Sirsa districts. In nine districts namely Faridabad, Gurugram, Rewari, Rohtak, Hisar, Jhajjar, Bhiwani, Nuh and Kaithal one patient each succumbed to the Covid-19. Four districts recorded more than 200 fresh cases each of the infection, and five districts reported more than 100 cases each. As per the bulletin, Faridabad again saw the highest 266 new cases, followed by Gurugram 258, Karnal 224, Panipat 204, Panchkula 169, Kurukshetra 140, Rohtak 162, Sonepat 100, Rewari 115, Ambala 98, Hisar 84, Palwal 21, Mahendergarh 69, Jhajjar 43, Bhiwani 21, Nuh 24, Sirsa 49, Yamunanagar 80, Fatehabad 52, Kaithal 57, Jind 46, and Charkhi Dadri 4.The number of Covid-19 active patients on Tuesday stood at 16,890 even as 1,704 patients were discharged, increasing the tally of people who have recovered from the infection to 63,315. ‘Khattar making steady progress’Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who was admitted in Medanta on August 25 for Covid-19 treatment, is making steady progress in his recovery from the infection, doctors said. In a bulletin issued by the hospital, medical superintendent, Dr AK Dubey said, “There is no significant change in his condition and the doctors are satisfied with his progress.” Dr Dubey said chief minister spent a restful day and slept well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/25-more-succumb-to-virus-in-haryana-2-228-test-positive/story-r9Szplv9WC6QGDTPe0Sn5J.html
08-09-2020||City||Use of oximeter by multiple people can aid Covid spread: Balbir Sidhu to AAP||Chandigarh Rejecting the AAP’s announcement on use of oximeters in Punjab as a “political gimmick”, health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday warned of the massive potential of community spread of coronavirus due to repeat use of oximeters by multiple persons without proper sanitisation. Slamming AAP’s political theatrics in Punjab villages, Sidhu alleged that this could be the possible game-plan of (Delhi chief minister) Arvind Kejriwal’s party. He warned the people that the party was misleading them completely, just as it had done in Delhi, where the Covid situation was critical, with all the 11 districts of the national capital among the country’s 35 worst-affected districts. He said the AAP was promoting the oximeters as medicine or vaccine of Covid-19, while the fact was that it simply helps detect the oxygen level in a person’s body. “Perhaps their strategy is to promote the further spread of the pandemic in Punjab in order to persuade people to believe it to be a failure of the state government,” he said. The disinformation campaign, which seemed to be deliberately spread by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to further their petty political interests in Punjab, was highly dangerous, the minister claimed, adding that it could trigger a huge risk of infecting more people and perhaps even triggering a massive community spread in the rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/use-of-oximeter-by-multiple-people-can-aid-covid-spread-balbir-sidhu-to-aap/story-dk32RmgjmrarkgsSgETTiP.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees its highest one-day jump of 377 Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh reported the sharpest single-day spike of 377 novel coronavirus cases, pushing the infection count to 6,372 on Tuesday, according to a medical bulletin. The death of a 72-year-old coronavirus positive woman raised the toll to 75 in the Union Territory, it said. She succumbed to infection at the Government Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday, according to the bulletin. The fresh cases included a two-month-old child, it said. The new coronavirus cases were detected in several areas including sectors 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 11, 12, 15,16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, Burail, Dadu Majra and Daria. There are 2,334 active Covid-19 cases in the city, as of now. A total 226 patients were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday after recovering from the infection. The UT has so far seen 3,960 recoveries from Covid-19, the bulletin said. A total of 37,070 samples have been taken for Covid-19 testing so far and 30,326 of them tested negative while reports of 122 are awaited, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-its-highest-one-day-jump-of-377-covid-19-cases/story-zjHnYWWMqMeqkpyv70XVNJ.html
08-09-2020||Lucknow||CBI indicts 3 IPS, IAS officers for not acting on Unnao rape survivor’s complaints against MLA||The Uttar Pradesh government could take action against three women officers - two from the Indian Police Service (IPS) and one from the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) - after the CBI indicted them for negligence in handling complaints of a minor’s rape in 2017 and her father’s murder the next year, said a senior government official familiar with the development. Former BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar was sentenced to life imprisonment in December 2019 by a Delhi court in the rape case, the official said. Sengar, an MLA from Unnao’s Bangarmau assembly constituency, is serving the jail term.A four-time lawmaker, Sengar had an exceptional hold over the Unnao region before his sharp fall from grace right before the Supreme Court transferred the trial to the national capital. When it first appeared that he may be arrested, several MLAs had approached the state government claiming that he was being framed.A senior official said the CBI had recommended action, for negligence against IPS officers, Pushpanjali Devi and Neha Pandey, who were posted as superintendent of police (SP) in Unnao between June 2017 and April 2018, and IAS officer Aditi Singh, who was district magistrate of Unnao during the same period.The official said the CBI has also recommended action against another IPS officer, Ashtabhuja Singh, who was additional SP in Unnao during the same period and was later promoted to IPS cadre in July 2019. The CBI had submitted its recommendations to the state government in the second week of AugustThe agency, which had investigated and prosecuted the lawmaker after the intervention of the Allahabad High Court, said it had found the officers’ negligence in initiating action and registering FIR against Kuldeep Sengar, despite repeated complaints against him by the rape survivor’s father between June 2017 and April 2018.The girl’s father - she was a minor when she was raped - was attacked by the former MLA’s aides on April 3, 2018 and sent to jail after framing him in a false case. The girl’s father succumbed to the injuries sustained in the attack on April 9, 2018 as he was not provided proper treatment during the judicial custody, the official said.The state government started to take action against Sengar and his aides when the matter was highlighted by the media after the self-immolation bid by the rape survivor and women members of her family near the chief minister’s residence in Lucknow on April 8, 2018, and the death of the girl’s father. Sengar was finally arrested from Lucknow on April 14, 2018 after the state government handed over the case to CBI on April 12, 2018. The CBI charged Sengar and his aides in two cases; the minor’s rape and her father’s murder.Sengar was sentenced to life imprisonment in December 2019 by a Delhi court in the rape case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cbi-indicts-3-ips-ias-officers-for-not-acting-on-unnao-rape-survivor-s-complaints-against-mla/story-O7HKlj5mWxziwixta9y6WP.html
08-09-2020||Pune||Teams deployed to oversee oxygen supply in Pune district||Following complaints of black marketing and artificial shortage of oxygen supply, Pune district administration on Tuesday ordered deployment of officials at the premises of manufacturers premises to to ensure its supply for treatment of patients continues unabated despite a sharp spike in demand.The decision comes a day after the state government reserved 80 per cent of the oxygen supply for medical use. With demand rising amid increasing number of Covid patients, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, said that the availability of oxygen is the next big challenge for the administration and hence, the authorities have deployed dedicated teams at the oxygen manufacturing units in the district to monitor and control its supply.Teams comprising food and drug administration officials, police personnel and excise officials will be stationed at manufacturing units. “They will control and monitor the supply of oxygen for medical purposes,” added Rao. He said that the administration is also exploring options of routing supply from Raigad district.“The state government has already given instructions that oxygen-producing units will allocate 80 per cent of the total produced oxygen towards medical purposes and if need be, this percentage can be increased,” said Rao.He added that besides deploying dedicated teams at the oxygen-producing units, two officials have been deployed as nodal officers who will control the supply of oxygen to the hospitals and curb black marketing as instances of artificial shortage were reported.On Monday, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh held a meeting with manufacturers and suppliers in which he asked them to reserve only 20 per cent supply for industries. The decision came days after deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the state government has decided that 50 per cent of the oxygen production in Maharashtra be reserved for medical use in view of the coronavirus pandemic. “Covid cases in Pune are rising and there is a growing demand for oxygen from hospitals for critical patients. To ensure adequate supply to them, I have asked manufacturers and suppliers to reserve 80 per cent oxygen supply for medical use,” Deshmukh had said. As on Sunday, Pune district’s progressive positive tally of Covid cases stood at 2,03,468 with 4,470 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/teams-deployed-to-oversee-oxygen-supply-in-pune-district/story-g0VNtNeSoqlGSgt2BjKskM.html
08-09-2020||Pune||PMC has abandoned contact tracing, allege Covid-19 positive patients||Covid-19 cases are rising in the city and the Pune Municipal Corporation seems to have abandoned contact tracing, allege Covid-19 positive patients who spoke to HT on the condition of anonymity.The patients allege that there has been no attempt from private agencies or the PMC health department to seek their contact details and trace them. The patients claim that they called up people who had been in contact with them and asked them to get their Covid tests conducted voluntarily as a precautionary measure. However, the civic administration refutes all charges. “We think our current contact tracing rate is satisfactory and we are going to increase it further in the coming days. We also have dedicated teams to trace patients with co-morbidities and senior citizens,” said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. According to Rao, there are 540 such teams in Pune city and 2,700 teams in rural areas to trace co-morbid patients and senior citizens. As per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, the administration should ideally track down 15 contacts of any person who tests positive for Covid-19 . PMC’s contact tracing stands at 11.20 for every Covid positive person while for Pimpri-Chinchwad, it is 10 and 13 for rural areas, as of September 8.Shraddha Shinde , a housewife, said, “I tested positive for Covid-19 on August 29 and PMC doctors asked me to opt for home isolation. The administration did not take any details (names, phone numbers or addresses) of who I had met, or contacted over the past week. The PMC health department has, since then, not called me even once to check up about my health status or contacts.”Another 55-year-old woman lawyer, who is Covid-19 positive, lamented that the PMC was least interested in contact tracing. She said ,“The PMC health department staff ask questions like where are you staying , who is your care taker, who is your doctor and what is your address. All they do is sanitisation and that too after a lot of coaxing . They do not seek information for contact tracing. I tested positive on September 3 and the civic officials called me thrice seeking information about my residence- where I stay, if I have an independent staying arrangement or not. The officials came to visit me personally on the fifth day. First, they should trace all the people I had met. I must have come in contact with 15 people, but none of them have been traced by PMC till now. I contacted them and asked them to be alert about their health. If PMC conducts contact tracing properly, it can help in containing the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection.”Calls to PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar were unattended and a text message, which was delivered and read, went answered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-has-abandoned-contact-tracing-allege-covid-19-positive-patients/story-o43aHd7M0yH0g9DH3sitbP.html
08-09-2020||City||Temple land ‘grab’: Expose culprits hiding within civic bodies, demands J&K Congress||The Congress on Tuesday urged religious, social and trade organisations to come forward for saving the land of Panchvaktra Temple and demanding a high-level probe into its illegal grabbing.The administration had allegedly attempted to “usurp” the temple land to raise a ₹35-crore multilevel mechanised car parking and a commercial complex at the site.In a statement issued here, senior Congress leaders said neither the title of the land has been clearly restored to the temple nor has the proposed shopping complex project been shelved.“The culprits behind the entire illegal and clandestine exercise have not been identified. Till all these issues are addressed, the struggle shall continue till those hiding behind the MC, Jammu Development Authority (JDA) and National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) are exposed,” they said.Referring to the recent communications and blame-game between municipal commissioner Avny Lavasa, JDA vice-chairperson Babila Rakwal and Jammu DC Sushma Chauhan, the Congress leaders said, “They strengthened the belief that there was a conspiracy to usurp the prime land of the historic temple in an illegal manner which got exposed and the same has been stopped, but not shelved completely. There is apprehension that the mode shall be changed for the exercise for which all those concerned must unite and come forward.”They asked the stakeholders to save the interests of the devotees and the historic temple. The signatories included Dharampal Sharma, Madan Lal Sharma, Raman Bhalla, Mula Ram, Ravinder Sharma, Jugal Kishore Sharma, Kanta Bhan and many others.Amid public outrage, L-G Manoj Sinha on Monday visited the ancient temple and offered prayers there. The administration has now claimed that the tender for parking lot has been withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/temple-land-grab-expose-culprits-hiding-within-civic-bodies-demands-j-k-congress/story-sWjQj40cWSdCXba5TnxNAP.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Bid for leftover vanity vehicle numbers in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration is conducting an e-auction of leftover vanity vehicle registration numbers of a few series: CH-01-CB, CA, BZ, BY, BX, BW, BV, BU, BT and BS. The registration for participating in online bidding began on Tuesday and will continue till 5pm on September 14 . The bidding will be conducted from 10am on September 15 to 5pm on September 17.The interested vehicle owners can get themselves registered on the national transport website: https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy. The link is also available on the Chandigarh transport department’s website: www.chdtransport.gov.in. Upon registering, each person will get a unique acknowledgement number. Only those who have purchased the vehicle on a Chandigarh address can participate in the e-auction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bid-for-leftover-vanity-vehicle-numbers-in-chandigarh/story-w43jD3KUHLRVUtQC4q5drK.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||No prescription needed for Covid-19 testing in Delhi, says Kejriwal||A person suspected of having the coronavirus disease in Delhi will not have to show a doctor’s prescription to get tested, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday.Kejriwal made the announcement on Twitter after the Delhi high court ruled that doctor’s prescription is not mandatory for those opting voluntarily for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reactio (RT-PCR) test to detect the viral contagion as the fears of a second peak in the city loom large. “Delhi govt has increased testing multi-fold. I have directed Health Minister this morning that Doctor’s prescription shud not be asked for testing. Anyone can get himself tested,” Kejriwal said in his tweet. Delhi govt has increased testing multi-fold. I have directed Health Minister this morning that Doctor’s prescription shud not be asked for testing. Anyone can get himself tested.According to the high court order, people will need to carry Aadhaar card as Delhi address proof and fill a form as prescribed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid-19 testing.The testing will be done on a trial basis and 2,000 tests would be allowed for the asymptomatic patients out of the total 14,000 RT-PCR tests conducted daily in the city, the court said.The ICMR form specifies the category of patient as per the testing guidelines.The high court noted there was a sharp increase in the number of cases in Delhi and asked private laboratories to allow 2000 Covid-19 tests per day for those who voluntarily wish to undertake it.The case was heard by a bench comprising justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad, who observed that there is a sharp rise in cases of Covid-19 in Delhi between August 31 till date and the figures are “rather alarming”. It also directed the Delhi government to set up testing centres including closer to the prominent metro stations so that the commuters can easily get themselves tested.So far, a doctor’s prescription or symptoms was a prerequisite to get tested for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-prescription-needed-for-covid-19-testing-in-delhi-says-kejriwal/story-gSOP04x47aFwNlvCz5Ia3N.html
08-09-2020||City||LJP hits back at JD(U)||PATNABarbs continue to fly in the NDA between the JD(U) and the LJP even as the alliance got a boost with the joining of Jitan Ram Manji-led HAM-S.A day after JD(U) principal general secretary K C Tyagi reiterated his party’s stand that “JD (U) has never formed an alliance with the LJP in BIhar and that it’s alliance is only with the BJP”, the LJP hit back on Tuesday.“We welcome this statement from the JD(U) that his party has never had any alliance with the LJP. JD (U) leader K C Tyagi has done us a favour,” the LJP said in a statement. “In fact, the JD (U) has done us a favour. The party will only join hands with those who support its president Chirag Paswan’s agenda to make Bihar the leading state in the country,” it said.Tyagi made it clear that any party, which is a part of the NDA in the state, will have to accept chief minister Nitish Kumar’s leadership. “Even top BJP leadership, including Amit Shah and J P Nadda, have announced this,” he had said. His statement came after the LJP authorised party president Paswan to take a decision on whether the party would fight against Kumar’s JD(U) in the forthcoming assembly polls and decided to prepare a list of candidates for 143 constituencies. What has peeved the JD(U) is that the LJP leadership has continued to criticise Kumar on several fronts. “How can a party, which is a part of NDA, make a statement which is contrary to what NDA leaders have said. LJP’s comments will not affect JD-U in Bihar. However, it could affect the NDA alliance, especially of LJP with the BJP,” Tyagi said.Bihar has 243 assembly constituencies and elections in the state are due in October-November as the tenure of the current assembly will end on November 29.The JD (U) had on earlier occasions snubbed LJP following its national president assertion that his party was ready to contest on all 243 assembly seats and his demand for a common minimum programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ljp-hits-back-at-jd-u/story-nlLZ3liK78PoVXhQzD2SRI.html
08-09-2020||City||Tej Pratap likely to contest from Hasanpur||PATNARJD chief Lalu Prasad ‘s elder son and sitting MLA from Mahua, Tej Pratap Yadav, is said to be scouting for a new constituency, which could likely be Hasanpur in Samastipur district, where the 32-year-old leader held a road show on Monday.Tej Pratap posted pictures of his road show on his official Twitter handle on Tuesday, with captions thanking the people of the constituency for showing great support. Sources said the former health minister is not very keen to contest from Mahua this time amid speculation that his estranged wife Aishwariya Rai could be fielded by JD(U). Tej had won the Mahua seat in Vaishali district in 2015 assembly polls.“Tej Pratap, in all probability, will contest from Hasanpur instead of Mahua. There have been ground reports about the poll mood there,” said a senior RJD MLA, wishing not to be quoted. Tej Pratap had filed a divorce petition from his wife Aishwariya in November 2018 and the matter is in court. The relationship between RJD’s first family and Aishwariya’s family later turned bitter. Rai’s father, Chandrika Rai, has already given hints that his daughter will contest against Tej Pratap from any seat he contests. Chandrika has left the RJD and is now with JD(U), which is likely to field him from Parsa seat in Saran district, which he currently represents. Hasanpur has a sizeable Yadav and Muslim electorate, the traditional vote bank of the RJD, and has been a party stronghold since 90s. The seat was won by RJD in 2005 and October 2015 polls, while JD(U) won the seat in 2010 and May 2015 polls. RJD’s state president Jagdanand Singh, for the record, said the party had not taken any decision on official nominees from seats as yet. “ We are working on all 243 constituencies and candidates list will be finalised later.” Tej Pratap refused to comment when reached on phone. Meanwhile, JD(U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said it indicated that people of Mahua were not happy with their MLA. “Tej Pratap has realized the prospect of losing from Mahua. This is why, he is looking for a new constituency. But that would not help as he would lose from any seat he contests because the poll mood is not in favour of the RJD,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tej-pratap-likely-to-contest-from-hasanpur/story-JOF89Hxsybh170jF4AFzVK.html
08-09-2020||City||JMM eyes 7-12 seats to contest in Bihar under GA, Cong says no clue||PATNAThe Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which leads the ruling alliance also consisting of Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal in the neighbouring state, is looking to fill up the void following the departure of Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) in Bihar’s Grand Alliance (GA). HAM-S leader and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi opted out of GA on August 20 citing and later cast his lot with the NDA. A delegation of JMM leaders is likely to meet RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is serving his jail sentence in Ranchi, next week for formal talks on the alliance. The RJD and Congress are already having a hard time in accommodating left parties, apart from allocating seats to allies like the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and Vikassheel Insan party (VIP) ahead of the Bihar assembly polls, due in October-November. Headed by former Jharkhand CM Shibu Soren, the JMM hopes to field its candidates in seven to 12 constituencies with significant presence of tribals. The state’s public health and engineering department (PHED) minister Mithilesh Thakur has been authorised to hold formal talks with the RJD chief next week, said JMM spokesman Manoj Kumar alias Bablu Pandey. The Congress, however, pleaded its ignorance about the development, saying the RJD could be planning to spare seats from its own quota. “Right now, the Congress does not have any proposal from JMM,” said Bihar Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha. However, the JMM is expecting ‘reasonable’ returns from the RJD for its ‘generous’ gesture in Jharkhand. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said it was not unreasonable as RJD was given seven seats to contest and the lone legislator was allotted berth in the cabinet. In 2015, JMM leader Hemant Soren, who is now Jharkhand CM, was left high and dry when his plans to contest the Bihar polls under the GA was turned down by Prasad and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar. Soren had visited Patna and met GA leaders and reportedly agreed to limit his party’s fight on three seats, which was not allocated to any of the allies till then. Later, the three undecided seats were shared equally among the GA constituents, RJD, JD(U) and the Congress. Left out, the JMM fielded its candidates on 32 constituencies, mostly in areas bordering Jharkhand. However, it did not fare well and lost security deposits, polling only about 2% votes in the constituencies it had contested. Till 2015, the JMM had one legislator in Bihar assembly. Sources in the JMM said they had identified seats in Jamui, Banka, Purnia, Katihar, Kisanganj, West Champaran and Kaimur districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jmm-eyes-7-12-seats-to-contest-in-bihar-under-ga-cong-says-no-clue/story-xYwQXZNeNyIXAsvlpOA45N.html
08-09-2020||City||Political workers in Valley second-guess impact of ‘back to village’ programme||The Jammu and Kashmir administration is set to kick-off its back to village (B2V) programme next month to address the growing disconnect between people and the official machinery amid the pandemic.However, grassroots level political workers in the Valley have termed it administration’s attempt to marginalise them in the absence of an elected regime.The programme, during which thousands of officers will spread out in different villages of the UT to address public grievances, is a first since Manoj Sinha took over as the new Lieutenant governor of J&K last month. Earlier, two B2V programmes were held in June and November last year.For the past two weeks, Sinha has been visiting various districts meeting delegations of people and students as part of his public outreach programme.MP from South Kashmir and senior NC leader, Hasnain Masoodi, said B2V is only a slogan to portray it as an alternative to traditional politics.“We have seen that B2V programmes have not delivered at the ground level. If we go from place to place there is no imprint at all. We find people of marginalised sections have same problems. Affordable housing is not implemented at all and safe drinking water is available for less than 40 percent of the population,” Masoodi said.“People have become increasingly conscious of the absence of a political system. The whole exercise is to marginalise the political workers at the grassroots level. It is bureaucracy trying to create an alternative parallel to the conventional politics, but they are not able to do it,” he said.The third phase of B2V programme, scheduled in two steps from September 10 to 20 as pre-B2V and October 2 to 20, would be held at a time when the daily number of Covid-19 cases has been showing a sharp spike in the UT.Since September 3, the number of daily infections has been hovering above 1,000, a new trend since the pandemic began. On September 8, as many as 1,355 persons tested positive in the highest single-day spike in J&K so far. The total number of positive cases has reached 45,925 till September 8,of which 32,722 are in Kashmir and 13,203 in Jammu. Not only that, the region has recorded 815 deaths – 112 of them in first eight days of September, 326 in August and 276 in July.Notwithstanding the grim Covid-19 statistics, information director Syed Sehrish Asgar chaired a preparatory meeting of her officers to discuss the arrangements for the conduct of the third phase of B2V programme. It was decided in the meeting that to raise awareness, cultural officers of both the divisions of Kashmir and Jammu shall organise Nukad Nataks at block, district, divisional and UT levels by strictly adhering to SoPs and Covid-19 guidelines, a government spokesman said.Earlier on September 5, Rohit Kansal, principal secretary of power development and information departments, who is also government spokesperson, had claimed in a press conference that the programme has “generated huge interest” among people and the administration has decided another version of the programme in the form of B2V-III.“We are confident that the entire next month will be a festival of public grievance redressal, public service delivery and development at the panchayat level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/political-workers-in-valley-second-guess-impact-of-back-to-village-programme/story-y5xT3JB6dB6Yt06ZHbD1SK.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Cat goes missing at Delhi airport, reunited with pet parent after four days of hectic search||Few people, or for that matter animals, have been able to dodge the eagle-eyed security personnel at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) and roam about at will. But that’s exactly what eight-month-old Nala, a cat who was put on an Air India flight from Bengaluru, did on reaching Delhi on September 1. She deftly slipped out of the carrier, kept in the aircraft’s cargo belly, and disappeared into the cavernous expanse of the airport, leaving her pet parent Astha Shah worried and the Delhi airport staff flustered.And while Nala went about her adventure, airport personnel searched high and low for her, finally locating her on Friday, four days after she went awol, and reuniting her with a relived and happy Shah. Wildlife SOS, a Delhi-based non-profit organisation that works for rehabilitation and rescue of wildlife, helped Shah relocate Nala to Delhi. An NGO official said Shah was travelling with her two cats to Delhi from Bengaluru on the Air India flight.“Both cats were being transported in certified pet carriers. When the plane landed in Delhi, the passenger was informed that one of the cats went missing from her carrier during transit at the IGI Airport. Our enquiries revealed that the pet carrier in which Nala was put had come undone in the aircraft’s cargo compartment.The cat had slipped out and gotten lost on the vast Delhi airport premises,” a spokesperson for the Wildlife SOS said. When Shah was informed about Nala going missing, she cancelled her onward journey to Ahmedabad and stayed back in Delhi to help find Nala. “The airport authorities immediately launched a search for the missing feline. Wildlife SOS also assisted with the search operation by placing food baits at several locations inside the airport to lure Nala out. After four days of tracking the cat, she was finally located in the airport’s cargo hold area,” the spokesperson said.As Nala looked terrified and hungry, it took the Wildlife SOS team hours to ease her out from the cargo facility before being reunited with Shah, the spokesperson said.Shah, who lives in Bengaluru, said the cats are her family and the incident had left her in tears. “House cats struggle to survive on their own for long. I thank Wildlife SOS for reuniting my beloved Nala with me. The past few days have been extremely stressful, but I received a lot of support from the animal community, the Air India staff, airport authorities and the airport operator. This incident showed me that compassion is not dead and people will still go the extra mile to help a stranger desperately searching for her beloved pet,” Shah told Wildlife SOS.Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder & CEO, Wildlife SOS, said they are glad they could help find the missing feline and reunite her with her family.Air India also said the airline is happy that Nala is now safe in the warm embrace of her pet parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cat-goes-missing-at-delhi-airport-reunited-with-pet-parent-after-four-days-of-hectic-search/story-lQ1DvNNTIbVSr8L9N70C9K.html
08-09-2020||Kolkata||Police forces in Bengal should keep up good work, not pay heed to adverse remarks: CM||Heaping praise on the Kolkata Police and the West Bengal Police for their “relentless” fight against the Covid-19 pandemic over the past six months, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said they should “carry on the good work without paying heed to any adverse remark”.Banerjee, during a programme here to mark Bengal’s first Police Day, said the two forces have been diligently performing their duties and providing all possible help to the people of the state, amid the crisis.Bengal had observed Police Day on September 1, but the programme was postponed to September 8, as the state was mourning the demise of former president Pranab Mukherjee.“The police forces in the state are humane and brave.They should not pay heed to any adverse comment and keep up the good work,” Banerjee said at the programme.Several police personnel received medals and certificates for their services, on the occasion.“Apart from maintaining law and order, police personnel have also donated blood during this pandemic.Several members of the force, who had contracted the disease and recovered, are donating plasma for Covid-19 treatment, thus saving lives of many patients,” Banerjee said.She congratulated the family members for standing beside the police personnel, as they work tirelessly to combat the Covid-19 situation.“The Kolkata Police, which was once equated with the Scotland Yard, is excelling further, while the Bengal Police is also faring well,” she said, after virtually inaugurating a cyber forensic laboratory of the West Bengal Police, three new police stations at Khardah, Sagarpara and Kalitala Asuti and 22 other buildings, including some police barracks.State Home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, on the occasion, announced that the kin of 20 ‘Covid warriors’ who succumbed to the infection -- eight personnel of the West Bengal Police, seven of the Kolkata Police, four officials of the health department and one of the personnel department - were being given jobs, under the Compassionate Appointment Scheme, as promised by the government.Bandopadhyay also said that 24 police personnel have died of Covid-19 in West Bengal so far.Among others, State Director General of Police Virendra was present at the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/police-forces-in-bengal-should-keep-up-good-work-not-pay-heed-to-adverse-remarks-cm/story-d8F1yNRa8pQnLJ7NEs901N.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to prepare video to educate people about online registration of deeds||Following reports of people facing problems during online registration of land, Haryana government is planning to prepare an informative video to explain the process and upload it on YouTube.Training will also be given to the deputy commissioners (DCs) and district revenue officers, who will further train people so that they do not face any difficulty in getting their registries done, an official spokesperson said. While presiding over a meeting of senior officials of the departments related to ‘registration of deeds’, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala directed the officials to immediately resolve all problems regarding online registrations. Taking a cognisance of the officers showing negligence in work, the deputy CM said that action will be taken against those who are not serious about their responsibilities. The deputy CM was informed that the process of taking online appointment for land registry was started but in some places, there has been difficulty in selecting the collector rate and that instructions are being given to the DCs. The issues of portal link, convenience-deed, allotee-ID in industrial areas, notification of 7-A in controlled area and some technical glitches coming up on the website of Town and Country Planning department were also discussed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-prepare-video-to-educate-people-about-online-registration-of-deeds/story-ZinKhfEEnx86EEf7CFAOdM.html
08-09-2020||City||Himachal Public Service Commission changes four centres for HPAS exam||The Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) has changed four examination centres, including three in Shimla and one in Hamirpur, for the Himachal Pradesh Administrative Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination-2019 due to some administrative reasons, officials said.The examination is scheduled to be held on September 13. Candidates who were to appear for the examination at Shimla College of Education, Sheetal Kunj Kamla Nagar in Sanjauli, will now take the exam in Rajkiya Kanya MahaVidyalaya, Long Wood, Shimla Centre-II and Rajeev Gandhi Government Degree College Kotshera, Shimla. Those who were to appear in Centre of Excellence Government Degree College Sanjauli, Shimla (Centre-I) will now take the exam in Modern College of Education, Near Halipad, Annadale, Shimla. Those who had to take the exam at Centre of Excellence Government Degree College Sanjauli, Shimla (Centre-II) will appear in HP College of Education, Mauja Majeth, Airport Road, Totu. The centre at Hamirpur Public School, Ward No 10, Ramnagar, Hamirpur has been changed to Gautam College of Pharmacy, (new block) Ward No 10 Near Bus Stand, Hamirpur.HPPSC joint secretary Ekta Kapta said candidates are advised to download their revised admit card and appear in the said examination at the new centre. He said SMS and e-mail has been already sent to all candidates on their registered mobile number/email ID.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-public-service-commission-changes-four-centres-for-hpas-exam/story-zXPSi01JP3bL41SbyflKAM.html
08-09-2020||City||Himachal assembly monsoon session: Corona crisis debate continues on Day 2||Fireworks continued on the second day of Himachal assembly’s monsoon session as the ruling BJP and the opposition countered each other on the issues of corona crisis and corruption.The adjournment motion moved by the opposition Congress was also debated on Tuesday.Opening the deliberations, BJP legislator from Bilaspur, Subhash Thakur, said the state government had done a commendable job in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. He said 39,200 packets of ration and 55,000 masks were distributed, while community kitchens were organised at six places in Bilaspur during the lockdown.He said the 25 quarantine centres set up in Bilaspur district were well-equipped with all the facilities.Thakur also raised the case of suicide by young man in Bilaspur who had released a video holding a former MLA responsible for his death. He demanded an inquiry from the chief minister so that the victim’s family could get justice.Countering Thakur’s claims, the opposition’s Kinnaur legislator Jagat Singh Negi alleged that during the lockdown, the government acted as if there was an emergency in the state. “This would be the first government to have failed on all fronts and messed up things during pandemic,” he rebutted.He said the lockdown was imposed when the disease had already spread. On the other hand, Negi said, the CM took a decision that added to the people’s sufferings while sitting at his home.Responding to Negi’s remarks, CM Jai Ram Thakur said the words the opposition member was using will not be tolerated. “Had there been a Congress government today, the country and the state would have been ruined,” he said.The angered chief minister told the opposition members to choose their words wisely. “Whenever he (Negi) wants, he jumps up to speak,” he said.On this, the opposition members started sloganeering.Meanwhile, the CM said the lockdown was announced in the entire country as per the Disaster Management Act, and that the opposition should not vitiate the atmosphere of the house using inappropriate terminology.Negi also raised the issue of appointment of non-Himachali candidates in Class-III and Class-IV jobs in government departments, accusing the ruling party of betraying the youth of Himachal in the guise of Covid-19 pandemic.The Kinnaur legislator also hit out at the CM for participating in a religious event where, he alleged, Covid norms were thrown to the wind. “However, no case was registered against the chief minister,” said Negi asking if the state head was above the law.Forest minister Rakesh Pathania, who participated in the discussions next, counted the works of the BJP government to tackle the corona crisis. He said in the previous Congress regime, leaders only took rounds of court. During the pandemic, the BJP distributed masks and fed the people.“What did Congress do?” he asked adding that the opposition was not serious about the discussion and only wanted to take political advantage.Congress legislator Nand Lal demanded white paper on the Covid-19 Response Fund received by the state government through donations.He said there were no ventilators in the hospital in his constituency in Rampur, but the CM didn’t want to hear anything. The Covid care centres were in poor shape and there was no proper arrangement of food, he argued.Congress stages walkoutMeanwhile, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri led a walkout from the assembly stating that the ruling party was trying to throttle the opposition’s voice, after the latter were restrained from debating on the Covid crisis issue by assembly speaker Vipin Singh Parmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-assembly-monsoon-session-corona-crisis-debate-continues-on-day-2/story-gismWImaMQpAKoFIFTtsaJ.html
08-09-2020||Pune||Supply 80% of available oxygen for medical use: district admin to manufacturers||Considering the shortage of oxygen supply given the rising number of Covid-19 cases, Pune district administration on Monday asked manufacturers to supply 80 per cent oxygen for medical use.Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh held a meeting with manufacturers and suppliers in which he asked them to reserve only 20 per cent supply for industries.The decision came days after deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the state government has decided 50 per cent of the oxygen production in the state be reserved for medical use in view of the pandemic.“As the Covid-19 cases are rising in Pune, there is a growing demand for oxygen from hospitals for critical patients. To ensure adequate supply to them, I have asked manufacturers and suppliers to reserve 80 per cent oxygen supply for medical use,” said Deshmukh.As on Sunday, Pune district progressive positive tally of Covid positive cases stood at 1,99,303 with 4429 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/supply-80-of-available-oxygen-for-medical-use-district-admin-to-manufacturers/story-uVWPh3CZFZGrvpx0URgaHJ.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal launches online system to file consumer complaints||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday launched an online system for filing complaints in consumer courts and said it will prove to be a milestone especially during the Covid-19 pandemic.   Kejriwal said consumers will now be able to file complaints from their homes any time and make payments online.“It will prove to be an important step in the times of Covid-19. We have already been asking people to stay home.  I have been told that Delhi is perhaps the first state to start this kind of a facility. It will prove to be a milestone and set an example for other states to follow,” he said.Kejriwal said around 7,000 consumer cases in the state commission and more than 8,000 such cases in the district courts here were pending.  “I hope that these cases are settled soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-launches-online-system-to-file-consumer-complaints/story-ynOGPBBA86aAwR1CV5g9YI.html
08-09-2020||City||Himachal Congress protests against corruption, increasing unemployment||The Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) on Tuesday protested near the state assembly at Shimla’s Chaura Bazar, claiming increasing unemployment, corruption, inflation and mismanagement by the state government during the Covid-19 pandemic.The party also demanded the resignation of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and his entire cabinet.During the protest, the Congress workers crashed the police barricades and marched towards the Himachal Pradesh legislative assembly where they were stopped by heavy police barricading. HPCC president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said instead of providing relief to people during the pandemic, the state government hiked bus fares, petrol and diesel rates and its ministers were involved in corruption in purchase of sanitisers, health equipments and ventilators. “Their ministers are busy in land deals which shows the state government’s insensitivity towards public issues,” he added. “Fake degrees are being sold in the state and jobs are given to outsiders whereas unemployed youth of Himachal are still waiting for creation of two crore jobs per year as promised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The administration has totally failed, employees are being transferred on political affiliations and some officers are behaving as if they are political agents of the BJP,” Rathore said.“The Congress is keeping strict vigil on all these issues and we will not allow the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to sell properties of our state,” he added.Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said the Congress workers are fighting outside the assembly against the anti-people policies of the government while the party MLAs are fighting inside for the same cause. “This fight will continue until the present state government is booted out of power in 2022,” he added.Later, a deputation led by Rathore also submitted a memorandum to the CM in his chamber in Vidhan Sabha regarding the issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-congress-protests-against-corruption-increasing-unemployment/story-Trp8Rex6pymBhsTLwObziK.html
08-09-2020||Pune||Radio astronomer Prof Govind Swarup dies at 91||Prof Govind Swarup, renowned scientist and radio astronomer, passed away due to illness at the age of 91 on Monday at a private hospital in the city, doctors said. He was admitted at the Ruby Hall Clinic since past 10 days due to weakness and other complications. His funeral was held at the Aundh crematorium at 11.30 pm. Prof Swarup was the founding director of the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research. “Prof Swarup, who was born in 1929 at Thakurwada, Harayana state was a world-famous astronomer, and one of the pioneers of radio astronomy in India. He was known not only for his important research contributions but also for his leadership in building highly innovative, world-class radio telescopes such as the Ooty Radio Telescope and the Giant Metrewave RadioTelescope (GMRT), which firmly established India as one of the leading countries for Radio Astronomy research,” said Dr J K Solanki, NCRA’s head of administration and finance. The GMRT, which was recently upgraded, continues to be one of the most sensitive radio telescopes in the world, at the frequencies at which it operates. Prof Swarup, known as father of Indian radio astronomy, obtained his MSc from Allahabad University in 1950 and his PhD from Standford University in the USA in 1961. He returned to India in 1963 and joined the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research at the invitation of Prof Homi Bhabha. There he built a strong radio astronomy group that continues on today at the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics. He received several distinctions throughout his career, including the Padma Shree, the Bhatnagar Award, and the Grote Reber medal. He was a fellow of many distinguished academics, including Fellowship of the Royal Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/radio-astronomer-prof-govid-swarup-dies-at-91/story-SvypmyJSlUnxk2iEZJ0ocL.html
08-09-2020||City||Don’t attend session if having any signs of Covid-19 infection: Himachal Assembly Speaker to MLAs||A day after BJP legislator from Indora assembly segment Rita Dhiman tested positive for Covid-19, speaker of Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha Vipin Singh Parmar on Tuesday told the members that anyone of them showing signs of infection should home isolate and not attend the session.As soon as the house assembled for the second day’s proceedings, Parmar said: “I appeal to the members that if they have slightest of doubt about having Covid-19 infection or any symptoms, immediately go into quarantine and do not come to the house.”The members, if they deem fit, should also take initiative to undergo test for Covid-19, he added.Parmar urged all MLAs to undergo thermal screening before entering the Vidhan Sabha. “This is for the safety of all,” he said, adding, “Members should also use face masks properly by covering their nose and mouth completely.”He said the MLAs should also take all other preventive measures, maintain social distancing and sanitise their hands regularly. “We are all public representatives. Everyone has to stay in touch with the public every day. Let us not spread the infection and motivate the public to avoid it,” he added.“I request all to strictly follow the Covid-19 norms so that the 10-day monsoon session can be completed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-attend-session-if-having-any-signs-of-covid-19-infection-himachal-assembly-speaker-to-mlas/story-X1vlDLQDsECPxa7FmKCHXP.html
08-09-2020||Pune||Jumbo rescue: new mgmt at Pune’s COEP; video conference facility for patients||The Pune district administration on Monday roped in ‘Medbros,’ an agency looking after Annasaheb Magar jumbo facility, to improve the services at the College of Engineering, Pune (COEP) facility.The decision was taken on Monday after a series of complaints about its mismanagement and death of critical patients.“During the meeting, we decided that now the functioning g of COEP jumbo facility will be handed over to Medbros. The agency is also handling the operations at Annasaheb Magar facility,” said Rao.“They are doing a good job at Pimpri-Chinchwad. So, they will take the charge now, today (on Monday) the formal work order is given to them,” said Rao.The steering committee meeting was attended by Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioners, Sassoon Hospital dean and all other senior officials.Meanwhile, Lifeline Services which was served a notice by the district administration said it has opted out from the management of the COEP facility given the “political pressure” and interference of multiple agencies.Sujit Patkar, director, Lifeline, said, “There is a lot of political pressure and interference. For the safety of our doctors, we had deployed bouncers as they are working under tremendous pressure. Some doctors left the facility due to the same reason and we didn’t want to compromise on the services. Our staff was also reduced, so before anything adverse happens we have already taken the steps to leave.”Last week, two patients died in the absence of immediate treatment at the jumbo facility. This was followed by a journalist Pandurang Raykar’s death as he could not get cardiac ambulance in time to shift from facility to private hospital. Following these incidents, patients and their relatives complained about lack of coordination, shortage of staff and medicines and unruly behaviour of bouncers, who refused relatives to meet their patients.Apart from replacing the agency, other major changes planned at the COEP jumbo facility include putting in place a robust communication system between the treating doctors and the relatives of the patients. “We are going to start it on two channels, one would be proactively giving phone calls to the relatives of the patient. Second is that if a relative of the patient comes to the facility, he/she can have video interaction with the patient through the audio-visual system. This system will start functioning from Tuesday here,” said Rao.During the meeting, it was also decided to change treatment protocol, with the decision to rope in expert doctors from private hospitals of Pune. “We are ready to pay them appropriate fees as they will be guiding and treating critical patients. they will provide guidance related to the treatment protocol of critical patients,” said Rao.While the COEP facility was made functional on August 23, the Annasaheb Magar facility started functioning a week later. Both facilities have a capacity of 800 beds each.Inquiry report of journalist’s death to be submitted todayThe inquiry report of into the death of journalist Pandurang Raykar is likely to be submitted by Tuesday by the Sassoon Hospital doctors team. Last week deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had ordered to do a detailed enquiry about the facility after many issues were raised by the relative of the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/jumbo-rescue-new-mgmt-at-pune-s-coep-video-conference-facility-for-patients/story-yj0VOLWD3w6eEBQqO3vmRK.html
08-09-2020||City||Uttarakhand BJP MLA rape case: Survivor says being pressured for compromise||A rape survivor has written to the Dehradun Police alleging that the investigation officer (IO) in the case was pressuring her for a compromise after she had filed a complaint against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker from Uttarakhand’s Dwarahat constituency Mahesh Negi and his wife Rita.Last week, police had booked Negi and Rita for rape and criminal intimidation on the basis of the rape survivor’s complaint.Now, Dehradun Police authorities have handed over the investigation to the Special Investigation Squad (SIS) after the rape survivor filed her latest complaint.The rape survivor’s lawyer SP Singh submitted the application to Arun Mohan Joshi, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Dehradun, on Monday evening, alleging IO Neema Rawat, a sub-inspector (S-I) of Nehru Colony police station, was pressuring the complainant to go for a compromise.Earlier on Saturday night, Nehru Colony police station authorities had booked lawmaker Negi and Rita at the direction of a sessions court order.The woman had filed a petition in the court demanding a case be registered by police on the basis of her complaint in which she had accused legislator Negi of raping her for the past two years and also fathering a child. She had also accused Rita of framing her in a false case after threatening her to keep mum about the alleged crime.SSP Joshi said police have received the rape survivor’s latest complaint. “We had received the application on Monday in which she had requested us to change the IO. We accepted the demand and immediately handed over the investigation to the SIS,” said the police official.“Now, the case will be probed by the SIS while examining all the facts and evidence,” he added.Lawyer Singh said, “We had demanded that the IO be changed because she was pressuring her to go for a compromise with MLA (member of the Uttarakhand legislative assembly) Negi.”He said: “In a separate case, the woman was booked for allegedly blackmailing and extorting ₹5 crore from Negi, on the basis of a complaint by Rita. S-I Rawat had taken her (the rape survivor) to Nehru Colony police station on the pretext of filling a form for home quarantine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In the police station, she asked my client to settle the case by talking to MLA Negi. She didn’t expect a fair probe in the rape case after what the IO told her.”Rita also submitted an application to the SSP on Monday night, accusing the rape survivor of threatening an eyewitness in the extortion case.Negi’s advocate Sanjiv Kaushik said, “We have given the application to police, requesting for a probe. The woman had tried to threaten an eyewitness in the extortion and blackmailing case, who was also her room-mate.”He added: “The eyewitness had recorded her statement before the police and in court against her (the rape survivor) in the extortion case following which she received threat calls on her mobile phone on Sunday and Monday. She was threatened with dire consequences, if she didn’t withdraw her statement.”SSP Joshi said, “The application has been taken into consideration in the ongoing probe of the extortion case.”The alleged crime had surfaced in August when Rita had lodged a complaint against the rape survivor accusing her of blackmailing and trying to extort ₹5 crore from her lawmaker husband by threatening to frame him in a false case.Initially, police had booked the rape survivor on the basis of Rita’s complaint.Later, the rape survivor filed a counter case against MLA Negi for raping her for two years and also fathering a child.She has also been demanding a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) test of Negi and her daughter in a bid to prove her allegations. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttarakhand-bjp-mla-rape-case-survivor-says-being-pressured-for-compromise/story-mtAOa6tlXUDCExsw3loF1N.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Prescription not required for asymptomatic patients to undergo Covid-19 test: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court has said that doctor’s prescriptions are not required anymore for asymptomatic patients to undergo Covid-19 testing in the national capital. The only things required would be Aadhaar cards with Delhi address and an Indian Council of Medical Research form that people seeking to be tested need to fill, it added.The testing will be done on a trial basis and 2,000 tests would be allowed for the asymptomatic patients out of the total 14,000 Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests conducted daily in the city, the court said.Also Read: No of containment zones in Delhi over 1,000 likely to increase with more testing: OfficialsA bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad noted there has been a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last week. It also directed the Delhi government to set up testing centres including closer to the prominent metro stations so that the commuters can easily get themselves tested.The court directed the government to provide maps of the various testing centres and also share them with Delhi Metro Rail Corporation for display at stations for better awareness.The bench was hearing a plea filed by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking ramping up of tests.Also Read: Delhi: Covid tests cross 45,000-mark; highest single-day spike in cases in 76 daysThe court has asked the Delhi government to re-strategise its testing plan to ensure anyone wanting to get tested is able to do so with any prescription.Additional standing counsel Satyakam, who appeared for the government, told the court they are working on the plan and sought more time from the court. He said the number of RT-PCR tests has been ramped up and mobile testing centres have also been set up at the bus terminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/prescription-not-required-for-asymptomatic-patients-to-undergo-covid-19-test-delhi-high-court/story-U86nXEy4adwDdXdAaP5VeJ.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||48-year-old woman found dead at home in Una||A 48-year-old woman was killed at home with a sharp-edged weapon in Jankaur village of Una district on Tuesday.The killer of Veena Devi remains unidentified. She used to live alone with her son after her husband passed away, but he was not at home when the crime took place.Devi’s daughter lives with her maternal grandmother.Police and family members were informed about the crime by neighbours after they saw Devi lying in a pool of blood. Una additional superintendent of police Vinod Dhiman said that the woman’s throat was slit. A case under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against unidentified persons.Una superintendent of police Arjit Sen Thakur, deputy superintendent of police Ramakant Thakur and forensic experts also visited the spot.It is the second murder in Una district in two days.Earlier, a revenue department employee was shot dead in Haroli sub-division by an ex-serviceman over land dispute on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/48-year-old-woman-found-dead-at-home-in-una/story-hMor61YhYykSF2yZ1N8vpL.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana’s comments amounted to insult of police: Devendra Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday condemned the remarks made by actress Kangana Ranaut about the Mumbai Police in the context of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, which he said amounted to “insult” of the police force.Ranaut had recently said that she feared Mumbai Police more than the “movie mafia”, and would prefer security either from Himachal Pradesh or the Centre.Speaking on the floor of the Legislative Assembly, the Leader of Opposition said he knew the capacity of the Mumbai Police since had served as chief minister of the state for five years.“But, the police can come under political pressure,” he said.Fadnavis also said since handling of Rajput death case was “wrong”, the probe was entrusted to the CBI.“What had been happening? 40 days of inquest? This was a perfect case of ‘aa bail mujhe maar’ (inviting trouble),” he said referring to the probe of the case by Mumbai Police.Seeking to dismiss allegations raised by the Shiv Sena and other ruling parties the the BJP’s demand for a CBI probe had demoralised the police, Fadnavis said many legislators had passed adverse remarks against the police at different points of time.“Even Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, during a rally in Kalyan, had said the police were capable of only washing utensils,” he said.Ranaut’s recent remark comparing Mumbai to Pakistan- occupied Kashmir (PoK) has drawn ire of the ruling Shiv Sena whose leaders are targeting the BJP for defending her.Fadnavis further said any reference to the CM without respect was wrong.“Even though we are in opposition, but Uddhavji is our chief minister,” the senior BJP leader said.Citing the arrest of a Marathi news channel reporter over a report on partial resumption of train services during the initial phase of lockdown, Fadnavis said the state government wanted to stifle the voice of journalists who are critical of its functioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-s-comments-amounted-to-insult-of-police-devendra-fadnavis/story-osP6G1lDHhm4s1z3x30RtO.html
08-09-2020||Pune||Tulshibaug app, social media pages on the way: Secretary of shop owners assn||It is not business as usual at the city’s small business retail hub, Tulshibaug market, one of the oldest markets in the city. Covid-19 norms in places the shops and registered hawkers, 800 in all, are open for business. Except, the mode of business, has undergone a drastic change. Nitin Pandit, secretary, Tulshibaug market shop owners association speaks to Dheeraj Bengrut about the new normal for Tulshibaug traders. What is the day-today business operations like, after lockdown? When the market first started in the first week on June, there were restrictions - P1 and P2 (odd-even) - due to which, only a few shops used to open daily. Then, after August 5, all the shops opened, every day. August was the festive season, but due to fear of infection, very few people turned up at the market. Only 25 per cent of business is happening. Public is shopping only for essentials and clothes, if needed. General shopping which used to happen earlier is not taking place. Last month, traders decided to boycott ‘Made in China’ goods. How is that panning out? We are all firm on boycotting Chinese goods; the reason is obvious, the India-China border issue. This will not happen overnight. It is a movement and it has begun. To substitute the Chinese products, some of our traders are now manufacturing their own goods with the help of big manufacturers in Ulhasnagar and Gujarat. What are the guidelines or instructions given by the association to shop owners and hawkers for safety? There are already guidelines issued by the PMC and the state government, which we have made compulsory for all traders. Face masks are compulsory; sanitisers in every shop; thermal checking of customers when they come inside the shop. Now, some have also kept oxymeters to check oxygen levels. Social distancing needs to be maintained, so we have instructed to all the shop owners and hawkers not to allow crowding. We request and appeal to citizens to please not bring children and senior citizens to the market. How do you plan to increase business at the market? Due to the Covid-19 pandemic most of our regular customers and public have turned to online shopping. So, we are also now getting into it. Some of our traders have already started online business. We are now going to make our own mobile application in which details of all the shop owners, their products and rates will be given. We will not use other private commercial shopping apps. People can choose and book their order online and we will give home delivery to the customer. Online platform of shopping will now remain constant and also increase in coming days, and we will also do it for our business development. All social media platforms - WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram – will have a Tulshibaug market page soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/tulshibaug-app-social-media-pages-on-the-way-secretary-of-shop-owners-assn/story-liW9Ch2rsXaCnPxraCxtiP.html
08-09-2020||City||Centre’s research body to aid UP returnees in starting fisheries business||Migrant workers who have returned to Uttar Pradesh will now get a chance to start fisheries business with the support from Lucknow-based National Bureau of Fish Genetics Resources (NBFGR), a research organisation under the Central government.The institute will provide assistance in 14 districts of UP which saw the maximum number of the migrants returning post lockdown. Most of these migrant workers lost their jobs and savings during the lockdown. The plan is to involve around 3,000 families of migrant workers with the fisheries sector in these districts. We provide training and technological help to these workers. They can use this to set up successful businesses,” said NBFGR director Kuldeep K Lal.Also read: Pradhan seeks special trains for migrant workers to return to places of workAfter poultry, fisheries is the second fastest growing meat industry in the country, according to experts and migrants could make the most of this upward trend.NBFGR experts will provide training to cultivate a variety of fresh water fish and crustaceans like prawns and crabs. “Easy availability of space and fresh water in the area will make it easier for migrant workers to start their business. We will also take help of the district administration to provide help in starting the business or taking loans from banks for the same,” said the director.The districts that will benefit through the initiative include Ballia, Ghazipur, Gorakhpur, Sultanpur, Mau, Sonbhadra, Gonda, Basti, Jaunpur and Azamgarh.Dharmendra Verma, a migrant worker in Gorakhapur, is looking forward to the programme. “Around 50 people in my village have returned from different states. We all are ready to take up fisheries as a business because it will allow us to work without leaving our village,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-s-research-body-to-aid-up-returnees-in-starting-fisheries-business/story-gyAgQ8Y4ynyCzFgIghhM7M.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid tests cross 45,000-mark; highest single-day spike in cases in 76 days||The Delhi government administered a record 45,797 tests for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a day and the city registered 3,609 new infections—the highest single-day spike in 76 days— according to a government bulletin on Tuesday.The boost in numbers comes after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had, on August 26, announced that testing in the city would be doubled to 40,000 a day with the city seeing a resurgence of cases since mid-August. On Tuesday, the Delhi government achieved its target of administering 40,000 tests in a single day. The gradual increase in testing had begun from August 31. As testing increased, 3,609 new cases were reported in Delhi on Tuesday—the highest single-day case count since June 24, or 76 days—in keeping with the trend of the resurgence of daily infections in the city. There were 3,788 new cases on June 24. Also Read: No. of containment zones in Delhi over 1,000 likely to increase with more testing: OfficialsThe total number of cases in the city is 197,135, according to Tuesday’s health bulletin. The positivity rate stood at 10.66% as on Tuesday. The death toll from Covid-19, meanwhile, touched 4,618, with 19 new deaths lodged on Tuesday. As many as 170,140 people have recovered from the disease so far.With Covid-19 cases on the rise, the Delhi government has also launched an intensive awareness campaign wherein pre-recorded audio messages are being sent to Delhi residents through phone calls and the radio. The government aims to call at least 1 crore phone numbers of Delhi residents in the next few days. Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine latest developments: Russia releases Sputnik V, India candidate in final phaseThe message in all medium of communication is focused on ‘testing’. In his pre-recorded messages, Kejriwal is heard reiterating what he said in his press conference on Saturday (September 5). “Some people are not getting tested. They say, nowadays everyone is recovering on their own, so there is no need to get tested. No, please do not do this. Please go and get tested. Please also do wear masks when you step out and follow physical distancing,” the chief minister had said.Kejriwal had also attributed the spike in Covid-19 cases to increased testing in the city.“From 18,000-20,000 tests per day, we are now conducting around 40,000 tests. So, more people are getting identified, treated and isolated to prevent them from spreading the infection to others. Today, if I decrease the number of tests, the number of daily cases will also come down and everyone will be happy. The only way to defeat Covid-19 is aggressive testing. There is nothing to be scared of, but there should be no scope for complacency,” he had said.On September 2, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), in a meeting chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, had discussed the rising infections in Delhi. “Some probable reasons for the increase in positivity rate in Delhi could be lack of adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, the impact of festivals in August, late testing, cross-infection, the return of migrants and unlock measures,” a DDMA official, who did not wish to be identified, said.Testing was ramped up in the city by opening camps in all interstate bus terminals (ISBTs), railway stations, construction sites, weekly markets and some mohalla clinics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-tests-cross-45-000-mark-highest-single-day-spike-in-cases-in-76-days/story-iNHjRFabjx8Qk0zHKhDIyI.html
08-09-2020||Pune||Unlock Pune:Shops open at Tulsibaug, but no customers||Starting with the “new normal” guidelines, all market places in the city have resumed backed operations. One of the oldest, and a bell-whether for small business operations in the city - Tulshibaug market – has 800 shop owners and registered hawkers lining Bajirao road, in the heart of the city. The market first opened on June 1 under the odd-even rule, but since has gradually resumed operations in full. Haribhau Kavare, owner of Kavare ice-creams, a landmark for shoppers visiting the area, said, “Traders, shop-owners and hawkers in the market are still suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Business has dropped drastically, for us it has almost gone down by 90 per cent. Earlier, daily we used to earn between Rs 8,000 and Rs 10,000. Now it is Rs 1,000. We had 10 workers at our shop, but as there are no customers, we only have two.” Jewellery, cosmetics, clothes, children’s wear and household items are the Tulshibaug staples. The market is closed on Monday. Jewellery shop owner, Jeetendra Ambasankar, said, “Since the market has opened, there are no customers, as such. We only allow one person in the shop at a time to maintain social distancing. We are focusing on the online trading option, as we have our customer data and send them our items on WhatsApp. We do delivery as well. There is hardly 25 per cent of business happening, as compared to before the lockdown.” Pravin Patil, owner of a women’s clothes shop, said, “Tulshibaug is famous for a variety of products available at a cheap rate. So people, especially women, used to come from far here for shopping. All this has stopped now. Only people from the area come for shopping and that too, for basic items. The market is open, but the business has not grown. There are very few customers, even on weekends.” HT visited the market on a Sunday and Patil’s testimony to “not much crowd”, bears witness. The once-was-no-space-to-walk era in Tulshibaug seems long gone . Dhanashree Khole, 30, a resident of Sadashiv peth, out on a Sunday, said, “I have never seen Tulshibaug market so empty. It is all due to Covid-19. Even we were afraid to come to the market, but as we had to purchase clothes for my son I had to visit the market, taking all the safety precautions.” Another shopper, Jeetendra Bhagwat, aged 42 came in from Swargate. He said, “As we get many varieties of household products and that too, at an affordable price, I always prefer to come to Tulshibaug for shopping.” Both the shoppers wore face masks and were ensuring a social distance while in the market. Tulshibaug market – Covid rules 300 shop owners, 300 registered hawkers claimed to have suffered a loss of Rs 40 crore during lockdown from April to June Five entrances to the market: from Bajirao road, Laxmi road and from the Mahatma Phule mandai No entry to customers not wearing face masks All shop owners and workers wear face masks Each shop owner has sanitisers, thermal checking A few shops also have oximeters What HT saw… HT visited Tulshibaug on Sunday afternoon from 12 noon till 2 pm. Public coming to the market, shop owners and workers, were all wearing face masks; some of them also sported gloves. While talking to customers workers kept a proper social distance and in most of the shops, customers were allowed to enter only one at a time. In some shops, thermal checking of customers was undertaken before they entered. Overall, social distance was maintained and safety precautionary measures were in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unlock-pune-shops-open-at-tulsibaug-but-no-customers/story-j3VNpROVnhZlLsMt6gyyKN.html
08-09-2020||Pune||3-member committee formed to probe Bhosari MSEDCL transformer blast||Indrayaninagar in Bhosari, on Monday, resembled a crime scene, with the yellow ticker tape surrounding the site where the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) transformer blew up on Saturday, killing two persons. A team of MSEDCL and police officials inspected the site, where a five-month-old infant Shivani Kakade, and her maternal grandmother, Sharda Kotwal, died in the explosion. The mother of the infant, Harshada Kakde, was also seriously injured in the incident and is currently under treatment at the Sassoon General hospital. For all the trappings of a crime scene at the site, the fact is, on Monday, no FIR had been registered as yet. Rajendra Kunte, senior police inspector, MIDC, Bhosari, said, “The treatment of the mother is still going on at Sassoon hospital. No FIR has been registered in the case till now.” The police will wait for the MSEDCL report to establish what the cause of the transformer explosion was. A junior MSEDCL team of eight officials did a basic inquiry and then later in the day, the three-member committee formed to investigate the blast, came on site. Photographs of the blast debris were taken as well. When asked for early details of the inquiry, the officials said, “Until the investigation is over, we cannot speak.” However, neighbours of the deceased were not impressed. “We had seen sparks emerging from the transformer and complained to MSEDCL, but they took it lightly. After the blast on Saturday, officials from MSEDCL came to repair the transformer, but we did not allow them. Now our demand is for them to remove this transformer,” said Aruna Retwade, a neighbour of the Kakde-Kotwal family. “The death of our neighbours has only happened because of negligence of MSEDCL,” alleged Madanlal Chaudhari, who runs a grocery shop in the Rajwada, Indryaninagar, Bhosari . The transformer is located 10 feet from the society. Harshada Kakade was giving bath to her 5-month old daughter Shivani at a small courtyard in front of the house when the incident happened and hot liquid from a transformer spell on them and grandmother Sharada Kotwal.Statistics provided by MSEDCL shows that 19 persons were electrocuted in 2017-18 due to accident involving MSEDCL equipment. In 2018-19 that number as 21. PCMC mayor Dhore visits family; calls meeting today On Monday, the mayor of Pimpri-Chinchwad, Usha Dhore, visited the family of the deceased at Charoli, Mulshi, where the family is currently staying after the incident. “Such incidents should not happen in the future. I have called a meeting with the officials of MSEDCL and civic body on Tuesday,” said Dhore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/3-member-committee-formed-to-probe-bhosari-msedcl-transformer-blast/story-9M7m3wu4Z10xmBlQyOWIoJ.html
08-09-2020||Pune||Pune first district in India to cross 2 lakh Covid-19 cases||Driven by a surge in Covid-19 cases in the last few days, Pune has become the first district in the country to record more than two lakh cases.As per data of the Maharashtra government’s health department, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Pune district reached 2,03,468 on Monday after 4,165 more people tested positive for the disease.Officials here said increased testing was one of the main reasons for the surge in cases in the district.Pune crossed the one lakh-mark on August 5 and in a month’s time, the cases have doubled in the district, according to official figures.Compared to Pune, Delhi reported 1,93,526 Covid-19 cases till Monday, while Mumbai recorded 1,57,410 cases.The Covid-19 positivity rate in Pune is around 22 per cent, Collector Rajesh Deshmukh told PTI on Tuesday.“Currently, Pune district is on top in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases in the country. The reason behind thesurge in cases is the aggressive testing strategy adopted by the district administration,” he said.Not just recently, but Pune has been doing aggressive testing for the last two months and the number of cases is bound to increase, he said.“In fact, no other district is conducting tests the way Pune is doing,” he claimed.Effective contact-tracing, tracking of co-morbid people and isolation of patients have been possible due to the large number of tests, Deshmukh said.“Testing, tracking and tracing are the main factors behind the surge. Even the results of sero survey (conducted on nearly 1,500 people) found out that 50 per cent people had antibodies,” he said.Despite the number of Covid-19 cases being high, the recovery rate in Pune is encouraging as it is now about 78 per cent, he said.According to the district administration records, over 1.57 lakh patients have so far been discharged or have recovered from the disease.Till Monday, 4,651 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in Pune as against 7,897 in Mumbai.Deshmukh said the fatality rate in Pune is around 2.3 per cent, which is better compared to Mumbai.“Our aim is to further bring down the fatality rate by detecting co-morbid patients at an early stage,” he said.District health officer Dr Bhagwan Pawar saidthe number of cases will further rise in the coming days.“From today, we are setting up camps in 65 villages where more than 15 cases have been reported. Rapid antigen tests will be conducted on a large population there and as a result, the number of cases will go up,” Pawar said.Deshmukh said besides aggressive testing, the administration is stressing on awareness, strict implementation of social distancing norms and use of masks.“Considering the rise in cases, there is an emphasis on strengthening healthcare facilities in Pune city and in the district, and medical teams have also been set up to screen people aged above 60 having co-morbid conditions,” he added.While the district administration has claimed that health care facilities have been strengthened, there have been complaints about unavailability of beds in hospitals and other medical aids.Two jumbo facilities in Pune city and neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad industrial area were opened last month.But, the functioning of the facility in Pune came under scanner after allegations of lapses and mismanagement there.Pune-based Congress leader and former MLC Mohan Joshi blamed the BJP-led Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for the increase in number of Covid-19 cases in the city.“The BJP is in power in the PMC with a strength of 100 corporators. Besides, Girish Bapat of the BJP is a Lok Sabha member from Pune and five MLAs in the city are from the saffron party. Union minister Prakash Javadekar is from Pune, and despite all this, the situation in the city has become critical,” Joshi said.However, BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole, who represents Shivajinagar constituency in Pune, said the number of Covid-19 cases is bound to go up as testing has been increased.“Our thrust should be on bringing the mortality rate down and for that efforts need to be made,” he said.Talking about Pune’s jumbo Covid-19 facility and the alleged mismanagement there, Shirole said it was the state government’s decision to set up such facilities in Pune. “It is the state government’s responsibility to ensure proper functioning of the jumbo facilities in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Thrust should be on how to improve the situation at these facilities and how lives of people can be saved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-first-district-in-india-to-cross-2-lakh-covid-19-cases/story-yF9CzmuBmc6ipSb494OqqL.html
08-09-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Two minor sisters gangraped; one kills herself, another hospitalised after attempt to do so||Two minor sisters were allegedly gangraped in north Bengal’s Jalpaiguri district last Friday (September 4), after which they tried to kill themselves. One of the girls died on Monday. “Three persons were arrested in connection with the alleged crime, while two other suspects are still on the run,” said Khageshwar Roy, a member of the West Bengal legislative assembly (MLA) from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). “The two sisters, aged 14 and 16, had visited a garden near their house last Friday evening. They were allegedly gangraped. They returned home and attempted to kill themsleves. Later, they were rushed to a hospital. The older sister died in the hospital on Monday. The younger sister is battling for her life,” Roy added. Roy represents Rajganj assembly constituency, where the alleged crime took place. However, West Bengal Police are tight-lipped about the incident.PK Yadav, superintendent of police (SP), Jalpaiguri, remained incommunicado. Additional SP (ASP), Jalpaiguri; deputy superintendent of police (DSP) (crime), Jalpaiguri; and the officer-in-charge of the Rajganj police station under whose jurisdiction the alleged crime was committed refused to divulge any details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-two-minor-sisters-gangraped-one-kills-herself-another-hospitalised-after-attempt-to-do-so/story-MGjuIpNbqS4JddqaerXtDI.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra home minister announces probe into the Adhyayan Suman’s allegations of drug abuse against Kangana||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has ordered a probe into the claims made by Adhyayan Suman – the purported former boyfriend of actor Kangana Ranaut – in an interview three years ago that she was on drugs and had forced him to consume the narcotic substances as well.Deshmukh also announced that Mumbai Police would conduct a probe into the death by suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik three years ago. Naik, in his suicide note, had named a few persons, including a news channel’s editor, who allegedly did not pay his dues worth several crores of rupees, according to the deceased’s kin. Also Read: Mumbai civic body asks Kangana Ranaut to take corrective measures against illegalities in her Bandra officeReplying to the point raised by Shiv Sena legislators Pratap Sarnaik and Sunil Prabhu, Deshmukh told the Maharashtra legislative assembly on Tuesday that the Mumbai Police would be asked to probe into the claims made by Suman, the son of actor Shekhar Suman. Deshmukh said that Mumbai Police would look into Suman’s three-year-old statement.“Sena lawmakers Prabhu and Sarnaik had raised the issue about the revelation against Ranaut that she was on drugs. Suman was in a relationship with her and he had said that she used to force him to do drugs as well. Mumbai Police will look into the allegations,” Deshmukh said.He also made a statement in relation to the tweets by Ranaut, where she likened Mumbai with the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). He said that such a statement was unfortunate and is an insult to Mumbai and Maharashtra and its proud people. “Mumbai and Maharashtra have given Ranaut everything, but in return she has played with the sentiments of the people. At least, 106 people had laid their lives for a unified Maharashtra. Not only the ruling parties, but even the opposition BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) must also condemn her statement,” he said.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut warns ‘movie mafia’ against harming her: ‘Trust me it will hurt you even more’Earlier on Monday, Maharashtra assembly’s deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal directed Deshmukh to make a statement within 24 hours. Deshmukh made the statement in response to a letter written by Sena legislator Sarnaik seeking unanimous resolution must be passed by the assembly against Ranaut for her anti-Maharashtra rants on social media.State food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal and energy minister Nitin Raut have demanded a bid to expedite the probe in the Naik death case. They said that the interior designer and his mother had died by suicide three years ago while holding the editor of a news channel responsible for non-payment of their dues against the construction of the channel’s studio in Mumbai. “The case has been registered. Mumbai Police will be ordered to conduct a probe into it,” Deshmukh said.Ranaut is yet to react against Deshmukh’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-home-minister-announces-probe-into-the-adhyayan-suman-s-allegations-of-drug-abuse-against-kangana/story-2DJNt2uvirW7IVacjNpx0H.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Rhea Chakraborty, Accused No 10 in drug case, arrested. Bihar DGP takes a swipe||Actor Rhea Chakraborty was arrested on Tuesday after being questioned for five hours by the Narcotics Control Bureau on Monday. She is the 10th person to be arrested by the central agency in a drugs case linked to the probe into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.Rhea Chakraborty has been arrested and due process of informing the family has been completed, announced NCB deputy director KPS Malhotra after the 28-year-old’s questioning for the third consecutive day. She was at the NCB’s south Mumbai office for six hours on Sunday, and eight hours on Monday. The actor reached the bureau office at 10.30 am on Tuesday. The formal announcement of her arrest was made five hours later. An NCB official said she will be produced before a magistrate via video conferencing at 7.30 pm todayRhea Chakraborty’s family and lawyer had earlier indicated that they anticipated the actor’s arrest after her brother, Showik, was arrested on Friday.“Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I’m sure next on the line is my daughter and I don’t know who is next thereafter,” Rhea’s father, Lt Col Indrajit Chakraborty (retd) said in an emotional statement over the weekend. “Rhea Chakraborty is ready for arrest as it’s a witch-hunt,” her lawyer Satish Maneshinde said before she was first questioned by the NCB on Sunday. As the NCB formally placed her under arrest, Maneshinde described it as “travesty of justice.“Three central agencies hounding a single woman , just because she was in love with a drug addict suffering from mental health issues for several years under the care of five leading psychiatrists in Mumbai, who ended up committing suicide due to consumption of Illegally administered medicines and used drugs,” Maneshinde said.Also Read: Rhea Chakraborty gives NCB names of Bollywood celebrities in drugs case: ReportThe NCB is one of the three central agencies that moved in after a controversy erupted over the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in his Bandra flat on June 14, the Central Bureau of Investigation and the federal financial crimes agency Enforcement Directorate are the other two.Sushant Singh Rajput’s autopsy had indicated that he died by suicide. His father, however, filed an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty in Patna, accusing her of driving his son to suicide and misappropriating his money. Chakraborty has denied the allegations on several occasions.Sushant Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti welcomed news of Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest. “GodIsWithUs,” she tweeted.Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey, who had initiated the criminal case against Rhea Chakraborty before handing over the case to the CBI, said the investigations had exposed the actor.“Rhea Chakraborty is totally exposed in the sense that she had a connection with drug peddlers. This has been established. That is why she has been arrested,” Bihar director general of police Gupteshwar Pandey said, according to news agency ANI.Also Read: Swara Bhasker defends Rhea , says evidence that Sushant’s family lied is emerging’The NCB registered its case after it came across WhatsApp chats retrieved from Rhea Chakraborty’s phone about an alleged conversation about procuring drugs between her and a Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda.According to NCB officers, Rhea’s brother Showik instructed Sushant Singh’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant and Samuel Miranda to get 5gm of marijuana from a peddler Zaid Vilatra on March 17.On April 17, Rhea and Dipesh Showik instructed Sawant to receive a delivery of 10gm of hashish from Kaizen Ebrahim near Mont Blanc building, said NCB officials. On May 1, Showik allegedly told Sawant to receive marijuana from a person named Dwayne, and had received 50gm of marijuana from Dwayne on May 2.Five people, who were accused of supplying or arranging drugs to Sushant Singh Rajput’s employees on various occasions, were the first ones to be arrested before the NCB caught Sushant Singh Rajput’s employees, house manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dinesh Sawant and Rhea’s brother Showik. On Sunday, the NCB had arrested Anuj Keshwani on charges that he had supplied drugs to peddler, Kaizen Ebrahim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rhea-chakraborty-10th-accused-in-drug-case-arrested-she-s-exposed-says-bihar-dgp/story-iZRLmiekBcqxXccKKBF4JJ.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB arrests actor Rhea Chakraborty||After questioning Rhea Chakraborty for three days, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing the drug angle to the death of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, arrested her on Tuesday.“Rhea has been arrested and due process of informing the family has been completed,” said deputy director of NCB, K P S Malhotra.Also Read: ‘Absolutely baseless, illegal’: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer reacts to Rhea Chakraborty’s chargesSoon after her arrest, her lawyer Satish Maneshinde said, “Travesty of Justice. Three Central Agencies hounding a single woman, just because she was in love with a drug addict and was suffering from mental health issues for several years under the care of five leading psychiatrists in Mumbai, who ended up committing suicide due to consumption of illegally administered medicines and used drugs.”NCB earlier arrested Chakraborty’s brother, Showik, Rajput’s house manager, Samuel Miranda, and his house help Dipesh Sawant||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-arrests-actor-rhea-chakraborty/story-ujpMnrtfknFwno0EQSZnpJ.html
08-09-2020||Pune||Pune district’s Covid count crosses 2 lakh||Pune : The district, on Monday, crossed the two lakh mark for the total positive Covid-19 cases.As on Monday, as per figures released by the state health department, 4,165 fresh positive cases and 41 deaths were recorded.On crossing the two lakh positive mark, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “The reason behind more number of patients coming positive is because we are doing testing on large scale. Pune district’s daily numbers of testing is four times that of Mumbai and our main aim is to test more people, and isolate. All these positive people will get isolated and this will certainly curb the spread of infection in the coming days.”This takes the progressive positive count to 2,03,468. Of these 1,37,217 have recovered; 4,470 is the death toll; 61,781 are active cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-s-covid-count-crosses-2-lakh/story-tMJlQ2WGPVvZvLP8TDjSlL.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro ridership picks up on Day 2, over 8,000 take Yellow Line in the morning||Delhi Metro services continued on the Yellow Line on Tuesday with the ridership in the morning shift, between 7am and 11am touching 8,300 passengers as against the 7,500 on Monday, the first day after resuming services. Also read: Deserted platforms, closed eateries as Delhi Metro resumes servicesIn a statement issued on Tuesday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said, “Passengers who travelled on the Yellow Line between 7am and 11am were nearly 8,300. Operations went smoothly.”Senior DMRC officials said that since more people were aware about the opening now, the ridership saw an increase but this was anticipated and the Metro system was ready for it. On Monday, the first day of Delhi Metro resuming services after a gap of 169 days because of the Covid-19 lockdown, 7,500 passengers rode the Metro between 7am and 11am while nearly 8,000 passengers took the Yellow Line between 4pm and 8.30 pm. The Metro will open its operations in a graded manner and on Wednesday, services to the Blue and Magenta line will also be resumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-morning-ridership-picks-up-on-day-2-over-8-000-take-yellow-line-in-morning/story-eD1G2RqHmZF3pQ6SJqKfNP.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Can rationalise rates, not nationalise private hospitals, Maharashtra tells high court||Maharashtra has assured the Bombay high court that it has issued a notification that puts a cap on the price of the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits that can be charged by private hospitals from patients who are admitted to the 80% reserved beds. The state, however, submitted that while it can rationalise rates being charged by hospitals, it could not nationalise the private hospitals as sought by the petitioner. As per the notification private hospitals can recover only Rs 600 per PPE kit per day and can charge Rs 600 for a normal bed and Rs 1,200 for a bed in the ICU from patients admitted to the reserved beds. The notification does not apply to charges for treating patients admitted to the remaining 20% unregulated beds.Also read: Mumbai recorded 24% more deaths in the first seven months this yearA division bench of justice A A Sayed and justice S P Tavade, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Abhijeet Mangade, was informed that he had approached the high court after being presented with a bill of Rs 4 lakh for the treatment of his mother. Mangde told the court that of the bill, Rs 72,000 was charged for PPE kits and gloves used by the hospital while treating his mother over a period of six days. This, Mangade said was exploitation of patients and in the interest of the masses, the court should direct the state to regulate the price of PPE kits. While responding to the plea, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the state had through a notification on August 31, the rates of PPE kits and bed charges recovered by private hospitals for the 80% regulated beds was capped. Kumbhakoni said there was no cap on charges that the private hospital could recover from patients admitted and treated on the remaining, unregulated beds. “We can rationalise the rates but cannot nationalise private hospitals as sought by the petitioner. Private hospitals have to adhere to the rack rates prescribed only for the regulated beds. The rack rates of regulated beds do not apply to unregulated beds and hospitals can recover charges as per their own rack rates,” said Kumbhakoni. He added that the only restriction on the hospitals was that they should recover charges for the unregulated beds as per the rack rates existing on December 31, 2019. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the petitioner to file his response to the additional affidavit within a week and posted the matter for hearing thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-rationalise-rates-not-nationalise-private-hospitals-maharashtra-tells-high-court/story-A0TVSNSNpGbp0lLKBAelnI.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai recorded 24% more deaths in the first seven months this year||The number of deaths in Mumbai has increased by 24% in the first seven months of the year compared to the same period in 2019, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. Between January and July 2019, 51,972 people died in Mumbai. The number increased to 64,349 during the same period this year. The BMC plans to analyse the reason behind the rise.The highest number of deaths were recorded in May when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak. In 2019, 6,832 people died in May while the number surged to 14,085 in the same month this year. This marked a 106% rise in mortality rate. Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine latest developments: Russia releases Sputnik V, India candidate in final phaseDr Ravikant Singh of NGO Doctors For You said with all focus on Covid-19, other patients were neglected. “In May, almost all hospitals were either converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals or partially so. Also, vehicles were not available to ferry patients in emergencies. So, there is a possibility that a large number of non-Covid-19 patients died during this period.”Dr Lalit Anande, superintendent of Sewri TB hospital, said despite the initial fear that a large number of patients with Tuberculosis (TB) with compromised lungs would succumb to the infection, the death rate is far lesser. “It is a known fact that Mumbai has the highest number of TB cases but thankfully, the virus has not affected the patients. The Covid-19 death rate among TB patients is much lesser than 1%. So certainly, the figure does not include TB patients.”Also Read: Maharashtra tyrannizing doctors instead of consulting them, says IMASuresh Kakani, BMC’s additional commissioner, highlighted that almost 40% of the people who died in Mumbai were non-residents. “Firstly, a large number of serious non-Covid-19 patients who visited Mumbai for treatment got stuck due to the lockdown. So, when their condition deteriorated, they died. Also, in the initial stage of the pandemic outbreak, we got a large number of Covid-19 patients from Thane, Navi Mumbai, and Palgarh. Even though they were not residents of Mumbai, the BMC had to provide the death certificates.”Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer, said they would audit the reasons behind the rise in deaths. “We will case-wise study the cause of deaths among the deceased. Until we do that, we do not have a valid answer on the reason for the rise in fatality rate in Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-recorded-24-more-deaths-in-the-first-seven-months-this-year/story-yBplr5P9c6mbHA3M6f5ujN.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Online, ready! Eye and hair accessories, makeup top shopping list of students||Wondering what is a campus student is upto when you see them shop for some cool accessories although college campuses in most cities are still shut? Well, get introduced to the batch of #onlineready fashion forward millennials who know how to show swag even when not physically present in campus. And topping their shopping lists is all that’s visible when in a class albeit virtually! “I had browsed so many pretty masks on Instagram! Finally when I came across a designer mask by Manish Malhotra, and found it affordable, I didn’t think a second minute and bought it immediately,” says Nandini Chauhan, a student of Hindu College, Delhi University (DU). Ask what is the need to wear to wear mask in an online class, and pat comes the reply: “So what if online classes are contactless, if the whole world is making a #maskstatement then how can we not? So, everyday I join the class flaunting it, and then quickly remove when the teacher joins in... Ab video call be toh at least show off kar sakte hain na (laughs).” Funkiness remains a major aspect for Mumbai University student Suraj Pillai as well who’s “stacked up on masks and T-shirts that dictate his mood of the day.”Be it floral designs or masks with woke messages written on them, millennials such as Muhammad Salih feel buying cool masks has to be the priority. Salih, also from Hindu College, says, “We’re hoping that it’s only a matter of time now to return to campus, so me and my friends have stocked up on quite a few funky masks and colourful gloves. I’ve even bought mini-sanitiser bottles from popular brands, which look cute and smell nice. I bet girls would want to borrow it from me when we are back to physical classes... And who says we can’t be stylish yet safe!” “I love to coordinate my make up and lenses so got myself a pack of coloured contact lenses and some eyelash extensions to experiment with new looks while attending online classes,” says Amrutha V Devan, a student of Miranda House, DU, who is a self-confessed makeup junkie and ardent follower of popular online blogs on make up and fashion. Devan adds,“I try to style the same outfit in different ways, and each time create a new look with make up and eye or hair accessories to make myself feel nice about being back to college although virtually... There’s no harm in giving myself some TLC and now my girl squad has started clicking #onlineselfies just to add some fun to the monotony... so one has to be ready for a click anytime.” Some are happy with the subtle/no make up look, but instead are heading to the salon to get a balayage or a new hair cut, for hair’s an important statement to make while the webcam shows your profile online! “I realised now is the time to go street shopping and get some cool tops and hair accessories because that is what will be visible as I sit in front of the online class... neeche to pyjama bhi pehenlo kisko pata chalta hai (laughs),” says Gayathri KP, a Miranda House student DU. And Lekshmi Bency, a student of Ramjas College, DU, adds, “Hair is a big affair when you have the entire class online. You just can’t afford to have a bad hair day in front of the camera right? So I recently visited a salon to get a hair cut and colour, and now I have a new look! After a few days, I’m thinking of trying some hairstyles with bands or bandanas... kuch to jugaad karna badega jab tak next salon visit ki pocket money nahi milti.” Siddhanth Unnikrishnan, a student in Mumbai says that although he’s never been much appearance conscious, “due to the online classes, you need to look presentable and interested at the same time (laughs). It is important that the casual nature of sitting at home doesn’t affect your appearance in these sessions. Besides a good hair grooming and setting, I have preferred wearing more comfortable T-shirts and I tend to use bright colours as I feel somewhere it does give us a refreshed look”.Having ransacked the online space, quite a few college crowd is now shopping at street markets of Sarojini Nagar and Lajpat Nagar to find what’s new in terms of hair accessories and tops/T-shirts. Some have also been making advance orders for the new shades of lipsticks to accentuate their #nomakeuplook. “I was done sitting at home and browsing through same things online... so got a few T-shirts from Sarojini market, which has great stuff at really affordable rates. And then I also went to Lajpat Nagar market and bought pretty hair accessories like clips, hair bands and bandanas. Right now some shops are giving excellent discounts,” says Alka Yadav, a student of Indraprastha College for Women, adding, “Shopping karke college wali feel aayi... chache ab ye shopping online classes ke hi kaam aye.” (With inputs by Nishad Neelambaran and Navneet Vyasan)Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/online-ready-eye-and-hair-accessories-makeup-top-shopping-list-of-students/story-rtEcX1Hk7Tq1yjhvc4CjRO.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi man shoots in air, arrested||A 40-year-old man fired two rounds outside a grocery shop near Delite cinema in central Delhi on Monday night, triggering panic among shopkeepers and local residents. The man fled the scene, but the police traced him to northeast Delhi’s Bhajanpura, arrested him and recovered a pistol and seven cartridges, nearly four hours after the incident. The police identified the man as one Aarif. During interrogation, Aarif told the police that he fired the bullets to inimidate a medical shop owner near Delite cinema. There was bad blood between, said senior police officers associated with the case.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said that around 9.15 pm, the police were informed that two rounds were fired in the air outside a shop. The Chandni Mahal police station team met the caller, Aslam (who goes by his first name), who alleged that an unidentified man fired outside his grocery shop. One empty bullet shell was found at the spot.“The CCTV cameras around the crime scene were defunct. Local enquiries revealed that the suspect was earlier seen at a medical shop in the area. The suspect’s identity was ascertained and his house in central Delhi was raided,” said DCP Bhatia.The police activated their human intelligence network and learnt that the suspect, Aarif, was seen near a mosque in Bhajanpura. The team went there and caught him after a couple of hours.“Initially, Aarif denied his involvement in the crime. But when interrogated and confronted with the evidence collected against him, he confessed and revealed that the pistol used in the crime was hidden somewhere in Jafarabad. We took him there and recovered the pistol with seven bullets,” said an investigator who did not want to be named.Aarif was arrested for an act endangering the life or personal safety of others, possessing and using an illegal firearm, a case regarding which was registered under Section 336 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 25 and 27 of Arms Act at the Chandni Mahal police station, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-shoots-in-air-arrested/story-wWWuVm9VHBhZs0skiCkCbM.html
08-09-2020||Lucknow||43 prisoners in 2 jails in UP’s Muzaffarnagar infected with Covid-19; tally climbs to 400||Officials on Tuesday said that 43 prisoners of two jails in Muzzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh have tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease adding that they have been moved to isolation wards within the premises. These 43 prisoners- which include 22 in the district jail and 21 in a temporary jail pushed the tally of infected prisoners across Muzzaffarnagar to 400, they added. In view of the rising Covid-19 cases in jails, prison authorities in Uttar Pradesh decided to establish isolation wards in all district and temporary jails. Additional district magistrate of Muzaffarnagar Amit Singh said that isolation wards have been set up in these jails and infected inmates have been moved. Earlier, a report from the National Crime Records Bureau showed that jails across India have been housing more prisoners than their normal capacity for decades. Also read: Prison overcrowding in 2019 highest in 10 yearsAt present, overcrowding of jails has become more of a concern due to the spread of Covid-19. Prisoners are at high risk of getting infected due to their continuous movement inside and outside the premises. Meanwhile, Muzzaffarnagar on Monday registered 107 new Covid-19 cases, which pushed the active number of cases to 912. As many as 1,800 people have recovered from the disease so far. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/43-prisoners-in-2-jails-in-up-s-muzaffarnagar-infected-with-covid-tally-climbs-to-400/story-W5U7EX8yKIc1SaRbuAd2KN.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||National Achievement Survey put off by a year due to Covid pandemic||The Centre has decided to postpone the National Achievement Survey (NAS), 2020, by a year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The NAS, which was scheduled to be held in November 2020 to assess the learning levels of students, will now be held around the same time next year. “Due to the prevailing pandemic, it has been decided to postpone NAS to 2021,” according to a recent communication from the director, school education and literacy, JP Pandey to all principal secretaries, school education, of states and union territories. The Union ministry has tentatively scheduled the survey for Classes 3, 5, 8, and 10 in the first week of October or second week of November 2021, asking the states and UTs to convey their preference by September 18. “As the survey involves all states and UTs, early finalisation of dates will help stakeholders and agencies involved in the conduct of the NAS for seamless and timely planning,” reads the letter. The postponement came as India’s Covid-19 tally raced past the 40 lakh mark. EVALUATING LEARNING COMPETENCIES The exercise will be conducted jointly by the Union ministry of education and the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) to evaluate class-appropriate learning competencies of students in state-run and aided schools, understand educational health of schooling, diagnose maladies, and institute measures to fill them. In the last survey in November 2017, the learning levels of 25 lakh students of 1.1 lakh schools across 701 districts in all states and UTs were assessed. PUNJAB ACHIEVEMENT SURVEY HELD ONLINE A senior official of Punjab’s school education department said there is no other option as all schools are closed. “There is no plan to reopen schools for now as Covid-19 cases are rising across the country. Whenever any decision is taken, primary and middle schools will be the last to be reopened,” he said. Punjab held the Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS) online last month for students of Classes 6 to 12 to check the learning outcomes to prepare the teachers and students for the national achievement survey. In the 2017 survey, Punjab students had not fared well, particularly in mathematics even though they did better in languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/national-achievement-survey-put-off-by-a-year-due-to-covid-pandemic/story-QCgJh2PNgHpdd8MOe3iEeL.html
08-09-2020||NA||Karnataka says Rs 8071 crore loss due to floods, appeals to Centre to release funds early||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said the state had suffered losses worth Rs 8,071 crore due to the recent floods. Yediyurappa made these remarks to an inter-ministerial delegation sent by the Centre to assess the extent of damage caused in the state due to floods.The Centre’s delegation was led by KV Pratap, joint secretary at the Union home ministry.The Karnataka chief minister said that floods had destroyed crops across 4.03 lakh hectare of agricultural land and explained that this was the third successive year when the state had been impacted by floods. Apart from the destruction of crops, the state had also suffered damages to other infrastructure like roads, bridges, electricity transmission equipment, schools, anganwadis and government buildings.Yediyurappa also said that as a part of relief measures the state government had sanctioned Rs 5 lakh to those whose house was completely destroyed, Rs 3 lakh to those whose homes had suffered major damage and Rs 50,000 to those who houses had sustained minor damage. Pointing out that last year too the government had released Rs 1,500 crore for such damages, the chief minister said inspite of the challenging economic situation being faced by the state due to Covid-19 pandemic, it has released Rs 200 crore this year.The Karnataka CM appealed to the Centre to release funds under the National Disaster Relief Fund and other aid to the state at the earliest as it was facing a double whammy of floods and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Deputy chief minister Govidn Karjol, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, Agriculture Minister B C Patil and others were present along with the CM during the interaction with the Central team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnataka-says-rs-8071-crore-loss-due-to-floods-appeals-to-centre-to-release-funds-early/story-g2a7ZcAhIHOdD7jcSFdhmM.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body asks Kangana Ranaut to take corrective measures against illegalities in her Bandra office||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai’s governing civic body, on Tuesday issued a notice to actor Kangana Ranaut over “8-10 types of structural violations” carried out in her office while asking her reply in 24 hours and take corrective measures, failing which “the illegal portions” will be demolished. Ranaut’s staff refused to accept the notice and prompted BMC officials to pin it on a wall of the premises.Ranaut’s Manikarnika Films Private Limited office is located in a ground plus two-storey structure.Vinayak Vispute, an assistant municipal commissioner, said a site inspection of the office was conducted according to the approved plans in BMC’s development plan department. “We have listed out several violations in the notice and will await her reply on the same. Depending on that, further action will be taken.”Ranaut was not immediately available for comments.Also Read: Maharashtra govt fumes after Ranaut gets Y+ securityA civic official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that they had received a complaint that the structure was being used for commercial purposes though it is supposed to be a residential one. A report citing all illegalities of the structure is being prepared.The actor has been involved in a bitter war of words with Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena, which also controls BMC, over her remarks likening Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).The Maharashtra government has accused Ranaut of carrying forward the political agenda of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The BJP-led Central government provided Y-plus category security to Ranaut on Monday two days before she was expected to return to Mumbai from her home state of Himachal Pradesh. Around a dozen armed commandos of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will protect the actor round the clock in three shifts wherever she travels. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has called the Centre’s move to provide security “to people who insult Mumbai and Maharashtra” surprising and sad.Ranaut on Monday shared on Twitter videos purportedly showing BMC officials at her office premises in Mumbai and added the Sena-ruled civic body may demolish the property on Tuesday.Also Read: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut appointed party’s chief spokespersonRanaut has said she felt unsafe in Mumbai after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. On September 3, she put out a tweet asking why Mumbai felt like it was PoK in response to Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut advice to her not to visit the city if she was afraid of the city’s police.The Shiv Sena has accused Ranaut of insulting Mumbai and its police force. Ranaut earlier said she may require security from Himachal Pradesh police or the Centre, but will not accept protection from the Mumbai police to expose an alleged “drug mafia in Bollywood”.Ranaut is the first Bollywood celebrity to be guarded by CRPF, which protects about 60 dignitaries, including Union home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-asks-kangana-ranaut-to-take-corrective-measures-against-illegalities-in-her-bandra-office/story-kiTgJEKbdG6atuzsAly70J.html
08-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP leader, head of rural health advisory board, who tested Covid-19 positive dies||Gyan Singh Negi, a senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader in Uttarakhand, who was suffering from Covid-19 died on Tuesday morning, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said.“I am deeply saddened to learn about the death of senior leader of BJP Uttarakhand, Gyan Singh Negi who held the post of Minister of State with the state government. May God give strength to the bereaved family to bear this loss and the departed soul rest in peace,” Rawat tweetedGyan Singh Negi headed Rajya Gramin Swasthya Salahkar Parishad, the government’s rural health advisory body and held the rank of a minister of state.Devendra Bhasin, state spokesperson for BJP said Negi had been associated with the party from a young age.“Negi ji was a very senior leader of our party and had been associated with different social causes since a young age. He was associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in the initial years and held different posts at district level before formally joining the party. He was given an MoS rank, respecting his seniority and his contribution to the party. It is a great loss for all of us,” said Bhasin.Uttarakhand has reported over 25,000 Covid-19 cases and 348 Covid-related deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-bjp-leader-head-of-rural-health-advisory-board-who-tested-covid-19-positive-dies/story-M6BzJqAttANPD0LCnk2RKI.html
08-09-2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party leader SRS Yadav passes away due to Covid-19||Member of Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council (MLC) and Samajwadi Party (SP) leader SRS Yadav, who was battling Covid-19 infection, died on Monday.Samajwadi Party condoled the demise of the leader.“The demise of the senior and respected leader of Samajwadi Party, National Secretary and MLC SRS Yadav ‘Babu Ji’ is the end of an ‘era’. Heart wrenching and irreparable damage! Condolences to the bereaved family and prayers for the departed soul’s peace! Tributes to the departed soul,” the party wrote on Twitter (roughly translated from Hindi).Party chief Akhilesh Yadav also condoled the demise of the senior party member.“Shocked at the demise of senior SP leader, MLC and in-charge of the party office, Shri SRS Yadav Ji from Covid-19. The state has lost a dedicated socialist today. Tributes to him,” Yadav wrote on Twitter. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/samajwadi-party-leader-srs-yadav-passes-away-due-to-covid-19/story-kilB5iqAuYltglyavNlwjP.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 130,789 Covid-19 cases in 7 days||Maharashtra continues to face a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases—in the last seven days, the state has recorded 130,789 cases. Maharashtra recorded 15,765 cases, 17,433 cases, 18,105 cases, 19,218 cases, 20,489 cases, 23,350 cases and 16,429 cases on September 1, 2 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 respectively. Its sharpest single-day spike so far was 23,350 cases on September 6. The average number of fresh cases in a day has increased to 18,684.Also Read: Mumbai local trains unlikely to resume before DiwaliState authorities have been worried about the rising number of Covid-19 cases over the past few days. “We were expecting the spurt in the number of cases after permitting interdistrict movement and allowing more workforce in private and public offices immediately after the Ganesh festival. The number will keep rising at least for two more weeks. Our mechanism for tracking and tracing high- and low-risk contacts is resulting in the rapid rise in number of cases. The lack of coordination between public health and medical education department has resulted in hindering the ramping up of infrastructure in a few districts where there is a surge in cases,” said an official from the public health department.Maharashtra has also reported 2,444 deaths between September 1 and 7, an average of 349 deaths a day. The state is concerned abou the high number of deaths, as it is yet to reduce. There have been 320, 292, 391, 378, 312, 328 and 423 casualties on September 1,2,3,4,5,6 and 7 respectively. Sptember 7 saw the highest number of casualties in a day till date.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally surpasses 4.28 million, toll mounts to 72,775Meanwhile, the state government has once again reduced the rate of the Covid-19 test to Rs 1,200 from Rs 1,900, whcih was revised exactly a month ago. The rate will be applicable to the samples taken at collections sites. The test rate has been slashed to Rs 1,600 from Rs 2,200 for sample collections at Covid Care Centres and hospitals. The rate for the home collection of samples has been reduced to Rs 2,000 from Rs 2,500. The rate is inclusive of all taxes and necessary consumables like PPE kits, RT-PCR kits, VTM, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-130-789-covid-19-cases-in-7-days/story-qtnEPOMmX4BC0oV6ZmfXoK.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai local trains unlikely to resume before Diwali||Mumbai’s lifeline, the suburban local railway network that has been suspended for the public since March 22 because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, is unlikely to resume before November. The suspension of train services has led to the passengers getting angry and staging protests outside railway stations. Around 300 angry commuters staged a protest outside Virar railway station on Monday afternoon, demanding permission to travel by local trains. The incident occurred at around 11 am when office-goers gathered outside the station and demanded the resumption of suburban train services.Also read: Hi-tech ideas pour in to boost last-mile link for Metro linesThe protest petered out within half an hour after the agitators were pacified by the Railway Protection Police (RPF), Government Railway Police (GRP) and local police personnel.Earlier on July 22, angry commuters at Nalasopara had demanded that they be allowed to travel by local trains. The protesters had broken barricades and stood on tracks to disrupt train services.At present, frontline essential service workers, who are battling the Covid-19 pandemic, are only allowed to commute by suburban trains in Mumbai. Railway officials said train services, which were suspended on March 22 due to Covid-19, are unlikely to resume in their full capacity until Diwali in mid-November. On June 15, a limited number of local train services resumed for employees working in essential services. Nearly 700 train services are being operated daily on the Central and Western Railway routes.“There has been no discussion regarding the resumption of suburban train services for the public. A trial-based system of a quick response (QR) code is being tested in a bid to control crowds on the railway stations. Train services in full strength are not likely to resume before Diwali.” said a railway officialThe delay in the resumption of train services has angered passengers. Passenger associations have sought Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s intervention to resolve the crisis. “We met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who assured us that the issue would be taken up. There has been no communication from the state government so far. People are angry because under the unlock guidelines, Mumbai is being gradually reopened, but local train services are still shut. Passengers’ commute is greatly inconvenienced. We have written to CM Thackeray for his immediate intervention. If he doesn’t respond, we will start an agitation on railway tracks,” said Madhu Kotian, president, Mumbai Rail Pravasi Sangh.A report, prepared by the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) on the Covid-19 situation and submitted to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities, has stated that train services in Mumbai can be resumed from November 1. Dr. Sandeep Juneja, dean, School of Technology and Computer Science, TIFR, said that the civic authorities would have to remain vigilant after the train services resume. He also pointed out that by November 1 a major chunk of the population in Mumbai and its suburbs would have been directly or indirectly infected by SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease.“By November 1, a significant section of the population in Mumbai and its suburbs will be infected by the virus. Local train services can resume if we take the following measures such as wearing of facial masks, introducing staggered office timings, and maintaining social distancing norms inside compartments. We do not expect that the resumption of train services will lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases. The current occupancy in truncated suburban train services is 30%, which can be increased to 50% over the next two months. We will also have a clearer picture about the contagion before the suburban train services become fully operational,” he said. Railway experts have stated that the train services in the city should resume immediately because Metro rails have started operating. “Metro rails and aircraft are air-conditioned, where the risk of the spread of virus is much higher. Precautions are being taken and the services have started. Similar precautions, including crowd control, should be undertaken and suburban train services should be thrown open for the public. Operating select train services for a few people will be discriminatory,’’ said Subodh Jain, ex-general manager, Central Railway.Railway officials pointed out that partial train services were started on the request of the state government. “We had started select suburban services from June 15 for essential staff on the request of the state government. On July 1, we added a few more services for additional categories permitted by the state government . We are taking every possible step to ensure social distancing norms are maintained by way of QR code-enabled contactless checking, etc. This will definitely help us to streamline the system even after more services are added.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer (cpro), Central Railway.State government officials stated that the situation is being monitored and a decision on the resumption of suburban train services would be taken at an appropriate time. “Now, employees working in pharmacy have also been permitted to travel by local trains. The situation is being monitored. A final decision on the resumption of train services will be taken at an appropriate time,” said a state government official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-unlikely-to-resume-before-diwali/story-e71IGhm62TrWnjXCo3EdXM.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini faces arrest after high court dismisses bail petition||Former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini faces arrest with the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday dismissing his anticipatory bail petition in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case of 1991. The bench of justice Fatehdeep Singh also dismissed his second petition that sought the quashing of a first information report (FIR) in the case or the transfer of investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “Both petitions of the former DGP have been dismissed by the high court,” Punjab Police special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula said. Saini can appeal against the judgment before the Supreme Court. The bench had heard the case for nearly four hours on Monday. TWO JUDGES HAD RECUSED FROM HEARING CASE Earlier, two judges had recused from hearing this case. Justice Suvir Sehgal recused from hearing the bail plea on Friday, while on September 2 justice Amol Rattan Singh recused from hearing the petition seeking the quashing of the FIR that was pending in the high court since August 19. On September 1, a Mohali court had dismissed Saini’s anticipatory bail plea. EX-DGP’S WHEREABOUTS NOT KNOWN The former DGP, whose whereabouts are not known at present, was booked in May for the alleged kidnapping of Multani, a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (Citco) in 1991 and the son of a bureaucrat. Multani had been picked up by the police after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh senior superintendent of police. Initially, the case against him was registered for offences of causing disappearance and abduction at Mataur police station in Mohali. Section 302 for murder was added in August after two policemen, initially named as accused, turned approver. SAINI ALLEGES CONGRESS HAND In his plea, Saini had argued that the FIR was the result of a mala fide act for launching probes against Congress leaders and their relatives to unearth scams. He had also argued that he was granted bail in the case when it was registered for kidnapping, hence, he should be granted anticipatory bail on addition of the murder charge, too. For the same incident, the CBI had registered an FIR in 2008, but the Supreme Court had set it aside. Hence, the second FIR in the same offence is not maintainable, he had argued. FRESH EVIDENCE AGAINST EX-DGP: POLICE Punjab Police cited fresh evidence of Saini’s involvement in the case and denied any political victimisation. When the accused was granted bail in the kidnapping case, investigation was at its initial stage and there was hardly any evidence collected by the special investigation team (SIT), police said. Now, there is sufficient evidence on record to prove Saini’s indictment, the police told the court. The police had argued that custodial interrogation was required to find out about involvement of other officials in the illegal abduction, detention, torture, and disposal of the body of Multani. The government had roped in two Supreme Court senior advocates Sidharth Luthra and Harin Rawal to argue its case before the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-punjab-police-chief-sumedh-singh-saini-faces-arrest-after-high-court-dismisses-bail-petition/story-ytV5zMajskQSEPxyIoClJL.html
08-09-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru drug probe: Kannada actor Sanjjanaa Galrani’s home searched by Central Crime Branch||Kannada actor Sanjjanaa Galrani’s house in Bengaluru was on Tuesday searched by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) in connection with its probe into a high-profile drugs case allegedly involving singers and actors in the Kannada film industry, also known as Sandalwood.Galrani, whose close aide Rahul Shetty is already in police custody, has been asked to appear for questioning by the bureau.The raid at Galrani’s home comes after actor Ragini Dwivedi was arrested in the case in addition to 11 others named in a first information report (FIR) filed at the Cottonpet police station. Dwivedi, whose bail application was rejected by the first additional chief metropolitan magistrate court on Monday, has been remanded to police custody till September 11.The police have named Shivaprakash, who reportedly produced some of Dwivedi’s movies, as the main accused in the case. Apart from the producer and Dwivedi, the FIR also names Viren Khanna, Prashant Ranka, Vaibhav Jain, Abhiswamy, Aditya Alva, Simon, Prashant Babu, Ashwin, Rahul Tonse, Vinay and a Senegalese national, Loum Pepper. According to officials, Pepper was the main supplier of the drugs.“All these persons from accused number-1 to accused number-12 people including Dwivedi used to connive together to hold (Rave) parties at different parts of Bengaluru and call many clients,” ACP Gautham has stated in his complaint, according to PTI.“They used to obtain drugs from the drug peddlers to supply them to businessmen, celebrities, some film actors and actresses, disk jockeys, software engineers and others and make money through illegal means and indulged in unlawful activities,” he added.All the 12 accused have been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 120b (criminal conspiracy), and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act of 1985 under sections 21, 21C, 27A, 27B, and section 29.Besides these 12 people, a separate case has been registered against BK Ravishankar, a clerk in the Road Transport Office, a close acquaintance of Ragini Dwivedi, police said.As the war of words continued between the Congress and BJP over the case since Dwivedi campaigned for some of the candidates of the ruling party during elections, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has said that there was “no question of protecting anybody”.“Our goal is to put an end to the (drugs) business which is having a bad impact on students and youth. We are doing whatever is necessary (to fight the drug menace),” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-drug-probe-kannada-actor-sanjana-galrani-s-home-searched-by-central-crime-branch/story-ZmJw2QY7Dr6z1MTnynNY9N.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Four more Murthal dhabas on Chandigarh-Delhi highway face closure after 14 employees test positive for Covid-19||Four more dhabas (roadside eateries) at Murthal in Sonepat district on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway face closure after 14 workers there tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials said on Tuesday. Last week, 81 employees of two dhabas, namely Amrik Sukhdev dhaba and Garam Dharam, had tested positive. The food outlets were sealed and a sanitisation drive was carried out. The health department got down to collecting samples from more dhabas in an 8km stretch in Murthal and found five workers of Pahalwan Dhaba, three from Kubair Hotel, one each from Jhilmil and Aahuja dhabas besides four others tested positive on Monday evening. A health official said these outlets and hotels would be sealed for sanitisation. “We have collected 950 samples from various dhabas over the past week and nearly 100 workers have been found to be infected with coronavirus,” the official said. Set along the highway that connects Delhi with Haryana, Punjab and beyond, the dhabas of Murthal are popular halt points for travellers. Samples of employees were collected after videos surfaced on social media recently, showing Covid-19 guidelines being flouted at these eating joints.NO CASE AGAINST OWNERS The Sonepat district administration is yet to register a case against the owners of these dhabas for violating social distancing norms. Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia declined comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-more-employees-of-dhabas-at-murthal-on-chandigarh-delhi-highway-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-GHfKjCwdC86GhYJQjSVTxI.html
08-09-2020||Kolkata||Facebook alert saves man after suicide bid||A 24-year-old man, who returned home in West Bengal’s Nadia district after losing his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic this summer, attempted suicide by slashing his wrist on Monday after posting a video on Facebook saying he was going to kill himself. His father and the local police rushed him to a hospital, where he was treated and later discharged after the Kolkata police informed them about Facebook’s alert that the man had uploaded the video on the social networking site. The Kolkata police swung into action after the video was found to have been uploaded in Nadia, over 100 km north of Kolkata.“We found that some phone numbers were used while creating the profile. The phone numbers were traced to Nadia district. We immediately contacted the user...and it was found that the numbers belonged to a man whose son had uploaded the video,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity.The man was informed about the video and he rushed to his son’s room. By then, the man had slashed his wrist and was bleeding profusely. Kolkata police also informed the local police station which rushed the man to the hospital.“The victim’s father later said that his son used to work outside Bengal and had come back during the pandemic. In Nadia, he got a job at a shop but was very depressed as the salary was very low,” said another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/facebook-alert-saves-man-after-suicide-bid/story-8oqLelLXt2m1dkARXMqv3M.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Sena-BJP showdown in upper House: Former allies field candidates for deputy chairperson post||Former allies Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party could come face to face during the election of the deputy chairperson of the legislative council on Tuesday. Sena’s Neelam Gorhe, who had been renominated by her party, is the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) candidate, while BJP has fielded former minister Vijay Girkar.The ruling party has the support of 35 members, while BJP has the support of 25, including its smaller allies, in the 78-member House. The remaining 18 seats are vacant.The MVA, which comprises the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress, have 14, nine and eight members, respectively. Two smaller parties—Peasants and Workers Party and Lok Bharati Party—have one member each and support the ruling alliance. BJP has 22 members and a member of Rashtriya Samaj Paksha backs them. There are four independents in the House. Also Read: Monsoon session of Maharashtra Assembly: Ruckus over gram panchayat administratorThe BJP is pinning its hopes on the four independent legislators. There are also chances that the BJP may withdraw its candidate, facilitating an unopposed election.Legislative council chairman Ramraje Naik Nimbalkar announced the election on day one of the two-day monsoon session. The post has been vacant since April 24 after Gorhe’s term in the upper House ended. Gorhe, who was the deputy chairperson of the upper House, was re-elected as MLC in May.On Monday, leader of opposition in the Council, Pravin Darekar (BJP) initially opposed the move to hold elections, stating that several members have not been able to attend and they would lose their right to vote.Also Read: Security beefed up at Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray’s home Matoshree at Bandra after ‘threat’ callsThe chairman on Monday directed deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to see if both sides could find a candidate by consensus to fill the post unopposed. However, both sides could not arrive at a consensus and BJP wanted to field a candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sena-bjp-showdown-in-upper-house-former-allies-field-candidates-for-deputy-chairperson-post/story-UCJlpHqyaATfzgc0zaSkSN.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Hospital in Maharashtra’s Jalna asked to deposit overcharged amount in CM’s Relief Fund||Officials said that a private hospital in Jalna has been asked by the district administration to deposit an amount of Rs 1.93 lakh into the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for allegedly overcharging patients who are being treated for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. Jalna collector Ravindra Binwade issued the order on Monday after it was found that some private hospitals were charging hefty amounts from patients infected with Covid-19. The district administration stated in a release that Binwade appointed auditors to check the bills of patients and it was discovered that a private medical facility named Vivekanand Hospital allegedly overcharged Covid-19 patients to the tune of Rs 1,93,986. An action was taken against the hospital under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and provisions of the Disaster Management Act, the release added.The district administration on August had suspended the licence of another private facility designated to treat Covid-19 patients called Arogyam Hospital for inflated bills and deficiency in provision of services. The release also said the administration has appointed a committee to monitor the implementation of government health schemes namely Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana - in 11 private hospitals in Jalna. Meanwhile, Maharashtra has registered 923,641 cases and over 27,000 deaths due to Covid-19. The active cases have climbed to 236,934 whereas nearly 660,000 have recovered so far. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-hospital-in-maharashtra-s-jalna-asked-to-deposit-overcharged-amount-in-cm-s-relief-fund/story-6rkfwilrX9CFvzXpIC6K6I.html
08-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Uttarakhand crosses 25,000 cases||With 807 fresh cases, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 25,000 mark and reached 25,436 on Monday. The state also reported seven Covid-19-related deaths, taking toll from the pandemic to 348.According to the state health department, the maximum 241 cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by Nainital (142), Uddham Singh Nagar (118), Pauri (84), Haridwar (73), Tehri (41), Uttarkashi (35), Champawat (19), Rudraprayag (15), Almora (13), Chamoli (12), Pithoragarh (7) and Bageshwar (7). Also read: Uttarakhand unveils hotel discount plan to boost pandemic-hit tourism sectorDehradun district has reported the maximum 5,617 cases so far followed by Haridwar (5,608), Uddham Singh Nagar (4,571) and Nainital (3,429). The state has so far tested over 462,000 Covid-19 samples.Out of 25,436, 17,046 people have recovered from the infection. The recovery rate in the state to 67.02%. Uttarakhand has 453 containment zones across eight districts including the maximum 352 in Haridwar.Authorities have separately ordered that patients cannot be refused treatment without stabilising them after the death of a daily wager of Covid-19 allegedly due to lack of treatment.“Two days ago, a daily wage earner who was Covid-19 positive, died allegedly due to lack of treatment. The health department has ordered a probe and is already looking into the matter, but taking cognisance of the incident, I have ordered that no hospital will turn away a patient and refer directly to a Covid-19 dedicated hospital without first stabilising health condition,” said Ashish Srivastava, district magistrate, Dehradun. He added if any hospital is found to be doing so, then action will be taken against it under the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-uttarakhand-crosses-25-000-cases/story-EcCpLGxa5sxr1GMfdJzHrK.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||5 things Delhi-2041 Master Plan will have special focus on||The new Master Plan of Delhi-2041, the vision document for the city for the next 20 years, is likely to focus on a range of issues which were not addressed in the current plan (Master Plan of Delhi-2021). It will stress on critical urban development policies, such as, Transit oriented Development, which was mentioned in MPD-2021 but couldn’t be implemented. The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has roped in the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), an advisory body on urban development to the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, for the preparation of MPD-2041. The two organisations are currently holding public consultations regarding the plan.Also read: Planning a green future for DelhiHere are the five issues which the new MPD-2041 is likely to address or have special focus on:1.Air pollution: To address this issue, officials involved in drawing up MPD-2041 are looking at pollution and traffic data, and comparing it with advanced geographical information to get the bigger picture on what factors could be affecting air quality. The solutions could include planning for more green areas, encouraging walking by making better pavements and transit networks, and making changes that could limit or re-route the entry of heavy vehicles – one of the most prominent sources of pollution.2.Walkability: DDA had notified the policy for ‘enhancing walkability’ in the city last year. The key features of the draft policy include time-bound implementation of area specific ‘walk plan’, a centralised city-wide monitoring system, and a ‘walk Delhi’ coordination, monitoring committee, among other measures. The focus will be on making the city, especially areas around residential neighbourhoods, markets etc, pedestrian friendly.3.Unauthorised colonies: Last year, the Centre had initiated the process to give ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi. Close to four million people living in these colonies have been out of the planning ambit. The new MPD is going to focus on development of infrastructure in these colonies. DDA and NIUA recently held public consultation with the residents of these colonies to know their problems.4.Pandemic resilience: The Coronavirus pandemic has changed the way we live; social distancing and protective gear are the new normal now. The pandemic has put the spotlight on disaster management strategy in the master plan, which was largely about earthquakes and floods so far. Based on the learnings from Covid-19, urban planners are looking at provisions to make the city resilient.5. Blue green policy: The plan is to revive water bodies and clean the drains and integrate it with the green areas around it so that it can be used as recreational space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/5-things-delhi-2041-master-plan-will-have-special-focus-on/story-qZnbU2ZMqzXxDIJ6kmhJPJ.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Army, ITBP start joint exercise along China border in Himachal Pradesh||A day after Indian soldiers thwarted a bid by Chinese troops to intrude into Indian territory along Pangong Tso Lake in Ladakh, the Indian Army and the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) started a joint exercise along the China border in Himachal Pradesh. Barring a few incidents of air incursion, no suspicious movement of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has been noticed in the Tibetan region that borders Kinnaur district of the state. This border stretch has been peaceful despite heightened Chinese activity along Ladakh after the clash between soldiers of the two nations in the Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian army personnel died in the line of duty. The army and ITBP joint exercise is aimed at thwarting any incursion bid and is underway near Hurling and Gayu villages in the Kaurik sector, a senior Shimla-based intelligence official said. Himachal Pradesh shares a 260-km porous border with China. Of the total length, 140 km is in tribal Kinnaur district, while 80 km is in the tribal Lahaul and Spiti district. Military sources said that vigil is up at all posts in the Kaurik region to prevent any night incursion bid. China has accelerated construction activity on its side of the border, while India has also stepped up building infrastructure at its forward posts of Lepcha and Murmi Dogri, which are manned by the ITBP. Five ITBP battalions deployed in 20 posts guard the border with China. China’s building a road on no man’s land between the two countries came to fore after villagers of Kunnu-Charang in Kinnaur informed the local administration and border patrol in June. China has speeded up road construction along the border in the Tango and Yamrang regions that lie opposite the Chitkul and Charang villages on the Indian side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-itbp-start-joint-exercise-along-china-border-in-himachal-pradesh/story-2Tv1LQv0wpWwGJU4OqHX6J.html
08-09-2020||Lucknow||Mob lynches man in police presence in UP||An angry mob beat a man to death at a village in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Kushinagar district on Monday after he allegedly shot and killed a teacher, the police said. The lynching took place in the presence of policemen who arrived at the scene after the teacher’s murder.A video clip on social media showed policemen in riot gear failing to stop about 30 people from beating the man with sticks. The motive for the teacher’s murder is yet to be established, the police said.“The incident occurred at Rampur Bagra village under Tariya Sujan police station. The accused was beaten severely by a violent mob before he could be rescued by the police team that reached there,” Kushinagar’s superintendent of police Vinod Kumar Mishra said . “The team took him to hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.”According to the police, the man reached the house of a resident of the area, Sudhir Singh, on a scooter at around 8am and claimed to be a friend of his elder brother. Singh was a teacher at a government school in Bihar, according to locals. The man was asked to wait inside the house by family members because Singh was having a bath.“He waited for him (Singh) and had tea. As soon as Singh came out, he shot him dead,” the SP said.“The man tried to run out of the house after killing Sudhir Singh, but he saw people from the neighbourhood gathering outside. So, he went inside and climbed onto the roof. He fired a few shots with his pistol to scare away the crowd. Our police team reached the spot within a few minutes. While they were trying to apprehend him, the crowd turned violent and started attacking him, which resulted in his death,” the Kushinagar SP said.Tariya Sujan station house officer (SHO) Harendra Mishra said the man was aged around 25 and his brother told the police over the phone that his name was Aryaman Yadav, a resident of Nanda Nagar Dargahi in Gorakhpur district. The pistol used by him in the crime has been recovered, the SHO added.The bodies of both the man and Sudhir Singh have been sent for a post-mortem examination. The police registered a complaint in the matter. A first information report (FIR) of murder was lodged by Singh’s family, the police said.(WITH AGENCY INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mob-lynches-man-in-police-presence-in-up/story-r3VqVAuDdoEKjjl5Z1lsIJ.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Special day-long Delhi assembly session to be held on September 14||A special day-long session of the Delhi legislative assembly will be held on September 14, the chief minister’s office said on Monday. Since Covid-19 cases are once again on the rise in the Capital, the Delhi Assembly secretariat said a number of precautionary measures would be put in place during the one-day session. “First, all legislators and Vidhan Sabha employees will have to undergo Covid-19 tests, the results of which will have to come latest by Sunday -- a day before the session begins on September 14. A testing van will be deployed at the assembly premises to test employees. The MLAs will have to undergo tests either at the assembly or they may get tested at some hospital or health centre on their own and submit the report to the Vidhan Sabha secretariat,” said a senior Delhi Assembly official on condition of anonymity. This will be the second session of the assembly to be convened during the Covid-19 pandemic. A one-day session was held on March 23 to present the budget. But no such precautionary measures were taken in that session, except for members of the House being seated at a distance from one another. For the September 14 session, assembly officials said, the entry of media persons is likely to be restricted this time and they would be allowed only in the press room. “Sitting in the press gallery during the session, as is the practice, is unlikely to happen this time, although a final decision on this is yet to be taken,” a second official said.To maintain social distancing, additional chairs will be kept in the House. Usually, two MLAs sit in one seat inside the House. But the rule now will be one person per bench in order to maintain a six-feet distance, the official added. Mask wearing, and thermal screening will be mandatory inside the assembly premises.Senior officials in the chief minister’s office said it is likely that there will be no question hour this time mainly because it is a one-day session and only important issues and legislative matters will be taken up. The question hour session was removed from the recent Parliament session as well. The decision to hold the one-day session was taken by the Delhi cabinet led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on September 5 after the law department tabled the proposal for approval.Delhi’s Covid-19 management strategies are expected to be discussed during the sitting. Some AAP legislators are expected to discuss the Delhi Model of management during the session, people aware of the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/special-day-long-delhi-assembly-session-to-be-held-on-september-14/story-wUHfFAPL0duTVQDbVpJytN.html
08-09-2020||City||Demo classes for board students start at Sonepat’s govt school||With masks on their face and bags on their backs, 18 students reached Government High School, Bazidpur Saboli, on Monday, as the school partially reopened for the first time since the lockdown. The Haryana government had last week decided to run demo classes for board students at this school, along with the Government Senior Secondary School at Karnal’s Nigdhu village.The school, on its part, left no stone unturned to ensure their safety of students amid the Covid-19 infection fears. Headmaster Chand Kishor said, “All students underwent thermal screening at the gate itself. As soon as they reached, the teachers apprised them of the social distancing norms and other safety guidelines. We made sure that there was adequate spacing in their seating arrangements.”“Fifteen students sat in one room (five students each in three rows) and three others were seated in a different room. The other students joined the class through online mode,” he added.FOUR-HOUR CLASSESThe headmaster further said that they organised four classes of one-hour each for Science, Mathematics, English and Hindi. “We will call other students also this week once these students become familiar with the safety guidelines. Teachers have made videos of the students entering the school and attending the classes. These videos will be sent to other schools by the education department,” he added.Sonepat district education officer Joginder Hooda said the students were advised to observe distancing with their family members for a few hours after they return home. “The students were very excited to join the school after a gap of nearly five and a half months. We will not compromise with the students’ health while running the classes. I want to thank the parents of the students for agreeing to send their kids to the school for demo classes,” the DEO added.The students claimed that the teachers and other staff helped them on the first day.“Seating arrangements were made in the classroom in accordance with the safety protocols. The teachers told us that our school timing will be increased after the success of demo classes. Finally, our life seems to have come back on track and we will just focus on studies now as this is our board year,” the students said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/demo-classes-for-board-students-start-at-sonepat-s-govt-school/story-5iHEaeKYIeAEP4glnYoBnK.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Install tree guards to protect saplings from monkeys: Delhi HC to NDMC||The Delhi High Court has directed the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) to protect 500 newly planted amaltas saplings in parts of the Central Ridge area from monkeys by installing tree guards. The direction came after the court was informed that monkeys not only damaged the tender branches but sometimes uprooted the saplings.The NDMC counsel submitted photographs to Justice Najmi Waziri -- who was hearing a bunch of pleas on tree plantation -- showing that 500 amaltas saplings had been planted in various parts of the Central Ridge.The counsel told the court that the saplings have been interspersed with trees of other varieties, ensuring that there is no mono-culture. However, she said monkey menace was a threat.“To safeguard these young vulnerable trees, it will be worthwhile for the council to install appropriate tree guards wherever deemed necessary, so as to prevent tree-attrition due to monkey menace. Affidavit of compliance be filed before the next date,” the court said.Noting that more than 100,000 trees had been planted all over Delhi in the last two years under its directions, Justice Waziri said many of these were contributed by litigants in hundreds of cases as costs or fine.He said the endeavour to create and augment the green cover with indigenous deciduous trees, both in the heart of the city and on its periphery, is a collective exercise for the enrichment of Delhi’s ecology.“What will the trees grow up to look like? What will be their contribution to better health and psychological well-being of the residents of Delhi? What will be their overall contribution to Delhi’s ecological improvement over the years? How many a heart will be cheered, by the scores of street-aligned amaltas in full bloom? These are answers only nature can give,” the judge said in his order dated August 25.Quoting from environmentalist Pradip Krishen’s book, Trees of Delhi – A Field Guide, the judge said, “Trees will not, of course, solve Delhi’s ecological problems. But while we search the will and means to undo what we have done, trees are balm and salve to our mistakes. They are witnesses to our foolish tinkering with nature, embellishments of our dour cities, symbols of renewal and growth, our reasons for hope and for keeping the faith. That is reason enough.”During the hearing, the Delhi forest department filed an affidavit, detailing that of the planned 74,781 trees, roughly 60,000 saplings were planted in the Southern Ridge and they were in good health. It said 20 check-dams were constructed and the videography of the area shows collection of a large quantity of rainwater which would not only recharge the water table, but also help in the growth of vegetation and the newly planted trees.“The small water reservoirs will abet rejuvenation of the earth. There is a proposal to create 40 more such check-dams. For the moment, a total of 60 check-dams will be created. The forest department is exploring the creation of many more. Let such proposal be shared with the learned court commissioners,” the court said in its order.Justice Waziri has been passing orders from time to time in the last two years, directing litigants and parties to plant tree saplings throughout the city as costs or fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/install-tree-guards-to-protect-saplings-from-monkeys-delhi-hc-to-ndmc/story-kcCqz4cFQWNg3LnlXQAUVL.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 2,224 new cases, 23 deaths, recovery rate slips to 78%||Haryana’s Covid positivity rate went past 6% while the recovery rate came down to 78% on Monday with the state recording 2,224 fresh cases and 23 deaths, as per the health bulletin. While positivity rate is the ratio of positive cases to the number of tests conducted, the recovery rate points towards the number of patients recovered. The recovery rate slipped to 78.2% on Monday after it had crossed 84% and hovered there for some weeks. On Sunday, Haryana had recorded 25 fatalities due to the infection and logged 2,277 new cases to its tally. The number of active patients has been increasingly continuously. Until Monday evening, the number of Covid-19 active patients also rose to 16,333 from 15, 692 on Sunday. As many as 1, 560 patients were discharged on Monday and the tally of people who recovered from the infections rose to 61, 611. Three people died in Kurukshetra districts, while Gurugram, Ambala, Karnal, Panchkula, Yamunanagar and Kaithal districts lost two patients each. In Faridabad, Rohtak, Panipat, Hisar, Mahendergarh, Bhiwani, Sirsa and Jind, one patient each lost the battle to the virus. As per the data, the number of people who tested positive so far has reached 78,773 and the death toll has risen to 829. Ten districts recorded more than 100 new cases led by Faridabad that saw the highest 270 new cases, followed by Karnal 206, Ambala 188, Jind 176, Gurugram 147, Kurukshetra 115, Panipat 120, Sonepat 128, Rewari 110, Sirsa 106, Yamunanagar 106, Panchkula 68, Hisar 74, Rohtak 79, Palwal 30, Mahendergarh 62, Jhajjar 52, Bhiwani 51, Nuh 12, Fatehabad 54, Kaithal 68 and Charkhi Dadri 2. Khattar making steady progress Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar has been making steady progress over the last few days and his pulse rate, respiration and blood pressure are within normal limits, Medanta hospital medical superintendent, Dr AK Dubey said. In a medical bulletin issued by the hospital, Dr Dubey said the CM walked 1.5 kms, did routine exercises and has a good appetite. The CM is also carrying on essential work through video conferencing and telephone calls, Dr Dubey said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-records-2-224-new-cases-23-deaths-recovery-rate-slips-to-78/story-JkkubGYySaDsFiBf6NPqQP.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||GST compensation shortfall: Haryana opts for special window borrowing||The Haryana government has decided to opt for borrowing through a special window to make up for the shortfall in compensation arising out of Goods and Services Tax (GST) implementation. A proposal in this regard will be communicated to the Central government soon, top officials said. Officials said the state government chose the special window borrowing, also known as Option 1, because the state will not be required to service the debt or repay it from any other source. “The principal amount and interest will be paid by the Central government. The interest on the borrowing under the special window will be paid from the cess as and when it arises until the end of the transition period. After the transition period, principal and interest will also be paid from proceeds of the cess,” said an official. A cess is levied by the Central government for providing compensation to the states for the loss of revenue arising on account of implementation of the GST. However, due to revenue shortfall owing to Covid-19 lockdowns, the Central government has expressed its inability to pay the GST compensation to the states. The matter was discussed threadbare during the 41st meeting of GST Council headed by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on August 27. It was discussed that on account of the prevailing economic situation, the Central revenues were under greater strain than the GST revenue. Moreover, central expenditures were also stretched due to the pandemic response and needs of national security. The only practical way forward is by borrowing and then repaying the borrowing by extension of cess beyond the fifth year, it was discussed. The Central government said they were facing large borrowing requirements this year and any additional borrowing would influence the yields on central government securities and impact borrowing costs for the states and the private sector. Since yields on state government securities do not have the same type of macroeconomic repercussions, borrowings should be done at the state-level. The two borrowing options were formulated keeping in mind the fact that borrowings by state governments incurred a higher interest cost, officials said. The advantage of Option 1 Speaking about the advantages of special window borrowing option, Haryana officials said the special borrowing permission will be over and above any other borrowing ceilings eligible under any other normal or special permission notified by department of expenditure. Also, the special window borrowing will not be treated as debt of the state for any norms prescribed by the Finance Commission. The GST compensation cess will be continued after the transition period until all arrears of compensation for the transition period are paid to the state. “The first charge on the GST compensation cess each year would be the interest payable. The second charge would be the principal repayment. The remaining arrears of compensation accrued during the transition period would be paid after the interest and principal are paid,” said an official. Also, the Central government has committed to keep the cost of borrowing at or close to the government bonds. If the cost gets higher, the Central government will bear the margin between central government securities and average of state development loan yields through subsidy, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gst-compensation-shortfall-haryana-opts-for-special-window-borrowing/story-B2HefTWN8YEHr6J6pN9y9M.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana has investor-friendly image, will bounce back: Dushyant||In the latest rankings on ease of doing business index, Haryana has slipped from third to 16th position. The sharp slide has dealt a setback to the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government’s hard sell to woo investors and also lent ammunition to the opposition. In an interview with HT on Monday, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the industries portfolio, promised to take corrective steps . Excerpts: Haryana has slipped from third to the 16th position. What went so wrong suddenly? It seems the primary reason behind the dip in Haryana’s ranking is due to major changes incorporated in the criteria adopted by Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) in its Business Reform Action Plan 2019 (BRAP-2019). Haryana’s new industrial policy will focus on the new grading system that the DPIIT has adopted to decide rankings. How genuine do you think the findings of this survey are? I won’t be able to comment much on it because it relates to the period before we joined the state government and I took over as the industry minister. I can assure you that the present team of officers is working hard to make state a big corporate and manufacturing hub. Has introduction of new parameters in the survey gone against Haryana? The revised parameters of the survey need to be looked into. Barring a couple of big states, these rankings reveal jump for mainly small and very less industrialised states and Union Territories. Major businesses hubs such as Karnataka, Gujarat, Orissa, Haryana, Kerala have slipped. Who is responsible for this poor performance? Is it bureaucracy? The detailed findings of the survey will be discussed among the officers and required reforms will be implemented. Haryana will bounce back. What are the challenges this adverse ranking has posed? Is this a wakeup call? This is an opportunity to revisit the state’s industrial policies and come up with more attractive plans for investors. For the purpose, we are finalising Haryana Enterprises and Employment Promotion Policy this month. It will be a game changer. We not only plan to provide better environment for industry in the state, but also boost employment avenues. Our focus will also be bringing investment to areas where there is no industrial growth. What is your message to the business community? Haryana has an investor-friendly image. Despite the pandemic, big companies have expanded their manufacturing units in the state. Coca Cola has added three new units. In the past one year, six mega projects, with investment of Rs 8,607 crore, have been cleared and they will come up in Rohtak, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Nuh, and Rewari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-has-investor-friendly-image-will-bounce-back-dushyant/story-nLKFS5ePChMkLVUcmH74uL.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||AAP protests for pending salaries of MCD workers||Councillors of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), led by senior leader Durgesh Pathak, on Monday joined employees of the three municipal corporations (MCDs) outside Civic Centre building to protest against non-payment of pending salaries.Pathak, who is AAP’s MCD in-charge, along with a bunch of other party members and councillors, was later detained by Delhi Police. “We demand that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) release the salaries of MCD workers within the next week. If you (the BJP) cannot run the MCD, then please resign and hand it over to the AAP. The Arvind Kejriwal-led party will run it better in the same budget. It has been about six months that the employees of the corporation have not got their salaries,” Pathak said. He further said that the AAP will continue to protest until the BJP-ruled MCDs settle the salaries of all its employees.The BJP, however, denied AAP’s allegations and said the Kejriwal led party was making baseless claims to garner support from the people of Delhi ahead of municipal elections. MCD elections are scheduled some time in April, 2022. The BJP had managed to win a majority in all the three civic bodies during the last polls held in April 2017. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the AAP government had not given MCD its dues till now.“As per the Delhi municipal corporation act, 2012, the Delhi government is bound to release annual municipal funds by June 30 every year. But till date, the AAP government has not even released 26% of the allocated funds for 2020-21,” he said.‘SANJAY SINGH DETAINED TO SUPPRESS AAP’S VOICE’AAP chief spokesperson and Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj on Monday said the Uttar Pradesh government detained AAP Raya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh on Sunday, when he went to meet the family of former UP MLA Nirvendra Mishra, who died after allegedly being beaten up in the presence of police officers.“The YogiAdityanath government has registered 13 different FIRs against Sanjay Singh to terrorise him and yesterday (Sunday) they detained him. This is just to terrorise him and to stop his voice, because he is talking about the rights of Dalits and Brahmins in UP,” Bhardwaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-protests-for-pending-salaries-of-mcd-workers/story-qnOFbFexangvUMlSMAEmHI.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||To pay for PUBG, boy transfers₹2.3L from grandad’s pension account||A 15-year-old boy in North Delhi’s Timarpur transferred money from the pension account of his grandfather to an online wallet to fund his PUBG game for months, Delhi Police said on Monday after cracking the case. Over a period of two months, the boy transferred Rs2.34 lakh from his 65-year-old grandfather’s account until the man was alerted of the transfers, Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), said. While the boy managed to scale ace levels, largely due to his ability to pay, he couldn’t take full advantage of the game. “He told us his PUBG account was hacked after he reached a particular level,” the DCP said. No legal action is likely to be pursued against the boy since his grandfather has decided to let go of the matter on getting to know who was withdrawing his money, said another investigator. On May 8, he received a message on his phone, informing him of withdrawal of Rs2,500 from his bank account, leaving him with just Rs 275 in his account. “He visited the bank to realise that a total of Rs2.34 lakh had been transferred from his account to a PayTM account in multiple installments in over two months. He then approached us,” the DCP said.The police didn’t make much progress in the probe over the next few months, but on September 1, the case was transferred to the cyber branch of north Delhi police district. “We contacted PayTM to identify the man into whose account the money was being transferred. The account holder told us his minor friend had requested him to lend him his PayTM ID and password. Soon, we got to know that the boy was the complainant’s grandson,” the DCP said. When the police spoke to the boy, he allegedly said he had been playing the game for months, but wasn’t enjoying it since it needed payments for certain advantages. “One day, he found his grandfather’s debit card lying in the house. He began using it to make payments. Whenever a one-time password (OTP) would arrive for the payments, he would take his grandfather’s phone, see the password and delete the message,” the DCP said.The game was banned in India by the Union government earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/to-pay-for-pubg-boy-transfers-2-3l-from-grandad-s-pension-account/story-cmVfNYdOub9b9hxeV8vhqN.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Is this the world’s prettiest rickshaw?||Embroidered jootis. Cracked CDs. Artificial grass. Paper jhoomars. Just some of the elements that make up this extraordinarily unusual rickshaw.This evening, the eye-catcher is parked by a Lodhi Road pavement. No sign of the puller. Perhaps that doesn’t matter, for his very persona seems to be diffused in the aesthetics of his rickshaw. The jhoomar hanging from the roof is made of coloured papers, golden laces and tiny brass bells. It is of a kind that school students are required to produce for their craft assignments, (and which are inevitably made by their parents). The footwear dangling at the bottom of the rickshaw is not unusual, for many pullers hang them at the same place for good luck. But here the shoes are ethnic types with Maharajah-style pointed tips, usually worn by a man on his wedding day.Even the tyres are decked with coloured ribbons, the spokes studded with shiny sitaras (sprinklers). The rickshaw’s handle-bar is a dense thicket of unruly plastic flowers, with a single real marigold in the center. Red bridal ornis (veils) are falling down from both sides of the handle.The floor under the passenger’s seat is carpeted with a mat of plastic grass. Broken CDs are fixed on the back wheels as showpiece. Indeed, the rickshaw has most unexpected objects doubling up as decorations. The front wheel is fitted with bunches of green and blue plastic straws. The rear has a dozen drinking glasses stringed into a row.The only part of the rickshaw that’s ordinary is the puller’s seat—wrapped in a simple mashed-up gamcha. Meanwhile, the tasteful puller still hasn’t appeared. A painted board on the rickshaw’s back announces in yellow and red—Muhammed Taufiq loves (represented by a heart pierced by Cupid’s arrow) Bilori. And just below is a phone number. “Yes, I’m Taufiq and that’s my rickshaw. Yes, Bilori is how I call my wife,” the voice says on picking up the phone. “I’m having chai. I will return later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-is-this-the-world-s-prettiest-rickshaw/story-aRLnnZxyt9zmgW7neSKsZI.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||BJP leaders, mayors hold protest against AAP for not releasing full funds to civic bodies||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is the ruling party in all three municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs), on Monday alleged that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government has not released even 26% of the funds allocated for the financial year 2020-21.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta along with mayors of the three civic bodies on Monday held a protest against the Delhi government at the Civic Centre, the headquarters of the North and South corporations. The BJP leaders and mayors marched from the Civic Centre to the Central Secretariat as part of their protest.Gupta said the Delhi government is supposed to pay East, South and North corporation ₹1,677 crore, ₹892 crore and ₹1,568 crore, respectively, this fiscal. These are to be paid by the Delhi government under various heads such as health, education, etc.“But the Delhi government has not even released 26% of these amounts to the three corporations. It has released just ₹157 crore to the East corporation till September 7. The South corporation got ₹232 crore while the North Corporation received ₹612 crore so far. This clearly shows that the Delhi government is trying to cripple the municipal corporations,” Gupta alleged.Gupta said the corporations are unable to pay salaries to employees, especially to sanitation workers who have been risking their lives cleaning the city during the times of the pandemic. He said the corporations need this fund more than ever as their revenue from other sources has significantly dropped.“The revenue from other sources such as property tax, conversion charges etc is not coming in as people are unable to pay due to the slump brought about by Covid-19. Instead of supporting the corporations, the Delhi government is indulging in petty politics,” he said.The AAP hit back and said the BJP should resign if it can’t fulfil its primary responsibilities. An AAP spokesperson said, “If the BJP cannot run the MCDs, it should resign and hand them over to the AAP. The MCDs have failed to deliver its primary responsibilities be it sanitation, fighting vector-borne diseases, and management of MCD schools due to rampant corruption. Last year, th AAP government significantly reduced deaths due to dengue y making honest efforts and running a very successful awareness campaign. BJP should stop misleading people, release the salaries of employees immediately or resign.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-leaders-mayors-hold-protest-against-aap-for-not-releasing-full-funds-to-civic-bodies/story-Qm84YzbuXurg5VnybhtYMM.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt launches awareness campaign to step up Covid-19 testing||The Delhi government has launched a fresh intensive awareness campaign as part of which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s pre-recorded appeals will be played over phone and on radio, apart from billboard advertisements, urging people to get tested and follow Covid-19 safety measures. The move comes five days after lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on September 2 directed officials to launch an intensive information, education and communication (IEC) campaign to promote community engagement as an integral part of the Covid-19 management strategy of the city administration.To start with, the government has started making calls to every Delhi resident in which a pre-recorded message from the chief minister is played.Click here for full covid-19 coverage“We have started playing the chief minister’s recorded message over the phone and on radio. Soon, we will also be putting out TV and print advertisements. This is going to be a 360-degree campaign. We plan to cover at least one crore phone numbers in the coming days,” said a senior official from Kejriwal’s office. The messages across all mediums will be focused on increased testing. In his pre-recorded messages, Kejriwal is heard reiterating what he had said in his press conference on Saturday. “Some people are not getting tested. They say, nowadays everyone is recovering on their own, so there is no need to get tested. No, please do not think like this; please go and get tested. Please also wear masks when you step out and follow physical distancing,” the CM had said on Saturday.The chief minister also emphasised that the Delhi government provides free Covid-19 testing at all its dispensaries and seed PUHC (Primary Urban Health Centre). Testing is currently available for free at 265 dispensaries and clinics, in addition to major government hospitals in the city. The campaign comes at a time when Delhi, after becoming the first major region to register a sustained fall in cases, is now seeing an uptick in Covid-19 cases since mid-August. The spike in cases has prompted chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to hold an emergency meeting on August 26 where it was decided that the rate of testing will be doubled from 18,000-20,000 a day to nearly 40,000 a day.The Capital recorded 32 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, the most fatalities in a single day in the city since July 24. Monday’s rise saw the death toll go up to 4,599, as per the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin. Further, 2,077 new cases of the disease were logged in Monday’s bulletin.Accordingly, the government has so far increased its daily testing numbers to 38,895 as on Saturday, the highest single-day testing figure in the capital so far. The cases have also spiked due to increased testing, the Delhi government had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-awareness-campaign-to-step-up-covid-19-testing/story-MIm3u2PCE6PBrls4NWGTQN.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 32 new Covid deaths, highest since July 24||The Capital recorded 32 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, the most fatalities in a single day in the city since July 24. Monday’s rise saw the death toll go up to 4,599, as per the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin.The number of deaths reported each day had declined since mid-July through August, to a low of eight deaths on August 16. An average of 22 deaths were recorded each day over the past seven days, the highest since early August.Further, 2,077 new cases of the disease were logged in Monday’s bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBut even though there has been an increase in the absolute number of deaths, with the simultaneous increase in the number of tests and new cases, the case fatality rate (CFR) — the fraction of people who die among those who test positive – has declined. Delhi’s current CFR stands at 2.38%, a decline from the 2.47% reported on average during the last week. The week before that, Delhi’s CFR stood at 2.61%. However, this is still much higher than the national average of 1.72%. “Delhi’s case fatality rate might be higher than the national average because of the people who travel from neighbouring states to avail treatment from Delhi,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, a professor in Safdarjung hospital’s pulmonology department. “Doctors now know more about the disease and treatment protocols have been standardised. This is why there was a decrease in the number of deaths in July, and even now the numbers are unlikely to go too high,” Dr Gupta added. The number of people hospitalised with Covid-19 has also gone up in the city, with over 5,000 people hospitalised with the infection, the data shows. The number of people admitted dipped to its lowest on July 28 when 2,775 people were in hospitals. It has increased over the past few weeks, and as on Monday, 5,218 were hospitalised in the city. Delhi also recorded more recoveries than new cases on Monday, when testing dipped to just 22,945 from the peak of 38,895 recorded on September 5. According to the data, 2,411 people recovered from the infection on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-32-new-covid-deaths-highest-since-july-24/story-AWAjgECFWQCC33In0TkDeL.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Smooth but slow on Day 1 as Delhi Metro comes back to life||Delhi Metro services came back to life at 7am sharp on Monday, more than five months after being shut down as part of anti-Covid measures. The first line to be opened for passengers in Delhi was the 48.8km Yellow Line — connecting Huda City Centre in Gurugram and Samaypur Badli in north Delhi — which operated in two shifts of four hours each in the morning and the evening. The line recorded a ridership of over 15,500 on Monday (till 8.30pm). Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAround 7,500 passengers used the line between 7am and 11am, and more than 8,000 between 4pm and 8.30pm. Along with this, the Rapid Metro in Gurugram, spanning 11.7km, was also reopened.Delhi Metro’s estimated average daily ridership on the Yellow Line, before Covid-19 forced it to shut down, was around nine lakh on weekdays.On Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet lauded the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) arrangements. “I am glad that Metro services are starting from today (Monday). The [Delhi] Metro has made good arrangements. We all should not be negligent in taking precautions,” Kejriwal tweeted. The Metro sputtered back to life amid a thin footfall, with teams of DMRC officials, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and civil defence volunteers stationed across stations to ensure distancing norms were followed. While crowds picked up by evening, ample space was available in stations and inside trains. To help passengers get used to the new functioning of the system, regular announcements were also made on how to go about their journey. Metro officials were also present to guide passengers through the process. “We got complete cooperation from commuters, who availed the services for the first time in 169 days,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. At entry gates, passengers were rationed into queues by security staff, who also made commuters sanitise their hands before allowing them to enter. Upon entering the gates of the metro stations — where entry and exit have been limited to one or two gates depending on the size and footfall of the station— passengers were screened for their temperatures after which they were asked to go through another round of sanitization through automated hand sanitizer machines. Further, passengers with baggage were also asked to get their luggage disinfected, before being allowed to proceed for security checks — the entire process adding five to six minutes to the normal check in time for passengers during non-rush hours . While this detailed process led to queues forming outside some stations in the evening office hours, passengers ensured that there was no crowding and ample space was left between them as they waited in lines. While most stations had proper floor markings to tell people where to stand while waiting for trains, some — like Guru Dronacharya, Arjangarh, Adarsh Nagar and Patel Chowk —the platform area did not have positions marked on the floor for passengers. Senior DMRC officials admitted that a few stations, where passenger footfall was not high, might have been missed. They, however, assured these things would be resolved as operations picked up. Some passengers who paid using UPI methods said the payment process required a longer waiting time, which also led to crowding at counters. “Top-ups for cards using debit cards were done instantly, but if a person was paying through UPI, the server was not responding immediately,” said a DMRC official at the ticketing counter at the Rajiv Chowk Metro station. Rajesh Ranjan, director-general, CISF, also reviewed the operational preparedness of the Metro operations on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/smooth-but-slow-on-day-1-as-delhi-metro-comes-back-to-life/story-GfLGV4IxC7Braz5IjThXvK.html
08-09-2020||City||Gas leak at Boisar chemical unit near Mumbai, one injured||One person was reported injured after a gas leak from a chemical plant in the Tarapur Chemical Zone, on Monday.Around 20,000-litre drum containing formaldehyde fell on the ground, spilling the chemical at Chemicone Chemicals unit at Plot W16/25 at Tarapur Chemical Zone at 7am. The company manufactures paper, printing, textile chemicals and adhesives, since 1979.“A fresh stock of 20 tonnes (20,000 kg) of formaldehyde had arrived at the factory on Sunday, which was to be used in production on Monday,” said senior inspector Pradip Kasbe, of Boisar MIDC police station.The workers were yet to report to duty, but a woman, Damini Singh, 24, who worked in an adjacent unit suffered breathlessness, nausea, eye and skin irritation. She is undergoing treatment at Tungha Hospital in Boisar, while six workers were given first aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gas-leak-at-boisar-chemical-unit-near-mumbai-one-injured/story-qpdXiJyAjYfIYJJtLgEdcP.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||22-year-old arrested for murdering aunt in Mumbai||A 22-year-old man was arrested by the Kurla police for allegedly murdering his aunt in Kurla on Sunday night. The accused fled the spot with her jewellery after the murder. The accused, Irfan Nisaar Shaikh, is a resident of Chirag Nagar, Ghatkopar (West). According to the police, the victim – 60-year-old Zarina Anwar Shaikh – lived alone at Varsha Society in Jagriti Nagar, Kurla (East). Her daughter Rihana Yasim Shaikh, 32, lives in the nearby area, while son works in Gujarat. On Sunday night, Rihana called her mother, but the latter did not respond to her calls. Rihana then went to Zarina’s home and found the door locked. Rihana opened the door with a spare key and found her mother lying in a pool of blood. She then informed her neighbours and they rushed Zarina to a hospital, where the latter she was declared dead. After the police were informed, they began the investigations. “The killer managed to hide his face from the building’s CCTV camera. But the other CCTV cameras near the building captured some of his movements. After probing the victim’s relatives and based on details given by our informers, we discovered that Shaikh was behind the crime and arrested him from Ghatkopar within 15 hours after the crime,” said senior inspector Vilas Shinde of Nehru Nagar police. The accused visited his aunt’s home on Sunday night and locked the door from inside. He then switched on the television and turned the volume high and attacked his aunt with a knife, the police said. “Multiple injuries on the victim’s hand indicate that the duo had a scuffle for sometime, following which Shaikh slashed her wrist. She bled profusely and likely died of excessive bleeding,” said Shinde. The accused then took gold ornaments of around 221 grams of gold jewellery from her wardrobe and escaped from the window after locking the room from outside. “He was in dire need of money and decided to target his aunt as it was easy. We suspect that he has some addiction and must be needing money for the same,” Shinde said. Shaikh is booked under sections the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. He will be produced in the court on Tuesday. The police are in the process of recovering robbed valuables from him. The knife used in the crime was also seized by the police from the crime scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22-year-old-arrested-for-murdering-aunt-in-mumbai/story-UYeNEh5OKbqQZqGfdEZicN.html
08-09-2020||City||27-year-old from Thane district says triple talaq over phone, case registered||In the third such case in Shanti Nagar in Bhiwandi, the police on Sunday booked a man for giving his wife triple talaq over the phone. The family lives in Gaibir Nagar. The complainant, 24, got married three years ago. In her complaint, she said, she was constantly harassed by her in-laws and husband for special gifts from her family. She had gone to her parents’ house a month ago.An officer from Shanti Nagar police station said,” The accused, Khalid Husain Shaikh, 27, called her on Sunday and started to abuse her and later gave her talaq.”He has been booked under Indian Penal Code 323, 504 and The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, Section 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/27-year-old-from-thane-district-says-triple-talaq-over-phone-case-registered/story-KFRw1Yk4E5przQdBr2sDLI.html
08-09-2020||City||21-year-old drowns in Vasai beach near Mumbai; five of his friends rescued||A 21-year-old man drowned in Suruchibaug beach in Vasai after he and his five friends went for a swim on Sunday afternoon. While five of his friends were rescued by locals, the body of Ganesh Khot was recovered on Monday. According to the police, the group was drinking alcohol at the beach and entered the sea during high tide. Khot disappeared within minutes after he stepped into the sea owing to the strong currents. After his five friends were rescued, they informed the police that Khot was missing. A search was carried out by the fire brigade and on Monday, Khot’s body was found floating near Panchunder, Vasai. The body was sent for post-mortem and its report is awaited. The Vasai Gaon police have registered a case of accidental death. “Despite warning by the Palghar collector, banning people from swimming in rough seas, visiting waterfalls, beaches, ponds, wells or go for trekking and other activities amid the Covid-19 pandemic, citizens continue to ignore the directives. We have been given strict instructions to book the guilty under sections 188 (disobedience) and 269 (spread of infection) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Disaster Management Act, 2005,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-year-old-drowns-in-vasai-beach-near-mumbai-five-of-his-friends-rescued/story-MooblyNjct8ywyJOOK8uWN.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||CBI court rejects Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s anticipatory bail plea||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Monday rejected the anticipatory bail application of Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor in connection with the case related to the purchase of property at Amrita Shergill Marg, New Delhi. The property belonged to Avantha Group companies and was later purchased by the company in which Kapoor’s wife is a director. As per the case registered by CBI, Kapoor entered into a criminal conspiracy with his wife, Bindu –director of M/s Bliss Abode Private Ltd (BAPL) – and Gautam Thapar, who is the promoter of AG Companies for the purpose of obtaining illegal gratification. It is alleged that the property – a lavish bungalow spread over an area of around 1.2 acres – was under mortgage with two banks for a loan of Rs350 and a loan of Rs30 crore, respectively. The agency claimed that Kapoor sanctioned a loan of Rs400 crore to Avantha Reality Pvt Ltd as lease rental, discounting for a period of 10 years, in March 2016. “For this, Avantha had entered into an agreement with M/S BILT Graphics Paper Pvt Ltd (Avantha group of company) for a yearly rental of Rs65 crore, payable by the former. The agreement was signed on March 22, 2016, two days prior to the sanction of the loan of Rs400 crore by Yes Bank to Avantha,” reads the first information report (FIR) registered by CBI. The agency claimed that the property was earlier leased on the rate of Rs1.02 crore per annum. The agency claimed that the lease rent was inflated to make the loan approval look justifiable. “This appears to have been done with an intention to get the loan account become stressed for justifying sale of the property by the Avantha Group,” CBI claimed. It was alleged that the valuation of the property at the time of the sanction was at Rs550 crore. Further, as per Yes Bank Ltd sanction Credit Appraisal Memorandum (CAM), the estimated value of the property was shown as Rs500 crore. The agency claimed that Kapoor was also head of the management credit committee (MCC) of the bank, approved the said loan of Rs400 crore to Avantha Reality Ltd as well as release of property against repayment of loan. “Though the account had started showing signs of stress from April 1, 2017, onwards, the unpaid interest and principal liability as on June 1, 2017 was only Rs12 crore approx. This amount does not appear to be high enough to justify sale of the collateral, either at the instance of the bank or the borrower. ln furtherance to the said conspiracy, it was however decided to sale the charged property against the said loan,” the CBI claimed. The agency further said that M/S Interglobe Enterprises Ltd had made the first offer to buy the property for Rs375 crore in April 2017. However, it was withdrawn without citing any reasons on August 31, 2017. Later, Avanta received the offer from Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd to buy the property for Rs378 crore. The deal materialised in September 2017. However, The CBI claimed that a total amount of Rs375 crore had been received by M/S Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd from lndia Bulls Housing Finance Ltd (IBHFL), including above Rs90 crore, taken as a loan vide agreement dated July 13, 2017. “Loan agreements were, however, executed between M/S Bliss Abode Pvt Ltd and IBHFL, much later on October 5, 2017, showing a balance amount of Rs285 crore out of above Rs375 crore also taken as loans. Kapoor is shown as a co-borrower in all these subsequent loan agreements dated October 5, 2017 as well,” the CBI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cbi-court-rejects-yes-bank-founder-rana-kapoor-s-anticipatory-bail-plea/story-0E2UBzjfY0VohR4Gpqzc7I.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Tunnel boring for Mumbai coastal road project to begin on October 25||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will begin the tunnel boring work for the Mumbai Coastal Road Project by October 25, the timeline prepared by the civic coastal road department stated. Following the commencement of the work, it will take eight to 10 months to complete the boring through the 3.4-kilometre (km)-long twin tunnels between Priyadarshini Park at Malabar Hill and Girgaum Chowpatty. BMC has completed about 16% of the work for the Coastal Road Project, and has set a deadline of July 2023 to complete the entire project, a senior civic officer from the department said. The civic body is now re-assembling the parts of the tunnel boring machine (TBM) it purchased from China last year at the work site in Priyadarshini Park. The machine arrived in April, and was taken to the site in many dismantled parts in 17 trailer trucks. The TBM will drill the 3.4-km-long twin tunnels partially running under the sea, between Girgaum and Malabar Hill, as part of the 9.98-km-long Coastal Road between Priyadarshini Park, and the Worli end of the Bandra Worli Sea Link. As there will be two parallel tunnels of 3.4-km length each, the total length of the tunnels will be 6.8 km. They will run 25 metres below the surface at Girgaum and 75 metres below the surface at Malabar Hill. The width of each tunnel will be 12 metres, with two lanes – each 3-3.2 metres wide – one emergency lane. A senior civic official from the coastal road department said, “We are re-assembling some parts of the TBM above ground at the worksite. Pilling and excavation work at both ends of the proposed tunnel is complete. Parts of the TBM will then be lowered into the ground through the shafts and assembled underground. End-to-end boring will take four-five months per side. It will start from Priyadarshini Park and bore through the length of one side of the tunnel to be pulled out at Girgaum Chowpatty. Then it will be taken back to Priyadashini Park to bore through the twin tunnel.” As per BMC’s original estimate, the TBM is to complete the tunnel boring work in 276 days. As the machine will be able to drill through a minimum of 3 metres each day, it will need roughly 276 days to complete the entire planned length of the tunnel. While expertise from the manufacturer will be required at the time of boring, BMC is in a fix now owing to the ongoing tensions with China. Another civic official said, “Chinese experts who are already working on the Mumbai Metro project and the Bengaluru Metro project will help the civic body with this work. Besides, the general consultant for the coastal road project, AECOM, has experts on its panel who will be called to help the civic body.” Earlier, BMC aimed to complete the coastal road by 2022. However, the Bombay high court put a stay on the work, which was later lifted by the Supreme Court. Following this, work resumed on December 18 last year after 154 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tunnel-boring-for-mumbai-coastal-road-project-to-begin-on-october-25/story-w248d4doyz6aAnRztK8bMK.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Second Doppler radar in Mumbai by December: Ministry of Earth Sciences||The city’s second Doppler radar will be installed and ready by December, the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) said on Monday.A Doppler radar provides long-range weather surveillance, detection and forecast for rainfall, cloud formation, thunderstorms and other weather conditions such as tropical storms. There are different types of Doppler radars. The one currently installed near the Regional Meteorological Centre in Colaba is an S-Band radar that provides surveillance up to 450-500 km. A C-Band radar can provide surveillance up to 250-350 km while surveillance by an X-Band radar is up to 100 km.On Monday, MoES secretary M Rajeevan, during a virtual press conference on the current status and forecast of southwest monsoon 2020, said the installation of a C-Band Doppler radar is expected to be completed by December.“The radar is being installed by the Indian Space Research Organisation on MoES’ request. This would be Mumbai’s second radar and would enhance weather predictions and long-range surveillance immensely,” Rajeevan told HT.He added that but for the Covid-19 pandemic, the installation of this radar would have been completed at Dindoshi, Goregaon around this time.“Due to the pandemic, there were delays in purchases, basic formalities such as travel, electric work and final physical installation atop a hill in Goregaon. All these works are being undertaken at the moment and the installation will be completed by December,” said Rajeevan.Meanwhile, Rajeevan highlighted that before next monsoon, Mumbai is likely to have the largest weather network across any city in India.“Four X-Band radars would be strategically set up in different locations in the city to have spatial coverage of hyperlocal weather changes. Combined with this, we will be adding 30 more rain gauges (instruments to measure rainfall) along with the existing 160 to build infrastructure that will provide weather information for every 500 metres, every 15 minutes,” said Rajeevan. “After delay in shipments from the United States due to the pandemic, we expect four other radars to reach Mumbai early next year,” he added.In June, Mumbai received the integrated flood warning system (iFLOWS-Mumbai), the second one for any urban city in the country after Chennai. Though the system has provided warnings and made public its predictions a few times this monsoon, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), after the extremely heavy rain event on August 5-6 that led to 331 mm rain over 24 hours, said the system was not of much help.“We have got good responses from the municipal corporation and other state bodies working on this system. We must realise it is being used on an experimental basis and further fine tuning will be done as we progress,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, India Meteorological Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/second-doppler-radar-in-mumbai-by-december-ministry-of-earth-sciences/story-ertzr4Wv1XznW49qWIko4I.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||New education policy lacks action plan to implement: Sisodia||The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 ’lacks the action plan to implement it’, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said during a video conference organised by the Union ministry of education on Monday.The Delhi government, in a statement detailing Manish Sisodia’s feedback on the NEP 2020 conference, quoted Delhi’s education minister as saying that “The implementation of this policy should be carefully planned so that it is not limited to just a wonderful idea.”Monday’s NEP videoconference was presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and attended by governors, lieutenant governors, education ministers of various states and union territories. The education ministry had on July 29 released the NEP aimed to completely overhaul the existing education system in the country.Sisodia said that NEP doesn’t talk about giving equal status to vocational degrees like any other undergraduate degree in other subjects. “At present, about 80% youth having a degree are not considered employable. This needs our attention. Even after completing 20 years of education, if our students are not employable then where does the fault lie? It is inappropriate to treat vocational degrees differently from an undergraduate degree in any other subject. These courses should be given equal importance, then only we will be able to reap their benefits,” he said.The education minister reiterated that a law should be made to implement the promised amount from the GDP on the education sector. “This policy talks about spending 6 percent of GDP on education. This was said in a similar1968 policy as well, but never implemented. Thus, a law should be made so that successive governments are bound by it and necessary resources needed for effective implementation of the policy can be guaranteed,” Sisodia said.Citing a newspaper report about growing trend of suicides among students, he said, “We need to think about the lapses in the education policies which cause immense pressure on students resulting in a situation where someone commits suicide. It is very important to get out of the slavery of rote learning and examination-oriented education.” Expressing apprehensions over the two models of Early Childhood Education-- Anganwadi model and the pre-school model proposed in the NEP , Sisodia said, “We have to compete with developed countries through education. However, if trained teachers teach young children there but in our country we assign the same role to Anganwadi workers, the foundation will remain weak.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/new-education-policy-lacks-action-plan-to-implement-sisodia/story-mvJEXMD798XuK5pUEuDbyK.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Two accused retract statements that led to arrest of actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik||Two arrested accused in the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death retracted their statements on Monday. Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar, arrested on charges of drug peddling, retracted their statements to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), claiming they were recorded under duress. “We filed applications when they were produced before the court, where they retracted the statements given before NCB officers, and we sought bail for them. This is a bailable offence. Also, the amount of narcotic substance involved is in small quantity which entitles the accused to bail,” said advocate Taraq Sayyed, representing Vilatra and Parihar. NCB has opposed their bail plea. The next hearing will be on Thursday. Vilatra was arrested and produced before the magistrate court on August 3, while Parihar was arrested on August 3 and produced in court on August 4. NCB arrested actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik and two members of Rajput’s domestic staff, Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant, on the basis of Vilatra and Parihar’s statements. The magistrate court had rejected the bail pleas following which Vilatra and Parihar, through their advocate, moved for bail before a special court constituted to try cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Independent lawyers said that the evidentiary value of a retracted statement may be compromised. “Once the statement given by the accused is retracted the evidential value of what is stated becomes questionable. The court will have to see independent evidence, other than the statement, which can support prosecution case,” said lawyer Rizwan Merchant. Avdhut Chimalkar, who has appeared as special public prosecutor in high-profile cases involving NCB, said there are circumstances in which retractions may not be accepted. “The accused gives a statement after their arrest and later, retract their statement after consultation with their lawyer. Such retraction may also not be accepted by the court. Of course this has to be proved by leading evidence,” said Chimalkar. Meanwhile, chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) ST Dande issued a circular on Monday, stating the hearings of remand applications in connection with NCB’s probe into Rajput’s death would be conducted through video conferencing. The circular dated September 6 reads: “In the present day’s situation of pandemic and past experience and to maintain law and order and administration of justice, with immediate effect, any accused related to the Sushant Singh Rajput remand will be carried [out] through video conferencing only.” The CMM’s office also directed NCB to ensure the accused are tested for Covid-19 at its office. Meanwhile, Anuj Keshwani, who was arrested on Sunday night for allegedly drug peddling and his involvement in Rajput’s case, was remanded in NCB’s custody till September 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-two-accused-retract-statements-that-led-to-arrest-of-actor-rhea-chakraborty-s-brother-showik/story-sEEq3AyvEMjY4fZVBpS7TM.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||Sanitisers, masks, thermal scanners: DU readies for ‘contactless’ open-book exams from Sep 14||The Delhi University (DU) is all set to conduct the offline open-book exams from September 14 and has put in place a number of precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. From selecting colleges in less crowded areas as examination centres to maintain social distancing and asking students to bring their own sheets of papers to write the exams, the university is endeavoring to make the entire process “contactless”.Before entering the examination centres, students will be asked to submit an undertaking declaring themselves free of any symptom of Covid-19. They have been asked to carry their own paper sheets to write the exams; gadgets such as mobile phones or laptop to download the question paper, sanitisers, masks, gloves, and a transparent water bottle.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDU will conduct the second phase of the open-book exams for those who could not appear in the first phase held online between August 10 and August 31. This time, the exam will be conducted both online and offline (candidates can visit the university centre to attempt the exam). Also, students who failed to upload/submit the scanned images of the answer scripts during the first phase of exams, persons with disability (PWD) students and those who wish to improve their score in select exams can also sit for the second phase of exams.DU dean of colleges Balaram Pani said the varsity has decided to choose around 10 to 12 colleges in less crowded areas as examination centres. “As per a preliminary estimate, a majority of students have opted for the online mode in the second phase of OBE. So, the university has decided not to turn each and every college into an examination centre. But we will make sure to have at least one centre in all districts of Delhi. We are trying to avoid examination centres in on-campus colleges as that can lead to gatherings and compromise social distancing norms,” he said.In a detailed advisory issued to all colleges/departments late Sunday evening, DU has asked them to be ready with thermal scanners, sanitisers and masks before the exams commence. “We are yet to finalise all colleges. The registration for the second phase of exams will be complete by Tuesday evening. We will analyse the number of students opting for the offline exams and then finalise the exact number of colleges required. That’s why all the colleges have been asked to be ready with all the essentials,” Pani said.The exams will be conducted in two shifts -- 9 am to noon and 3pm to 6pm --- between September 14 and October 1. Colleges have been asked to sanitise the seating area before and after every shift. The seating arrangement will be made keeping a distance of 5 to 6 metres between seats, in accordance with guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC). “The seating plan will be communicated to the students a day in advance on their registered email/WhatsApp,” the advisory read. Among the colleges which have already been selected as exam centres is Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women in Vasundhara Enclave. College principal Payal Mago said they will have to procure more sanitising lotion as they estimate a usage of at least 10 litres a day. “We already have a few thermal guns but we will need more. We will need at least 10 litres of liquid sanitiser a day. Also, everything will be contactless. Students will put their answer copies in a drop box or tray. We will keep those trays or boxes in lockers for the next two or three days and sanitise them before sending them to the university,” she said.Another prospective college that can be turned into a centre is Rajdhani College in West Delhi’s Raja Garden. College principal Rajesh Giri said, “We are planning to have multiple entries and exit points to avoid crowding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sanitisers-masks-thermal-scanners-du-readies-for-contactless-open-book-exams-from-sep-14/story-QE186jYncbGOacTbNukivL.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Actor Rhea Chakraborty alleges Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister gave him banned drugs, files complaint with Mumbai Police||Actor Rhea Chakraborty was questioned for nearly eight hours by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday, as part of their probe into allegations of drug abuse in the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Chakraborty also filed a complaint against Rajput’s sister on Monday, alleging she procured “unlawfully prescribed drugs” five days before Rajput died. Chakraborty is an accused in the case of Rajput’s death. She lived with Rajput till June 8, when he allegedly asked her to leave following a disagreement. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. His father, KK Singh, alleged Chakraborty had abetted Rajput’s suicide in a complaint filed in Patna on July 28. Subsequently, NCB is probing allegations of drug abuse in the case. So far, the agency has arrested nine people in connection with this case, including Chakraborty’s brother Showik. On Monday, Chakraborty reached NCB’s office at 9.30am and left at 6pm, after being questioned for nearly eight hours. Deputy director general, NCB, Ashok Jain said, “Rhea has been sent home after today’s inquiry and we have asked her to join again tomorrow. She has been cooperating with the investigation. We are verifying and examining the information that we are receiving from the accused.” Chakraborty was questioned for nearly six hours on Sunday. On Monday, Chakraborty also filed a complaint against Rajput’s sister Priyanka Singh and Dr Tarun Kumar of New Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital.In her complaint, Chakraborty has alleged Dr Kumar’s prescription for Rajput contains medication prohibited under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Deputy commissioner of police Manjunath Singe confirmed the receipt of the complaint. Chakraborty’s legal counsel Satish Maneshinde said the six-page complaint was submitted to Bandra police station on Monday, to register a first information report against Priyanka and Dr Kumar. The complaint states Rajput had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder in addition to other mental health issues, and that he had “abruptly” stopped medication. It further alleges that Priyanka, who has no medical training, was sending Rajput medication, which Chakraborty discovered on June 8 after Rajput showed Chakraborty messages he had been exchanging with Priyanka. Chakraborty said she and Rajput had a disagreement when Rajput insisted he would only take the medicines Priyanka was sending him. Rajput then allegedly told Chakraborty to leave the house on June 8 and told her his other sister, Meetu Singh, was coming to live with him. The complaint goes on to state that Chakraborty found some messages exchanged between Rajput and Priyanka Singh to be “extremely disturbing” because they indicated that Priyanka had sent Rajput “a prescription by one Dr Tarun Kumar, an associate professor of cardiology from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi”. The prescription was for “various medication controlled under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance Act”, alleges the complaint. Chakraborty has also said in her complaint that the prescription may be forged as it claims Rajput to be a patient in Delhi even though he was in Mumbai at the time. The prescription also suggests Dr Kumar had prescribed medication to Rajput without any consultation as mandated by law. Dr Kumar did not respond to HT’s calls or messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/actor-rhea-chakraborty-alleges-sushant-singh-rajput-s-sister-gave-him-banned-drugs-files-complaint-with-mumbai-police/story-e3BUMUByxqYLM4nxl2ETOK.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||First-year junior college admissions in Mumbai: Institutes adapt to online mode||As admissions to first-year junior colleges (FYJC) have become ‘zero contact’ this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, institutes are adapting to the online mode. From training staff members on verification of documents online to conducting video meetings with students and running them through the process, colleges in the city are doing it all.At Mulund’s VG Vaze College, authorities started preparing for the process three weeks before the first merit list, which was declared on August 30. “We told our staff members the whole process and ensured that document verification was smooth for them as well as for the students. If all staff members try to check documents on the portal, it can crash. So we decided to allot 20-25 students for each staff member. Our staff took contact numbers of students, called them and asked them to send a single PDF [of documents] on WhatsApp, which could be verified easily in a few minutes. This way, we completed admissions under the first round without any glitch,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal, VG Vaze College. At Jai Hind College in Churchgate, the institute organised various online sessions with students to guide them through the process. “We did this even for degree college admissions. Students who faced difficulty in uploading documents or had any queries regarding the admission process, could get them solved without having to visit,” said Ashok Wadia, principal, Jai Hind College. He said that in many cases, students had not uploaded the necessary documents. “Sometimes when we ask them about a certain document, they show it to us on camera but failed to upload it. So we guide them to upload them,” he added. This year, the entire FYJC admission process – from college application to confirming admissions and fee payment – is online. “The transition from offline to online was not so easy for college staff. During the day, I get at least a dozen calls from my staff members who are stuck either due to bad network or have some queries about the process. Everyone is working very hard to make sure students don’t suffer,” said the principal of a suburban college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-year-junior-college-admissions-in-mumbai-institutes-adapt-to-online-mode/story-cWZUem2harzJTk3WndNugM.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Now, meritorious Kangra girls to be offered free coaching for competitive exams||Meritorious girls in Kangra district will be provided free coaching for competitive exams as part of the administration’s initiative Jijeevisha, under the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign.As many as 26 girls (13 each from medical and non-medical streams) from government schools have selected for the programme. The students were selected on the basis of an online exam held on August 2.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the district administration will provide a two-year free coaching facility for the Indian Institutes of Technology-Joint Entrance Examination (IIT-JEE) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test to meritorious girl students.The girls will be provided coaching through web classes. The DC said the administration will also regularly assess their progress. “Gradually, more girl students will be provided the free coaching under Jijeevisha, which means ‘strong will to live’,” he said.As per the 2011 census, the sex ratio in Kangra district was 876 females against 1,000 males.“The ratio paints a grim picture and we need to promote the girl child. This initiative is a step in that direction,” said Prajapati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-meritorious-kangra-girls-to-be-offered-free-coaching-for-competitive-exams/story-c8aDaek3lOYRMd9A1RvQKN.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Day 1 of Himachal’s monsoon session: Congress, BJP spar over corona crisis||Himachal’s monsoon session commenced on a fiery note on Monday with the ruling BJP and the opposition sniping at each other over the handling of the Covid-19 crisis in the state. After the House paid tributes to departed leaders, the CM informed the House of the business for the day. However, speaker Vipin Singh Parmar asked the CM to tell the assembly about the government’s handling of the corona crisis. Objecting, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said his party had already given notice under Rule 67, demanding suspension of business to discuss the Covid crisis and that the matter was not being raised in a correct manner. He was supported by other members of the opposition. Pandemonium prevailed in the House as the opposition raised slogans for over 15 minutes . Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj tried to pacify the opposition, to no avail.When Bhardwaj said the opposition had nothing concrete to contribute to the discussion, they started raising slogans.Later, the speaker agreed to suspend business, which pacified the opposition. However, then BJP members resorted to sloganeering, which provoked the opposition , who started raising counter slogans. When forest minister Rakesh Pathania repeatedly came to the CM’s defence, a heated exchange ensued between Agnihotri and the minister. In response to Agnihotri’s charge that the government had abjectly failed in handling the Covid-19 crisis, the CM said the government had done an excellent job on that front. Agnihotri said the government’s actions were reminiscent of the emergency and that people were booked for sedition during the period. The CM, in turn, accused the opposition of resorting to ‘cheap politics’ over the pandemic. All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and Dalhousie legislator Asha Kumari targeted the government over wasteful expenditure during the crisis.Agnihotri raised the issue of Rajeev Bindal’s resignation from the post of BJP state president after a corruption scandal came to light. He asked why Bindal was forced to resign. “A scam took place in the health department under the nose of the CM. Raincoats were distributed instead of personal protective kits,” the Congress leader said. The CM said Bindal had resigned because of his moral values after the opposition created hullabaloo. He said Bindal had set a precedent for others. Referring to the allegations against social justice and empowerment minister Sarveen Chaudhary, he said there was an ongoing investigation against the minister and as such the government should reveal how much land was purchased by her. He also demanded that the entire cabinet, including the chief minister resign. Thakur said the opposition had earlier sought resignation from Bindal and when he resigned, they started gunning for his resignation. Thakur said he had never spoken about the vigilance bureau probing the land deal. “I had only said that a complaint was received, which is being examined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-1-of-himachal-s-monsoon-session-congress-bjp-spar-over-corona-crisis/story-waumRqcjXsI77PAsBIgAGO.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC launches five e-governance services||Five e-governance services—legal case management, apni mandi and day market, public relations, sports and cultural branch and agenda management—were launched by the municipal corporation on Monday.Various stakeholders such as municipal officers, mandi contractors and retailers will be able to coordinate online and in a smooth manner, view the status of applications/requests, making the system more transparent and efficient.Mayor Raj Bala Malik and MC commissioner KK Yadav launched the services and said these will add to the ease of management of various municipal works along with improving staff efficiency.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “E-governance project is being implemented by Chandigarh Smart City Limited for 28 municipal services, which upon implementation will facilitate the municipal staff and the citizens of Chandigarh.”With their implementation, citizens will be able to access the services from the comfort of their home such as water and sewage connections, online booking of community centres, submission of the property tax, grievance redressal, online building plan approval system, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-launches-five-e-governance-services/story-lYdzQwQiNZhXR2HDQnG3KL.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon session of Maharashtra Assembly: MVA government seeks ₹29,084 crore for extra expenses||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, on the first day of the monsoon session on Monday, tabled supplementary demands of ₹29,084 crore. The government has made an additional provision of ₹2,028 crore for health infrastructure in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. The supplementary demands for public health services are over and above the annual budgetary outlay of ₹14,784 crore. Supplementary budget refers to additional expenditure required for the year for unforeseen expenses over and above the annual budget. The supplementary demands tabled by deputy chief and finance minister Ajit Pawar also made a provision of ₹10,500 crore for farm loan waiver announced by the MVA government soon after assuming power last year. The state is expected to disburse ₹21,467 crore to 32.90 lakh farmers, who have been identified as eligible for waiver of loan up to ₹2 lakh. The global pandemic has put the burden on the state exchequer since its outbreak in March. The state has already spent more than ₹7,000 crore of the outlay of ₹14,784 crore of the public health and medical education department. The supplementary demands of ₹2,028 crore (₹1665 crore for public health and ₹363 crore for medical education) raised on Monday are for purchase of ambulances (₹50 crore), premium of mediclaim, staple food in primary health care centres in rural areas (₹69 crore), among others. The government has made a provision of ₹634 crore for purchase of epidemic drugs control, while ₹541 crore have been earmarked to pay the premium of Mahatma Phule mediclaim policy, which has been extended to all to treat Covid-19. The state recently increased the remuneration of Asha workers who have been actively working in surveillance squads for tracking of the high- and low-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients. A total of ₹129 crore has been earmarked for it; also ₹300 crore have been budgeted for purchase of equipment in medical colleges and ₹50 crore for primary health centres. The state has also announced ex-gratia to policemen who died due to Covid-19 and ₹30 crore has been earmarked for it. “The allocation done for the public health and medical education department is over and above the budgetary outlay,” said Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance department. The two departments were excluded from the 67% cut initiated to the budgetary outlay by the state owing to the revenue losses amid lockdown. The government has also made allocation of ₹12,000 crore towards the payment of overdraft from Reserve Bank of India during the lockdown. The supplementary demands also have provision of ₹825 crore for rural development, ₹500 crore for urban development, ₹856 crore for social justice, ₹441 crore for agriculture and ₹305 crore for water resources department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-session-of-maharashtra-assembly-mva-government-seeks-29-084-crore-for-extra-expenses/story-sQcV8WIb8Ls9FzRSlQaOJM.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon session of Maharashtra Assembly: Ruckus over gram panchayat administrator||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and Opposition Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) locked horns on the first day of monsoon session over tabling a Bill to appoint a “suitable person” as administrator on close to 15,000 gram panchayats, whose term is ending by this year-end. The Opposition objected to the Bill saying that the Bombay high court has clearly said that a public servant can be appointed on the position and not any private person as intended by the state government. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis alleged the state was misusing its power by pushing the Bill when the matter is pending in the high court. He also said it is a sort of contempt of court. The politically significant gram panchayat, functions as local self-government at village level and is headed by a sarpanch. The term of 1,566 gram panchayats ended till June, while the term of the remaining 12,668 end in the July-December period. Elections to these gram panchayats could not be conducted due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. The Bill empowers the state to appoint a suitable person as administrator in case elections cannot be held after completion of five-year term of a gram panchayat following unavoidable condition. As soon as the rural development minister Hasan Mushrif tabled the Bill, the opposition leader raised his objection. Mushrif said that they are tabling the Bill and discussion will be held on Tuesday. On Monday, the state government tabled a total 13 Bills in the state Assembly. Meanwhile, former allies Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party will come face to face in the poll to elect the deputy chairman of the legislative council on Tuesday. Sena’s Neelam Gorhe is the MVA candidate, while the BJP has fielded Vijay (Bhai) Girkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-session-of-maharashtra-assembly-ruckus-over-gram-panchayat-administrator/story-ivezhDpCc5jVylWiRpSYSN.html
08-09-2020||City||Kharar civil hospital now offers 15-minute drive-through Covid test||The civil hospital in Kharar has upped its Covid-19 testing by establishing an additional facility for drive-through sample collection, the first of its kind facility in the district. Everyday, sampling begins before 11am and caters to 20-25 people.The initiative was planned keeping in mind the increasing number of cases and the subsequent increase in demand for testing. Anyone with mild or moderate symptoms can get themselves tested at this drive-through facility.Dr Manohar Singh, senior medical officer, said the initiative was being appreciated widely. “People line in front of the testing window while seated in their vehicles, give their samples and drive out of the hospital. We request the people to register for the test in advance, maybe a day before, to minimise time in the hospital. Although people without prescriptions can also come directly to the Flu Corner and get registered for testing.”Dr Ishan Sharma, nodal officer for Covid-19, Kharar, said, “A 15-minute time slot is allocated to each vehicle, but the entire sample collection process lasts for not more than 5 to 6 minutes. We have kept a buffer period to avoid overcrowding and overlapping. Also, we need sufficient time to sanitise the place.”Kamal Tiwana of Kharar said, “Earlier, we were scared to get our test done anticipating rush in one room. With the drive-through facility, I got my family tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-civil-hospital-now-offers-15-minute-drive-through-covid-test/story-hev2EJzlLchNfU08P6vOMO.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Thane college conducts gathering with 80 people, violates Covid-19 lockdown rules||Even as lockdown-related restrictions are still in place in Maharashtra, a college in Thane organised a gathering of around 100 people on Monday, notwithstanding social gathering norms. Nearly 80 people attended the gathering.Sheth NKTT College in Thane had organised a lunch programme on Monday morning inviting nearly 100 people including teachers and non-teaching staff of the college.As per the guidelines issued by the Central and the state government, gatherings of over 50 people are not permitted currently. Teachers said that the programme was organised by the college principal. “All the staff members were asked to attend college. Many had to attend because they were asked to and had to travel with a lot of risks. The college has also been asking us to come every day and conduct online classes from the college thus putting our lives at a big risk,” said a staff member. Dilip Patil, principal of the college said that it was a personal and private event. “We have not broken any rules and it was an internal event. Our staff has been coming to work as the university has asked us to do so,” he said.The state government circular dated August 30, which is based on a circular by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), has reiterated that all schools, colleges and educational institutes including coaching classes will remain shut till September 30 and that classes shall only be conducted virtually.In a circular issued to affiliated colleges on September 2 however, the University of Mumbai stated that ‘only Class 1 and 2 officials of colleges have to follow the 100% attendance norm. “Class 2 and 3 employees should consider 30% attendance or 30 people at most, whichever is greater,” it states. MU had issued a different version of the same circular on September 2, after Mission Unlock was announced by the state government.While repeated calls and messages to MU pro-vice-chancellor Ravindra Kulkarni went unanswered, a spokesperson said that the university circular is in line with the state government circular. Recently, the Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU) wrote to the joint director of higher education highlighting the confusion.“The University of Mumbai, in their recent circular has mixed up these two sections and made it look like teachers and staff need to be present even though colleges being private institutes do not have any concept of Class 1 and 2 officers,” said Madhu Paranjape, general secretary, Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU).Paranjape said in the absence of clear guidelines, colleges were calling teachers and non-teaching staff regularly.“Colleges are also confused and insisting on teaching and non-teaching staff attendance without understanding that as per the government, teachers are not part of essential services, hence they are not even allowed to travel by trains,” Paranjape said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-college-conducts-gathering-with-80-people-violates-covid-19-lockdown-rules/story-Akv4CCrKO5amxMYJO2wCvN.html
08-09-2020||City||Follow Covid-19 lockdown norms or face legal action: Kalyan-Dombivli civic body warns housing societies||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will serve notices to housing societies in its jurisdiction asking residents to strictly adhere to home isolation and lockdown norms. The civic body has also warned of legal action if societies fail to follow the guidelines.KDMC recorded 451 new positive cases on Monday, taking the total number of Covid cases to 35,410.“Since 80% cases are reported from buildings and societies in Kalyan-Dombivli, we need to keep a track of them and ensure that all norms are being followed. We have decided to serve notices to the housing complexes asking them to follow the guidelines and help us in controlling the spread of the infection,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.She further said, “We have been analysing cases in housing complexes and other areas. We have realised that most of the positive cases are from housing societies. It has also been found that societies are not adhering to guidelines properly.”Earlier on August 30, 32 members of a family from Kalyan’s Joshibaug area tested positive for Covid-19 infection. The civic health department has claimed that such cluster cases are being reported in other KDMC areas too.Sandeep Desai, a resident of Gandhare in Kalyan (West), said, “Even the family members of an infected person are seen roaming outside. Some residents don’t wear masks or maintain social distance. At the same time, there is no monitoring from the civic body or police now.”Sajan John, 38, a resident of Godrej Hill in Kalyan (West), said, “Post Unlock-3, no norms are being followed by housing society or at public places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/follow-covid-19-lockdown-norms-or-face-legal-action-kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-warns-housing-societies/story-CDUZ5IcBSaJHbRg3jzKeHK.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University releases date sheet for final-semester exam||Panjab University on Monday released the date sheet of the final-semester examinations of exit undergraduate and postgraduate classes that begin from September 17.The date sheet for the online exams will be available on PU’s official website www.puchd.ac.in. The university has also issued guidelines for the conduct of the exams.A letter has been issued to the principals of all affiliated colleges, and heads of departments of PU to supply at least two active email ids, mobile numbers and names of two senior faculty members of the college/institute or department, who will be engaged in exam duty.The final roll numbers of the students will be uploaded on the university website on September 12. The UG examinations will be of two-hour duration from 9am-11am. Similarly, the PG exam will be held from 10am-12pm.The question paper as per the date sheet will be uploaded on the university website at 8.30am for students of the first slot to download. It will also be emailed to chairpersons, directors, and principals who can also share it with the students. Private candidates will also be able to download the question papers from the university website.Instructions to colleges, departmentsAll the colleges, departments, regional centres of PU have been instructed to download the question papers in PDF format from the college or department admin portal of UG and PG exam website after login.Also, colleges/departments/regional centres will receive the soft copy of all the question papers for that particular day as per the date sheet via email. In case of emergency, the question paper can be sent via Whatsapp as well.Nodal officers to be appointedThe varsity has decided that a nodal officer will be appointed to coordinate the conduct of the online examinations. Colleges and departments have been asked to send the names along with the desired information by September 8. The heads of colleges and departments of PU have also been directed to make necessary arrangements for the smooth conduct of viva-voce/presentation in online mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-releases-date-sheet-for-final-semester-exam/story-ECPCtkLU6riVBhtCvVY8nM.html
08-09-2020||Delhi||DERC announces 50% reduction in fixed power charges for commercial consumers for April and May||The Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) on Monday announced the reduction of fixed charges by 50% on unused sanctioned load for non-domestic consumers in the Capital. The order, a temporary relief valid for two months, will benefit over 1 million industrial and commercial consumers in Delhi. The power regulator’s order means that those industries, shops and offices which were completely shut during the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in April and May will now be charged only 50% of the fixed charge for the two months. The DERC directed the private distribution companies to adjust the refund value for the two months in the upcoming next two bills of beneficiaries.The order comes just three days after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on September 4 assured representatives of trade and industry associations that his government would provide relief on the fixed power charges that commercial and industrial units are obliged to pay despite economic losses due to Covid-19. Responding to the DERC’s order on Monday, Kejriwal tweeted: “The Delhi government stands with the people of Delhi in this hour of crisis. This relief in fixed charges will help lakhs of people to face the hardships caused by Corona.”A senior DERC official explained that the benefit will not be limited to just those who consumed zero units in April and May. “The Commission has divided the cost into two parts. The first part is the maximum demand indicator (MDI) which the consumer will be charged at the prescribed rates. The second part is the sanctioned load, the cost of which will be charged at 50% - Rs 125/kVA/month instead of Rs 250/kVA/month,” the official said on condition of anonymity.This means if a factory has a sanctioned load of 100 kVA and it consumed only 5 kVA in April during the lockdown, then it will be charged Rs 13,125 for that month instead of Rs 25,000.Delhi’s power minister Satyendar Jain said the impact of the fixed charge waiver is expected to be around Rs 160 crore. “This will benefit around 44,000 industrial consumers and around 10 lakh non-domestic/commercial consumers. The total un-utilised power capacity in Delhi during the lockdown months was 80%, out of which 84% pertained to non-domestic consumers and 75% for industrial consumers,” Jain said.Of the three power discoms, maximum industrial units fall under the Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL) which supplies power to 35,000 industries. Trade and industry associations welcome the move, even as residents welfare associations (RWAs) rued that some relief should have been granted to domestic consumers as well.Sandeep Khandelwal, chairman, Delhi hotels and restaurant’s owner’s association (DHROA), said the decision will provide relief to 3,000 budget hotels in the city, which recently got permission to resume business. “Waiving off fixed charges in electricity bills was our main demand during our meeting with the chief minister. We are glad that the DERC and the Delhi government have been receptive to our problems,” Khandelwal said. Saurabh Gandhi, secretary of United Residents of Delhi, an umbrella body of RWAs which is active in matters related to power in the city, said fixed charges should be subsidised for domestic consumers as well for the lockdown months. “Instead, the DERC and the Delhi government increased the burden on domestic consumers by increasing the pension surcharge from 3.8% to 5% in the latest power tariff order. Ideally, the government should bear the cost of payment to the Delhi Vidyut Board pensioners. Nowhere else does it happen that citizens directly pay for the pension of a company. This is unfair. Also, the DERC did not pay heed to our request of reducing fixed charges,” he said. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta questioned the independence and autonomy of the DERC. “DERC is a quasi-judicial and autonomous body. The Arvind Kejriwal government is trying to distract the people of Delhi to derail the agitation of domestic consumers against the fixed charges. With this order, the Kejriwal government and the DERC have taken care of the interests of power companies. Fixed charges should be waived off even for domestic consumers and for a period till June at least, since in Delhi, the lockdown continued till then,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/derc-announces-50-reduction-in-fixed-power-charges-for-commercial-consumers-for-april-and-may/story-WTnOEPITcALr1fgKeWSQxI.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: NIA arrests two members of Kabir Kala Manch||The National Investigating Agency (MIA) on Monday arrested Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor, both members of Kabir Kala Manch which allegedly organised Elgar Parishad in December 2017. The two were named in the original first information report (FIR) registered by Pune Police against the organisers held at Shaniwarwada on December 31, 2017. According to the FIR registered on January 8, 2018 based on a complaint lodged by real estate developer Tushar Damgude at Vishrambaug police station, members of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) incited violence by disrupting communal harmony. According to Damgude, members of Kabir Kala Manch spread hatred through provocative songs, plays and speeches delivered at Elgar Parishad which led to wide spread violence followed by the Bhima-Koregaon incident.Senior counsel Mihir Desai, for Gorkhe and Gaichor, said, “The two are falsely arrested by NIA. They were named in original FIR registered in 2018 and their houses were raided in April 2018. Nothing was found against them. Now after two years, they have been arrested.” Desai called the action by NIA highhanded and alleged this was a move to scare the people. The two will be produced before the special NIA court on Tuesday where the probing agency will seek their custody for interrogation. After their arrest, Kabir Kala Manch released a recently recorded video of Gaichor and Gorkhe in which they alleged that NIA pressured them to admit their links with maoist outfit and turn approver in the case. “Despite NIA’s threat that they would arrest us if we do not turn approver, we refused to accept it saying we have stated facts. Today, the agency has once again called us for inquiry and they may even arrest us,” Gaichor was seen claiming in the video.Gorkhe and Gaichor along with nine other members of Kabir Kala Manch were earlier arrested in 2011 by Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad for alleged maoist connection. The duo were later granted bail by the Supreme Court in January 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-nia-arrests-two-members-of-kabir-kala-manch/story-YEfniTnpdB6lWpqRVms68O.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||City may see 2,000 cases daily for the next 30 days: Mumbai civic chief||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) expects to detect around 2,000 Covid-19 cases daily for the next 30 days, as it has planned to increase the number of tests to up to 14,000 a day amid the surge, civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Monday. Chahal, however, appealed to the citizens not to panic, as the rise would be a result of increased testing. He also said the civic body will conduct more RT-PCR instead of rapid antigen tests for accurate results. Chahal said Mumbai has the capacity to conduct up to 15,000 tests daily. BMC had started to conduct 9,000 cases from the last week of August. An addition of 2,000 cases daily would mean the city could hit the 200,000 mark by October 10. “The strategy of BMC to substantially ramp up the tests from an average testing of 7,619 daily in August to 10,000-14,000 in September, will result in an increase of average number of positive cases from 1,000-1,300 to 1,700-2,000 daily. We will effectively utilise the large number of vacant Covid beds available in the city of Mumbai. It will help accelerate the arrest of the spread of the virus in Mumbai. Therefore, it is humbly submitted that there should not be any panic created by sudden increase of positive number of cases in Mumbai,” said Chahal. Over the past 10 days, the city has been reporting between 1,100 and 1,900 Covid-19 cases daily. The number of active cases has also gone up to over 23,000 cases from up to 20,000. BMC had earlier attributed the spike to festivals coupled with relaxations in lockdown restrictions norms and aggressive testing. “We expect Mumbai to report around 2,000 Covid-19 cases daily for the next 30 days. I have given targets to my officers. Our focus will be detecting patients using the RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction). Rapid antigen detection test kits will be used for more focused testing such as those who are suspected Covid-19 patients because of their pronounced symptoms,” said Chahal. RT-PCR tests are considered the golden standard for Covid testing and the results come in 24-48 hours. In case of rapid antigen tests, the results are out in 30 minutes. According to BMC’s protocol, every negative symptomatic patient has to go through RT-PCR test. He added: “We cannot use rapid antigen test kits randomly on the public or on frontline workers battling the pandemic. The positivity rate is 4% and 25% for rapid antigen and RT-PCR test, respectively. We will follow the latter. We have the capacity to conduct around 15,000 tests daily that include both the testing methods.” BMC officials said over 820,000 Covid-19 tests have been conducted till date, including antigen tests that account for less than a lakh. Currently, the civic authorities are conducting up to 2,000 antigen tests daily. Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the consistent low-testing figures led to high positivity and Covid-19-related fatality rates in the state and Mumbai. He cited the Delhi model in a bid to tackle the outbreak. Putting this in context, Chahal said, “There are times when I am told that Delhi is doing more tests, as compared to Mumbai. Delhi has conducted over 16 lakh tests, including over five lakh via the RT-PCR method. So far, Mumbai has conducted over 800,000 tests, including over 90,000 rapid antigen tests. RT-PCR is giving more positivity rate. Simultaneously, we will also do antigen tests. But RT-PCR rates will be done in a more focused manner.” The civic authorities said they are prepared for the surge. Chahal said, “We will be able to handle up to 4,000 Covid-19 cases daily. At least 60% to 70% positive cases are asymptomatic, requiring home quarantine only. The availability of beds for symptomatic positive cases in Mumbai will not be an issue at all, even if the number of positive cases, on an average, goes beyond 2,000 every day. It is also important to submit here that BMC is adding 250 additional ICU beds on the dashboard in next three days to ensure that at least 350+ ICU beds remain vacant every day, as an assurance to the citizens of Mumbai.” Meanwhile, experts said increasing testing is the only way forward. Dr Kedar Toraskar, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force said, “The way forward is testing, tracing, isolating and treating. We will have to keep doing this even after vaccine is out in the market. We also have to conduct more aggressive contact-tracing.” Subhasree Ray, clinical nutritionist and public health professional, said, “Incremental testing is crucial to find all possible infections in a community. A five-day analysis from Mumbai revealed the average test positivity rate for Covid-19 was 17.96%. Increase in testing might lower this test positivity rate, will facilitate effective contact tracing, and allow the infected to get early treatment, thus decreasing the mortality rate. Currently, Mumbai’s fatality rate is 5.05%, whereas the national fatality rate is 1.7%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-may-see-2-000-cases-daily-for-the-next-30-days-mumbai-civic-chief/story-SfU0v70dErw1ymn5zwLWyH.html
08-09-2020||City||Kalyan civic body initiates plasma donation drive; to make list of donors available online for Covid-19 patients||In an initiative to help Covid patients get treated through plasma of a recovered patient, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) along with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has initiated an online plasma collection drive on Monday. As part of the project, they will publish a list of registered plasma donors online. “A bank of plasma donors is the need of the hour. People keep searching for donors, which wastes their time during treatment. The list will help them find a donor easily and get the treatment on time,” said Prashant Patil, secretary of IMA, Kalyan chapter.Once a donor who recovered from Covid infection and is willing to donate their plasma registers online, doctors will contact them, check all the criteria and ask them to donate the plasma with the respected blood banks. The donor will have to share their name, blood group and address so that they can be contacted. The entire process of donation will be free of cost. The details can be registered at the link https://forms.gle/t3pBb6kTrZCj87b8A. For any other queries related to the plasma donation, one can call the KDMC war room at 0251-2211373.“These plasmas will be frozen at the blood banks and will be used for the treatment of Covid patients when in need,” added Patil. Those who require the plasma can approach designated Arpan and Sankalp blood banks and get it from there. “This is one of the needs of the hour as people don’t know where to get the plasma. Treatments often get delayed due to the endless search. This single platform for plasma donors will help solve the troubles,” said Rupesh Naik, 37, a resident of Khadakpada, Kalyan (West).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-civic-body-initiates-plasma-donation-drive-to-make-list-of-donors-available-online-for-covid-19-patients/story-CFpvDCooORf08J0BuyB8yK.html
08-09-2020||City||Thane Municipal Corporation collects ₹152 crores of property tax within 1.5 months||Thane Municipal Corporation has collected ₹152 crores of property tax within 1.5 months despite the current pandemic situation. Last year, during the same period the civic body managed to collect only ₹42.05 crores of property tax. The highest property tax was collected from Majhiwada-Manpada ward office at ₹46.08 crores. A special team under additional commissioner Sanjay Herwade was formed at ward levels to collect property tax. This team started collecting tax from July 16 onwards, “Initial few months all our efforts were towards controlling the spread of the virus. But July onwards, we divided our focus and residents have also supported and paid tax with all honesty. We shall focus on increasing our tax collection amount every year henceforth,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-municipal-corporation-collects-152-crores-of-property-tax-within-1-5-months/story-YCYgO2nrAc5l4MQv1AGnbJ.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to add 350 ICU beds as Covid-19 cases rise again||With the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to add 350 intensive care unit (ICU) beds over the next three days to ensure patients get timely treatment.At present, the civic body has around 1,400 ICU beds in their hospitals which will increase to 1,750.The dashboard of BMC shows that till Sunday, of the 1,399 Covid-19 ICU beds in the city, 1,247 were occupied and only 154 beds were available. Private hospitals have 528 ICU beds, of which only 38 were vacant. In case of ventilator beds, only 43 of the total 931 are vacant. With the pandemic curve rising again in the city after cases having plateaued for two months, the civic body is gearing up to add more beds in its facilities. Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said since the civic body has been gradually increasing the number of beds, patients are not facing hurdles in finding ICU beds in emergency situations, unlike at the beginning of the outbreak in March. “There is a certain crisis of beds in private hospitals, but enough beds are available in public hospitals. To ensure patients do not face any crisis, we are starting with 350 additional ICU beds in the next three days,” he said. The jumbo Covid-19 facilities in Mahalaxmi and Goregaon will get 30 and 220 new ICU beds, respectively. The inauguration is likely to be done in a few days.According to BMC’s data, the city has reported 11,035 Covid-19 cases in the past seven days, following which the number of active cases increased to 23,930 on September 6 from 20,554 on August 31. The city is currently the second worst-affected district in the country after Pune. In terms of active cases, Mumbai is in the fourth position after Pune and Thane in the state.Health experts have attributed the sudden rise in cases to lack of adherence to social distancing norms during Ganpati festival. “For almost two months, the pandemic curve in the city had flattened. On an average, daily Covid-19 cases were below 1,000. But now, it has increased to over 1,900 cases daily. There will again be a demand for hospital beds. So, it is better to stay prepared and keep the beds ready,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, a health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-add-350-icu-beds-as-covid-19-cases-rise-again/story-Y2qgKdSMS5UuJUcJNaWZGL.html
08-09-2020||City||Navi Mumbai civic body starts Covid-19 bill complaint centre, issues helpline numbers||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has started a Covid-19 bill complaint centre in the city through which residents can lodge their complaints against the private hospitals in case of inflated bills. The civic body has asked residents to call on 27567389 or send bill copies on email id cbcc@nmmconline.com or on WhatsApp number 7208490010.NMMC had earlier constituted a an audit committee to go into the complaints by the residents.Municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “We have set up the complaint centre on the ground floor of the civic headquarters from Monday. It will be open from 8am to 8pm.”He added, “Residents can call on the given numbers and our personnel will take all the requisite details from them with respect to the hospital admission, treatment and the bill charged. A token number will be issued to the complainant for follow up.”Bangar added, “The complaint will be investigated within 24 hours and the requisite action will be taken accordingly. The complainant will be informed of the action taken. We appeal to the residents to make use of the numbers issues to lodge their complaints. We have made it very easy for them to do so now and they do not have to go to any office for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-civic-body-starts-covid-19-bill-complaint-centre-issues-helpline-numbers/story-2XvAHLR1mM0K8Xd9MPG2SN.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Social distancing norms neglected at Panjab University’s single-window enquiry||Social distancing norms went for a toss at the single-window enquiry at Panjab University on Monday.As student entry was restricted in the administration block of the university, the students crowded with queries at the single window enquiry. There was a lack of monitoring from the varsity officials.Since the lockdown began, the single-window enquiry is the only place that assists students with queries related to documents, admissions, examinations and fees. In the last few days, an increase in the number of students visiting the window has been witnessed.According to an official at the window, on an average over 100 students arrive here with their queries. There are proper markings made for social distancing but most visitors do not follow the norms. Superintendent of the PU’s single window inquiry Kiran Rani said, “We have been constantly asking visitors to follow the norms.”Chief of university security, professor Ashwani Koul, said, “I request all the visitors to maintain social distancing and other precautionary norms in order to save themselves and people around them including officials who are serving during these tough times. We will intensify monitoring in order to assure that the preventive measures are strictly adhered to.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/social-distancing-norms-neglected-at-panjab-university-s-single-window-enquiry/story-vVlbzTAenqPk9f4HNmxoXM.html
08-09-2020||City||Covid-19 lockdown violation: MNS party workers forcefully open temple in Panvel, 19 booked||The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) party workers on Monday forcefully opened a temple in Panvel and performed aarti to protest against the exclusion of religious places in the relaxation of lockdown. The Panvel city police have booked 19 party workers following the incident.The group led by local MNS party worker Yogesh Chile entered the Virupaksha temple in Panvel and opened the temple by allegedly breaking the lock, said police.After forcefully entering the temples, the group of party workers, with masks strapped under their chin and without following social distancing norms, performed an elaborate ritual in the temple.Addressing the media present at the temple during their ‘agitation’, Chile said, “In the unlock phase, there is a crowd at malls and bus stops and even at wine shops. The government does not see this crowd, but they fear opening temples will spread coronavirus. Our leader Raj Thackeray had called for the opening of temples and we are following it.”The Panvel police have booked 19 persons under section 188 of Indian Penal Code for violating orders and the MNS workers have been issued notices.“Devotees are not allowed inside the temple as per the government notification. We have taken action against the violators following the incident,” said Ashok Dudhe, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, Navi Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-lockdown-violation-mns-party-workers-forcefully-open-temple-in-panvel-19-booked/story-eZW8FNyTWuyCoQjMS1I3AN.html
08-09-2020||City||Gurugram may witness light rain in the next few days||Gurugram: Parts of the city received scattered rainfall for a brief period on Monday afternoon after which clear skies prevailed for the remaining part of the day. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that brief spells of rain might continue to take place in the next few days across parts of Delhi and NCR. IMD has also said that the monsoon will continue through September but rainfall activity is likely to decrease this week. “There is a possibility of light showers or brief spells of rain along with thundershowers in the next few days,” said an IMD official. The minimum temperature on Monday was recorded at 25.6 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature stood at 34 degrees Celsius — a marginal drop from Sunday’s 35.5 degrees Celsius. Gurugram’s maximum temperature is expected to rise by two degrees and stay around 36 degrees on Tuesday, as per IMD. As per the weekly forecast, cloudy skies will prevail until Wednesday with the possibility of thundershowers and lightning. Air quality in the city remained ‘satisfactory’ on Monday, recording 87 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. Monday’s reading was deterioration from the previous day’s recording of 60 in the ‘satisfactory’ category. The average daily concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5, the city’s most prominent pollutant, on Monday was 77.53 µg/m³, as per the HSPCB’s official air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘satisfactory’ category on Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-may-witness-light-rain-in-the-next-few-days/story-CJjlM6Lp33hzUOOkdtM8cO.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccine trials in Mumbai’s KEM Hospital likely by Friday||The King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel, will start phase II and III trials of Oxford-AstraZeneca, a promising vaccine for coronavirus, mostly by September 11. This will be followed by the other civic-run hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Mumbai Central. As HT reported earlier, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in the third week of August, sent two queries to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), asking about the budget and insurance of the volunteers who will participate in the trial. Finally, after over two weeks of delays, on Monday, the ICMR responded to queries from KEM Hospital. But Nair Hospital is yet to get a response from the council. “On Monday evening, we received a response from ICMR. I am yet to go through the details of it. But we will tentatively start the trial at KEM hospital by September 11. Then, in the second, we will initiate it in Nair Hospital,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.The Nair Hospital has selected 100 volunteers for the clinical trial, but cannot start the process until the council responds to them. “We have been sending them reminders everyday, but no one responds. Despite having the volunteers, we can’t start the trial,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the hospital. All the volunteers have been tested for Covid-19 through rapid antigen test (RAT) to overrule the presence of the virus. Also, they have been examined for Covid-19 antibodies to check if they were ever exposed to the infection in the past.Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines in terms of volume, and British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca partnered together to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate formulated at the University of Oxford. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine has been named as Covidshield in India.Already phase I of the trial has been completed in July, which has received promising responses. This will be the II and III trial of the vaccine. After the completion of the II trial, the reports will be submitted to the Data Safety Monitoring Board, to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization for the III stage of the trial.In the earlier trials, it has been observed that he volunteers injected with two dosages induce a strong immune response. It provoked a T-cell (white blood cells that can attack cells infected with the coronavirus) response within 14 days of vaccination, and an antibody response within 28 days. The study was published in science journal Lancet.Along with that KEM Hospital from August 21 has already started the other clinical trial on anti-tuberculosis vaccination—Bacille Calmette-Guérin vaccine (BCG) — to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-vaccine-trials-in-mumbai-s-kem-hospital-likely-by-friday/story-wi0Ol9z3uHpkW9pdeLQ0eI.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra accounts for over 25% of India’s active Covid-19 cases||A day after the state went past 900,000 Covid-19 cases, it breached the 27,000 mark for deaths with the highest number of deaths, 423, reported in a day, taking the count to 27,027. With 16,429 new cases, a relative drop from the past few days, the state tally stood at 923,641. However, more importantly, the active caseload of the state is 236,934, which is more than a fourth of the total (882,542) across the country. With 14,922 patients having recovered in the past 24 hours, the total number of recovered patients touched 659,322, translating into a recovery rate of 71.38%. The national recovery rate is (77.31%).State government has, in its fourth revision, slashed the RT-PCR rates to bring them down to ₹1,200-₹2,000, from the earlier rates ranging between ₹1,900 and ₹2,500. Of the new fatalities, 217 were from past 48 hours, 96 from past week, while the remaining 110 were from the period before it, the health department stated. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stood at 2.93 %, much above the national rate of 1.72%. Over the last week, the positivity rate has been hovering around 24-25%, which stood at 28.23% on Monday, as 16,429 tested positive from 58,190 samples. On Monday, Mumbai reported 1,788 new infections, taking the city’s tally to 157,410. It also recorded 31 deaths, taking the toll to 7900. Pune district continued to be on the top in terms of new daily infections with 4,165 new cases on Monday. Pune city clocked 2,037, Pune rural logged 929, while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 1,199 new infections. Nagpur district added 152 fatalities, including 149 in the city alone, while Pune district reported 41 deaths, including 27 in Pune city. Mumbai reported 31 deaths, while 30 fatalities were reported in Panvel. State authorities are wary about the rising number of cases over the past few days. “We were expecting the spurt in cases after opening up interdistrict movement, allowing more workforce in private and public offices immediately after the Ganesh festival. The number will keep rising at least for two more weeks. Our mechanism for the tracking and tracing of high- and low-risk contacts is resulting in the rapid rise in number. The lack of coordination between public health and medical education department has resulted in a hindrance in ramping up infrastructure in a few districts, where there is a surge in cases,” said an official from the public health department.The officer said that they expect the aggressive tracking and more number of testing through the ‘chase the virus’ drive being launched across the state.Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean and member of the expert committee appointed by the state to recommend steps to curb the spread, said, “The number is growing because of the aggressive testing in Mumbai and reset of the state. We should not be worried about the spike until the fatality rate is steady or decreasing. If you see, in Mumbai, when there were 10,000 cases reported in a week in May, the deaths per week were 350, against about 200 a week now, when the cases have again increased to 10,000 a week. Elsewhere in Maharashtra, the number is rising because of the high number of cases, but it should be supplemented with aggressive tracking and isolation of the infected.”Dr Supe said that the rising number cannot be called a second wave. “We will have to carefully study the pattern for few days before coming to any such conclusion. I think the number of cases will keep rising till Diwali or early December. In Mumbai, if we could manage well, the number could come down below 1,000 cases a day in next few days. In peripheral areas, weak infrastructure could be one of the reasons for the spike in cases,” he said.The state government has once again reduced the rate of Covid-19 test to Rs1,200 from Rs1,900 revised exactly a month ago. The rates will be applicable for the samples taken at the collections sites. The test rate has been slashed to Rs1,600 from Rs2,200 for sample collections from Covid Care Centres, hospitals. The rates for the home collection of samples have been reduced to Rs2,000 from Rs2,500. The rates are inclusive of all taxes and necessary consumables like PPE kits, RT-PCR kits, VTM among others.The rates were revised four times so far, on June 13, July 4 and August 7, to bring them down to from the initial rates ranging between Rs4,500 to Rs5,200. The rates were revised on Monday after the standing committee of experts and officers submitted its fresh report on the revision. “‘After the unlocking measures and more manufacturers started operating the equipment and consumables required for the tests, they have become cheaper. The number of laboratories approved by the ICMR and NABL, too, has increased. In this backdrop, the revision of the rate was necessary, which has been done using the powers conferred under Epidemic Diseases Act,” the circular issued by the public health department has stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-accounts-for-over-25-of-india-s-active-covid-19-cases/story-QQB5v9NMUZqyw0XE6ISHeO.html
08-09-2020||City||Haryana Police inspector shot at: FIR registered; police probe gang rivalry||Gurugram: A day after a Haryana police inspector was allegedly shot at by unidentified assailants outside a real estate office in Palam Vihar, the police registered an FIR in the case after the statement of the victim, inspector Sonu Malik, was recorded Monday evening. Police said an FIR was registered against unidentified persons under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act at Palam Vihar police station.The shooting, police said, could be linked to a gang rivalry involving the police officer’s uncle’s murder in Rohtak in 2017. In December 2017, Malik’s uncle, Satyawan, was shot dead by gangsters in Rohtak allegedly in retaliation to the killing of gangster Sandeep Badwasni and his two associates in Sonepat. In Badwasni’s murder, which took place in February 2017, Satyawan was one of the accused persons. Police said the suspects could be members of the Badwasni gang, who had allegedly issued multiple threats to the victim in the past. Malik is presently posted in the commando complex in Newal, Karnal. He was earlier posted in the Special Task Force (STF), Haryana police. In the police complaint, Malik said that around 8pm on Sunday, he was walking to his car after meeting a relative in Dharam Colony market when two men walked up to him and allegedly opened fire with the intention of killing him. He suffered one gunshot wound. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “According to the complainant, he grabbed a gun from his car and fired at least three shots in the air in retaliation. The accused managed to escape. Several crime branch teams and teams from the local police station are working to solve the case. Prima facie, a family dispute is suspected. The accused must have conducted a recee and were aware of the officer’s movements.” Police said the probe revealed that the accused had allegedly parked a Maruti A Star car near the spot and they had trailed him earlier in the evening. At least three gunshots were fired by the accused, but two misfired. Police have recovered cartridges of 7.62 mm from the spot. Malik had courted controversy in 2017 and a departmental enquiry was initiated against him after an audio clip, in which he was purportedly talking to a gangster in jail over the phone, surfaced on social media. He was in-charge of the crime branch in Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar at the time. Subsequently, he was suspended and sent to police lines. He was also accused of harbouring criminals and booked under section 216 of IPC in Gohana in the subsequent murder probe Badwasni. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-police-inspector-shot-at-fir-registered-police-probe-gang-rivalry/story-d6KWlTpwWUJJNj9lYv7CmJ.html
08-09-2020||City||Gurugram: MCG’s drainage committee to take suggestions of local residents regarding waterlogging||Gurugram: The first meeting of newly formed drainage committee of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) took place on Monday where it was decided that suggestions from the public would be taken regarding waterlogging prone points. The meeting regarding constituting of the city’s drainage plan was held at the MCG’s Sector 34 office and was chaired by Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner, MCG. “The first step by the committee would be to identify all the waterlogging prone areas for which all the councillors and RWAs have been requested to provide information on all such points in their area along with solutions, if any, by September 14. The committee will also take suggestions from local residents as they may have important inputs to share which can be incorporated into the final plan,” said Kaur. Once such points are identified, site visits will be conducted by the committee as well as the officers of MCG along with the ward councillors to assess the feasibility of proposed solutions, Kaur said.“Detailed discussions were done on all kinds of solutions such as repairing and construction of rainwater harvesting structures (RHS) and storm water drains, channelizing water to nearby ponds,” a release issued by MCG stated.Another decision taken by the committee members was to take voluntary services of experts and engineers having experience in dealing with the drainage issues in urban areas. MCG officials said that the committee will meet twice a week on Mondays and Thursdays until a final detailed report of the drainage plan is submitted to MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and mayor Madhu Azad on September 30.A matter on the adverse waterlogging across Gurugram, especially Golf Course Road, sectors 27 and 28, during August 19 and 20 rains was raised during the MCG House meeting on August 28. Following which the announcement for the formation of a committee was made. On Friday, the 10-member committee was formed having councillors from wards 4, 15, 24, 29, and 31, two additional commissioners, the joint commissioner of zones 1 and 2, MCG’s chief engineer and the senior town planner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-mcg-s-drainage-committee-to-take-suggestions-of-local-residents-regarding-waterlogging/story-w0numgA6mULNVoFPpeImeP.html
08-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid impact in Maharashtra: Environment situation better, but biomedical waste surged, says MPCB||Maharashtra witnessed an improvement in all environmental parameters during the four complete lockdown phases enforced by the Covid-19 pandemic between March 21 and May 31 this year, except for an unprecedented rise in biomedical waste (BMW). A study by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) through Pune-based environment consultant Technogreen Environmental Solutions, ‘Impact Evaluation of Covid Pandemic Conceptualized by on Environmental Attributes’, published on July 31, was recently released on its website. It evaluated and quantified improvements under three umbrella parameters of air, water quality and solid waste management due to restricted activities across sectors during the four pandemic-enforced lockdown (L) phases — L1 (March 25 to April 14), L2 (April 15 to May 3), L3 (May 4 to 17) and L4 (May 18 to 31).“Though the virus has acted as an invisible enemy, the lockdown gave us the opportunity to investigate and understand environmental sustainability during nature’s corrective process. Our results can be beneficial for the scientific community and policy makers to not only assess impacts of the lockdown, but develop a corrective action plan using results as baseline or data for future research,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB.The only negative impact during lockdown restrictions saw BMW rise to an average of 90.6 tonnes per day (TPD), an increase by 45% from the average 62.5 TPD before Covid-19. “It posed a challenge to the managers, transporters as well as facility handlers with almost 70,000 Covid-19 patients by May 31,” the report said adding that the quantity of BMW (including Covid-19) waste doubled from L1 to L4. “Even though BMW may have increased, corrective steps were taken to ensure there is proper collection, segregation, and treatment at every level across Maharashtra. Any incidental issues are monitored closely and being reviewed to ensure immediate resolution,” said Amar Supate, principal scientific officer and head of BMW management, MPCB. The report identified 60% average improvement in air quality (particulate matter and gaseous pollutants) during the four lockdown phases, and 80-90% reduction in industrial emissions. Overall pollutant load across Maharashtra saw an 86% reduction during L1, 73% reduction in L2, 64% by L3 and 58% L4.Air pollution sources studied included industries, thermal power plants, transport sector, and combined pollutant load from area sources (hotels, bakeries, street vendors and construction activities). With 92,000-odd industries in Maharashtra, only 2,362 were functioning during L1 which was scaled up to 76,300 by L4. Industrial activity took a hit due to reduced use of fuel consumption from 9.5 lakh tons per day to 80% decline in L1 and by 53.8% in L4, the report said. This led to an average reduction of 83% particulate matter (PM10) and 90% for gases (sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and carbon monoxide). Similarly, thermal power plants were generating 21,176 megawatt-hour electricity using coal at 3.55 lakh TPD prior to lockdown with emissions ranging from 1,000TPD for PM10, 1,100TPD for SO2, and 600TPD of NOx, which fell by 27%, 24%, 15% and 11% during four lockdown phases.The transport sector, which witnesses 472 crore km per day travelled by vehicles usually (prior to lockdown) on a road network of about 3 lakh km in Maharashtra witnessing tailpipe emissions of 667 TPD and 4,962 TPD emission from re-suspended dust, fell by 5%, 22%, 24% and 23% during the four phases. Lastly, area sources saw a decline of 98% during lockdown 1 and even by lockdown 4 was 86% for PM10 and 45% for other gases.Meanwhile, an 80% improvement in biochemical oxygen demand (primary water quality parameter) for major river basins such as Tapi, Godavari, and other west flowing rivers was recorded. The observed improvement in water quality saw limited activity wherein 1,656 tons of BOD load was avoided during lockdown, of which 75% was reduced in rivers, 15% in seas, and remaining 10% in ponds, lakes etc. Residential solid waste was the only major contributor towards waste management whereas a total shutdown of commercial activities and restaurants reduced overall waste burden by 58% during L1 to 35% by L4. “It can be conclusively stated that the slowdown with restrictions of activities has had a direct positive impact on almost all essential environmental attributes, except for the BMW parameter,” the report concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-impact-in-maharashtra-environment-situation-better-but-biomedical-waste-surged-says-mpcb/story-UsyGEQFPRX1tZ9aGFZ92DI.html
08-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Test positivity rate increases to 11.4 % after almost two months||Gurugram: Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the district, the test positivity rate (TPR) touched a high of 11.4% on Monday, said officials from the district health department. It is after almost two months that the positivity rate has climbed above 10%, they said.The average daily TPR was 7% in the last week of August, according to the health department data.  The data shows that the new positive cases have almost doubled in the first week of September when compared to the week before. Between September 1 and 7, at least 1,551 new cases were reported, while 869 people were found positive in the district from August 25 to 31. With 147 new Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, the total tally of positive cases in the district has reached 13,468. Gurugram currently has 1,682 active cases. Two deaths were also confirmed on Monday, taking the toll due to Covid-19 in the district to 139. With the increase in the cases, the positivity rate has too climbed up. The uptick in the positivity rate is an indication of higher transmission in the district, the officials said. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The district health department has been conducting nearly 2,000 tests every day, while private labs are doing over 600 tests. The overall testing has increased from 2,000 to 2,500 a day. The strategy is to further increase the testing to 3,000 per day. The current positivity rate is 11.4%.” “Testing is the only tool to identify new cases at the earliest. It would impact the daily growth rate of the cases which is presently 2.29%. Till August, the daily growth rate was almost or below 1%,” Yadav added. Between June 30 and July 20, Gurugram’s positivity rate declined from 13.05% to around 8.48%. With rapid antigen tests being conducted in large numbers as compared to RT-PCR tests, an overall dip in the positive cases was detected. On August 18, the TPR stood at 6.95%. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), a positivity rate of less than 5% indicates that the epidemic is under control. According to the district health bulletin, 2,673 tests were conducted in both government and private labs on Monday. Till now, 1,83,903 tests have been done in the district, out of which 1,67,762 tested negative and 13,468 were positive. The positivity rate of the RT-PCR tests is 12-14% and almost 3% for rapid antigen test. At least 183 people infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals, while 11,647 have recovered from the illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-test-positivity-rate-increases-to-11-4-after-almost-two-months/story-MI4HxN9Qiq2XeFy91GgrMN.html
08-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Residents of sectors 82 to 84 complain of long power cuts||Gurugram: Residents of sectors 82 to 84 said on Monday that they have been facing unscheduled power cuts lasting between six and eight hours every day for the last one month. The 66 KVA transformer in their area is not enough, they claimed, adding that regular faults are reported from underground cables. The residents alleged they have complained to Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), the state-run power distribution company, and the developer, but did not get a positive response. Whenever there is a breakdown, the DHBVN team takes at least two days after receiving the complaint to find the root cause of the problem and two more days to rectify it, they claimed. In private localities, DHBVN supplies electricity but the bill is raised by the developers, while Huda sectors, municipal areas and villages get direct power supply. Around 15,000 residents live in the three sectors, according to the facility management company engaged by Vatika Group that has developed the residential areas in these sectors. Yashesh Yadav, a resident of Vatika India Next, a residential society in Sector 83, said, “The demand has grown by leaps and bounds and we need uninterrupted power supply. Regular faults are reported from the transformer, either it should be replaced or the load has to be increased for the area.” As the area comes under newly developed sectors, DHBVN is still working on plans to increase capacity in the area. At present, Vatika India Next is getting electricity from Garhi Harsaru substation, said discom officials. The power backup facility is optional in these sectors and the residents alleged that they have not taken the connection from the developer due to high charges. The residents have to pay Rs 375 as rental charges each month for the power backup and Rs 20 per unit for using the facility. Anand Saxena, a resident of Vatika City Homes in Sector 83, said that the developer had given assurance that power supply will be uninterrupted. “The newly laid cables often cause fault due to which the main power supply is interrupted. Many people are working from home, while children have to attend online classes. So, it becomes difficult to manage without power for six hours daily,” he said. AK Singh, chief executive officer (CEO), Enviro (management wing of Vatika Group), said that the power cut at sectors 82, 83 and 84 is due to the fault arising at DHBVN side. “Last week there was a problem in the Daulatabad line, which feeds into Garhi Harsaru substation, which in turn supplies to these sectors. We have provided adequate supply for our township, Vatika India Next, from the substation. If there is a disruption in power supply (overload or breakage) at the substation, it affects the entire township. We are maintaining our line constantly and have apprised DHBVN of these cuts,” he said. DHBVN officials said that they are trying to resolve the issues reported from cables at the earliest. Manoj Yadav, superintending engineer, DHBVN, Gurugram 1, said that the sectors are developing and the new infrastructure is coming up. “The road widening work is also in progress due to which many times the cables are damaged and it takes time to locate the fault. We have to dig the area for at least six-foot-deep to repair and the entire process takes time. Once all the infrastructure work is complete, the power will be supplied uninterrupted,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-residents-of-sectors-82-to-84-complain-of-long-power-cuts/story-gwR6GsDpW1KwpTbqHin58K.html
08-09-2020||Gurugram||Government colleges in Haryana start online admission process for UG courses||After months of delay due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state higher education department started the centralised online admission process for admission to undergraduate (UG) courses in government colleges across the state on Monday. Unlike the past year, when the admission process was a combination of online and offline modes due to technological challenges, this year the admissions will be held completely online. Depending on the number of merit lists, the process is expected to be over by the first week of October. While the entry of students on the college premises for admission-related work remains prohibited, the department of higher education issued directions to colleges, emphasising Covid-19 protocols, after it received complaints that some colleges had been calling students for admission. “Some colleges have been calling students to colleges for filling up admission forms. This is against the state government’s orders. There will be absolutely no human intervention this year due to Covid-19 protocols,” the department stated on Monday. Vijay Adlakha, principal, Government Girls College, Sector 14, said that while the college had restricted entry of students, a help desk had been set up for parents. “We have created a help desk for parents since they have been making the rounds of the college to make inquiries. Visits from students are, however, strictly prohibited,” said Adlakha. Colleges across the city said that the process went ahead without any glitches and demo videos were shared with students who needed assistance. For the first time, the department has also introduced an academic WhatsApp chatbot called ‘Aapka Mitra’ to facilitate the admission process and provide information pertaining to universities, colleges and students. Students can send messages on the number, 7419444449, for any admission-related queries that will be answered by the bot. The initiative was launched by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“The department has created 15 digital help desks. Besides, there is a chatbot service, toll-free number, and email. If a student encounters issues during the registration process or gets stuck at any phase, the admission teams will reach out to the students and resolve issues,” said Gyan Devi, the nodal admission officer for Government Girls College in Sector 14. She said that the college had not received any direct queries from students on Monday. The number of students who have registered for admission so far is expected to be out by Wednesday. “So far, we have not received access to the registration numbers. Since the National Informatics Centre is conducting the admission process for the first time, certain changes are being incorporated. We should be able to get the numbers of students who registered for different courses by Wednesday,” said Devi. The nodal admission officer from Dronacharya Government College, who did not wish to be named, said that due to changes in the online portal, the admission process had been simplified and was going on smoothly. “Besides the online help desks, we circulated the admission link across WhatsApp groups so that it reaches all students,” she said. Kajal Raghav, 18, who is applying for BCom (honours), said that she did not face any glitches while initiating the process. “I surveyed the admission portal and the list of required documents. The demo videos have given a fair idea about the various steps. I am researching the colleges offering my course and will complete the process soon,” said Raghav. BOXTimeline: 7 September: Online submission of admission forms to start 21 September: Last date for submission of forms22-25 September: Document verification and preparation of Merit List 26 September: Display of first merit list 30 September: Display of second merit list October 6: Commencement of teaching||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/government-colleges-in-haryana-start-online-admission-process-for-ug-courses/story-cUwCdnHkgj78aT2nTuEnFJ.html
08-09-2020||Gurugram||94-year-old woman jumps to death in Gurugram||A 94-year-old woman died after allegedly jumping from her 15th floor house on Monday morning. The police have filed an inquest report under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure(CrPC). The police have recovered a note, purportedly written by the woman, in which she stated that she was taking the extreme step due to issues related to her old age. According to the local police, the incident was reported to them at 7am by the control room. The police said at the time of the incident, the woman’s son had gone out for a walk while her daughter-in-law was in another room in the house. “Prima facie, probe suggests that she died by suicide. We have recovered a note, allegedly written by the victim, in which she mentioned that she was upset due to her old age as she often faced difficulty in walking. We received a call from the police control room and a team was rushed to the spot,” said a police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, adding that the police had initiated inquest proceedings. The police said the woman’s body was handed over to her family after the post-mortem examination on Monday. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/94-year-old-woman-jumps-to-death-in-gurugram/story-O1qtFP3iQVPllglQW18NlI.html
08-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: What made commuters take the Metro||A significant majority of the people who travelled on the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro in Gurugram on Monday did so for work, while a few were simply using the opportunity to experience the National Capital Region’s most preferred mode of transportation in its ‘new normal’ avatar. While all were satisfied with the safety protocols in place, a few struggled with cashless transactions as they did not have access to online modes of payment. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) resumed its Metro services after a hiatus of 169 days due to the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. A senior DMRC official, stationed at Huda City Centre, said there were far more people travelling from Gurugram to Delhi than vice versa.Satyavir Binauli, 31, who works in Gurugram and was visiting his family in Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar area for the first time in two months, said, “I would have liked to visit my parents more often but it is very expensive to hire a car. Since the Metro is now open, I am taking the chance to go and see them. I will be able to travel between my rented house in Gurugram and my family home more often, although I will restrict myself to once twice a month because I am afraid of infecting my parents.”Also read: Smooth but slow on Day 1 as Delhi Metro comes back to life A few others took the Metro ride simply out of curiosity. Subarna Dutta, a college student from Delhi who was travelling between Rajeev Chowk and Huda City Centre on Monday evening, said, “I’m just here to see what the situation is like today. You rarely get to enjoy the comfort of an empty Metro. That is why I am here. I don’t suppose it will remain this empty once all the lines start.” A large majority, however, were travelling due to work-related commitments and compulsions. Lakhan Singh Khirkira, 45, who alighted at Huda City Centre Metro station on Monday morning, having travelled from Vishwavidyalya station in north Delhi, said, “My in-charge has been asking us to start coming to work in staggered shifts. I have been unable to do so since I don’t have my own vehicle and I live far away. This is the first chance I have got to go to work. I will take the Metro back before 8pm.”Things were not so smooth for all commuters though. Beena, who provides domestic help services to a family in Gurugram, for example, was not aware that cash transactions are no longer being accepted in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I was really hoping to go to Delhi and meet my husband. He works there. They are saying I need to buy a Smart Card, but even for that they are not accepting cash. I do not know how to make payments over the phone.”A senior DMRC official, who was overseeing implementation of the new security protocol at Huda City Centre — seeking anonymity as he is not authorised to speak to the media — said, “All customers should either have a Smart Card already or should have access to a mobile payment service, which we are accepting. We will provide new Smart Cards. However, we are not allowed to take even ₹10 in cash. I cannot speak for those who don’t have smartphones or phone banking services.”Other than cashless transactions, the DMRC has advised commuters to travel light, and carry metallic items in their hands to speed up security checks. As part of their advisory to commuters, issued last week, the DMRC also emphasised on the need to maintain alternate seating arrangements in train coaches, and avoid touching any high contact surfaces (such as hand and guard rails). Travellers have also been requested to adjust their travel times so as to not coincide with peak hour traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-what-made-commuters-take-the-metro/story-4cD1fI8ae2dyhtNumxBYLJ.html
08-09-2020||City||Maharashtra government fumes as actor Kangana Ranaut gets Y+ security after row with Raut||The Centre on Monday provided Y-plus category security cover to actor Kangana Ranaut, following her spat with the Maharashtra government, after her remarks likening Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). The decision to provide 24X7 security comes two days before Ranaut, who is in her home state Himachal Pradesh, plans to return to Mumbai on September 9. The Centre’s move was slam-med by the state’s three ruling parties. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in an apparent jibe at the actor, said “some people from other states were grateful to the city. but some were not, despite getting livelihood and fame here”, while home minister Anil Deshmukh said it was surprising that people who criticised Mumbai and Maharashtra were being given protection by the Centre. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said Ranaut was “the parrot in the hands of BJP”.The actor will be guarded by 10-11 armed commandos of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) round the clock in three shifts wherever she travels in India, said officials, adding that as per a threat assessment report by Central agencies, Ranaut may face danger to her life from narcotics syndicates and other hostile elements for speaking against them. Amid the raging row, Ranaut on Monday accused the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) of harassing her office staff in Khar by alleging that an illegal construction has been carried out and that her office would be demolished.Sena and Ranaut have been locked in a bitter war of words since the actor said she didn’t trust Mumbai Police after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Senior Sena leader Sanjay Raut had said, “We kindly request her not to come to Mumbai. This is nothing but an insult to Mumbai Police.” Hitting back, Ranaut tweeted, “Why is Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir?”, evoking strong reactions. She also spoke out against drug use in section of the film industry.After the decision to provide her a security cover was taken, Ranaut tweeted “This is proof that no fascist forces will be able to suppress nationalist voices. I am indebted to Amit Shah Ji, who could have asked me to visit Mumbai later, but he honoured the words and self-respect of India’s daughter. Jai Hind”. On Sunday, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur had said that the state government will provide her security as she is the daughter of the state.The Centre’s move has heated up politics in Maharashtra with ruling parties accusing the BJP of supporting Ranaut. “The decision is serious, surprising and anguishing for us as the actress has insulted Mumbai and Maharashtra. Not only ruling parties like Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party or the Congress, but the insult to state is insult all the parties including Bharatiya Janata Party and the people of Maharashtra. All should condemn the decision of providing security to such a person,” said Deshmukh.“The decision of extending her security is politically motivated. The Centre has endorsed her comments, which are are an insult to Mumbai and Maharashtra. I would not be surprised if the actor is given Rajya Sabha or a legislative Council seat by BJP in the future,” Wadettiwar said.Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik in a letter to the state Assembly speaker over Ranaut’s statements equating Mumbai to “PoK and Taliban”, demanded strict action against her. “If Kangana Ranaut is equating Mumbai to Pakistan or Taliban, then that is extremely wrong. I have written a letter to the Assembly speaker with regards to her comments. Ranaut had claimed that several film actors consumed drugs, and some actors have in turn alleged that Kangana too did it. I have requested police to investigate the same,” he said.Sarnaik, in the letter, said that an actor from another state came to Mumbai, earned fame, money and defamed Mumbai, but so far no action has been taken against her, which has pained public representatives like him. He added that the speaker has taken cognisance of the letter against the actor and has ordered Deshmukh to conduct an inquiry into the matter. A report on the Ranaut issue has been demanded in the house within 24 hours, according to Sarnaik.Calling the Union home ninistry’s move to provide Y-category security to Ranaut a ‘political decision’, the Sena MLA asked if underworld don Dawood Ibrahim would also be provided protection if he speaks out against the Maharashtra government. “If Dawood speaks against Maharashtra then Central government may give Y or Z plus security to him, it’s all happening due to political interest,” Sarnaik said.“Those who are insulting Maharashtra and Mumbai should be thrown out of the state,” said Samajwadi Party MLA Abu Asim Azmi.Leader of Opposition in legislative Assembly and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said on Monday that although the statement by Kangana was wrong, it is the responsibility of the government to protect her in the land of law. “Even terrorists have to be provided security to ensure that they are not attacked, whereas Ranaut is still an artist. We do not support what Kangana Ranaut said and nobody will support it, still it is the responsibility of the government because we are not living in Banana Republic,” he said outside Vidhan Bhavan.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday took a jibe at actor Kangana Ranaut over her tweet related to Mumbai city. He, however, didn’t name her, but it was obvious whom he was talking about. “Many people from other states come to Mumbai, work here for livelihood and get fame. Some of them are grateful, but some aren’t,” Thackeray said, while speaking on a condolence motion related to former Shiv Sena MLA Anil Rathod who died on August 5. He also added that Rathod, too, had come from Rajasthan, but lived the rest of his life for Maharashtra.Meanwhile, a team of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials visited the actor’s production house office at Pali Hil in Bandra to check alleged illegal construction. In addition to this, the BMC may also quarantine Ranaut when she arrives in Mumbai. However, the BMC is yet to confirm if Ranaut will be home quarantined. The civic body has 14-day home quarantine rule on arrival of domestic passengers. On Monday, Ranaut took to Twitter to share a video clip of the civic staffers visiting her office and accused the BMC of “forcefully taking over” her office and said that the BMC is going to demolish her property on Tuesday. A team of civic staffers from building proposals department inspected her office to check for alterations, comparing with approved plans.BMC officials said that they were acting on a complaint submitted to them for illegal alterations. A senior civic official said, “There was a complaint against the office. During the inspection, there were some deviations, including an illegal extension of the office. Also, this property was converted from residential to commercial. Measurements of her office were taken and a report will be submitted in the next two days to the top officials in BMC.” There is no confirmation over the demolishing of her office property.Parag Masurkar, deputy municipal commissioner of H west ward (Bandra), said, “This was part of an inspection drive that the local administrative ward office carried out. The structural inspection was done in neighbouring row houses adjacent to the actor’s office. I am yet to receive the report of the inspections. Further action will be taken based on the details corroborated during the inspection.”In a series of tweets, Ranaut said, “I have all the papers, BMC permissions and nothing has been done illegally in my property. BMC should send a structure plan to show the illegal construction with a notice. Today, they raided my place and without any notice tomorrow they will be demolishing entire structure.”(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-fumes-as-actor-kangana-ranaut-gets-y-security-after-row-with-raut/story-IWuK1gLvYtjmXrlZgbXR7K.html
08-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Lukewarm response to Yellow Line on first day as Metro resumes operations||The Delhi Metro’s Yellow Line and the Rapid Metro line in Gurugram, which partially resumed operations on Monday after a five-month hiatus, saw a lukewarm response from commuters on day one. The trains were sparsely populated, with no more than 15 to 20 passengers occupying the coaches nearest to the platform exits, while coaches toward the centre of the train were nearly empty. Despite thin crowds, social distancing and other safety measures were being stringently followed, HT observed.Morning and evening both saw a nearly equal passenger volume, as per the ridership numbers released late on Monday by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). While the morning run serviced 7,500 passengers, the total ridership for the day stood at close to 15,500 people at 8pm. DMRC officials did not provide ridership figures specific to either the five stations in Gurugram, or separately for the Rapid Metro line. The ridership numbers on Monday stands in stark contrast to the pre-lockdown days, where the Yellow Line saw an average daily ridership of nearly 2, 80,000. Anuj Dayal, spokesperson, DMRC, said,”Monday’s operations have been smooth. The DMRC received complete cooperation from all its customers.” In addition to temperature checks and sanitisation of handbags and luggage, security guards were seen enforcing physical distancing in queues. Commuters were also seen to be wearing face masks and practising social distancing, even those travelling in groups of two or three. At the security check counters at Huda City Centre station Monday morning, a security guard was also heard seeking verbal confirmation from passengers, saying: “Are you feeling okay? Do you have a cough?”The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) staffer, on condition of anonymity, later said: “If the patient is feeling any discomfort, we have been told to coordinate with the nodal officer and send them to a nearby health clinic.” These refer to three primary health care centres (PHCs) — in Chanderlok, Nathupur and Sikandarpur — where travellers will be diverted to for medical help and testing, should they show any symptoms while entering the Metro premises. However, the staffer and health department officials were unable to clarify how the patients will be transported from the stations to the PHCs.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), Gurugram, had said on Saturday: “The passengers who show flu-like symptoms and high temperature will not be allowed to enter the Metro stations and will be directed to go to these health centres. On Sunday, we will put up sign boards at the entry and exit points of these five stations mentioning addresses and contact numbers of the PHCs.” He had added that details of other PHCs will also be shared so that people can visit them later.Signs in two languages, Hindi and English, had been put up at the designated entrances of each Metro station, providing not only the numbers and addresses of nearby PHCs but also privately run Covid-19 hospitals in the area, along with the contact numbers of the responsible nodal officers. The Rapid Metro, which connects with the Yellow Line at Sikanderpur and services the city’s key business localities (such as Cyber City), bore an even more deserted look with no more than two to three passengers per coach in the morning. The footfall remained low as many professionals working in the offices located along the Rapid Metro line continue to work from home due to the coronavirus pandemic.Metro personnel, however, said they expect more passengers to show up in the coming days. “As of Monday, no issues were seen in enforcing safety measures. However, the timings on Monday were staggered and only the Yellow Line in Delhi has started. We don’t know how things will be in a week,” said a senior CISF official stationed at Sikanderpur Metro station, on condition of anonymity. Until September 10, the Yellow Line, run by the DMRC, will ply from Huda City Centre to Samaypur Badli in north Delhi in two shifts, between 7am and 11am and then between 4pm and 8pm. Normal services are expected to resume on September 12.The Yellow Line, which serves as the only Metro connection between Delhi and Gurugram, became operational in June 2010. It’s five stations in Gurugram — Guru Dronacharya, Sikanderpur, MG Road, IFFCO Chowk and Huda City Centre — would see a cumulative ridership of at least 2,80,000 per day, according to a 2019 survey by the School of Planning and Architecture in New Delhi that was conducted as part of research for creating Gurugram’s ‘comprehensive mobility plan’. The Huda City Centre station alone saw an average daily footfall of about 104,000 people, prior to the Covid-19 outbreak. Going by the same survey, the Rapid Metro saw a daily average ridership of about 61,000 people before the Covid-19 struck. “It is definitely a little strange to see the Metro this empty. I intend to use it regularly to come to work. For the last two months I have been taking a cab from south Delhi twice a week, but will prefer to take the Metro now. It will be much cheaper,” said Swaran Singh, 28, who works as an executive with a private firm in Gurugram.Several commuters expressed relief at the safety measures being enforced. “I was a little worried because in public places you can always see someone or the other not taking precautions such as wearing masks and keeping distance. Other than the fact that it took a little more time than usual to get to the platform, it was a smooth ride,” said Bhawna Srivastava, who rode the Yellow Line from Delhi’s Rajeev Chowk to Huda City Centre in the morning to meet her family in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-lukewarm-response-to-yellow-line-on-first-day-as-metro-resumes-operations/story-WL96hdWZa1BNVp7JjIMBcM.html
08-09-2020||Noida||45-year-old cab driver killed in Greater Noida; kin says hate crime, police deny claim||A 45-year-old cab driver who was attacked allegedly by some unidentified passengers succumbed to his injuries on Sunday at a private hospital.According to the police, the victim, Aftab Alam, was found injured in his cab in Badalpur area in Greater Noida, following which he was admitted to a nearby hospital where he died during treatment.Police said on Sunday night, Alam, who lived in Delhi’s Trilokpuri area, had first picked up a passenger from Gurgaon through a ride hailing mobile application. The drop location was somewhere in Bulandshahr, and while returning was attacked in Badalpur, the police said.“A patrolling vehicle that was passing by found the Delhi-registered taxi parked along the Badalpur-Dadri bypass road. When checked, the victim was found severely injured on the seat adjoining the driver’s seat. The police rushed him to a hospital where he died during treatment,” deputy commissioner of police, central Noida, Harish Chander said in a statement to the press.According to the police officers, prima facie, it appears that upon dropping the passenger in Bulandshahr, Alam, without any booking, had picked some other passengers for Delhi. “En route, they seem to have had a fight and the driver was attacked. The suspects are on the run, and the mobile phone of the deceased is also missing,” the officer said.An FIR has been lodged at the Badalpur police station under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), the police said. They added they have identified the suspects and a search is on to arrest them.Meanwhile, Alam’s kin have alleged that he was lynched by three suspects while returning.His elder son, Mohammad Sabir, said “my father had dropped a client in Bulandshahr and he was returning at 7pm. He talked to me from Luharli toll plaza at 7:57pm and asked to make a FasTag recharge. The recharge was not successful and he paid Rs 120 as toll fee,” he said.Sabir said that on the way, three people had boarded his taxi. “My father noticed something unusual with the activities of the three. He made a phone call to me and placed his mobile phone by the side without uttering a word,” he said.Sabir, on the other side, was listening to the conversation. “I recorded 41 minute audio. At 8:39 minutes, the three persons asked my father to utter – Jai Shri Ram,” he said.Later, Alam’s mobile phone’s battery was exhausted and it switched off. Sabir said his family rushed to the Mayur Vihar police station and informed the police.“The police traced my father’s last location, as per his mobile phone, to Chithera village in Badalpur police station area in Greater Noida. We rushed to Greater Noida and found the vehicle parked while my father was not there, at 11pm. “The police informed me that he has been rushed to a private hospital in Ghaziabad. We went to the hospital where my father was already dead. He had received injuries in his head and body. We suspect he was lynched by those suspects in a hate crime,” Sabir said.Sabir said that he had asked the Badalpur police to mention the content of audio in the FIR but the police had assured that they will investigate the audio and add it later.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, however, said this is not a case of lynching. “The suspects were asking some vendor to chant Jai Shri Ram, and not to the taxi driver. We have identified the suspects through CCTV cameras from a toll plaza and launched a search to arrest them. The suspect had boarded the cab from Bulandshahr. Later the case will be transferred to the concerned district,” Chander said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/45-year-old-cab-driver-killed-in-greater-noida-kin-says-hate-crime-police-deny-claim/story-dmYy5JJa2D7M0dNU9POe7J.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rain pours misery for residents of Panchkula’s Sector 8||Residents of Sector 8, Panchkula, have complained that water enters their houses whenever it rains, resulting in heavy damages. They added that the issue has been taken up with the municipal corporation, but no action has been taken so far.HC Gera , general secretary of Sector 8 welfare association, said, “Residents of houses 536 to 527, 556 to 547 and 540 to British School have been dealing with the waterlogging issue for the last 15 years.”Gera added that even MLA Gian Chand Gupta has also only given assurances, but nothing has been done so far.“These houses get flooded whenever it rains. Recently, two hours of rainfall on August 24 had created havoc as water up to the knees entered the houses. We suffered combined losses of up to Rs 1 to 2 lakh. Also, at least 40 cars were damaged,” he said. He added that a few residents have had to make their own arrangements to keep the water out.Sanyam Garg, MC joint commissioner, said, “We get the road gullies cleaned regularly. In case residents of the Sector are facing an issue, we will get it checked.”Municipal commissioner Mahavir Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rain-pours-misery-for-residents-of-panchkula-s-sector-8/story-qVFXKYsVIUSEjOkrFazYHI.html
08-09-2020||Noida||Noida: Aqua Line restarts metro; ridership low on first day||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation’s (NMRC) on Monday put in place arrangements for contactless frisking, thermal scanning and sanitisation at all metro stations as it resumed services five months after they were suspended as part of efforts to check the Covid-19 spread. The day began with just two to four passengers on each train from 7 am to 11 am.Metro staff and security personnel were deployed, with safety gear in tow, to guide commuters at the stations. At the Sector 51 metro station which HT visited, NMRC had placed a contactless hand sanitiser and temperature checking machine at the entry gate. Once the temperature is checked, commuters need to sanitise their hands and display the Aarogya Setu app’s green status, after which they are guided to get tickets. People can use smart cards, or get tickets using the NMRC’s mobile app, or from ticket counters, after which commuters are guided to the frisking/checking booth. The commuters are now required to put all their belongings such as bags, mobile phones or any other metallic objects, like keys, in trays for checking, much like the checking counters at airports. There is no manual frisking anymore.Also read| Gurugram: What made commuters take the MetroMeenu Singh, a commuter who boarded the metro from Sector 51 said: “The metro is always a more suitable option for me to get to Pari Chowk. I am happy that the service has resumed, but I feel there is still a sense of fear with regards to Covid. Hence, many people hesitate to use public transport, including the Metro.”Constant announcements were made at the stations and inside the trains to remind passengers about precautionary measures and to urge them to follow guidelines. The stations and trains were constantly monitored at the control centres with the help of CCTV cameras.Shekhar Upadhyaya, another commuter, said he had been eagerly waiting for the metro to come back to life. “I live in Greater Noida and work in Noida. In absence of metro services, I had to ride my scooter to and from work but it’s not feasible to ride a two-wheeler for such a long distance every day. I am satisfied with the safety arrangements by NMRC. It is as if we are checking in at an airport,” he said. The corporation has also started the parking facility at some metro stations which also few customers utilised on Monday.In the morning up to 11am, the Aqua Line recorded a ridership of 200. Around 400 passengers used the Aqua Line between 5pm to 9pm, a NMRC spokesperson said.Praveen Mishra, NMRC’s executive director, said the commuter response was satisfactory on Monday. “This is the first day of resumption of services and hence the number of passengers is less. We hope the situation will improve and more people will prefer to travel in Noida metro,” he said.Metro officials said people will gradually feel confident to travel on the Metro again. They said businesses and offices have not resumed functioning fully and that is why they expect lesser footfall initially.The corporation, in association with an NGO - Ranganathan Society for Social Welfare - has also set up a stall at the Sector 51 Metro Station selling masks made by women who have lost jobs due to the pandemic. The price of these masks range from Rs 5-50. Ritu Maheshwari, NMRC’s managing director, said all the passengers were screened at the entry points for temperature. “Their hands were also sanitised at the entrances, post which they were allowed to enter the metro premises. The passengers maintained adequate social distancing and stood on the floor markings made at the stations, platforms and inside the trains. The NMRC trains were also fully sanitised after each trip. The stations, platform and other “contact areas” such as call buttons of lifts, AFC (automatic fare collection) gates, handle belts of escalators and staircases, etc., were also sanitised at regular intervals,” she said.As per current plan, the Aqua Line is going to run in the peak hours in morning –7am to 11am – and in the evening – 5pm to 9pm – with a frequency of 15 minutes from Monday to Saturday, at a frequency of 15 minutes. On Sundays the services will start from 8am to 11am and from 5pm to 9pm, . The Aqua Line (29.7 km) has 21 metro stations and it connects Noida Sector 51 station to Greater Noida’s Depot Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-aqua-line-restarts-metro-ridership-low-on-first-day/story-LTdvhJ3VCaHbZRC7RdVCoN.html
08-09-2020||Noida||Couple killed as speeding car hits motorcycle in Noida||A 44-year-old man and his wife were killed after a speeding car hit their motorcycle near Noida City Centre underpass Sunday.A case has been registered against unknown persons and the car has been seized, said the police.The police said the victims, Bal Kishan, and his wife Leelavati—both identified by their first names in police records— are from Jahangirabad in Bulandshahr district. Bal Kishan worked as a gardener in Noida Sector 51, and the couple lived in a rented house in Kulesra village in Greater Noida.Rameshwar Singh, station house officer, Sector 24 police station, said that the couple visited a private clinic in Noida on Sunday evening and were returning to Greater Noida on their motorcycle when the accident took place. “When they reached near the City Centre underpass, a speeding grey colour WagonR car hit their two-wheeler from behind. The accident was severe and the couple were thrown off the motorcycle and received critical injuries,” he said.Passerby informed the police about the accident and a team from Sector 24 police station reached the spot. The two victims were rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. The victim’s motorcycle was badly damaged while the car was damaged from front. The car driver abandoned the vehicle and fled the spot after the accident, said the police.Singh said that based on a complaint by the couple’s son, a case has been registered against unknown person under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304a (death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. “We have seized the car involved in accident. We have launched a search for the car driver who is currently on the run,” he said.The bodies were sent for an autopsy and their reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/couple-killed-as-speeding-car-hits-motorcycle-in-noida/story-RKZYVfF8K9qt5ZyPasVgMO.html
08-09-2020||Noida||20-year-old arrested in Noida with 50kg cannabis||The Noida Police on Monday arrested a 20-year-old man for allegedly 50kg of cannabis.The police said that the suspect, Mohit Rai, was arrested near Sector 74 roundabout with the contraband worth Rs 5 lakh in his car. The suspect is from Champaran district in Bihar and currently lives in Sector 53 in Noida, a police spokesperson said. The police have also seized the car used by the suspect to allegedly smuggle cannabis.“He was arrested with 50 kg of cannabis, which is worth about Rs 5 lakh,found in his car . The cannabis has been seized and the car being used in the crime has been impounded,” the spokesperson said.An FIR has been lodged against the suspect at the Sector 49 police station under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/20-year-old-arrested-in-noida-with-50kg-cannabis/story-0SdHbEdvf18uckmEOE1fKI.html
08-09-2020||City||Security guard kills robber in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A robber was allegedly shot dead by an armed security guard at a garment export company located in the Sector Ecotech 3 area in the early hours of Monday. The suspect had trespassed on premises of the company and was trying to steal goods when the guard, Vishnu Dayal, spotted him and opened fire after a warning, the police said. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida Central, said that Ecotech 3 police received information about the shooting at 2.30am. “The security guard informed the police that a robber had trespassed on the premise and he was shot at,” he said. The DCP said that a police team reached the spot soon after getting the information. “The police team found that the company was closed and two security guards were deployed there. A robber had jumped the company’s boundary wall and was trying to steal valuables. Dayal was patrolling around the building and he spotted the intruder,” Chander said. Dayal told the police that first he opened fire in the air and asked the robber to go away. “However, the robber tried to attack me with a knife. In my self-defence, I fired two more shots in which he was injured and collapsed,” Dayal said. The security guard then informed his supervisor and the police, the police said. The suspect was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, the DCP said, adding that the body has not been identified yet. According to the police, the suspect appears to be around 35-year-old. An official from Sector Ecotech 3 police station said that it seems the suspect’s accomplices were waiting outside the building and they fled after hearing the gunshots. Based on a complaint filed by the security guard, the police have registered a case against the suspect under sections 457 (house trespass or house breaking by night in order to commit offence) and 380 (theft) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-guard-kills-robber-in-greater-noida/story-REKal7YdtJyrzIqYSyq7UP.html
08-09-2020||City||Focus on 100% testing, as cases swell in category 2 containment zones||Ghaziabad: As fresh cases continue to rise, district health department officials have turned their focus to containment zones and plan to take up 100% testing in such areas. According to official figures, the district till September 6 had less number of category 2 containment zones than category 1. But more fresh cases are emerging from category 2 zones. The district till September 6 had 336 containment zones, which include 196 in category 1 and 140 in category 2. The category 1 zones are confined to a 100-metre radius in case there is one fresh case. Category 2 zones are in a radius of 200 metres when there is more than one case. It is further supplemented by a buffer zone on the periphery, which is defined on local assessment. “Fresh cases are coming in and multiple cases in category 2 zones. It is so because activities have opened up and people are mixing. There are instances when one person from a family gets infected and others also get infected in return. To keep a check, we are planning that there should be 100% testing in containment zones as directed by the Indian Council for Medical Research,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “We will make use of rapid antigen kits to ensure there is 100% testing and positive cases are isolated from the population,” he said.According to officials, an estimated 100-150 houses are present in Ghaziabad in 100 metres while 200-250 houses in the 200-metre radius zones. According to the list of containment zones published on the official website of Ghaziabad district, a high number of cases are emerging from category 2 zones . In one such instance, the locality of Sanjay Nagar has a category 2 zone where 23 cases have emerged from August 26 to September 5. Likewise in Shastri Nagar, 21 cases have emerged in category 2 zones from August 26 to September 5. A similar number of multiple cases has emerged in areas such as Shatabdipuram, Lal Kuan, Rakesh Marg, Shalimar Garden Extension-2, setcor-3 of Rajendra Nagar, Chander Nagar, Partap Vihar and areas of Farrukh Nagar, Asalatpur and Tila Morh. The list indicates that the category 2 zones are witnessing high multiple Covid-19 cases, ranging anything between five to 26 cases. “With activities opening up, it is now imperative that there should be focus on containment exercises. People will move out but there has to be control. It is advisable that 100% testing should be taken up in containment zones and those found positive should be immediately sent to isolation. This will help prevent others in the area from getting infected,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad. According to health department statistics, Ghaziabad district on May 30 had 72 containment zones, including 65 under category 1 and seven under category 2. The figures on June 9 shot up to total of 217 with 188 containment zones under category 1 and another 29 under category 2.On July 19, it was for the first time that category 2 zones surpassed category 1 zones. On that date, the district had 330 zones, including 168 under category 2 and 162 under category 1. Under the containment zones, the officials have been directed to keep a strict perimeter control with only essential services allowed.In the recent unlock 4 directions, UP chief secretary RK Tiwari said the lockdown in containment zones will continue till September 30. Containment zones are to be defined on the basis of July 24 directions where only essential services will be allowed. According to the state control room figures of September 7, the district had 9,405 Covid-19 cases, including 1,436 active cases and 73 deaths to its tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/focus-on-100-testing-as-cases-swell-in-category-2-containment-zones/story-Bq3lTueCCc6OYBkzF1nAcP.html
08-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Road Safety Manual’ mandatory for licence applicants: Chandigarh admn||The Chandigarh administration has made it mandatory for learner and renewal licence applicants to purchase the 200-page “Road Safety Manual” which aims at encouraging safe driving practices.Amending the Chandigarh Motor Vehicle Rules, 1990, the administration has notified the “Chandigarh Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Rules, 2020”. KK Yadav, secretary (transport), issued the order on September 4 that came into effect immediately. “Applicant who apply/appear for learner/renewal licence henceforth shall have to purchase the Road Safety Manual as per price fixed by the administration from time-to-time. The proceeds from the sale will be credited to the account of Chandigarh Road Safety Society by the registering and licensing authority, Chandigarh,” The order states.Yadav, said, “The price has been fixed at Rs 150. The manual is available in English and Hindi.”Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore had in February released ‘Chandigarh Road Safety Manual’ designed by Harman Singh Sidhu, president of Chandigarh-based NGO, ArriveSAFE.The manual comprehensively discusses all challenges faced during driving including road conditions, weather, time of the day, visibility and nature of traffic.It explains the rules of the road in an easy-to-understand manner and is illustration-intensive so that it can be comprehended easily. The focus is on how drivers should react in different situations even when road signs are absent.It contains a road-safety code which includes information on road signs, markings and signals, safe driving practices and basic road etiquette. The manual also talks about responsibility of drivers towards environment with topics including pollution and carpooling. Road rage, how to avoid aggressive drivers and rights of pedestrians are also covered.Powers of enforcement authorities and procedures for issuing driving licence and registration of vehicles have also been discussed.Notably, 104 people including 36 pedestrians had died in road accidents in Chandigarh in 2019. As many as 98 people, including 35 pedestrians, lost their lives in such mishaps in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/road-safety-manual-mandatory-for-licence-applicants-chandigarh-admn/story-WPjt2MM2w1zLrsUPitVwwL.html
08-09-2020||City||Action against 11 after bodies of Covid-19 swapped at Meerut medical college||Ghaziabad: The Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College (LLRMMC) authorities in Meerut has recommended action against a staff nurse and removed from duty 10 contractual employees following an enquiry into an incident where bodies of two Covid-19 victims were swapped and the funeral of one of them was inadvertently done by the other family.The incident came to light on Sunday when the family of Covid victim Gurbachan Lal, 85, from Modinagar town of Ghaziabad, spotted that the body handed over to them was of some other person and informed officials at the Meerut medical college. In the meantime, the funeral of Lal’s body was performed by the family of the other deceased, Yash Pal, 55, at their native place at Kankarkhera in Meerut. Following the goof-up, Meerut officials constituted a committee, which submitted its findings on Monday evening. It said there was negligence on the part of a staff nurse and other 10 contractual staff, including six nurses and four cleaning staff deployed at the medical college. “The resident of Meerut had died at 1pm on Saturday and his body was to be shifted to the mortuary within 45 minutes to one hour. In between, his family asked not to shift it to the mortuary as they were on way. So the staff nurse did not shift the body to the mortuary and kept it at a holding area. The other victim from Modinagar died at 6pm on Saturday and his body was shifted to the holding area,” said Dr Gyanendra Singh, principal of LLRMMC. In between, the duty of the staff changed. “When the other staff came for duty, they put up tags on the bodies, which mentioned names, address, etc. However, they swapped the tags. This resulted in the wrong bodies being sent to their respective families. We admit that there has been negligence on our part. We have written to the director general (medical education) to take action against the staff nurse and asked the contractor company to replace the 10 contractual employees,” Dr Singh added. On Sunday, at the funeral ground in Modinagar, the son of deceased Lal opened the body bag to see the face of his father for the last time but he was shocked to see another person. He immediately informed the medical college after which the body was taken to the original family at Meerut and ashes of Lal were handed over to his family. “After this incident, we have issued strict instructions to our doctors and staff to take up all procedures as per defined norms, especially in cases related to Covid-19,” Dr Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/action-against-11-after-bodies-of-covid-19-swapped-at-meerut-medical-college/story-DxKHUeYblOEzkXh2Gs7IWJ.html
08-09-2020||City||Test positivity of rapid kits spikes in Ghaziabad, officials expect surge in Covid-19 cases||The positivity rate of Covid-19 tests done through rapid antigen kits in Ghaziabad has been on the rise since the past two weeks which, experts said, could indicate that the infection could be spreading at a faster pace. According to official records of the district health department, the overall positivity rate of the tests through antigen kits— which accounts for more than half of the tests conducted in Ghaziabad after their introduction in the district on June 26— is about 2.83%, however, during the past two weeks the positivity rate first increased to 3.91% (between August 21 and August 27) and then reached 4.5% (between ween August 28 and September 3). The positivity rate for antigen tests, whose sensitivity is considered to be poor, was 2.19% for the test conducted between August 14 and August 20 and 2.40% for August 7-13 week.Till September 3, nearly 205,584 tests were conducted in Ghaziabad of which 8,897 samples turned positive for Covid-19 (positivity rate 4.32%). Out of the total tests conducted, around 57.49% of tests were done through rapid antigen tests (118, 206). Till September 3, 3,349 positive cases were detected with them. The overall positivity with the help of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test—considered the gold standard method for detecting Covid-19—is about 6.34% (till September 3). “Although, the positivity rate of antigen kits is less than that of RT-PCR tests, the latest spike indicates that the spread of the infection has not declined at all, and more positive cases will emerge at a faster pace. In past fortnight or so, there has been a steady rise in number of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad at a growing pace,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association(Ghaziabad chapter). According to the state control room figures, Covid-19 cases have been on a steady rise. Between August 7 and August 13, 628 cases were recorded and in the following week, from August 14 to August 20, 802 fresh cases were reported. While 850 cases were reported between August 21 and August 27, the week between August 28 and September 3, 991 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Ghaziabad.Except, for first week of the antigen tests being introduced in the district, their positivity rate has stayed below 3%. According to health department officials, the rise in the positivity rate of antigen tests denotes that number of persons acquiring infection is fast increasing. Rapid antigen kits are widely used for testing in containment zones, static sampling booths, and mobile vans besides by sample collection teams working on ground. “The positive rate through test by rapid antigen kits is high and there is also a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district. We are already doing focused testing with rapid kits for persons showing symptoms and people who are over 65 years of age and have comorbidities,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “So, the rise in positivity could be resultant of focused testing and wide use of rapid antigen kits,” he added.Meanwhile, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey also directed the health department officials to make a workplan so that the recent guidelines issued by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) can be implemented fully in Ghaziabad.In its ‘Advisory on Strategy for Covid-19 Testing in India,’ the ICMR has suggested that all people living in containment zones should be tested by rapid antigen test, particularly in cities where there has been a widespread transmission of infection. For routine surveillance in containment zones and screening at points of entry, the ICMR has listed rapid antigen tests, RT-PCR or TrueNat to be used in order of priority. It is also suggested that all symptomatic cases including health care workers and frontline workers; all asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a laboratory confirmed cases are to be tested once between day 5 and day 10 of coming into contact. “Based on availability of workforce and also the stock of rapid antigen kits, we will soon be implementing the directions in the district ” CMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/test-positivity-of-rapid-kits-spikes-in-ghaziabad-officials-expect-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-ROdlrDhldEM6YTaKdYoroO.html
08-09-2020||Pune||With bars, restaurants closed due to lockdown, no drink driving cases since April in Pune||The Pune traffic police have not reported any drink driving cases since April, when the lockdown had been implemented which in turn resulted in closure of bars and restaurants. However, the first case of fatal drink driving was reported on Sunday from Balewadi when retired police inspector Sanjay Nikam mowed down a worker under the wheels of his car in an inebriated condition. Also read: Drink driving: One-day police custody for retired inspector for killing one in PuneThe accident which occurred at Mamata Square in Balewadi left four others injured. Nikam (58) was arrested by Chatuhshrungi police and charged with culpable homicide. Nikam during his service with the city police has worked with the Social Security Cell (SSC) and traffic control branch. According to the data available with the traffic branch, as many as 752 drink driving cases have been lodged across different divisions between January and March this year, however, this stopped as soon as the lockdown was invoked. Joint commissioner (law and order) Ravindra Shisve said, “No action has been taken in relation of drink driving cases since the Covid outbreak.” In 2019, a total of 13,239 cases of drink driving were reported in the city. Last year, six traffic divisions - Koregaon Park, Wanowrie, Aiport, Hadapsar, Warje and Bharati Vidyapeeth emerged at the top with the highest number of drink driving cases between January 1, 2019 and December 22, 2019. As many as 13,239 cases have been registered in 2019 in all the 24 traffic divisions under Pune police commissionerate. The highest number of cases - 2,702 - had been registered in April 2019. The city traffic police had booked offenders after they were found driving under the influence of alcohol through various methods, like breath analysing tests, nakabandi at various spots and surprise checks outside pubs and hotels. In a drive launched by the traffic police, drivers of heavy vehicles were also checked. Action was taken against offenders under relevant sections of the Maharashtra Motor Vehicles Act, which states that alcohol content legal limit is 0.03% to 30 micro litre in 100 ml blood. Traffic experts expect the same type of crackdown in 2020 to prevent incidents of fatalities which have started after reopening of the city. Pedestrian First convener Prashant Inamdar, said, “Enforcement is on the lower side due to the Covid crisis and police presence is also less which was not the case in the past. With CCTV, there is surveillance, but physical presence of police officials is missing. The presence of policemen is the need of the hour as we are going back to normalcy and strict enforcement on all counts has to be restored to prevent incidents like drink driving which cause fatalities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-bars-restaurants-closed-due-to-lockdown-no-drink-driving-cases-since-april-in-pune/story-FmIXPsL2Hpc4ssr6DAm3lJ.html
08-09-2020||Pune||Drink driving: One-day police custody for retired inspector for killing one in Pune||The retired police inspector who rammed his vehicle into a puncture shop in Balewadi on Sunday afternoon killing one, was remanded to one day in police custody.“He is in police custody for one day. How he got the alcohol, where was he heading, are among things which will be investigated,” said Pankaj Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-4.The retired police inspector had opted for voluntary retirement in 2019. He had served in the social security cell of Pune police in the past. He was driving a white Volkswagen Polo car that was registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Whether he owned the car or not is being investigated.The deceased man has been identified as Santosh Bansi Rathod (35), a resident of Kalewadi. The five people who were injured are undergoing treatment for various injuries. The owner of the puncture shop was among the five injured. The four others were people who had come to the shop to get repair work done. While one was an auto-rickshaw driver, another was a tempo driver, and the third was a two-wheeler rider.A case under Sections 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184 (rash driving), 185 (drunk driving), and 119/177 of the Motor Vehicles Act has been registered at the Chatuhshrungi police station against Nikam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/drink-driving-one-day-police-custody-for-retired-inspector-for-killing-one-in-pune/story-rlMi3ZT57oH7Cy1Om3WpZK.html
08-09-2020||Pune||Nine stolen vehicles recovered from three minors in PCMC||Three minors have been apprehended by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for their involvement in multiple vehicle theft cases. The police recovered three stolen autorickshaws and six two-wheelers from them.“They are all 15-year-olds. These are the only cases against them. They were produced at the Juvenile Justice Board and released on bail,” said police inspector (crime) Vishwajeet Khule of Chinchwad police station.Among the recovered vehicles, two were reported to have been stolen from Wakad, and one from Chinchwad, Hinjewadi, MIDC Bhosari, Chatuhshrungi and Khadki each. Two of the nine vehicles have not been reported to be stolen. One among the two is a Hero Honda CD Dawn registered in Sangli and the other is a Mahindra Rodeo registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad.The vehicles recovered from the three boys were collectively found to be worth Rs 3,50,000, according to a statement issued by the police.The three were found by a police team on night patrol on duty in light of the recent house break-ins and thefts in the area. As the three were seen suspiciously riding on one motorbike, the police stopped them and sought to see the registration papers of the vehicle, according to the statement.As the three could not produce registration documents, they started speaking rudely with the policemen. In the meanwhile, the police found the bike to have been reported stolen at Chinchwad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nine-stolen-vehicles-recovered-from-three-minors-in-pcmc/story-JOjXftFIhJDo5a6p7D4CZK.html
08-09-2020||Pune||31-year-old in custody for alleged sexual assault of minor girl in Pune||PUNE: A 31-year-old man was remanded to four days in police custody on Monday for the alleged sexual assault of a minor girl in Chakan. The minor lodged a complaint with the police. The 14-year-old girl was assaulted between 2:30 pm and 3 pm on Saturday, according to her complaint. She is a Class 9 student and was known to the accused, identified as Suresh Shankar Shevkari, according to the police. Shevkari, a farmer, is married and father of four-year-old girl. He owns a house in the building where the complainant lives. The accused used to often visit his friend to whom he had rented out his house, according to the police. Senior inspector Prakash Dhas of Chakan police station said, “The accused asked the complainant to accompany her in his car as he wants to give her a party on his birthday. The man drove the girl, who was sitting in the passenger seat, to Chakan village and assaulted her inside the car, according to her complaint. She later told the incident to her parents who approached the police.” A case under Section 376 (sexual assault) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 4, 5, 8, and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at Chakan police station. Sub-inspector MT Shinde of Chakan police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/31-year-old-in-custody-for-alleged-sexual-assault-of-minor-girl-in-pune/story-R6hEjDiiFpxBu6hlPWLanN.html
08-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Mumbai administration expects nearly 2k cases daily for next 30 days||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said for the next 30 days the civic body would expect to detect around 2,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases daily, as it planned to increase its tests to up to 14,000 a day amid a surge in the viral outbreak.Chahal said Mumbai has the capacity to conduct up to 15,000 tests daily. Mumbai is likely to hit the 200,000-mark of Covid-19 cases by October 10, if the current surge in daily viral outbreak persists.The city reported 155,622 cases until Sunday, including 123,478 recoveries and 7,869 deaths. Since August 26, Mumbai has been reporting a rise in daily Covid-19 cases. Earlier in June, Mumbai was reporting between 700 and 1,300 Covid-19 cases daily. Over the last 10 days, the city has been reporting between 1,100 and 1,900 Covid-19 cases daily. The number of active cases has also gone up to over 23,000 cases from up to 20,000. The BMC attributed the spike to the festival season such as Ganesh Chaturti and Muharram coupled with relaxations in lockdown restrictions norms and aggressive testing.The civic body has decided to conduct up to 14,000 tests daily from the existing 9,000 that had started from the last week of August. The BMC authorities are confident of detecting more cases daily because of its aggressive testing mechanism.“We expect Mumbai to report around 2,000 Covid-19 cases daily for the next 30 days. I have given targets to my officers. Our focus will be on detecting patients by using the RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction). Rapid antigen detection (RAD) test kits will be used for more focused testing such as those who are suspected Covid-19 patients because of their pronounced symptoms.”“We cannot use RAD test kits randomly on the public or on the front-line workers battling the pandemic. The positivity rate is only 4% and 25% for RAD and RT-PCR test, respectively. We will follow the latter. We have capacity to conduct around 15,000 tests daily that include both the testing methods.”BMC officials said over 820,000 Covid-19 tests have been conducted to date, including RAD tests that account for less than a lakh. At present, the civic authorities are conducting up to 2,000 RAD tests.The leader of opposition in the Maharashtra legislative assembly Devendra Fadnavis had said that the consistent low-testing figures led to high positivity and Covid-19-related fatality rates in the state and Mumbai. He had cited the Delhi model in a bid to tackle the viral outbreak.Chahal put Fadnavis’s comparison in the context.“There are times when I am told that Delhi is doing more tests, as compared to Mumbai. Delhi has conducted over 1,600,000 tests, including over 500,000 via the RT-PCR method. So far, Mumbai has conducted over 800,000 tests, including over 90,000 RAD tests. RT-PCR is giving more positivity rate. Simultaneously, we will also do RAD tests. But RT-PCR rates will be done in a more focussed manner,” Chahal said.The civic authorities said there would not be any shortage faced by the public, despite a spike in Covid-19 cases of late. “We will be able to handle up to 4,000 Covid-19 cases daily. In a couple of days, a 230-intensive care unit (ICU) bed facility at NESCO jumbo centre in Goregaon and 30 ICU beds at Mulund jumbo centre will be thrown open to the public,” Chahal said. “Our focus is on our jumbo centres. If a need arises, private hospitals can also be looked at. All Covid-19 patients don’t require hospitalisation. In that light, a daily spike in Covid-19 cases should not be a huge cause for concern,” he added.However, Chahal appealed to the citizens to not panic. He said, “The strategy of BMC to substantially ramp up the tests from an average testing of 7,619 everyday in August to 10,000-14,000 tests everyday in September, resulting in an increase of average number of positive cases from 1,000-1,300 to 1,700-2,000 everyday by effectively utilising large number of vacant Covid beds available in the city of Mumbai will help to accelerate arrest of the spread of virus in Mumbai. Therefore, it is humbly submitted that there should not be any panic created by sudden increase of positive number of cases in Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-mumbai-administration-expects-nearly-2k-cases-daily-for-next-30-days/story-XzwqRb1Yt6alO5dQIgrnXJ.html
08-09-2020||Lifestyle||Teachers’ Day 2020: Thanking the gurus for always inspiring, guiding and leading||On the occasion of Teachers’ Day today, we speak to eminent personalities from different walks of life who dedicate the day and share finest memories with their gurus, mentors, parents and friends. While some express gratitude towards their school teachers for imparting the best of knowledge and education, others credit their parents and friends for the incredible learning experiences.Life-long mantras“The Guru leads you from the visible to the invisible, from the material to the divine, from the ephemeral to the eternal. My parents have been my first teachers and gurus too. For as long as I can remember, the first mantra taught was to be a good human being and to be a symbol of the etiquette and manners (tehzeeb and tameez). In spite of being the monumental icon of music that my father is, he continues to be an individual full of humility and a complete simpleton. In recent times, I often question his imparting of humbleness to me and my brother especially in the world that we live in. It’s almost become normal for people to walk over you or take you completely for granted. However, the principles imbibed say that God watches every individual in this world and takes care of everything. I follow mantras which are ‘Have patience and tolerance’, ‘We make our future in this world’ and ‘God is within us.’ These have been my motivating factors at every stage, and yes, taught by my parents. Salutations to all teachers on the occasion of Teachers’ Day.” — Ayaan Ali Bangash, Sarod maestro.Read: Teacher’s Day 2020: From Aamir Khan to Amitabh Bachchan, these teachers will forever stay in our heartsDedicating to dancing gurus“Dad and Radha mom are probably my biggest inspiration and mentors when it comes to all things dance (profession) and just life in general. I’m able to talk to them and take advise from them on just about anything. I have seen first-hand what it means to be focused no matter the drawbacks one faces. I have seen what blind passion is, I have seen what hard work is in my moms. I am thankful to my Carnatic music guru Dr K. Vageesh for his warm but strict outlook to teach singing. My husband Dennis inspires me each day to a systematic practice regime and on another count to be patient, polite and sincere. I am lucky to be surrounded by wonderful mentors who inspire me every day.”— Bhavana Reddy, Kuchipudi dancer.To fathers who lead by example“My greatest teacher has been my father. He is able to be happy and content under all circumstances and has the ability to hold an engaging conversation with absolutely anyone, regardless of their age, nationality or background. I’d like to believe that I have been able to imbibe this attitude and ability from him. He is a great adventurer and at 71, rode his motorcycle to Ladakh. His method of teaching is leadership by example and from him I have learned both dignity of labour and that every human being deserves to be treated with respect. Thanks dad. Love you.” —Papa CJ, comedian and author.Notes from the classroom  @sitharakrishnakumar , You have my heart for having sung this song ❤️ Big ummahs to all those who said I didn’t butcher your language haha - thought I’d commemorate this moment for good. #bhakshanamishtamayi #kumbalanginights #cherathukalA post shared by  Sanjeeta Bhattacharya (@sanjeeta11) on May 6, 2020 at 7:02am PDTMy music teacher in school, Siddharth Das, always pushed our limits musically and asked us to listen to Manhattan Transfer, Alicia Keys, Joni Mitchell. He said genre is no bar; music is music. There is the same number of notes in music no matter where it comes from or what language it is being sung in. He taught me to not just listen to music, but to experience it. That’s something that I have kept in mind while making music myself. He will remain my favourite teacher and somebody I will look up to forever.” — Sanjeeta Bhattacharya, musician.Striving for perfectionThe teacher I remember most, is my English teacher Ms Uma at KVIIT Chennai. She was one of the best I’ve had. She would settle for nothing less than perfection. Wren and Martin was our Bible and, and every rule in that one, we diligently applied. When I topped the board exams in English, scoring the highest marks CBSE had ever granted for English that year, my joy knew no bounds. I think Ms Uma would be even more proud to see the number of books I have written now.” — Preeti Shenoy, author.An inspiring note to a dear friend“Marijke deSouza, the producer of my film Sheer Qorma is not only a dear friend but a guide who has inspired me tremendously. Sometimes she is my mother, there are days when she is my best friend but on all days she continues to inspire me with her wisdom, her fiercely independent spirit that I associate so much with and her unconditional warmth that remains unscathed. It is such a thing of joy to find a mentor, a guide, a teacher in Marijke and to unlearn so much and begin from a place of awareness, independence and utmost love. Marijke has really given me wings to fly. Her diligence to tell stories that will hopefully change our world for good is such a force of nature — it’ll change the world and I am so grateful to be a part of her tribe. Marijke — my teacher, my mentor, my guide, my best friend — I love you very much. Happy Teachers’ Day to you.” — Faraz Arif Ansari, filmmaker.Read: PM Modi tweets on Teachers’ Day, says grateful for their contributionRecalling the good ol’ school days“Modern School, Vasant Vihar was a school that I feel most lucky to have found myself studying at for the better part of my schooling. Not a day goes by when I, 47 years old today, am not grateful for the tutelage given me by the teachers that touched my life. I am hard pressed to think of one name that stands out more than others. My teachers, the teachers at our school, they were our gurus, guides and even friends. Sabiha Hashmi, my first Guru and my most steadfast pillar of strength and grounding, was art teacher for all that sailed through class 6th through 10th at MSVV. For me she also happened to be the person who made me feel comfortable in my own skin, who saw in me some restlessness that she knew she could harness into creativity. She nurtured my artistic talents, gave me freedom to create art with mediums that often were relegated for students taking art in 11th and 12th grade, when I was in 9th grade myself. Teachers educate us and inspire us, they inform us and lead us, they make us more complete and often more fulfilled versions of ourselves at an age when we ourselves have no clue as to who we are and who we might be wanting to become. Ms. Hashmi saw a certain something in me and invested a good 8 years in me and helped me come to peace with myself and see honesty around me, that which was ugly, and that which was brilliant in beauty. To her I bow today on Teachers Day, and as I do so, also to all my teachers who have endured the agony young minds, and yet had the patience to stand by us through all the vicissitudes that growing up for kids means.” — Suvir Saran, Michelin-star chef Follow htcity for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/teachers-day-2020-thanking-the-gurus-for-always-inspiring-guiding-and-leading/story-UYeKYNGNqbT1QLv7lQJfpK.html
08-09-2020||World||When will tourists return to Africa? Continent must guess||Raino Bolz quickly diversified when his tourism business in South Africa’s winelands crashed to a halt in March because of the coronavirus pandemic. He sold a minibus — useless without tourists to ferry around — and bought a herd of pregnant cows.He’ll have to wait for the cows to have calves and for the calves to be old enough to sell before he can make money from them. That probably won’t be until early next year, but it’s his insurance policy.Bolz hopes to see a return of some tourists in November, the start of South Africa’s tourism season. If foreign visitors — 80% of his income — don’t arrive for end-of-year vacations, he’ll need the profit from his cattle to stay afloat.Africa will lose between $53 billion and $120 billion in contributions to its GDP in 2020 because of the crash in tourism, the World Travel and Tourism Council estimates. Kenya expects at least a 60% drop in tourism revenue this year. South Africa a 75% drop. In South Africa, 1.2 million tourism-related jobs are already impacted, according to its Tourism Business Council. That’s not far off 10% of total jobs in Africa’s most developed economy and the total damage isn’t yet clear.“Devastation,” council CEO Tshifhiwa Tshivhengwa said.South Africa’s borders, including virtually all international flights, have been closed for nearly six months and there are no signs of them reopening.The Covid-19 restrictions have shuttered what was once the lucrative centerpiece of African tourism, the safari.For nearly 40 years, Desert and Delta has sold luxury safaris in the wildlife-rich Okavango Delta in northern Botswana and their clients have always been a particular kind of tourist. From North America or Western Europe, wealthy, retired and almost always over 60 years old, said James Wilson, Desert and Delta’s marketing director. His fear — it’s felt across the safari lands of southern and East Africa — is that those retirees will be the last to come back because of their age and vulnerability to Covid-19.Jillian Blackbeard sees a silver lining. She’s the CEO of a regional tourism association that represents safari operators in Botswana, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe.It’ll take southern Africa’s safari tourism three years to recover, Blackbeard said. But the virus could also kick-start a long overdue change. She said they’ve relied too much on that specific kind of client, white, elderly, North American or European. She’s pressing for the whole region to use the moment to diversify. To attract their own African tourists, who have been ignored. To look to Asia and its multi-generational travelers. And to appeal to Black Americans.“For a long, long time, the African-American diaspora has never traveled to southern Africa,” she said. “It wasn’t that they didn’t want to come. It was because when you see a brochure it was always these white elderly people. Covid has allowed us to reach into that and say, ‘OK, how do we make our industry more resilient by diversifying our market?’”No one is untouched. Sun International, a major player with a portfolio of casinos, resorts and high-end hotels in South Africa and several other African countries, has so far kept its 8,500 employees, although on reduced salaries. It can’t last. Sun International is now “having to consider quite severe restructures,” said Graham Wood, chief operating officer for hospitality.One of Sun International’s landmark properties, the 5-star Table Bay Hotel on the Cape Town waterfront, has been closed for half the year in the absence of foreign visitors. Many hotels around it remain shut, too.Wood does expect a bounce in domestic tourism at the end of the year from South Africans who aren’t going overseas. And domestic tourism got a boost last month when South Africa eased restrictions to allow interstate leisure travel for the first time since late March. But the international tourist season this year is “not going to materialize,” Wood said.That’ll be ruinous for Bolz in nearby Stellenbosch, whose attempts to lure locals have yielded just “a drop in a bucket,” he said. “It’s not going to sustain us.”His adventure tourism company combines hiking and cycling with wine-tasting tours in the mountain vineyards of Stellenbosch, near Cape Town, and epitomizes so many African tourism enterprises desperately missing their international visitors. He’s clinging to the theory that his foreign customers are innately adventurous and will come back sometime during the season. He’ll only really know early next year.And he’ll only know then if he can re-employ all his tour guides, experts in wine and the ecosystems of the Stellenbosch mountains. One is working at a laundry, two are helping out at a charity running soup kitchens to feed people permanently laid off because of the pandemic.Looking at the prospects for tourism, Bolz said: “We can only do proper business once international borders open again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/when-will-tourists-return-to-africa-continent-must-guess/story-znHysVYBn109D972YlNyMP.html
08-09-2020||World||Benjamin Netanyahu slams Israeli police amid report about cover-up||Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu lashed out at the country’s law enforcement system on Tuesday, continuing a crusade to discredit those who have pressed corruption cases against him ahead of the resumption of his trial early next year.Netanyahu’s latest tirade came in response to a report by Channel 12 TV alleging that police covered up a conflict of interest involving one of its senior investigators who was looking into alleged crimes committed by Netanyahu and his wife Sara.Speaking at an event meant to be focused on Israel’s struggling battle against the coronavirus, Netanyahu was asked about the report and devoted a chunk of his time accusing the police of conspiring to oust him.“The entire chain of command is involved: senior investigators, the chief of police, the state attorney, and everything is sanctioned and authorized by the attorney general,” Netanyahu said. “This was not an investigation. This is a corrupt political conspiracy to topple a prime minister.”To highlight his point about police wrongdoing, Netanyahu addressed another media report claiming the former state prosecutor did not pursue an investigation into a case of alleged police misconduct. The case surrounded the fatal shooting of a Bedouin Arab man in 2017 out of fears it would tarnish the image of law enforcement amid its investigations into Netanyahu. Police shot the man, claiming he had intentionally rammed his car into police who were carrying out a demolition in his village. His family disputes the police claims.On Tuesday, Netanyahu apologized for the killing and for the man being wrongly labeled a terrorist, which he said is what he was told by police at the time.Since he was indicted on charges of fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes, Netanyahu has repeatedly sought to disparage the police and prosecutors, accusing them of being biased against him and seeking to force him out of office. Legal officials and experts say Netanyahu’s attacks on an independent and reputable system have done lasting damage to Israel’s democracy.The charges revolve around a series of scandals that accuse Netanyahu of trading favors with wealthy associates in exchange for gifts and palatable media coverage of himself and his family.Netanyahu’s trial is set to resume in January, with evidentiary hearings to take place three times a week and sure to keep Netanyahu’s alleged crimes firmly in the public conversation at a time when he faces widespread discontent over his handling of the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/benjamin-netanyahu-slams-israeli-police-amid-report-about-cover-up/story-9iCIlwZeKX0k3mODpM0EOL.html
08-09-2020||World||Computer glitches disrupt classes as schools return online||As millions of American youngsters start the school year with online classes at home because of the coronavirus, they are running into technical glitches and other headaches that have thrust many a harried parent into the role of teacher’s aide and tech support person.A ransomware attack forced schools in Hartford, Connecticut, to postpone the start of online and in-person classes this week. Seattle’s system crashed last week, and a Zoom outage caused it to shut down for more than two hours in August. An online learning program used in Alabama and other places recently crashed. North Carolina’s platform went down on the first day of classes last month.Erik Rasmussen, a Falls Church, Virginia, resident who has three children taking online classes, said he regularly copes with computer glitches and short attention spans. The divorced dad has his children half the time.“You put your kids in front of the computer, and then I go to do my work, but kids are kids -- they’re going to turn off the video function and start playing a game,” he said.Summer break gave school districts time to iron out kinks that cropped up when the virus forced them to switch to online classes in the spring. But the new school year already has been plagued by some of the same problems.Florida’s largest school district, in Miami-Dade County, had assured parents that it had consolidated different programs into one platform that would be easier to navigate. But software glitches and cyberattacks disrupted the first week of the new school year that started Aug. 31.A high school student was arrested and accused of orchestrating a series of network outages. School administrators believe other people may be doing the same.Christy Rodriguez, 36, said her third- and fourth-grade boys’ classes struggled with connection problems during the first week of school.“Four full days were lost,” she said. “Either somebody is not able to go on, or the screen goes blank, or the teacher can’t hear the kids, so the teacher then just logs off and then sends a message to the parents.”Rodriguez said she has been forced to work until late at night because her children need help fixing connection problems.“The teachers are frustrated. The kids are frustrated. I hope that they soon open up schools,” she said.Another parent, Alessandra Martinez, said her 7-year-old son has struggled with logins, passwords and connection problems. He had a meltdown on Friday when he was moved to a smaller breakout group but didn’t see the teacher and didn’t know what he was supposed to be doing.“At their age, everything is amplified, and it feels like a big deal,” Martinez said.Martinez said she was against the school district using a product commonly employed by parents who homeschool.“This is a homeschooling program, but for parents who are working from home and have multiple children, it is a bit overwhelming,” she said. “We have this set up as a one-size-fits-all, and it doesn’t work for everybody.”Some school districts have opted for a mix on online and in-person instruction. The school year started on Aug. 13 in Shelby County, Alabama, where about one-quarter of the students have been doing virtual learning, while about three-quarters have been doing in-person instruction for two days and remote learning for three days.Students will be able to do five-day-a-week in-person instruction starting on Sept. 14 if their parents choose. Parents can opt for fully virtual learning instead.“It was our intention all along that we wanted to have a cautious start,” said Shelby County schools spokeswoman Cindy Warner. “Along the way, we’ve monitored our data and looked at the state and county data to make sure that the number of cases have remained low.”In Hartford, where the first day of school was supposed to be Tuesday, a new start date has not been announced. The ransomware attack crippled critical systems, including one used to supply transportation routes to a school bus company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/computer-glitches-disrupt-classes-as-schools-return-online/story-vJlEQ6HJXB2Y9TuIdF9tPO.html
08-09-2020||World||Trump slams Harris for doubting vaccine, says she’ll never be president||President Donald Trump has accused the Biden campaign of politicising the search for a Covid-19 vaccine, and said Democratic vice presidential candidate Kamala Harris “will never be president.”“I watched Kamala’s whole numbers drop (during the Democratic primaries) from 15 to almost zero and then drop out even before she ran in Iowa because people didn’t like it. And I understand why she will never be president,” Trump told reporters on Monday in a briefing that he opened with an attack on the Indian-origin California senator.Harris had said she would not trust any vaccine announced by Trump without credible and reliable information. Calling her the “most liberal person in Congress”, Trump demanded that she should “apologise for the reckless anti-vaccine rhetoric”.He said she is “not a competent person, in my opinion; would destroy this country and would destroy this economy”. Trump insisted that a vaccine may be ready “even before a very special date”, referring to November 3, the Election Day. “So now they’re saying, ‘Wow, Trump has pulled this off. Okay, let’s disparage the vaccine’,” he said, adding, “That’s so bad for this country.”The president denied he was himself politicising the vaccine search by talking about a breakthrough as early as October. “No, I’m saying that because we want to save a lot of lives,” he said, adding, “the faster, the better. With somebody else, maybe they would say it politically, but I’m saying it in terms of this is what we need.”When asked if she would take the vaccine if it was announced before the election, Harris had said in an interview to CNN, “I will say that I would not trust Donald Trump, and it would have to be a credible source of information that talks about the efficacy and the reliability of whatever he’s talking about.”Trump has repeatedly claimed a vaccine will have been found by the end of the year for Covid-19 that has killed nearly 190,000 Americans and infected more tan 6.4 million, and sent the economy into a tail spin, with millions of people left jobless by shuttered businesses.Questions have been raised about Trump’s handling of the epidemic — with most Americans rating it poorly in polls — seriously imperiling his re-election bid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-slams-harris-for-doubting-vaccine-says-she-ll-never-be-president/story-izGoO38OfyfoDeyGZei6II.html
08-09-2020||World||California’s climate crisis is deepening as 500,000 go dark||In a matter of weeks, California has been hit with two record-breaking heat waves, hundreds of blazes, freak lightning storms and dangerously poor air quality, and now unusually strong winds are threatening to knock down power lines and ignite more wildfires.That’s prompting the state’s largest utility to impose power cuts for more than 500,000 people, and with dangerous conditions stretching across the West, Portland General Electric Co. has also switched off power to some Oregon customers.The shutoffs that PG&E Corp. began late Monday are the latest blow for the disaster-weary California, where climate change is making weather ever more extreme. Temperatures have soared to records from Napa to Los Angeles. Wildfires have torched more than 2 million acres, the most in records stretching back three decades. Hundreds of thousands of people may go dark for days while trapped indoors due to wildfire smoke and Covid-19 outbreaks.Officials are responding with equally extreme measures. In August, California carried out its first rotating blackouts since the 2001 energy crisis, drawing the ire of millions who went powerless amid extreme temperatures. The Trump administration declared a power emergency, allowing power plants to run at full bore, regardless of environmental limits. The shutoffs that began late Monday are a fairly new and controversial practice, and their use last year triggered investigations while utilities defended them as necessary in the face of increasingly wild weather.Now, as a second round of ferocious temperatures abates, so-called Diablo winds sweeping in have set the conditions for even more fires. PG&E, which filed for bankruptcy last year after its equipment sparked deadly wildfires, warned the precautionary shutoffs could impact portions of 22 counties from late Monday through Wednesday, including in the Sierra foothills and North Bay.“Unfortunately, the continued hot and dry weather is going to continue to dry out vegetation across California -- and make that vegetation even more susceptible to new admissions and large fires,” Scott Strenfel, a PG&E meteorologist, said during a public briefing late Monday.PG&E, which emerged from Chapter 11 in July after agreeing to pay $25.5 billion to settle wildfire lawsuits, said preemptive shutoffs that started late Monday could leave about 172,000 homes and businesses in the dark. That could impact up to 516,000 people, based on the size of the average California household.Shutoffs were expected to affect about 104,000 customers starting from 9 p.m. local time Monday, with the remainder going down in two phases Tuesday. Some customers may not have power restored until 9 p.m. Wednesday, according to an announcement Tuesday morning.PG&E also plans to turn off about 100 transmission lines and 145 distribution lines, it said during the briefing.In Oregon, high winds have knocked out electricity to about 80,000 Portland General customers, and for the first time the company intentionally cut power to about 5,000 homes and businesses near Mt. Hood.The U.S. Forest Service said in a statement Monday that most of California “remains under the threat of unprecedented and dangerous fire conditions.” It has temporarily closed eight national forests, including Sierra National Forest.“Existing fires are displaying extreme fire behavior, new fire starts are likely, weather conditions are worsening, and we simply do not have enough resources to fully fight and contain every fire,” Randy Moore, regional forester for the forest service’s Pacific Southwest Region, said in the statement.California narrowly escaped rotating blackouts Saturday and Sunday, as temperatures soared past 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) in much of the state, squeezing the power grid to its brink. The fires only made things worse, taking down power plants and transmission lines, cutting power to 70,000 homes and businesses.While temperatures were lower Monday in some areas, officials said they were still concerned about getting through the afternoon, in part because of the fires. But in a tweet Monday night, the grid operator said it wouldn’t order power outages.The heat is poised to ebb only slightly Tuesday. Sacramento is forecast to hit 97. Oakland will be 91. And Los Angeles will be 87.The latest blazes are already wreaking havoc on the grid. The Creek Fire in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, which has scorched more than 78,000 acres, knocked out transmission from a hydro plant on Saturday.September and October typically mark the peak of California’s fire season, when plants have been sapped of moisture by the state’s dry summer. Rains most often return in October or November.Last year, when California’s utilities first began carrying out widespread blackouts like this, some homes and businesses were left in the dark for days. That drew outrage from state and local officials, triggered investigations and prompted PG&E to reassess the scope of future shutoffs. The company has taken steps to limit the size and duration of outages, including putting wires underground in some locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-s-climate-crisis-is-deepening-as-500-000-go-dark/story-S9nvAgN50SNIIw3vscqyCI.html
08-09-2020||World||Man tells police he ‘lost it’ and fatally shot his mother||A South Florida man accused of killing his mother told investigators “he lost it” after arguing with her about orange juice, an air conditioner remote and the use of her car to search for a job, police said.Luis Pages, 29, is charged with one count of second-degree murder following the Sunday evening death of Miriam Gonzalez, 59, in their North Miami Beach home.Pages called 911 after the shooting, telling the dispatcher he had shot his mother, a police report said.When an officer arrived at the home around 5 p.m. Pages told him “I killed her. Take me to jail,” the report said.Pages was taken into custody for questioning. He told detectives that after the argument, his mother held up a pink knife and threatened him. That’s when he pulled out a handgun and shot her multiple times, the police report said.He told investigators he tried to shoot himself but realized he was out of bullets. He called 911 instead.Pages was being held without bond. Jail records did not list an attorney for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-tells-police-he-lost-it-and-fatally-shot-his-mother/story-8ypivZe1JwO3tlyC0crH3K.html
08-09-2020||World||Coronavirus lockdown plunges South Africa deeper into recession||South Africa’s economy has sunk deeper into recession, with its gross domestic product for the second quarter of 2020 plummeting by 51%, largely as a result of Covid-19 and the country’s strict lockdown, according to statistics released Tuesday.South Africa imposed one of the strictest lockdowns in the world in April and May in response to the coronavirus outbreak, which has now claimed more than 15,000 lives and infected 639,362 people in the country.The halt to most economic activity during the shutdown caused heavy declines in South Africa’s manufacturing, transport and retail sectors, according to the country’s statistics body StatsSA. South Africa has one of the largest and most developed economies in sub-Saharan Africa.The country’s ban on trade in liquor and cigarettes also had an adverse impact on the economy during the period from April to June, with consumer spending on these items falling by 92%, according to StatsSA. South Africa’s manufacturing output shrank by 74.9% as factories stopped production, it said.“Air travel came to a complete halt, contributing to the fall in economic activity in the transport and communication sector,” said the report. “The retail ban on alcohol sales and closure of tourist accommodation facilities were notable drags on trade activity.”Some economists have warned that even though the Covid-19 outbreak was to blame for most of the decline, it simply exacerbated the economic crisis that South Africa was already experiencing.South Africa’s unemployment rate is now at a record high of 30.1 %.Since June the country has eased lockdown restrictions and gradually reopened the economy that is expected to decline by 7.2% this year, according to government projections.Miyelani Mkhabela, CEO and chief economist at Antswisa Transaction Advisory Services, said he expects the country’s economic decline to be higher than the predicted 7.2% predicted earlier this year.He predicted a contraction of more than 12% by the end of 2020.He called on the government to make immediate interventions to kick-start economic recovery by solving the country’s electricity crisis, which has now seen the return of scheduled power blackouts.The country’s state-owned power utility, Eskom, has been beset with management problems and corruption allegations for years, and now struggles to supply enough power, plunging households and industry into rotating power cuts.“If you look at the numbers, mining and manufacturing have suffered immensely and those are important sectors for us, which only work well when there is sufficient, affordable electricity,” said Mkhabela. “Energy is the lifeblood of every economy, so it needs to be high among the government’s priorities.”He added that widespread allegations of corruption and on-going revelations in an official investigation into graft are not helping the international perception of South Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-lockdown-plunges-south-africa-deeper-into-recession/story-Gj9bsRkviVyZBVx8LqdFxK.html
08-09-2020||World||EU, UK blame each other over deadlocked post-Brexit talks||The UK and the European Union blamed each other Tuesday in their increasingly acrimonious post-Brexit trade discussions that could just be weeks from collapse.While the UK urged the EU to show “more realism” in the discussions, the 27-nation bloc noted that it was a “world power.”The latest round of discussions kicked off in London on Tuesday amid an air of pessimism because of concerns that the British government is set to violate international law by reneging on commitments made before the country’s departure from the bloc on Jan. 31.The news that the head of the British government’s legal department has quit — reportedly over plans to bypass commitments made with regard to the Irish border — and an intervention from Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s predecessor only added to the sense the talks are going nowhere.Though the UK left the bloc on Jan. 31, it is in a transition period that effectively sees it abide by EU rules until the end of this year.David Frost, the British government’s chief negotiator, said the two sides “can no longer afford to go over well-trodden ground” in the deadlocked talks and that the EU needs to show “more realism” about the UK’s status as an independent country.European Council President Charles Michel retorted that the bloc is in no mood to budge on its demands.“We are sending a message, not only to our citizens but also to the rest of the world — Europe is a world power and we are ready to defend our interests,” he said in a speech Tuesday at the Brussels Economic Forum.The trade discussions have made very little progress over the summer, with the two sides seemingly wide apart on several issues, notably on business regulations, the extent to which the UK can support certain industries and over the EU fishing fleet’s access to British waters.The EU has been particularly insistent on level playing field issues in order to ensure that British-based businesses don’t have an unfair advantage as a result of laxer social, environmental or subsidy rules in the UK“If foreign companies want access to our market, we expect them to be on the same footing as our European companies,” Michel said.Relations have got further strained this week following reports that Britain’s Conservative government was attempting to unilaterally ride roughshod over its divorce agreement. EU officials said any attempt to override the international treaty could jeopardize peace in Northern Ireland as well as undermine the chances of any trade deal. Under the terms of Britain’s departure, the government has committed itself to ensuring an open border between Northern Ireland, which is part of the UK, and EU member Ireland.The British government said the publication of planned legislation on Wednesday is intended to tie up some “loose ends” where there was a need for “legal certainty.” It said the Internal Market Bill will ensure goods from Northern Ireland, which is part of the EU, will continue to have unfettered access to the UK market, while making clear EU state aid rules, which will continue to apply in Northern Ireland, won’t apply in the rest of the UKThough the government insists it’s not planning to tear up its commitments, it appears that concerns over its intentions lay behind the resignation Tuesday of Jonathan Jones, one of the top officials in its legal department.A spokesman for the Attorney General’s office confirmed the resignation, but wouldn’t comment on the reason behind it. The Financial Times reported that Jones quit because of a dispute over suggestions the government would challenge parts of the withdrawal agreement.And Johnson’s predecessor, Theresa May, raised concerns that any attempt to bypass commitments could damage the UK’s international standing.“The UK government signed the withdrawal agreement with the Northern Ireland protocol. This Parliament voted that withdrawal agreement into UK legislation,” she said in the House of Commons. “The government is now changing the operation of that agreement. Given that, how can the government reassure future international partners that the UK can be trusted to abide by the legal obligations of the agreements it signs?”Johnson has said Britain could walk away from the talks within weeks and insists that a no-deal exit would be a “good outcome for the UK” He said in a statement that any agreement must be sealed by an EU summit scheduled for Oct. 15.British businesses are worried about a collapse in the talks that could see tariffs and other impediments slapped on trade with the EU at the start of next year. Most economists think that the costs of a “no-deal” outcome would fall disproportionately on the UK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-uk-blame-each-other-over-deadlocked-post-brexit-talks/story-UCtdYr3tNe4g9frb8EIpiL.html
08-09-2020||World||China detains Australian journalist, intimidates two more to flee||A high-profile Australian journalist who worked for Chinese official media and was missing for weeks is being held on charges of endangering “national security”, China said on Tuesday.Cheng Lei, who worked as an anchor for China Global Television Network (CGTN) channel, is suspected of “criminal activity of endangering China’s national security”, the Chinese foreign ministry announced.The channel is the only English channel of national broadcaster, China Central Television.Authorities had taken “compulsory measures” against Cheng, foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said at the regular ministry briefing on Tuesday.Cheng, a Chinese-born Australian anchor, was detained on August 14, the Australian foreign ministry had said last month.Australian diplomats spoke to her from her detention facility over video at the end of August.Zhao didn’t share details of the charges levelled against Cheng.Zhao’ announcement came hours after the last two Australian journalists flew back to Sydney in late night flights after a five-day diplomatic stand-off.The Australian Broadcasting Corporation’s (ABC) Bill Birtles in Beijing and the Australian Financial Review’s (AFR) Mike Smith in Shanghai were apparently questioned in connection with Cheng’s case.Birtles took refuge at the Australian embassy in Beijing and Smith at the country’s consulate in Shanghai after they were questioned by the police. They left China after diplomatic negotiations gave them a window to leave China.With their departure, it will be for the first time that Australia will not have an accredited journalist in China since the 1970s.In a statement, the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China strongly condemned the Chinese government’s “…unprecedented harassment and intimidation of two Australian journalists by preventing them from leaving the country, leading both to flee China after a diplomatic standoff ended in a lifting of the bans.”Calling it “appalling intimidatory tactics”, the FCCC said that such actions threaten and seek to curtain the work of foreign journalists based in China who now face the threat of arbitrary detention.“This, combined with the expulsions of 17 foreign correspondents in the first half of this year alone, is a disappointing loss for global audiences seeking to understand more about China,” the FCCC statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-detains-australian-journalist-intimidates-two-more-to-flee/story-8Ghyphh8kA9Oz9BiclAbwI.html
08-09-2020||World||Shark kills surfer on Australia’s Gold Coast tourist strip||A shark fatally mauled a surfer on Tuesday on Australia’s Gold Coast city tourist strip in a rare attack off a beach protected by shark netting, officials said.The man, aged in his 50s, was was brought to shore by fellow surfers and lifeguards at popular Greenmount Beach with leg injuries, Queensland state Ambulance Service supervisor William Houghton said.Paramedics determined he was already dead on the beach, he said.The death is only the second fatal shark attack off one of Queensland’s 85 beaches that have been protected by shark nets and drum lines since as early as 1962, the state government said.The last fatal shark attack off a Gold Coast beach, 24 of which are now netted, was in 1958.Shark nets are suspended from floats and run parallel to beaches. They are 186 meters (610 feet) long and 6 meters (20 feet) deep. Sharks can swim under the nets and around their ends.No details were immediately available about the shark.A Senate inquiry in 2017 found that Queensland shark nets create more harm than good. The Senate committee said nets give beachgoers a false sense of security while entangling and killing protected marine species including whales and turtles.Australia’s last fatal shark attack was north of the Gold Coast near Fraser Island on July 4. A 36-year-old spear fisherman died hours after he was bitten on a leg.A 60-year-old surfer was killed by a 3-meter (10-foot) great white shark at an unprotected beach south of the Gold Coast near Kingscliff on June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shark-kills-surfer-on-australia-s-gold-coast-tourist-strip/story-dsBhF6KzOpNxIMx5SK3eCK.html
08-09-2020||World||Canada poll body prepares for possible snap elections||Canada’s polling agency has released the “approach” it will adopt to conduct safe elections during the Covid-19 pandemic as it appears likely that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau may trigger early polls in the near future to try and convert his Liberal Party’s minority government into one with a majority.Elections Canada is addressing a potential scenario of such polls taking place in the autumn, as it looked “to a possible fall election.” Trudeau will face a vote of confidence in the House of Commons by the end of this month and a defeat, if it happens, will necessitate snap polls. As he prepares to present a platform in Parliament that will be transformative in terms of social policies, there is speculation that he himself might prefer early elections, using the legislative promises as a manifesto.Andrew McDougall, a political scientist with the University of Toronto – Scarborough, said it was “possible” that elections could occur in the fall, that is between late October and November, though there was a “greater chance” they will take place in spring, around March or April.Trudeau returned to power just last October after federal elections, though short of a majority. McDougall said Trudeau could set the stage with the Throne Speech in September, equivalent of India’s Presidential address laying out the government’s agenda. He said, “He wants to go big and wants to introduce some major initiatives. That could be a strategy - he’s trying to reset the agenda.”Elections Canada is well aware of the possibility of snap polls and has “changes and measures already in the works” including implementing physical distancing at polling stations and procuring masks and single-use pencils for marking ballots, increasing the polling period from one day to two and expanding the mail-in ballot process. “Given the current minority Government, an election could take place at any time,” it said in a statement.Early elections could see Trudeau facing a fine balance between risk and reward. McDougall said he will benefit from the public perception of handling the coronavirus crisis efficiently while suffering from criticism over handing out a nearly billion dollar contract, since cancelled, to a charity with links to himself and his family. In addition, there may be little appetite among Canadians for early elections especially during a pandemic.The Opposition could also ensure fresh elections ousting the Trudeau Government in the vote of confidence, but that could bring about its own challenges as, McDougall said, it may not want to be “blamed for bringing about political instability.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-poll-body-prepares-for-possible-snap-elections/story-kCxzx3ltkKc0upapJLzLBP.html
08-09-2020||World||World must unite on climate or ‘we will be doomed’: UN chief||World powers must pull together and retool their economies for a green future or humanity will be “doomed”, UN chief Antonio Guterres has warned.Guterres called for nations to use the pandemic as a springboard to launch “transformational measures” in energy, transport, industry and in the way people live, in interviews with AFP and other members of Covering Climate Now, a global collaboration of news outlets committed to increased climate coverage.“Either we are united, or we will be doomed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-must-unite-on-climate-or-we-will-be-doomed-un-chief/story-St5MGhm9zZGemqWv3k735M.html
08-09-2020||World||‘India fired first’: China repeats after New Delhi says PLA fired near Pangong Tso||China on Tuesday said it has made “stern representations” to the Indian government after Indian troops allegedly crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and fired warning shots at Chinese border personnel on Monday.“Through diplomatic and military channels we have made stern representations asking the Indian side to stop it’s dangerous actions, immediately withdraw the people who crossed the line and discipline the frontline troops and those who fired the warning shots and make sure similar incidents won’t happen again,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said at the regular ministry briefing on Tuesday.The Indian army has already dismissed the allegations, first made by the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) western theatre command (WAC), early on Tuesday morning.ALSO READ | China’s PLA fired shots to intimidate Indian soldiers, says ArmyThe WAC statement said Chinese troops had to take “countermeasures” after Indian border troops fired warning shots on Monday near the Shenpao mountain region near the south bank of Pangong Tso .In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Indian Army said its troops exercised “great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner” despite the grave provocation by Chinese troops who fired shots to intimidate Indian troops.“It is the People’s Liberation Army that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political levels is in progress,” the Indian army statement said.“At no stage, has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing,” the statement said.In Beijing, the foreign ministry, however, continued to blame the Indian side for the new round of escalation in the ongoing border tension at Pangong Lake near the LAC.Zhao alleged that it was the Indian army, which fired first.“I also want to stress that in this incident, the Indian side fired shots to the Chinese border troops first,” Zhao said.“This the first time since 1975 that the tranquility is interrupted by the shots. And the Chinese side always stresses that both sides should peacefully settle our differences through dialogue and consultation. Confrontation won’t benefit either,” the foreign ministry spokesperson added.When asked to elaborate on what “countermeasures” the Chinese troops took, Zhao said: “Currently, I have no further information for you”.Responding to a question on whether the two sides could go back to the status quo of April, he said Beijing hoped that disengagement of troops could be achieved soon.“You have a good wish and we all hope our troops can get back to their camping area and there won’t be any more confrontation in the border areas. You know that the place has very bad natural conditions and it is above the height of 4000 metres. In winter, it is not good for humans to live,” he said.“So, we hope through diplomatic and military channels and through consultations on the ground, we can achieve disengagement as soon as possible and reach a consensus,” Zhao said.In a statement issued in Mandarin, and tweeted by state media, WAC spokesperson Colonel Zhang Shuili early on Tuesday said Chinese border defence troops were forced to take countermeasures to stabilise the situation after Indian soldiers troops “outrageously fired warning shots to PLA border patrol soldiers who were about to negotiate”.“During the operation, the Indian army blatantly shot and threatened the patrol personnel of the Chinese border defence forces who had made representations before, and the Chinese border defence forces were forced to take countermeasures to stabilise the situation on the ground,” Zhang said in the statement.“The Indian side’s move seriously violated related agreements reached by both sides, stirred up tensions in the region, and would easily cause misunderstandings and misjudgments, which is a serious military provocation and is very vile in nature,” the spokesperson said.Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a bitter standoff in multiple places in eastern Ladakh.Tensions flared up again in the region after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake last week when the two sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks to resolve the border row.ALSO READ | PLA move in Ladakh is part of Beijing plan to destabilize IndiaThe tension between the two sides escalated after violent clashes in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.The rise in the border tension comes days ahead of an expected meeting between external affairs minister, S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow on September 10,On Monday, Jaishankar, said the failure to observe several understandings on border management dating back to 1993 raises “very important questions” about the status of ties with China.“If peace and tranquillity on the border is not a given, then it cannot be that the rest of the relationship continues on the same basis, because clearly peace and tranquillity is the basis for the relationship,” he said while participating in an online interaction organised by The Indian Express newspaper to mark the release of his book ‘The India Way’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-fired-first-china-repeats-after-new-delhi-says-pla-fired-near-pangong-tso/story-ChXrvNGFpWI5HtkpYJFYOP.html
08-09-2020||World||Khashoggi trial fell short on transparency, accountability: UN rights office||The Saudi trial into the killing of critic Jamal Khashoggi has lacked transparency and fallen short on assigning accountability for the crime, the U.N. human rights office said on Tuesday.A Saudi Arabian court on Monday jailed eight people for between seven and 20 years for the 2018 murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, state media reported, four months after his family forgave his killers and enabled death sentences to be set aside.U.N. spokesman Rupert Colville, noting that the United Nations opposes the death penalty, told a Geneva briefing: “This is case where there has not been proper transparency in the justice process, those responsible should be prosecuted and given sentences commensurate with the crime.”“There is a whole issue of transparency and accountabilty in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/khashoggi-trial-fell-short-on-transparency-accountability-un-rights-office/story-W1OzfyqSju0AX5jDdcCDSO.html
08-09-2020||World||Belarusian protest leader ripped up passport to thwart deportation - Interfax Ukraine||Prominent Belarusian opposition leader Maria Kolesnikova ripped up her passport to thwart an attempt to deport her to neighbouring Ukraine, the Interfax Ukraine news agency reported on Tuesday.Deputy Ukrainian Interior Minister Anton Gerashchenko said on Facebook that Kolesnikova, who had been missing for the past 24 hours, had successfully prevented “a forcible expulsion from her native country”.The fate of Kolesnikova, a key figure in weeks of mass protests over the disputed re-election of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, had been a mystery since supporters said she was snatched in the street by masked men in the capital Minsk on Monday.“Maria Kolesnikova was not able to be deported from Belarus as this brave woman took steps to prevent her(self) from (being) moving across the border. She remained on the territory of the republic of Belarus. Alexander Lukashenko is personally responsible for her life and health,” Gerashchenko said.Interfax Ukraine quoted a source as saying that Kolesnikova had torn up her passport so that Ukrainian border officials would be unable to let her cross.Kolesnikova’s current whereabouts were unclear. Two other opposition figures who had gone missing around the same time as her did, however, enter Ukraine in the early hours of Tuesday morning, the Ukrainian border service said. “Kolesnikova has now been detained, I can’t say concretely where she is, but she has been detained,” Anton Bychkovsky, a representative of the Belarusian border service, told Reuters by phone. “She was detained in connection with the circumstances under which they (the group) left the territory of Belarus,” he said.Several prominent opposition leaders have been arrested or forced to flee Belarus since last month’s election after Lukashenko launched a crackdown by the security forces to maintain his 26-year grip on power in the former Soviet republic.Kolesnikova, a member of the opposition coordination council, was the last of three female politicians left in Belarus who joined forces before the Aug. 9 election to try to challenge him.A vocal critic of Lukashenko, she has played an important role in weeks of mass demonstrations and strikes by protesters who accuse Lukashenko of rigging his re-election.Lukashenko, who enjoys Russia’s support, denies that allegation and has accused foreign powers of trying to topple him in a revolution. He has responded with a crackdown which some those detained say includes torture and beatings.Kolesnikova, in an interview with Reuters last month, called on the West not to recognise him as president and said his rule was crumbling. (Reporting by Maria Kiselyova, Vladimir Soldatkin and Alexander Marrow in Moscow and Pavel Polityuk in Kyiv; writing by Mark Trevelyan and Matthias Williams; Editing by Andrew Osborn)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/belarusian-protest-leader-ripped-up-passport-to-thwart-deportation-interfax-ukraine/story-UQSeDgXd0mR35EwGJpKXhK.html
08-09-2020||World||Donald Trump vows to sharply scale back US-China economic ties||President Donald Trump said he intends to curb the US economic relationship with China, contrasting himself with Joe Biden by threatening to punish any American companies that create jobs overseas and to forbid those that do business in China from winning federal contracts.“We’ll manufacture our critical manufacturing supplies in the United States, we’ll create ‘made in America’ tax credits and bring our jobs back to the United States and we’ll impose tariffs on companies that desert America to create jobs in China and other countries,” Trump said at a White House news conference on Monday where he complained at length about his Democratic re-election opponent.“If they can’t do it here, then let them pay a big tax to build it someplace else and send it into our country,” he said of US corporations. “We’ll prohibit federal contracts from companies that outsource to China and we’ll hold China accountable for allowing the virus to spread around the world.”Trump has also recently entertained the idea of “decoupling” the US economy from China, a dream of US China hawks.“Whether it’s decoupling or putting massive tariffs on China which I’ve been doing already,” he said. “We’re going to end our reliance on China because we can’t rely on China and I don’t want them building a military like they’re building right now and they’re using our money to build it.”Despite Trump’s comments, bilateral trade is one key area of US-China relations that hasn’t worsened recently, with both nations reaffirming their commitment to a phase-one trade deal that stopped tit-for-tat tariff increases. China’s trade surplus with the US in August was $34.2 billion, the highest since November 2018.Still, tensions are rising on the tech front as the Trump administration moves to prevent China from accessing US user data on popular apps such as WeChat and TikTok. The US is also moving to shut out Huawei Technologies Co. from access to US technologies and equipment.Trump has sought to make China an election-year issue, portraying Biden as a lackey of Beijing and blaming the country for the US coronavirus outbreak. Polls show widespread public disapproval of the president’s handling of the pandemic.Trump didn’t say when he would implement the policies but framed the moves as part of a second-term agenda.“If Biden wins, China wins because China will own this country,” Trump said. “It’s the most important election in our history, right now, most important election in our history. Under my administration we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we’ll end our reliance on China once and for all.”Biden has turned the argument against the president, accusing Trump of being soft on China to secure a so-called “phase-one” trade deal in January and only toughening his posture after his administration lost control of the coronavirus outbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-vows-to-sharply-scale-back-us-china-economic-ties/story-wwRephzq4Ws0PQHiLbPbbK.html
08-09-2020||World||In-flight Wi-Fi boom shows travel is changing in Covid-19 era||Thousands of passenger planes are still grounded, but in-flight internet is surging to new highs.Data traffic over satellite company Inmarsat Group Holdings Ltd.’s European Aviation Network rose to a record in the final week of August, according to chief executive officer Rupert Pearce. Global airline traffic was still down almost 80% in July compared to the same month a year earlier.“It suggests there’s some semblance of normality beginning to return to some segments of the aviation market,” Pearce said in an interview. He pointed to a partial recovery in short and medium-haul flights after pandemic travel restrictions were eased.The data rebound also reflects new internet habits formed under lockdown, said Alexander Grous, an expert on airline strategy and economics at the London School of Economics, who has previously written research on behalf of Inmarsat.“Lots of users are basically two to three times more likely now to connect and stay connected on board than they were at the beginning of the year, before Covid,” Grous said by phone.The potential for an airline data boom may reassure the institutions that bought Inmarsat last December in the UK’s second-biggest take-private deal of 2019.The $3.4 billion acquisition by Apax Partners, Warburg Pincus, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and Ontario Teachers Pension Plan was partly a bet on surging airline connectivity.Inmarsat’s European Aviation Network has been ramping up capacity since its launch in July 2019. The company partners with terrestrial mobile networks like Deutsche Telekom AG and can deliver up to 100 megabits per second to a plane.The in-flight broadband business was “going gangbusters” when the buyout deal was struck, said Pearce. A few months later, Covid-19 left many airlines fighting for survival.Last month, rival satellite operator Intelsat SA bid $400 million for Gogo Inc.’s inflight Wi-Fi business, in another long-term bet on in-flight internet. Gogo has no satellites of its own and buys capacity from satellite operators to connect its onboard modems and antennas.More deals may be in the offing.The Intelsat-Gogo deal is “a logical move,” said Pearce. “There may well be assets that come up that make sense for us to agglomerate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-flight-wi-fi-boom-shows-travel-is-changing-in-covid-19-era/story-rBKafPMMbRoXyzqvwggMMN.html
08-09-2020||World||Fearing Covid-19 parents in Spain rise against back to school order||Angela Lopez hardly fits the profile of a rule-breaker. But the mother of a 7-year-old girl with respiratory problems has found herself among parents ready to challenge Spanish authorities on a blanket order to return to school.They are wary of safety measures they see as ill-funded as a new wave of coronavirus infections sweeps the country. They fear sick students could infect relatives who are at higher risk of falling ill from Covid-19. And they claim that they have invested in computers and better network connections to prepare for online lessons, even preparing to homeschool their children if necessary.Many of the defiant parents, including López, are also ready to stand up to the country’s rigid, one-size-fits-all rule of mandatory in-school education, even if that means facing charges for truancy, which in Spain can be punished with three to six months in prison.Her daughter was born with a condition that makes her prone to suffer episodes of bronchial spasms, which can cause difficulty breathing. With Covid-19 affecting the respiratory system, López doesn’t want to take any risks.“We feel helpless and a little offended. It’s like they force us to commit an illegal act because they don’t give us a choice,” said López, who lives in Madrid.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“It’s a matter of statistics,” she added. “The more cases there are, the more likely you are to catch it.” More than half a million people have contracted the virus in Spain and at least 29,500 have died with it, although the official record leaves out many who perished in March and April without being previously tested.With an average of 229 new cases per 100,000 inhabitants over the past two weeks, Spain currently has the highest rate of contagion in western Europe. Within the region, it leads what many experts are already calling a second wave of the pandemic, although the Spanish government insists that it now identifies most of the infections because it’s testing more and better.Officials also say that more than half of those infected now show no symptoms, which explains why hospitals that struggled at the peak of the epidemic in spring are seeing fewer Covid-19 patients this time.As cases continue to go up and fuel debate in parents’ group messaging chats, Spanish authorities last week issued revised guidelines for the reopening. They included mandatory masks for students 6 and older, daily body temperature checks, hand-washing at least five times per day and frequent ventilation of classrooms.The Ministry of Health has also recommended setting up so-called “bubble-classrooms” where a reduced number of students interact only among themselves, and “Covid coordinators” in every school who can react quickly if an outbreak is identified.But many parents say funding is insufficient to hire more teachers and that some schools just don’t have additional space. They also see an inconsistency in authorities allowing up to 25 children in classrooms while banning large meetings of people or imposing curbs on nightlife in response to surging contagion. In Madrid, those restrictions have been expanded even to private homes, where no gatherings of more than 10 relatives or friends are allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fearing-covid-19-parents-in-spain-rise-against-back-to-school-order/story-idjdNNVjRQ4MUIJPIBkcSP.html
08-09-2020||World||‘China acted openly and transparently on Covid-19,’ says Xi Jinping||Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday China acted in an open and transparent manner on the Covid-19 outbreak and that it had taken concrete efforts that helped save tens of millions of lives around the world during the pandemic. Xi, speaking at a ceremony honouring role models during the country’s fight against the disease, said China is the first major economy to return to growth during the pandemic - a fact he said demonstrates the country’s strong abilities and vitality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-acted-openly-and-transparently-on-covid-19-says-xi-jinping/story-WTRniPNHxRARtUfeEDLFjP.html
08-09-2020||World||Trump again raises idea of separating US and Chinese economies||With the US election approaching, President Donald Trump on Monday again raised the idea of separating the US and Chinese economies, also known as decoupling, suggesting the United States would not lose money if the world’s two biggest economies no longer did business. “So when you mention the word decouple, it’s an interesting word,” Trump told a Labor Day news conference at the White House in which he vowed to bring jobs back to America from China.“We lose billions of dollars and if we didn’t do business with them we wouldn’t lose billions of dollars. It’s called decoupling, so you’ll start thinking about it,” Trump said.Trump, who long touted friendly ties with Chinese President Xi Jinping as he sought to make good on promises to rebalance a massive trade deficit, has made getting tough on China a key part of his campaign for re-election on November 3. He has accused his Democratic opponent, Joe Biden, who leads in most opinion polls, of being soft toward Beijing.Also read: Donald Trump hints at vaccine ‘surprise’ as Joe Biden demands transparency“If Biden wins, China wins, because China will own this country,” he said.Biden for his part has criticized Trump’s Phase 1 trade deal with China, saying it is “unenforceable,” and “full of vague, weak, and recycled commitments from Beijing.”Trump vowed that in future his administration would prohibit federal contracts with companies that outsource to China and hold Beijing accountable for allowing the coronavirus, which began in China, to spread around the world.“We will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and will end our reliance on China once and for all.Whether it’s decoupling, or putting in massive tariffs like I’ve been doing already, we will end our reliance in China, because we can’t rely on China,” Trump said. “We will bring jobs back from China to the United States and we will impose tariffs on companies that desert America to create jobs in China and other countries,” he added.US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in June that a decoupling of the US and Chinese economies would result if US companies were not allowed to compete on a fair and level basis in China’s economy.Other officials and analysts have said that the two countries’ economies are so intertwined as to make such a move impractical, but Washington would continue to pressure Beijing to level the playing field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-again-raises-idea-of-separating-us-and-chinese-economies/story-Y64FSCSTTPdj56AkiBftSP.html
08-09-2020||World||Greece to bolster defence sector as tensions with NATO ally Turkey rise||Greece plans to acquire arms, boost its armed forces and revamp its defence industry, the government’s spokesman said on Monday, as tensions with NATO ally Turkey over energy resources in the eastern Mediterranean grow.Greece, which emerged from its third international bailout in 2018 and has been struggling with the economic impact of the coronavirus crisis, wants to spend part of its multi-billion euro cash reserves on its defence sector.“We are in talks with allies to boost our armed forces,” government spokesman Stelios Petsas told reporters, adding that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis will outline his plans during an annual economic policy speech on Saturday. A Greek government official told Reuters last week that Greece is in talks with France and other countries over the acquisition of fighter jets. Greece has also been trying for more than a decade to consolidate and privatise its loss-making defence companies.Mitsotakis will meet French President Emmanuel Macron in Corsica on Thursday, before a Southern European leaders summit (MED7) on the French island of Corsica. The two leaders are expected to discuss the European Union’s strained relationship with Turkey, Macron’s office said.Petas said that cooperation in the defence sector between the two countries will also be on the agenda. Turkey and Greece have long disagreed over the extent of their continental shelves. Tensions rose last month after Ankara sent an exploration vessel into disputed waters, accompanied by warships, days after Greece signed a maritime deal with Egypt.Ankara has since been extending the vessel’s work in the wider region, issuing advisories which Athens calls illegal. The Greek conservative leader discussed the latest twists in the row with European Council President Charles Michel, who chairs summits of EU leaders, during a phone call on Monday.Michel will visit Athens on September 15, Petsas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/greece-to-bolster-defence-sector-as-tensions-with-nato-ally-turkey-rise/story-w0FKxDOGQ5I2jcuYpqUczL.html
08-09-2020||World||Scorched earth: Record 2 million acres burned due to California wildfires||Wildfires have burned a record 2 million acres in California this year, and the danger for more destruction is so high the US Forest Service announced Monday it was closing all eight national forests in the southern half of the state.After a typically dry summer, California is parched heading into fall and what normally is the most dangerous time for wildfires. Two of the three largest fires in state history are burning in the San Francisco Bay Area. More than 14,000 firefighters are battling those fires and dozens of others more around California.A three-day heat wave brought triple-digit temperatures to much of the state during Labor Day weekend. But right behind it was a weather system with dry winds that could fan fires. The state’s largest utility, Pacific Gas & Electric, was preparing to cut power to 158,000 customers in 21 counties in the northern half of the state to reduce the possibility its lines and other equipment could spark new fires.Randy Moore, regional forester for the Forest Service’s Pacific Southwest Region that covers California, announced the national forest closures and said the decision would be re-evaluated daily. Campgrounds at all national forests in the state also were closed.“The wildfire situation throughout California is dangerous and must be taken seriously.” Moore said. “Existing fires are displaying extreme fire behavior, new fire starts are likely, weather conditions are worsening, and we simply do not have enough resources to fully fight and contain every fire.”Lynne Tolmachoff, spokeswoman for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, or Cal Fire, said it’s “unnerving” to have reached a record for acreage burned when September and October usually are the worst for fires because vegetation has dried out and high winds are more common. The previous high was 1.96 million acres burned in 2018. Cal Fire began tracking the numbers in 1987.While the two mammoth Bay Area fires were largely contained after burning for three weeks, firefighters struggled to corral several other major blazes ahead of the expected winds. Evacuation orders were expanded to more mountain communities Monday as the largest blaze, the Creek Fire, churned through the Sierra National Forest in Central California.It was one of many recent major fires that has displayed terrifyingly swift movement. The fire moved 15 miles (24 kilometers) in a single day and burned 56 square miles (145.04 square kilometers).Debra Rios wasn’t home when the order came to evacuate her hometown of Auberry, just northeast of Fresno. Sheriff’s deputies went to her ranch property to pick up her 92-year-old mother, Shirley MacLean. They reunited at an evacuation center.“I hope like heck the fire doesn’t reach my little ranch,” Rios said. “It’s not looking good right now. It’s an awfully big fire.”Mountain roads saw a steady stream of cars and trucks leaving the community of about 2,300 on Monday afternoon.Firefighters working in steep terrain saved the tiny town of Shaver Lake from flames that roared down hillsides toward a marina. About 30 houses were destroyed in the remote hamlet of Big Creek, resident Toby Wait said.“About half the private homes in town burned down,” he said. “Words cannot even begin to describe the devastation of this community.”A school, church, library, historic general store and a major hydroelectric plant were spared in the community of about 200 residents, Wait told the Fresno Bee.Sheriff’s deputies went door to door to make sure residents were complying with orders to leave. Officials hoped to keep the fire from pushing west toward Yosemite National Park.The Creek Fire had charred more than 114 square miles (295 square kilometers) of timber after breaking out Friday. The nearly 1,000 firefighters on the scene had yet to get any containment. The cause had not been determined.On Saturday, National Guard rescuers in two military helicopters airlifted 214 people to safety after flames trapped them in a wooded camping area near Mammoth Pool Reservoir. Two people were seriously injured and were among 12 hospitalized.Chief Warrant Officer Joseph Rosamond, the pilot of a Chinook helicopter, said visibility was poor and winds increasingly strong during the three flights he made into the fire zone. His crew relied on night-vision goggles to search for a landing spot near a boat launch where flames came within 50 feet (15.24 meters) of the aircraft.The injured, along with women and children, took priority on the first airlift, which filled both helicopters to capacity, he said.“We started getting information about how many people were out there, how many people to expect, and that number kept growing. So we knew that it was a dire situation,” Rosamond said.Rosamond called the conditions “extreme” and said it was one of the most difficult flying missions in his 25 years as a military pilot.Record-breaking temperatures were driving the highest power use of the year, and transmission losses because of wildfires have cut into supplies. Throughout the holiday weekend, the California Independent System Operator that manages the state’s power grid warned of outages if residents didn’t reduce their electricity usage. But none had occurred by late Monday afternoon.Pacific Gas & Electric warned it might cut power starting late Monday because of the increased fire danger. Some of the state’s largest and deadliest fires in recent years have been sparked by downed power lines and other utility equipment.PG&E received criticism for its handling of planned outages last year. The utility said it has learned from past problems, “and this year will be making events smaller in size, shorter in length and smarter for customers.”In Southern California, crews scrambled to douse several fires that roared to life in searing temperatures, including one that closed mountain roads in Angeles National Forest and forced the evacuation of the historic Mount Wilson Observatory.Cal Fire said a blaze in San Bernardino County called the El Dorado Fire started Saturday morning and was caused by a smoke-generating pyrotechnic device used by a couple to reveal their baby’s gender. In eastern San Diego County, a fire destroyed at least 10 structures after burning 16 square miles (41.44 square kilometers) and prompting evacuations near the remote community of Alpine in the Cleveland National Forest.California has seen 900 wildfires since Aug. 15, many of them started by an intense series of thousands of lightning strikes in mid-August. There have been eight fire deaths and more than 3,300 structures destroyed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scorched-earth-record-2-million-acres-burned-due-to-california-wildfires/story-dGcg98KAuqEQKKG7grajQK.html
08-09-2020||World||European Union hobbled over Navalny sanctions response||European countries have threatened sanctions on Russia over the alleged nerve agent attack on opposition leader Alexei Navalny, but a concerted decision will be tough to reach given the interests at stake.Western governments are united -- at least in outrage -- over the latest in a long line of assassination attempts against critics of President Vladimir Putin.And the Navalny case also raises particular concerns as German doctors say it involved the use of the Novichok nerve agent.The EU last week condemned the use of a chemical weapon as “a serious breach of international law” and warned Moscow it may respond with “appropriate actions, including through restrictive measures”.A diplomat explained that “restrictive measures” is code for sanctions against individuals who would then be banned from travelling to the EU and would have any assets they hold in the bloc frozen.There is already a precedent for such measures: in 2019, the EU added four members of Russia’s GRU military intelligence service to its sanctions list.This followed the attack on Russian ex-double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter, who were poisoned in March 2018 in the English town of Salisbury with Novichok -- like Navalny now.But the Skripal case was different in one crucial respect: The attack took place on the soil of an EU and NATO member, whereas Navalny was poisoned in Russia.NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has said an “international response” is needed but has refused to speculate on what form it might take.Steven Blockmans, an expert on EU external relations law at the Brussels-based Centre for European Policy Studies, said another key difference was that after Salisbury, British authorities soon found GRU agents had been in the UK.“In the Navalny case the forensic evidence of an involvement of Russian intelligence services is not there. The smoking gun is still missing,” he told AFP.If Russian intelligence was involved in the poisoning, that could lead to individual sanctions, Blockmans said -- but given it happened in Russia, this will be difficult to prove.Sanctions against individuals have to be legally watertight, since they can be challenged in court, and “conjecture” is not enough to justify them, Blockmans said.The mere fact that Novichok was used is not enough, even though the poison was developed by the Soviet military and is not freely available.The EU and NATO have both called for an independent international investigation into the Navalny case.“The ball has been hit back to Moscow, saying ‘show us an independent investigation, otherwise we’ll take your inaction as an admission of guilt’,” said Olivier Dorgans, a sanctions expert with the Hughes Hubbard & Reed law firm.Another possibility could be broader economic sanctions, which can be more political and require less legal justification.After the shooting down of flight MH17 in the Ukrainian conflict in 2014, the EU imposed a whole series of such measures against Russia, directed against state banks, the import and export of armaments, and the oil and gas industry. An EU diplomat noted that the bloc’s statement last week “did not explicitly mention economic sanctions but nor did it explicitly rule them out.”But Blockmans said this was unlikely, since they would need unanimous approval by all 27 member states, and some are already chafing at the impact existing measures are having on their own companies who want to do business with Moscow.“In this case, I would assume there would not be any political support from countries like Italy or Hungary because of closer economic and political relations with Russia. Cyprus might be an outlier as well,” he said.The Navalny case has also brought calls for an end to the Nord Stream 2 project, a 10 billion-euro ($11.7 billion) pipeline which is set to double Russian natural gas shipments to Germany.The project has been delayed for months after Washington moved to impose sanctions on companies involved, over fears of growing Russian influence.Germany is now facing calls to abandon it altogether.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-union-hobbled-over-navalny-sanctions-response/story-er3p81eCfFONOgOyOkC7aI.html
08-09-2020||World||Striking trainee doctors return to work as South Korea fights 2nd Covid wave||Thousands of trainee doctors in South Korea returned to work on Tuesday after ending a more than two-week strike as the country continued to post three-digit rises in new daily coronavirus infections.The Korea Center for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC) reported 136 new cases as of midnight Monday, after the rate fell to a three-week low of 119 a day earlier. The total infections rose 21,432, with 341 deaths.The daily tally has steadily dropped since it reached a peak of 441 last month after the government imposed unprecedented social distancing rules to blunt a second wave of outbreaks from churches and political rallies.Efforts to blunt the latest epidemic has been complicated by the strike launched on August 21 by some 16,000 intern and resident doctors against the government’s medical reform proposals.Also read: China’s Sinovac coronavirus vaccine candidate appears safe, slightly weaker in elderlyThe trainee doctors restarted work after agreeing to end the walkout on Monday, though many medical students continued to resist final licensing exams as part of the protest.The intern and resident doctors are the backbone of healthcare services in emergency rooms and intensive care units, and hospitals increasingly grappled with delays and disruptions amid constant growths in Covid-19 patients.Authorities are weighing whether to extend the social distancing curbs ahead of Chuseok, one of the country’s biggest holidays this month, which would see tens of millions of people travel nationwide.President Moon Jae-in said the daily numbers are expected to drop below 100 by the holiday, though health officials have urged against visits and gatherings.“Despite moderate declines in daily cases, cluster infections have increased fivefold compared to last month, and continued to emerge from various groups, including religious, medical and sport facilities as well as offices and social gatherings,” Vice Health Minister Kim Gang-lip told a meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/striking-trainee-doctors-return-to-work-as-south-korea-fights-2nd-covid-wave/story-CVzPhAVICTVOrNzPZ3VD4L.html
08-09-2020||World||Russia releases first batch of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V into public||The first batch of the Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19, developed by Russia’s Gamaleya National Research Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has been released into civil circulation, regional deliveries are planned in the nearest future, the Russian health ministry informs.“The first batch of the ‘Gam-COVID-Vac’ [Sputnik V] vaccine for the prevention of the new coronavirus infection, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology of the Ministry of Health of Russia, has passed the necessary quality tests in the laboratories of Roszdravnadzor [medical device regulator] and has been released into civil circulation,” the ministry said in a statement.Also Watch | India rebuts PLA claims; Russia releases 1st batch of Sputnik V to public Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The Russian health ministry registered the first vaccine against Covid-19, named Sputnik V, on August 11.Moscow Mayor Sergey Sobyanin expressed hope on Sunday that the majority of the Russian capital’s residents would be vaccinated against the coronavirus within several months.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine may be ready by October, says Donald TrumpAccording to the health ministry, the delivery of the first batches of the Russian vaccine to the country’s regions is planned in the nearest future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-releases-first-batch-of-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-into-public/story-3zo0QMVHlwEu0EGQgrjS5L.html
08-09-2020||World||China’s Sinovac coronavirus vaccine candidate appears safe, slightly weaker in elderly||Chinese firm Sinovac Biotech Ltd said on Monday its coronavirus vaccine candidate appeared to be safe for older people, according to preliminary results from an early to mid-stage trial, while the immune responses triggered by the vaccine were slightly weaker than younger adults.Health officials have been concerned about whether experimental vaccines could safely protect the elderly, whose immune systems usually react less robustly to vaccines, against the virus that has led to nearly 890,000 deaths worldwide.Sinovac’s candidate CoronaVac did not cause severe side effects in a combined Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials launched in May involving 421 participants aged at least 60, Liu Peicheng, Sinovac’s media representative, told Reuters. The complete results have not been published and were not made available to Reuters.Four of the world’s eight vaccines that are in the third phase of trials are from China.For three groups of participants who respectively took two shots of low, medium and high-dose CoronaVac, over 90% of them experienced significant increase in antibody levels, while the levels were slightly lower than those seen in younger subjects but in line with expectation, Liu said in a statement.CoronaVac, being tested in Brazil and Indonesia in the final-stage human trials to evaluate whether it is effective and safe enough to obtain regulatory approvals for mass use, has already been given to tens of thousands of people, including about 90% of Sinovac employees and their families, as part of China’s emergency inoculation scheme to protect people facing high infection risk.The potential vaccine could remain stable for up to three years in storage, Liu said, which might offer Sinovac some advantage in vaccine distribution to regions where cold-chain storage is not an option.Such estimation is extrapolated from the fact that vaccines readings stayed within acceptable ranges for 42 days at 25 Celsius (77 Fahrenheit), 28 days at 37C (98.6 F), and five months for 2-8C (35.6-46.4 F), Liu said, without disclosing complete data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-sinovac-coronavirus-vaccine-candidate-appears-safe-slightly-weaker-in-elderly/story-fhBycQKyz3XAKUmeTDRNFK.html
08-09-2020||World||Donald Trump hints at vaccine ‘surprise’ as Joe Biden demands transparency||President Donald Trump hinted Monday that the US could approve a coronanvirus vaccine in October, ahead of the November election, as Joe Biden demanded transparency from the government as it studies the shots.“This could’ve taken two or three years, and instead it’s going to be -- going to be done in a very short period of time,” Trump said during a news conference in which he criticized Biden for his skepticism that the FDA is operating free of political pressure.“Could even have it during the month of October,” Trump added, calling Biden’s doubts “political lies.”Many public health officials and scientists have expressed concerns that the Food and Drug Administration is under pressure from the White House to approve a vaccine before Trump faces re-election on Nov. 3. Americans may be unwilling to receive a shot if they believe it was rushed to market based on the campaign timetable.“The vaccine will be very safe and very effective,” the president said Monday. “And it’ll be delivered very soon. Now, you could -- you could have a very big surprise coming up.”Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Before Trump’s news conference, Biden said he would heed the advice of scientists about whether to get a coronavirus vaccine if one were to become available before November’s presidential election.“I’d want to see what the scientists said,” he told reporters Monday outside a supporter’s home in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.Asked if he would trust Anthony Fauci and the Food and Drug Administration, Biden redirected, saying he’d “want full transparency on a vaccine.”Biden has previously expressed concern about President Donald Trump and political appointees pushing for the premature approval of a vaccine in hopes of boosting his re-election chances. “He’s undermining public confidence,” Biden said of Trump.Trump fired back during news conference on Monday.Biden and his running mate, Kamala Harris, “should immediately apologize for the reckless anti-vaccine rhetoric that they’re talking right now, talking about endangering lives, and it undermines science.”Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Biden said he worries Trump’s behavior will damage public confidence if there’s an effective vaccine.“One of the problems with the way he’s playing with politics is he’s said so many things that aren’t true I’m worried if we do have a really good vaccine, people are going to be reluctant to take it,” he said.Biden also said he’d want an effective vaccine no matter the electoral consequences.“If I could get a vaccine tomorrow I’d do it,” he said. “If it cost me the election I’d do it. We need a vaccine and we need it now.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-hints-at-vaccine-surprise-as-joe-biden-demands-transparency/story-puvvkatmqW2HnLfgESGaDK.html
08-09-2020||World||Hundreds gather near Portland for pro-Trump rally||Hundreds of people gathered Monday afternoon in a small town south of Portland for a pro-President Donald Trump vehicle rally — just over a week after a member of a far-right group was fatally shot after a Trump caravan went through Oregon’s largest city.Later, pro-Trump supporters and counter-protesters clashed at Oregon’s Capitol. Police in Salem arrested people, but it wasn’t immediately known how many.Vehicles waving flags for Trump, the QAnon conspiracy theory and in support of police gathered about noon at Clackamas Community College in Oregon City.The rally’s organizers said they would drive to toward the state capital, Salem, and most left the caravan before that. A smaller group of members of the right-wing group the Proud Boys went on to Salem, where a crowd of several dozen pro-Trump supporters had gathered.At one point Monday afternoon, the right-wing crowd rushed a smaller group of Black Lives Matters counter-demonstrators, firing paint-gun pellets at them. There were skirmishes, and the Black Lives Matter group dispersed. Shortly after, Salem Police arrived on the scene.Organizers of the earlier vehicle rally said they did not plan to enter Multnomah County, where Portland is located. Oregon City is about 20 miles (32 kilometers) south of Portland.On Aug. 29, Aaron “Jay” Danielson, a supporter of the right-wing group Patriot Prayer, was killed in Portland after a pro-Trump caravan went downtown. Trump supporters fired paint ball canisters at counter-demonstrators, who tried to block their way.Danielson’s suspected killer, Michael Forest Reinoehl, was fatally shot by police Thursday. Reinoehl was a supporter of antifa — shorthand for anti-fascists and an umbrella description for far-left-leaning militant groups.Demonstrations in Portland started in late May after the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis and have continued for more than 100 days.A fire started outside a police precinct on Portland’s north side resulted in about 15 arrests during protests Sunday night into Monday morning, police said.Demonstrators protesting police brutality began marching about 9 p.m. Sunday and stopped at the North Precinct Community Policing Center, the site of several volatile protests in recent months.Officials warned demonstrators against entering the precinct property, saying they would be trespassing and subject to arrest.Shortly after arriving, the crowd began chanting, among other things, “burn it down,” police said. Some in the group lit a mattress on fire.Most of those arrested were from Portland. Others were from San Francisco; Sacramento, California; Mesa, Arizona; and two from Vancouver, Washington.Charges included interfering with an officer, resisting arrest, reckless burning and possession of a destructive device.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hundreds-gather-near-portland-for-pro-trump-rally/story-FAt5CmYtyeitXawAfOFnuO.html
08-09-2020||World||Trump says Harris will never be prez, slams Democrats’ ‘anti-vaccine rhetoric’||US president Donald Trump has slammed the “rhetoric” against the coronavirus vaccine by Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden and running mate Senator Kamala Harris, who he said would “never” be the president. Trump was apparently responding to a CNN interview by Harris on Sunday, in which the vice-presidential nominee said she would not trust the president unless there was a credible source of information that talks about the vaccine’s efficacy and reliability. “She (Harris) is talking about disparaging a vaccine so that people don’t think the achievement was a great achievement,” Trump said at a Labor Day press conference at the White House on Monday.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine may be ready by October, says Donald Trump “I don’t want the achievement for myself. I want something (that’s) going to make people better, that people aren’t going to get sick with,” he said. “That includes therapeutics, where we’re doing equally as well.” The president asserted that a coronavirus vaccine would be available in a record time, maybe by the end of the year and even before the November 3 presidential election. This, he said, had unnerved his political opponents. Biden and Harris “should immediately apologise for the reckless anti-vaccine rhetoric that they are talking right now, talking about endangering lives,” Trump said. “Numbers are looking unbelievably strong, unbelievably good. So now they’ll say, ‘wow Trump’s pulled this off. OK, let’s disparage the vaccine’. That’s so bad for this country. That’s so bad for the world to even say that. That’s what they’re saying,” he said.Also read: Biden and Trump go on the offensive as US campaign enters final stretch In response to a question, Trump said: “I watched Kamala’s whole numbers drop from 15 to almost zero (during the Democratic primary) and then drop out even before she ran in Iowa (primary elections) because people didn’t like it. And I understand why she will never be president,” Trump said. “Although I have to be careful because Obama used to say that about Michelle.... But you have to look at her (Harris) a little bit more closely because obviously Joe is not doing well. So, you’re gonna have to look at her a little bit too closely,” he said. Trump asserted that the vaccine -- which could have normally taken two-three years -- would be in the market before the end of the year. “(We) could even have it during the month of October. Contrary to all of the lies, the vaccine will be very safe and very effective, and it will be delivered very soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-kamala-harris-will-never-be-president-slams-democrats-anti-covid-vaccine-rhetoric/story-r9kIfNpOnI7gX6BUxHOpBM.html
08-09-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine may be ready by October, says Donald Trump||The prospect of a vaccine to shield Americans from coronavirus infection emerged Monday as a point of contention in the White House race as president Donald Trump accused Democrats of “disparaging” for political gain a vaccine he repeatedly has said could be available before the election.“It’s so dangerous for our country, what they say, but the vaccine will be very safe and very effective,” the president pledged at a White House news conference.Trump leveled the accusation a day after Sen. Kamala Harris, the Democrats’ vice presidential candidate, said she “would not trust his word” on getting the vaccine. “I would trust the word of public health experts and scientists, but not Donald Trump,” Harris said.Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden amplified Harris’ comments Monday after he was asked if he would get a vaccine for COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. Biden said he’d take a vaccine “tomorrow”want to see what the scientists have to say, too.Biden said Trump has said “so many things that aren’t true, I’m worried if we do have a really good vaccine, people are going to be reluctant to take it. So he’s undermining public confidence.”Still, the former vice president said, “If I could get a vaccine tomorrow I’d do it, if it would cost me the election I’d do it. We need a vaccine and we need it now.”The back-and-forth over a coronavirus vaccine played out as three of the candidates fanned out across the country on Labor Day, the traditional start of the two-month sprint to the election. Harris and Vice President Mike Pence campaigned in Wisconsin and Biden went to Pennsylvania. Trump added the news conference to a schedule that originally was blank.Harris, a California Democrat, said in a CNN interview broadcast Sunday that she would not trust a coronavirus vaccine if one were ready at the end of the year because “there’s very little that we can trust that ... comes out of Donald Trump’s mouth.” She argued that scientists would be “muzzled” because Trump is focused on getting reelected.Trump dismissed her comments as “reckless anti-vaccine rhetoric” designed to detract from the effort to quickly ready a vaccine for a disease that has killed nearly 190,000 Americans and infected more than 6 million others, according to a count by Johns Hopkins University.“She’s talking about disparaging a vaccine so that people don’t think the achievement was a great achievement,” Trump said, answering reporters’ questions as he stood at a lectern placed at the front door of the White House on the Pennsylvania Avenue side of the mansion.“They’ll say anything,” he said.Trump insisted he hasn’t said a vaccine could be ready before November, although he said so repeatedly and as recently as Friday.The president then proceeded to say what he had just denied ever saying.“What I said is by the end of the year, but I think it could even be sooner that that,” he said about a vaccine. “It could be during the month of October, actually could be before November.”Under a program Trump calls “Operation Warp Speed,” the goal is to have 300 million doses of a coronavirus vaccine in stock by January. He has spent hundreds of billions of dollars on what amounts to a huge gamble since vaccine development usually takes years.Concerns exist about political influence over development of a vaccine, and whether one produced under this process will be safe and effective.Dr. Anthony Fauci, the government’s top infectious-disease expert and a member of the White House coronavirus task force, told CNN last week that it is unlikely but “not impossible” that a vaccine could win approval in October, instead of November or December.Fauci added that he’s “pretty sure” a vaccine would not be approved for Americans unless it was both safe and effective.Stephen Hahn, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, has said the agency would not cut corners as it evaluates vaccines, but would aim to expedite its work. He told the Financial Times last week that it might be “appropriate” to approve a vaccine before clinical trials were complete if the benefits outweighed the risks.White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany, meanwhile, has given assurances that Trump “will not in any way sacrifice safety” when it comes to a vaccine. And executives of five top pharmaceutical companies pledged that no COVID-19 vaccines or treatments will be approved, even for emergency use, without proof they are safe and effective.Some concerns were sparked by a letter dated Aug. 27 in which Dr. Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, asked governors to help government contractor McKesson Corp. make sure vaccine distribution facilities are up and running by Nov. 1.Redfield did not say a vaccine would be ready by then.Three COVID-19 vaccines are undergoing final-stage, or Phase 3, clinical trials in the U.S. Each study is enrolling about 30,000 people who will get two shots, three weeks apart, and then will be monitored for coronavirus infections and side effects for anywhere from a week to two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-may-be-ready-by-october-says-donald-trump/story-JaXo4Bibr5zrfMrFrnNL4N.html
08-09-2020||World||Alarm as Covid infections rise again in Europe||Britain has recorded its highest daily cases of Covid-19 since May, with 2,988 new infections on Sunday, as several European hot spots saw fresh spikes.The UK is seeking to avoid another lockdown “at all costs”, environment secretary George Eustice said. The new surge in cases coincided with millions of children returning to schools and a government effort to get people back to work.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn France, the virus is spreading at a worrying pace, with 7,071 cases in the last 24 hours. Antoine Fontane, a leading epidemiologist, warned the country could face a “critical situation” in several regions in December if the current rate of infections persists. Hungary registered a daily record of 576 new cases, bringing the active case count to 4,377. Ireland recorded another 138 new Covid-19 infections. Spain’s coronavirus cases cross 500,000Spain has become the first west European country to register over 500,000 cases. The country of around 47 million people has recorded 525,549 cases, 2,440 of them in a day, and 29,516 deaths, since its first case was diagnosed on January 31.While US cases steadied, governors urged citizens to be cautious during the Labour Day holiday weekend. Australia warned of mounting economic pain as Victoria state announced only a gradual easing of its lockdown that will see retail, hospitality, tourism and entertainment under tight controls across Melbourne. Residents could face restrictions until October 26. World must be prepared for next pandemic: WHOWorld Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday the world must be better prepared for the next pandemic, as he called on countries to invest in public health.“This will not be the last pandemic,” Tedros said. “History teaches us that outbreaks and pandemics are a fact of life. But when the next pandemic comes, the world must be ready - more ready than it was this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alarm-as-covid-infections-rise-again-in-europe/story-oCsk8Xv94EkzE9ivxD6rKI.html
08-09-2020||World||World must be better prepared for next pandemic, says WHO chief||World Health Organisation chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday the world must be better prepared for the next pandemic, as he called on countries to invest in public health.More than 27.19 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 888,326​ have died, according to a Reuters tally, since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019.Watch | ‘World must be better prepared for next pandemic’: WHO Chief“This will not be the last pandemic,” Tedros told a news briefing in Geneva. “History teaches us that outbreaks and pandemics are a fact of life. But when the next pandemic comes, the world must be ready – more ready than it was this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-must-be-better-prepared-for-next-pandemic-says-who-boss/story-NKWI2bbLcyjqt521NU5XfK.html
08-09-2020||World||Iran constructing new building near nuke site: Report||Iran said Tuesday it is building a sophisticated new building near its underground Natanz nuclear site, state TV reported.The report quoted Ali Akbar Salehi, head of the country’s nuclear department, as saying the new structure is being built in the wake of a July explosion that damaged a building that housed centrifuge machines.“Regarding the evil action and sabotage that was carried out, it has been decided to establish a more modern, vaster and inclusive (building) to be constructed in the heart of the mountains around Natanz,” Salehi was quoted as saying.Last month, Iran said it found those who were involved in the alleged sabotage but said details will be released later.Natanz hosts the country’s main uranium enrichment facility. In its long underground halls, centrifuges rapidly spin uranium hexafluoride gas to enrich uranium.Salehi said construction of the new building “has already begun.”Iran has said its nuclear site had not been operating at full capacity due to restrictions imposed by Tehran’s 2015 nuclear deal with world powers. Iran began experimenting with advanced centrifuge models after the United States unilaterally withdrew from the deal two years ago.Iran has long maintained its atomic program is for peaceful purposes.The International Atomic Energy Agency says Iran enriches uranium to about 4.5% purity — above the terms of the nuclear deal but far below weapons-grade levels of 90%. Workers there also have conducted tests on advanced centrifuges, according to the IAEA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-constructing-new-building-near-nuke-site-report/story-e5gIRYe6AU5FZE5UxdWYSP.html
08-09-2020||India||Court stays election of Atul Bora as AGP chief for violating order||A civil court in Guwahati has stayed last month’s election of Assam agriculture minister Atul Bora as the president of Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), a member of the ruling coalition, for violating an earlier order issued by the court. Despite an injunction order issued by the court on August 26, the AGP went ahead with its 11th general council meeting on August 27 where Bora was unanimously re-elected as president of the party and water resources minister Keshab Mahanta was elected as working president. Acting on a petition challenging the election, the court of civil judge Shakti Sarma ordered on September 5 that the AGP leadership should refrain from implementing resolutions passed in the party’s meeting on August 27 as they were in violation of the court’s injunction order. The court asked Bora, Mahanta and senior leader Phani Bhushan Choudhury to preserve the attendance register and proceeding book of the general council meeting, CCTV footage of the AGP office and photographs of the congregation for fair adjudication of the case. Summons have been issued to Bora, Mahanta and Choudhury to appear before the court on November 11, the next date of hearing. Earlier, acting on a petition by three AGP leaders, the court had on August 26 issued a restraining order on holding the general council meeting as “it was against the AGP constitution as well as against Covid protocol”, which restricted holding of political meetings because of the pandemic. But Bora and other senior leaders went ahead with the general council meeting, stating that they had not received copies of the court’s restraining order. In its order on September 5, the court held that Bora had seen the restraining order on WhatsApp and details of it were also aired on local TV channels as well as some newspapers on August 27, the day of the meeting. “We are yet to get copies of the court’s order and can’t comment on it without seeing its contents. We will present our case in court and are confident that our views will be taken into consideration,” Bora told journalists on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-stays-election-of-atul-bora-as-agp-chief-for-violating-order/story-CPAY1RFIZUBHmdMDi1rwrM.html
08-09-2020||India||Telangana govt to include 17 new castes in OBC list, move will benefit nearly 10,000 families||The Telangana government has decided to include 17 new castes in the list of Other Backward Classes (OBC) category, as per the recommendations of the Telangana state backward classes commission. The decision was approved by the state cabinet at its meeting held under the leadership of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday night. At present, there are 112 castes in the OBC category in Telangana and they were divided into four groups – A, B, C and D depending on their backwardness with a total of 25 per cent reservations in education and employment. Muslims are also being treated as a separate group (Group E) of OBC with a quota of four per cent for education and employment. In the latest cabinet decision, out of the total number of 17 castes, 13 will be included in Group A of the OBC list and four more in Group D category so that people belonging to these castes would receive benefits from the government under the reservation quota. The new castes to be included in the Group A are: Addapuvaru, Bhagavatula, Bail Kammara/Chigadi/Gadia Lohar, Eenuti/Yenati, Ganjikoti/Ganjikooti, Goud Jetti, Kaki Pagadala, Patamvaru,/Masailhlu, OAD/OD/ODD, Sonnail/Sonnayollu, Sri Kashitriya Ramajogi/Ramajogi, Dheracheerali/Telsuri/Telsoori and Tolubommalata Varu/Boppla. And those falling under Group D are: Aheer/Aheeryalu, Govili/Govill/Gouli, Kullakadigi/Kullikadigi/Chittem and Taroollu/Soma Vamasa Kshatriya. An official familiar with the development said all these 17 castes to be included in the OBC list are the “Most Backward Classes (MBC)” who are mostly nomadic and semi-nomadic groups and had never been provided with any kind of reservations in the past. The Telangana OBC commission headed by Burra Ramulu made an extensive study of the sociological condition of the most backward communities for nearly two and a half years. Apparently, the commission shortlisted 23 such castes and sub-castes during the study and finalised 17 castes that deserved reservations. The commission submitted its report in July 2019. “This is a historic decision. It will benefit as many as 9,839 families belonging to these 17 castes. We are deeply indebted to the Telangana government,” said Mohan Chowhan, president of MBC Welfare Association, after meeting Telangana IT minister K T Rama Rao on Tuesday along with the representatives of all the 17 castes. KTR assured that the government would extend all kinds of support to the OBC groups which had been hitherto neglected and deprived of all reservation benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-to-include-17-new-castes-in-obc-list-move-will-benefit-nearly-10-000-families/story-oAngRMuDCNES7LXc9R5bfP.html
08-09-2020||India||Crucial meet amid fresh LAC face-off||New Delhi: A fresh face-off between Indian and Chinese troops has added to the complexities of the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) ahead of a meeting of the foreign ministers of the two countries that is being seen as crucial for a breakthrough in the impasse on the disputed border. Hours before external affairs minister S Jaishankar departed for Moscow, where he is set to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting, Chinese troops attempted to close in on an Indian position along the LAC on Monday night and fired in the air when they were dissuaded. The face-off, experts said, underlined the fragile situation along the LAC, especially after several incidents on the south bank of Pangong Lake during August 29-30. This is the first time that shots have been fired along the non-demarcated border since 1975, when four Indian troopers were killed in a Chinese ambush in the Arunachal Pradesh sector. Jaishankar is set to meet Wang on the sidelines of the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting on September 10 – the first time the two leaders will come face-to-face since the border standoff began in May. They spoke on phone on June 17, two days after a deadly clash in Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian and an unspecified Chinese soldiers dead.In an event on Monday night to mark the release of his book The India Way, Jaishankar pointed to the serious situation on the LAC and underscored the need for “very deep conversations between the two sides at a political level”. He also made it clear India wouldn’t delink the border standoff from the overall bilateral relationship.Vipin Narang, associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said Monday’s face-off illustrated the urgency of reducing friction between troops of the two sides. “I don’t think either India or China have an incentive to go to war over the border dispute, but the increasing intensity and persistence of friction, along with air activity and the presence of loaded firearms may cause them to ‘stumble’ into war,” he said. “An advertent or inadvertent incident at a local flashpoint could now really fuel a broader conflict that neither government wants, as the forces continue to come into contact with each other,” Narang added. At least half-a-dozen meetings held by local brigade commanders from the two sides since the incidents of August 29-30 have failed to quell tensions on the south bank of Pangong Lake, which has emerged as the latest friction point. Several meetings of the corps commanders and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs too have failed to take forward the stalled disengagement and de-escalation process. The negotiations have been stuck on several key issues, including the mode for determining how troops should pull back, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Chinese officials have been insisting that troops from both sides should withdraw for an equal distance, while the Indian side has said the withdrawal should be determined according to time it takes troops on each side to deploy to the LAC, the people said. “For instance, in some stretches, a kilometre can be covered by troops on one side in 10 minutes, whereas a kilometre on the other side can be covered by troops in five minutes. Both sides should withdraw to a distance where it takes equal time to deploy to the border,” said one of the persons cited above. Experts said the upcoming meeting between Jaishankar and Wang assumes significance following the lack of a breakthrough in recent talks between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe, who too met on the margins of a SCO meeting in Moscow on September 4. Wei contended the responsibility for the tensions lies entirely with India, while Singh said the actions of Chinese troops, including their aggressive behaviour and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo, violated several bilateral agreements. Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said the latest face-off should be seen as “part of Chinese mindgames before the meeting of the foreign ministers to build pressure on the Indian side to get it to make concessions”. “The Chinese are very conscious of how the Indian government is projecting the link between border tensions and the overall relationship. At the same time, the Indian side has emphasised negotiations and dialogue for an amicable settlement. No one may expect a miracle at the dialogue in Moscow but everyone is looking at it with some hope,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crucial-meet-amid-fresh-lac-face-off/story-6foTXnIYzeH64S38s9PdNO.html
08-09-2020||India||In north Kerala’s Kannur, SDPI worker stabbed to death||A worker of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political wing of the Popular Front of India, was stabbed to death in Kannavam in the politically-volatile north Kerala district of Kannur on Tuesday, the police said. According to the police, he was travelling with some of his family members and the assailants who came in two motorbikes waylaid him and crashed into his vehicle. When he stepped out of the car he was stabbed repeatedly and he died on the spot. The police said deceased Syed Mohammad Salahuddin was one of the accused in the murder of ABVP leader Shyma Prasad two years ago. The seventh accused in Prasad’s murder case, he was out on bail. Though police suspect the alleged role of the RSS in the murder, they said details will be known only after a proper investigation. Kannur is notorious for RSS-CPI (M) clashes and of late workers of the SDPI and Popular Front have also been involved in violent clashes. Last week, three workers of the ruling CPI (M) were injured while country-made bombs they were assembling went off accidentally. All three injured are involved in political murder cases but the embarrassed party later distanced itself from the incident and disowned them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-north-kerala-s-kannur-sdpi-worker-stabbed-to-death/story-KJl7IvpFFfyd5vNY4Kpu9H.html
08-09-2020||India||Bhubaneswar’s fight against Covid hampered by lack of ICU beds||As Bhubaneswar turns into a Covid hotspot with over 5,000 active cases, its fight against the pandemic seems to have become difficult due to lack of ICU beds.As per the government data, of the 268 ICU beds available in Bhubaneswar, almost all the beds have been occupied though about 40 per cent of its ventilator beds are still empty. But with close to 400 cases being added to Bhubaneswar every day, there is a growing concern that the situation may spiral out of control.Khurda, of which Bhubaneswar is a part, is among 14 districts in the country with 5,000 plus active cases. So far 50 persons have died in Bhubaneswar, around 10 per cent of the total deaths in Odisha.Prem Chandra Chaudhury, commissioner of Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation, however said the situation is under control as around 80 per cent of the cases are asymptomatic. Of the 5,053 active cases till September 8, around 40 per cent are in home isolation while the rest are in Covid care centres and hospitals. Of the 4,300 normal beds available in Bhubaneswar, 80 per cent were occupied though the number of patients from Bhubaneswar in these hospitals was just about 20 per cent.“ICU beds are a matter of concern for us and we are adding more beds. As per ICMR projection, we expect the cases to decline by September 15. But people from other districts too are getting admitted in Bhubaneswar hospitals,” said Chaudhury. “We are increasing 60 more ICU beds and those would start functioning by September 10.” But what is concerning the officials is the rising positivity rate. Though the cumulative positivity rate in Bhubaneswar is 7.56, on Tuesday it went past 10.In neighbouring Cuttack city too, the situation is no better as almost all the ICU beds have been filled up. With 1,907 active cases as on date, almost all the 34 ICU beds in two Covid hospitals have been filled up, though 6 per cent of patients currently require hospitalisation and 2 per cent require ICU care. Cuttack Municipal Corporation Commissioner Ananya Das said 25 ICU beds in a new Covid hospital have started functioning from Tuesday, while another 50 ICU beds will start operating in another hospital from Thursday evening.“Right now we are able to absorb new patients as some patients don’t require ICU after some days of hospitalisation. Our number of cases seem to be flattening as per epidemiologists. But we are still searching for more hospitals,” said Das.Though the government has been trying to create new Covid infrastructure by adding more beds, it is not able to find trained doctors as well as the paramedics needed to man the ICU beds. “For intubation of critical patients, some amount of experience is necessary. Though the state has managed to train doctors and paramedics, it is not possible in such a short time. So even if ICU beds are available in districts, they are of little use unless there are trained doctors,” said Narayan Rout, president of Odisha Medical Service Association, an organisation of government doctors in the state.In a state where the doctor patient ratio is a staggering 1: 2597 against a national average of 1: 1,457, the lack of adequate number of doctors as well as paramedics have hit hard its ability to fight the pandemic. A doctor working in Bargarh district - now becoming a new Covid hotspot - growing infection among the healthcare staff was also putting more pressure. Three days ago, the Bargarh CHC was shut down after a staff of the health facility tested positive for Covid-19.“During Covid fight, at least eight doctors have succumbed to the virus while dozens of other healthcare staff and nurses have died. No one knows how many have actually died. The Centre had announced Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia for the next of kin of doctors who died during Covid. But Odisha is yet to extend that to the doctors here,” said a senior doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhubaneswar-s-fight-against-covid-hampered-by-lack-of-icu-beds/story-oEftW0bBBU0CbWl0GszI8K.html
08-09-2020||India||Schools to partially reopen for 9-12 class students amid Covid-19 pandemic: All you need to know||With easing of restrictions in ‘Unlock 4’, the government has allowed partial reopening of schools for class 9 to class 12 students on voluntary basis, officials said. The partial reopening of schools will kick in from September 21.In order to control the disease outbreak among students, teachers and other staff members, government has issued guidelines — including generic preventive measures, protocols in planning of reopening schools, while transportation, risk communication — that need to be followed by the school authorities. Here’s all you need to know:Generic preventive measures to be followed by teachers, employees and students:- Physical distancing of at least 6 feet to be followed as far as feasible.- Use of face covers/masks to be made mandatory.- Frequent hand washing with soap (for at least 40-60 seconds) even when hands are not visibly dirty. Use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers (for at least 20 seconds) can be done wherever feasible.- Respiratory etiquettes to be strictly followed. This involves strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing off used tissues properly.- Self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illness at the earliest.- Spitting shall be strictly prohibited.- Installation and use of Aarogya Setu App may be advised wherever feasible.Guidelines to be followed before opening up of the school:- Schools that were used as quarantine centres will be properly sanitized and deep cleaned before partial functioning is resumed.- Only school which fall outside the containment zones will be allowed to open. Further, students, teachers and employees living in containment zones will not be allowed to attend the school. Students, teachers and employees will also be advised not to visit areas falling within containment zones.- Students from class 9 to 12 will have the option of attending the classes remotely/virtually or physically only on a voluntary basis for guidance from their teachers subject to written permission of parent / guardian.- At all times, the teachers and students shall maintain a physical distancing of 6 feet apart, wherever feasible. Scheduling of activities and seating plan should be made accordingly.- Assemblies, sports and events that can lead to overcrowding are strictly prohibited.- Lockers of students will remain in use, as long as physical distancing and regular disinfection is maintained. - Swimming pools to remain closed for operations.- At the entry point, school entrance will need to have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitizer dispenser) and thermal screening provisions. Multiple gates/separate gates, if feasible, should be used for entry and exit.Conduct of guidance activities in the rooms or open spaces within the school campus:- Seating arrangement to ensure a distance of 6 feet between chairs and desks used by students and teachers. - Staggering of guidance activities to be done, with separate timing slots, to allow for adequate physical distancing and disinfection of classroom premises- The teaching faculty will ensure that they themselves and students wear masks throughout the conduct of the teaching/guidance activities.- Sharing of items like notebook, pens, pencil, eraser, water bottle among students should not be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-to-partially-reopen-for-9-12-class-students-amid-covid-19-pandemic-all-you-need-to-know/story-69JTjOFVPVUa60ZcjI6lnN.html
08-09-2020||India||Surat reports 265 new Covid-19 cases; 6 die, 231 discharged||The number of coronavirus cases in Surat rose to 23,158 on Tuesday with 265 more persons testing positive for the infection, the highest for a district in Gujarat, the state health department said.With six more fatalities, also the highest in the state, the death toll in the south Gujarat district rose to 906, it said.Surat city reported 177 new cases Covid-19 and the rural parts of the district 88.Both the city and the rural parts reported three fatalities each, the department said in a release.At the same time, 231 patients were discharged from hospitals following recovery - 179 in the city and 52 in the rural areas - it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surat-reports-265-new-covid-19-cases-6-die-231-discharged/story-t0n8fhkhDunnqyIBjjLMXK.html
08-09-2020||India||Govt invites tender for 741 km long Mumbai-Nagpur high-speed rail corridor||The government on Tuesday invited tenders to conduct a survey for a 741 km long high-speed rail corridor from Mumbai to Nagpur for potentially running a Bullet Train on the route. The high speed rail corridor will also pass through Nasik in Maharashtra.The project implementing agency National High-Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRCL) has been entrusted by the railways to prepare Detailed Project Reports (DPR) for seven new high-speed rail corridors.The tender reviewed by Hindustan Times has been issued for carrying out ‘survey, identification of overhead, overground, underground utilities and identification of power sourcing options for substations’ along the proposed Mumbai-Nasik-Nagpur High-Speed Rail Corridor.The national transporter has also begun feasibility studies on seven other potential high-speed corridors to gauge their financial viability and estimated traffic they will attract. The Indian Railways is exploring whether the corridors would be viable to run high-speed Bullet Trains with speeds above 300 kmph.The seven proposed corridors are Delhi-Varanasi (865 km) Varanasi-Howrah (760 km), Delhi–Ahmedabad, Mumbai–Nagpur (741 km), Mumbai–Hyderabad (711 km), Chennai-Mysore (435 km) and Delhi–Amritsar (459 km).“The length of the corridors as mentioned is tentative and subject to change as per actual survey,” a NHSRCL spokesperson said.NHSRCL has also floated tenders related to data collection for the Delhi–Jaipur-Udaipur-Ahmedabad high-speed rail corridor and the Delhi–Lucknow–Varanasi HSR corridor.The 886 km long Delhi-Ahmedabad high speed rail project will pass through Jaipur and Udaipur in Rajasthan.This also comes at time when the Centre’s first bullet train project from Ahmedabad to Mumbai is facing delays and may fail to meet its 2023 deadline.The timeline of the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor will need to be reassessed due to Covid 19, but the real timeframe for its completion can be provided only within the next three to six months, railway board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said on Saturday.Last Friday, Hindustan Times had reported that the work on land acquisition and tendering for the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor may face delays due to Covid-19 and the Bullet Train may fail to meet its 2023 deadline.So far, 63 per cent land has been acquired for the project, according to the railways.The project has had to contend with issues ranging from protests by landowners to rising costs because of a widening gap between the Indian rupee and the Japanese yen; 80 percent of the Rs 1 trillion needed to fund the project will come from a 20-year Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) loan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-invites-bids-for-741-km-long-mumbai-nagpur-high-speed-rail-corridor/story-MIWynnevuVdjFMFyeBdtcJ.html
08-09-2020||India||India, Iran foreign ministers review bilateral ties, regional situation||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif reviewed bilateral cooperation and held talks on regional developments during a meeting in Tehran on Tuesday. Jaishankar made a stopover in Iran to meet Zarif on his way to Russia, where he will participate in a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) during September 9-10 and also hold talks with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. He was the second Indian minister to make a brief visit to Iran in two days. Defence minister Rajnath Singh held talks with his Iranian counterpart Amir Hatami during a stopover in Tehran on Sunday while on his way back from Russia, where he too attended a SCO meeting. In a tweet, Jaishankar described his meeting with Zarif as “productive”. He added, “Discussed strengthening our bilateral cooperation and reviewed regional developments.” Zarif tweeted that he and Jaishankar discussed the “expansion of bilateral relations and trade, and exchanged views on important regional issues”. He said, “Our active engagement with our neighbourhood is our top priority.” Iranian foreign ministry spokesperson Saeed Khatibzadeh noted in a tweet that Jaishankar was visiting Tehran “a couple of days” after the Indian defence minister. “During the talks, the two sides emphasised on their will to further expand the bilateral ties in all aspects,” he said. There was no readout from both countries on the meeting. The visits to Tehran by the Indian cabinet ministers assume significance in view of reports that China and Iran are close to an agreement for a 25-year strategic partnership in trade, politics and security. They also came against the backdrop of India working closely with Iran to increase the economic viability of the strategic Chabahar port. The evolving situation in Afghanistan, where an intra-Afghan dialogue is set to get underway, is believed to have figured in the talks between Jaishankar and Zarif. Jaishankar last visited Iran in December last and had spoken to Zarif in April. This is his first trip abroad since foreign travel by ministers was curtailed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-iran-foreign-ministers-review-bilateral-ties-regional-situation/story-oEbtFNQbRe8WVovmG4yBaI.html
08-09-2020||India||1,295 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat, 13 deaths, 1,445 recover||Gujarat’s coronavirus tally rose to 1,06,966 with 1,295 new cases being reported on Tuesday, the state health department said.The Covid-19 death toll in the state rose to 3,136 with 13 more fatalities, it added. At the same time, the number of recovered cases at 1,445 outnumbered the new cases on Tuesday, increasing the total number of recovered patients in the stateto 87,479.With this, the state’s recovery rate rose to 81.78 per cent.Surat district reported the highest 265 new cases, followed by Ahmedabad at 170 cases, Rajkot 134, Vadodara 124, Jamnagar 99, Bhavnagar 41, Junagadh 36, Panchmahal 34, Kutch 32, Patan 28, Amreli 27, Morbi 26, Mehsana 23, Banaskantha and Bharuch 22 each, Dahod 20, Devbhumi Dwarka 19, Anand, Mahisagar and Surendranagar 15 each.Out of 13 fatalities, six were reported from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Rajkot and one each from Gandhinagar and Vadodara.There are 16,351 active cases in the state, out of which82 patients are on ventilator. A total of 72,076 samples were tested for coronavirus in the last 24 hours, at the rate of 1,108.86 tests per day per million population.Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,06,966, new cases 1,295, deaths 3,136, discharged 87,479, active cases 16,351 and people tested so far 29,25,447.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-295-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-13-deaths-1-445-recover/story-P5DJHAhtyKeIDmTIvxqewL.html
08-09-2020||India||Gehlot decides not to meet people for one month after string of infections at CMO, his residence||After nearly 40 personnel at the Chief Minister’s Office and his residence tested positive for Covid-19 in the last few days, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has decided not to meet people for the next one month, according to a release.“As per the advice of doctors, the chief minister has decided not to meet people for the next one month. During this time he will participate only through video conference,” a release said. Nearly 40 personnel of the CMO and the Chief Minister’s Residence (CMR) including some security staff have tested positive for the novel coronavirus over the last few days. The chief minister also appealed to the people to follow social distancing norms, wear face masks and take all precautions to stay safe from the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-decides-not-to-meet-people-for-one-month-after-string-of-infections-at-cmo-his-residence/story-PDGUJq75wh7zFQKKeuLRaP.html
08-09-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh reintroduces Deendayal Rasoi Scheme for meals at Rs 10||Deendayal Antyodaya Rasoi Scheme to provide meals at a subsidised rate to underprivileged people was re-introduced in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday. Now the rate per thali has been increased to Rs 10 from Rs 5, said an officer from the urban development and housing department. The decision was taken in the fifth virtual cabinet meeting, held on Tuesday through video conferencing. The scheme, which was launched in 2017 in 49 districts of the state in the name of BJP ideologue Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya, had been discontinued by the previous Congress government in May 2019. Then chief minister Kamal Nath had announced to introduce Indira Thali scheme to provide food to poor people at a subsidised rate but the scheme couldn’t be implemented. The initiative replicated the state-run Amma canteens, started by former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa, to provide food to the poor at low prices.After coming to power in March this year, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made an announcement of reintroducing the scheme. “Now, the number of kitchens will be increased from 56 to 100 this year. The urban development department has given the responsibility to run the kitchens. The necessary changes have been made in the scheme to get the financial support as the municipal corporations, which were bearing the responsibility of running the kitchens effectively, had complained of financial crunch earlier,” said the officer, who did not wish to be named. “Under the scheme, the food civil supplies and consumer protection department has given responsibility of ensuring the availability of wheat and rice as per demand. Not only this, the state government has also given responsibility for generating funds for smooth implementation of the scheme to the Department of Industrial Policy and Investment Promotion under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR),” said Narottam Mishra, minister of home department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-reintroduces-deendayal-rasoi-scheme-for-meals-at-rs-10/story-sgM9KsOXigNT5to1ybIIhO.html
08-09-2020||India||In Bengal, assembly session to be held for 1 day, Covid-19 test must for all||The monsoon session of the West Bengal legislative assembly will be held only for one day, instead of two days, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “It has been decided that the house will be adjourned after an obituary reference and placing of a few reports,” Biman Banerjee, speaker of the legislative assembly told reporters on Tuesday. Even though it had been decided earlier to hold the monsoon session for two days on September 9 and 10, on Tuesday an all-party meeting was held in which it was decided that the session would be held only on September 9. Several MLAs, house staff and journalists underwent a Covid-19 test in the assembly premises as part of safety norms ahead of the monsoon session. “Everyone from MLAs to staff of the assembly, security personnel and media personnel will have to undergo Rapid Antigen Tests without which the person won’t be allowed in,” said Tapas Roy, minister of state for parliamentary affairs and a spokesperson of the ruling Trinamool Congress. The 294-member West Bengal assembly was adjourned sine die on March 17 as the state budget session was curtailed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-assembly-session-to-be-held-for-1-day-covid-19-test-must-for-all/story-mn7gx8VakAr7qG5ELFCgcK.html
08-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea rejected, sent to judicial custody till Sept 22||Actor Rhea Chakraborty was on Tuesday sent to judicial custody till September 22 for her alleged involvement in procuring and consuming drugs in a drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The actor’s bail plea was rejected by the district magistrate. The 28-year-old was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) earlier in the day after three days of questioning by the agency.NCB has claimed in the remand application that Chakraborty used to procure drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput’s consumption. The agency has also claimed that Chakraborty also used to “manage finances for drug procurement along with Sushant Singh Rajput”. Top officials of the drug agency had said that they will not be seeking Rhea Chakraborty’s custody but will oppose if she seeks bail. Also read | Rhea Chakraborty gives NCB names of ‘top Bollywood celebrities’ who may have consumed drugs: reportChakraborty’s arrest comes days after NCB arrested her brother Showik, Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and his house help Dipesh Sawant.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are also proving the case with different angles. Chakraborty has been questioned by both the agencies.The CBI has also questioned her parents Indrajit and Sandhya Chakraborty. Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh, house help Keshav Bachner, roommate and creative director Siddharth Pithani, his former business manager Shruti Modi and house manager Samuel Miranda were also questioned by the agency.Also read | Abetment to suicide, cheating: Rhea Chakraborty’s charges against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters, doctorThe CBI took over the investigation into Rajput’s death last month based on a FIR filed by his father KK Singh. The actor was found dead in his rented Bandra house on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-september-22/story-eF28bmO6LbpgHLOMMsogHI.html
08-09-2020||India||Temple chariot gutted in fire in Andhra’s Antarvedi, protests follow||The burning of a 62-year-old chariot on the premises of famous Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district on Sunday has triggered unrest from Hindu religious groups across the state. Antarvedi is one of the most revered Vaishnavite religious centres in Andhra Pradesh. The chariot, made of teakwood and used during the procession of the Lord in festive seasons, was burnt to ashes in the early hours of Sunday. The closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed near the chariot did not function. On Tuesday, hundreds of activists belonging to various Hindu groups, including Vishva Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Haindava Sakthi, Hindu Chaitanya Vedika and Dharmaveer Adhyatmik Vedika, etc, stormed the temple located at the confluence of River Godavari. Raising “Jai Sriram” slogans, these activists jumped over the barricades put up at a distance from the temple by the police to prevent untoward incidents. The activists lay siege to the temple demanding that the government order a judicial inquiry into the burning of the chariot allegedly by some miscreants. Alleging that there was a deep-rooted conspiracy behind the burning of chariot, the Hindu activists tried to gherao endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas, social welfare minister P Viswaroop and BC welfare minister Chelluboina Venugopala Krishna were inspecting the spot where the chariot was burnt. The ministers were whisked away by the police. The endowments minister told reporters that the government had taken serious note of the incident and ordered an in-depth departmental inquiry. “We have already transferred temple executive officer N V S Chakradhar Rao and suspended a couple of other temple employees for their alleged negligence,” he said. Stating that the government would take steps to prevent recurrence of such incidents, Srinivas suspected that a conspiracy was going on against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government and it would be foiled. The minister promised that a new chariot would be readied at a cost of Rs 93 lakh before the Lord’s celestial festival in February. BJP Andhra Pradesh president Somu Veerraju said the Antarvedi incident had badly hurt the sentiments of the Hindus. “Ever since YS Jagan Mohan Reddy came to power, there have been attacks on various temples, causing a lot of anguish among the Hindus,” he said. Stating that there was an attempt to wipe out Hindutva in the state, Veerraju demanded that the government act sternly against those accused in the incident. “Otherwise, the BJP will have to take a tough stand against the YSRCP government in Andhra,” he warned. Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu and Jana Sena Party chief Pawan Kalyan also denounced the Antarvedi incident. Several Hindu seers like Kamalananda Bharati, Swaroopanandendra Saraswati, Dr CS Rangarajan of Chilkur Balaji temple in Hyderabad condemned the burning of the chariot at Antarvedi. They alleged that the government was giving lame excuses whenever there was an attack on Hindu places of worship. “Last time when a chariot was damaged in Nellore district, police said some mentally unstable persons had done it. Now, they are saying a short circuit is the reason. But there is an organised attempt to attack the Hindu temples in Andhra Pradesh,” Rangarajan said. Seer of Visakhapatnam Sri Sarada Peetham, Swaroopanandendra Saraswati, described the fire accident as unfortunate. He said it was a matter of sentiment for Hindus. He demanded a probe to identify the reasons for it and punish the guilty. Meanwhile, the state police set up five special teams to conduct a thorough probe into the incident. The teams are functioning under the aegis of Eluru range deputy inspector general of police K V Mohan Rao, East Godavari district superintendent of police Nayeem Asmi and forensic inspector general Rajendra Sen. Initial investigations revealed that some miscreants set fire to the dried palm tree leaves covering the chariot to drive away honey bees which formed a hive above the chariot. “However, there are no fire safety measures in the temple and there was not even a watchman to oversee the temple protection,” an official familiar with the development said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temple-chariot-gutted-in-fire-in-andhra-s-antarvedi-protests-follow/story-G7pWxkARxY5Z6hvQ60oLlO.html
08-09-2020||India||ED probes over 24 transactions in Deepak Kochhar’s accounts. It includes one by his wife||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is investigating over two dozen transactions worth over Rs 15 crore in Deepak Kochhar’s three bank accounts in Mumbai between 2008 and 2019, people familiar with the development said. Two transactions, one worth Rs 2.20 crore by Chanda Kochhar in her husband’s account on November 23, 2010 and another – worth Rs 1.39 crore - by her sister Karna Varuna Jaiprakash on January 14, 2016, are of particular interest for the ED investigators. The central agency had sought details from Deepak Kochhar about these two payments in his HDFC Bank account but he had not provided the same till Monday. In fact, he was questioned about these transactions before the arrest, an officer who didn’t want to be named, said. ED is also looking into the transactions - including date, amount involved and purpose of transactions - carried out by Deepak Kochhar with two companies - Pacific Capital Services Pvt Ltd (PCSPL) and Opel Properties Pvt Ltd (OPPL) – allegedly linked to him, according to documents accessed by HT. It says that Deepak Kochhar received Rs 40 lakh in his DBS Bank account in Mumbai from OPPL on June 26, 2009 out of which Rs 39 lakh was transferred to his company NuPower Renewables Ltd (NRL) the very next day. Subsequently, he got Rs 75,000 from OPPL on January 27, 2010. In all, there were nine transactions in DBS, documents suggest. On May 2, 2008, he received Rs 20 lakh in his ICICI Bank account in Mumbai from OPPL, which was transferred to NRL on May 4 (two days later). An amount of Rs 65,000 was received by him in the same account from PCSPL on July 30, 2008. ED documents also reveal that that ED had sought details of at least 15 transactions in Deepak Kochhar’s HDFC Bank account on different occasions as it wants to know the details of sender and purpose of transfer. The 15 payments, totaling around Rs 9 crore, were made within a period of three months, from June 29, 2010 and September 18, 2010. These payments ranged from Rs 4 lakh to Rs 2 crore. The official cited above said – “All these transactions point to layering and money laundering. But we want to be sure so we asked Deepak Kochhar. However, he was being evasive. We hope he will reveal all details during custodial interrogation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-probes-over-24-transactions-in-deepak-kochhar-s-accounts-it-includes-one-by-his-wife/story-6vof1QbGH5gcQSqjMxB4OI.html
08-09-2020||India||NDA hails Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest in Bihar; DGP says stand vindicated||The ruling NDA in Bihar on Tuesday asserted that Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest by Narcotics Control Bureau was “an important step” in the direction of securing justice for Patna-born actor Sushant Singh Rajput whose death has struck an emotional chord with the people of the state. The JD(U)-BJP alliance also lambasted the actor for lodging a “baseless” FIR against the sisters of the deceased actor and questioned the “support” extended to her by the Uddhav Thackeray government in Maharashtra, for “reasons the Shiv Sena knows better”. Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey also reacted with an air of vindication on the development. “Rhea has finally been arrested. We have been seeking a CBI inquiry into the case since the very beginning as the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai police seemed intent on driving the probe in a wrong direction. “ED too has lodged a case against the actress and investigations seem to have opened a can of worms”, BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said in a statement. He expressed confidence that the CBI will ultimately crack the case and ensure justice for the late actor. On Rhea filing an FIR against Rajput’s sisters, Anand said “Chakraborty has exposed herself by doing this. The development flies in the face of her professed love for the actor, whose father had leveled serious allegations against the actress in the FIR he had lodged at Patna. The BJP spokesman, whose party had been an ally of the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra for more than two decades until the exit of the Uddhav Thackeray-led party from the NDA last year, also launched a stinging attack on its spokesman Sanjay Raut. “In the Sena mouthpiece Saamna, Raut had been coming out in support of Chakraborty and making appalling observations about the bereaved family of Rajput. This shows that the Shiv Sena did not want that the truth be out in the case, for reasons it knows better”, he added. The JD(U), headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, also expressed satisfaction over the arrest of the actress and said it hoped that the investigations will wipe Bollywood clean of many ills that plague the Hindi film industry. “Our government agreed to launch an investigation and, later hand it over to the CBI, because the bereaved father had requested the same and also in view of the fact that the probe taking place in Mumbai did not inspire faith. “The CBI inquiry has virtually exposed the dark underbelly of Bollywood, including the close links between narcotics traders and celebrities”, JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. Prasad also said that Chakrabrotys FIR, lodged a few hours ahead of her arrest and accusing the deceased actors sisters of administering narcotics to him were ample proof that “she is rattled by the CBI inquiry and the consequences it may have for her given her suspected complicity”. The NDAs another partner in Bihar, Lok Janshakti Party, also hailed the arrest of the actress. LJP president Chirag Paswan, who was among the first politicians in Bihar to demand a CBI probe into the death of the actor, tweeted “NCB today arrested Rhea Chakraborty in a narcotics matter. This development would silence all those who had been standing in her suppor”. Paswan also added the hashtagjusticeforSushantSinghRajput. The 34-year-old actor was found hanging from the ceiling of his Bandra residence on June 14. More than a month later, an FIR was lodged at the local police station here by his father K K Singh who resides in Rajiv Nagar locality of the city. Investigation launched by the Bihar police had raised the hackles of the administration in Maharashtra where the government came out in support of Chakrabortys contention, made before the Supreme Court, that since the death had taken place in the western state, the actors home state had no jurisdiction in the matter. Things reached a flashpoint when an IPS officer from Patna, who was sent to Mumbai to head the investigating team, was forcibly quarantined hours after landing in the metropolis, in a move that was seen as an attempt to sabotage the investigation. Exasperated over the stalemate, Singh requested that the probe be handed over to the CBI, which was promptly granted by the Nitish Kumar government. Meanwhile, Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey who has ruffled many feathers in the recent past with his outspokenness, reacted with an air of vindication. “Rhea Chakrabortys arrest proves that she has some links with drug peddlers and that she is not without blemishes.Moreover, the Mumbai police carried out its investigation in a manner that could not inspire faith and when we tried to probe the matter hurdles were put in our way. “I am now confident that the mystery surrounding the death of Sushant will be unfolded and truth will come out, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-hails-rhea-chakraborty-s-arrest-in-bihar-dgp-says-stand-vindicated/story-8ev0IDw2MvrG5uTTsV9KNN.html
08-09-2020||India||Schools for students of Class 9, Class 12 can reopen on voluntary basis from September 21||As the government starts unlocking activities phase-wise in Unlock 4, the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare on Tuesday issued SOP (Standard Operating Procedures) for partial reopening of schools for students of Class 9 and Class 12 on a voluntary basis to seek guidance from teachers. This would be allowed from September 21, the ministry said.“Health Ministry issues SOP for partial reopening of Schools for students of 9th-12th classes on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers in the context of Covid-19,” the health ministry announced on Twitter.The SOP in health ministry’s fresh guidelines includes various safety measures against Covid-19. “These measures need to be observed by all (teachers, employees and students) in these places at all times,” the ministry said in the guidelines issued.The students of class 9th and 12th who wish to visit their school to speak to their teachers regarding their academics will have to submit a written consent of their parents or guardians, the SOP said.The health ministry issued social distancing precautions such as hand washing and use of face masks. Below are the guidelines mentioned in the SOP released by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare:- Physical distancing of at least 6 feet to be followed as far as feasible.- Use of face covers/masks to be made mandatory.- Frequent hand washing with soap (for at least 40-60 seconds) even when hands are not visibly dirty.- Use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers (for at least 20 seconds) can be done wherever feasible.- Respiratory etiquettes to be strictly followed. This involves strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing off used tissues properly.- Self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illness at the earliest.- Spitting shall be strictly prohibited.- Installation & use of Aarogya Setu App may be advised wherever feasible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-for-students-of-class-9-12-can-reopen-on-voluntary-basis-from-september-21/story-LT3YXF33zVMVwORCWSPZcM.html
08-09-2020||India||Rafale jets to be formally inducted into IAF on Thursday; French defence minister to attend event||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, his French counterpart Florence Parly and India’s top military brass will attend a ceremony in Ambala airbase on Thursday to formally induct five Rafale fighter jets into the Indian Air Force, officials said.Parly and Singh will hold talks in Ambala on ways to further deepen bilateral defence and security cooperation after the ceremony, they said. The French defence minister is scheduled to arrive Thursday morning and will depart late afternoon, the officials said.The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. The jets, produced by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are yet to be formally inducted into the IAF. Ten Rafale jets have been delivered to India so far and five of them stayed back in France for imparting training to IAF pilots. The delivery of all 36 aircraft is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2021. A second batch of four to five Rafale jets are likely to arrive in India by November. Sources said a preliminary discussion on a possible procurement of another batch of 36 Rafale jets by India from France may figure in the talks between Singh and Parly.The Rafale jets, known for air-superiority and precision strikes, are India’s first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 year after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The Rafale jet is capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA’s Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets.  Meteor is a next generation beyond visual range air-to-air missile (BVRAAM) designed to revolutionise air-to-air combat. The weapon has been developed by MBDA to combat common threats facing the UK, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Sweden. Out of 36 Rafale jets, 30 will be fighter jets and six will be trainers. The trainer jets will be twin-seater and they will have almost all the features of the fighter jets. While the first squadron of the Rafale jets will be stationed at Ambala air base, the second one will be based at Hasimara base in West Bengal. The new fleet will be part of the 17 Squadron of the IAF which was resurrected on September 10 last year. The squadron was originally raised at Air Force Station, Ambala on Oct 1 1951. The 17 Squadron has many firsts to its credit; in 1955 it was equipped with the first jet fighter, the legendary De Havilland Vampire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-jets-to-be-formally-inducted-into-iaf-on-thursday-french-defence-minister-to-attend-event/story-AieFPS0P9089hmEaUczELJ.html
08-09-2020||India||CM Mamata Banerjee’s 100 sit-ups solution for those spreading fake news||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee directed police to publicly humiliate those responsible for spreading rumors related to imposing restrictions during the Durga Puja. “Find out from where the messages have originated and make the accused persons do 100 sit ups holding their ears in public. I want to see it. Don’t hit them. Who gave them the right to malign Bengal and play with the sentiments of Bengalis?” said Banerjee. The chief minister was addressing the top brass of the state’s police force and senior bureaucrats while observing Police Day at the state secretariat. Launching a veiled attack, the Trinamool Congress said the “IT cell (of a party)” was hard at spreading rumours in the state. “Since Tuesday morning, rumors are being spread by the IT cell that the state government would impose restrictions, including night-long curfew during Durga Puja. Either you prove that the state has imposed restrictions or do sit-ups holding your ears. If you can prove that the government has done it, I would do 100 sit-ups holding my ears in public,” she added. A message was circulated on WhatsApp claiming that the West Bengal government has imposed several restrictions during the festive season. The West Bengal police have already tweeted that the message was fake and that the persons who uploaded such fake messages would be booked soon. “They (the police) first need to prove who has done this. All they do is implicate people in false cases. Second, there is no provision in law to make a person do sit-ups holding his ears. There is a legal system and courts are there to give punishments,” said Rahul Sinha, national secretary of the BJP. However, this is not the first time that Banerjee has challenged someone to hold ears and do sit-ups. In May 2019 when PM Modi alleged that TMC leaders in Purulia and Bankura were working as coal mafias, Banerjee hit back asking the PM to perform 100 sit-ups holding his ears if he is proved wrong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-banerjee-s-100-sit-ups-solution-for-those-spreading-fake-news/story-YakG92iCjVeX6lFdyycwJL.html
08-09-2020||India||All urban areas in Haryana open defecation free: Govt||All urban areas in Haryana have been certified as open defecation free (ODF), the Union housing and urban affairs ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. It stated that all cities in Punjab have been certified ODF, while Chandigarh has achieved 100 per cent door-to-door waste collection. Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra held a meeting with senior officials of Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh. “Mishra has stated that all urban local bodies (ULBs) in Haryana have been certified Open Defecation Free (ODF).... All cities in Punjab have been certified ODF,” it stated. Chandigarh is currently processing 91 per cent of the 482 tonnes per day (TPD) waste generated, while Haryana is processing 50 per cent of the 4,895 TPD, it said. “Punjab is currently processing 71 per cent of the 4,108 TPD of waste generated. The ministry secretary requested states and Union Territories to increase the processing capacity,” the statement said. In Punjab, source segregation of waste is being practised in 77 per cent of the wards, while in Haryana it is in 65 per cent of the wards. In Chandigarh, source segregation is being practised in 92 per cent of the wards, it stated, adding that Mishra requested all to ensure that 100 per cent source segregation is achieved expeditiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-urban-areas-in-haryana-open-defecation-free-govt/story-t8XyVmlj94YnGGf6CCgrpK.html
08-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Guwahati faces scarcity of hospital beds and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid surging Covid cases, Guwahati stares at scarcity of hospital bedsWith 2,785 new Covid-19 cases recorded on Monday, Assam’s tally of positive patients reached 128,244. The fresh cases have put an additional burden on the state’s healthcare facilities, particularly the availability of beds. Read moreGoogle bans 6 malware-infected apps from the Play Store, uninstall them right nowThe notorious Joker malware has turned up on the Google Play Store again just after the platform banned 11 apps in July this year for being infected with the malware. Cybersecurity firm Pradeo has now identified six new apps that have the Joker malware and are on the Play Store, Zee News reported. The firm said that these infected applications have nearly 200,000 downloads. Read more‘Rhea Chakraborty a scapegoat, should reveal names of masterminds behind Sushant Singh Rajput’s epic fall’: Kangana RanautActor Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau in Sushant Singh Rajput case has led to diverse reactions from Bollywood personalities. While many like filmmaker Alankrita Srivastava has likened it to witch-hunt, actor Kangana Ranaut has claimed that Rhea should ‘expose everyone now’. Read moreIrony only one Indian head coach in IPL: Anil KumbleAt 49, Anil Kumble has witnessed a lot. The greatest Indian bowler, with most hauls in ODIs and Tests, and one of only two players ever to take all 10 wickets in a Test innings, has also captained and coached the national team. Read moreMan’s tabla skills impress netizens. Seen it yet?The Internet is filled with videos showcasing amazing musical skills of people. From singing in a soothing voice to playing piano in a melodious way, the examples are many. Now, there is a latest inclusion to that list and it’s a video which shows amazing tabla playing skills of an individual. There’s a high possibility the video will leave you mesmerised. Read moreSonakshi Sinha stuns on magazine cover in Rs 6.5k outfit. Get the lookSonakshi Sinha has a very unique sense of fashion, the actor’s free spirited demeanour come through her style and while most of us are sitting at home, working on our desktops pajamas, the Akira actor’s latest social media post will make you want to buy formal wear, even if it is just to attend Zoom calls at home.  Read moreWatch: Why Special Frontier Force deployment at LAC rattled ChinaChina continues to provoke India at the LAC in Ladakh. In the latest, the Chinese troops engaged in provocative action along the Rechin La region, south of Pangong Tso Lake. China then blamed India forces and alleged that Indian troops had crossed the LAC and fired warning shots on Chinese border patrol soldiers who were about to negotiate. The Indian Army though countered the Chinese and said that Indian forces had not crossed the LAC and added that the PLA has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive acts. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-guwahati-faces-scarcity-of-hospital-beds-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6VHMJR1sTI3jcavXimz8eL.html
08-09-2020||India||Covid-19: With 3,609 cases, Delhi records highest ever infections in over 78 days||Delhi on Tuesday recorded highest cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in over 2 months after 3,609 people tested positive for the viral contagion. The fresh cases have pushed the cumulative tally in the national capital past 1.97 lakh mark. The death toll in Delhi reached 4,618 after 19 new deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours. Delhi could enter the second wave of disease outbreak if it surpasses its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases on June 23. According to the health bulletin, Delhi logged positivity rate at 7.8 per cent on Tuesday, with cumulative positivity rate at 10.66 per cent. In the last 24 hours, the authorities conducted 45,797 tests — out of which 9,944 were RTPCR tests and 35,853 were rapid antigen tests.Active cases in Delhi have risen significantly in the last one month. While the active cases hovered around 10,000-mark in August, the national capital recorded 22,377 active cases on Tuesday. Out of these, 11,742 people are in home isolation.  The case fatality rate in Delhi was recorded at 2.34 per cent. The number of containment zones stands at 1,166.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-breaks-record-sees-highest-ever-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours/story-2teLcsP7URYxeiIPxpm3TK.html
08-09-2020||India||Day after shots fired, PLA troops parked 200 metres from India-controlled Mukhpari peak||The Indian Army on Tuesday said Chinese troops fired their weapons into the air on September 7 to intimidate its soldiers holding dominating heights near a strategic mountain pass in eastern Ladakh, during a failed attempt to close in on a forward position controlled by India, with bullets flying at the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) for the first time in 45 years. Soldiers from the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) attempted to advance on the Mukhpari peak near Rezang La on Monday evening but they stopped in their tracks after a stern warning from the Indian Army that occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29, officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday, requesting anonymity. ALSO WATCH | Why Special Frontier Force deployment at LAC rattled ChinaALSO READ | ‘India fired first’: China repeats after New Delhi says PLA fired near Pangong TsoIndian soldiers had put up a “wire obstacle” near their positions in a warning to the PLA to not cross over, they said. The situation remains tense in the area with around 40 to 50 Chinese soldiers armed with automatic weapons, spears and machetes still holding positions below the Mukhpari peak, said one of the officials cited above. “They are the same soldiers who fired the shots. Our positions are around 200 metres away. They have been in the area for the last two to three days. The PLA’s intent is to occupy high ground,” said a second official. Reacting to a statement made by the PLA’s Western Theatre Command that accused India of crossing the disputed border and firing shots on Monday, the Indian Army said it neither violated the LAC nor fired bullets and the PLA was trying to mislead domestic and international audience with its baseless allegations. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Indian Army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said Indian troops exercised “great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner” despite grave provocation by the PLA. “It is the PLA that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress,” the statement said. ALSO READ | PLA move in Ladakh is part of Beijing plan to destabilize IndiaThe latest tensions in eastern Ladakh come days after defence minister Rajnath Singh asked China to strictly respect the LAC, not make attempts to unilaterally change the status quo, and work with India for complete disengagement from all friction areas in the sensitive sector. “On September 7, it was the PLA troops who were attempting to close-in on one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by Indian troops, the PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate own troops,” the army statement said. It did not specify how Indian soldiers “dissuaded” the PLA. The army said while India was committed to disengagement and de-escalating the conflict, China was undertaking provocative actions to escalate the situation.“At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to the use of any aggressive means, including firing,” the statement said. “The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility. However, it is also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs. The statement by the Western Theatre Command is an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience,” it added. The Western Theatre Command on Monday accused Indian soldiers of illegally crossing the LAC and firing “warning shots,” forcing the PLA to take countermeasures. During a meeting with his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe in Moscow on Friday, Singh made it clear that India was fully determined to defend its frontiers. He told the Chinese defence minister that the PLA’s aggressive actions in the Ladakh sector to unilaterally change the status quo on the ground violated bilateral agreements and the understanding between the special representatives of the two sides. Singh said while Indian troops showed a responsible approach towards border management, there should be no doubt about India’s determination to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Tensions flared up in the Ladakh sector after the army occupied strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake following aggressive moves by the PLA on August 29. China made another provocative move on August 31, targeting these positions but the Indian Army’s swift defensive action thwarted the Chinese attempt. Both sides have concentrated a significant number of soldiers, tanks and artillery pieces, and are within each other’s rifle range in the area. The situation on the lake’s southern bank remains tense with both armies sending in reinforcements to the area where the Indian Army controls ridgeline positions that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity --- India holds a series of positions near Black Top (a hill feature) and on Rezang La and Reqin pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-shots-fired-pla-troops-parked-200-metres-from-india-controlled-mukhpari-peak/story-OZA901e2KSBOuZmLbQ0cYI.html
08-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty’s arrest will ‘silence’ her supporters: Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan on Tuesday said the arrest of actor Rhea Chakraborty will “silence” those supporting her.  “The NCB has arrested Rhea Chakraborty in the drugs case. This arrest will silence all those who were standing with her,” he said in a tweet in Hindi with the hashtag “Justice for Sushant Singh Rajput”.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested Chakraborty after questioning her for three days in connection with drugs-related allegations in her boyfriend and actor Sushant’s death case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-s-arrest-will-silence-her-supporters-chirag-paswan/story-SPIX8DJIFyHmJIGkb9mVoN.html
08-09-2020||India||Security tightens for Kangana Ranaut as she returns to Mumbai tomorrow||Kangana Ranaut, who is scheduled to return to Mumbai from her home town Himachal Pradesh on September 9, will be guarded by 11 CRPF personnel, the Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday. The Queen actor was given Y-plus category security after she started receiving threats. The actor had likened Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir, which led to an uproar in the country.“Kangana Ranaut is scheduled to go to Mumbai on Sep 9. We are assessing the situation that might arise there. I’ve directed DGP to give her proper security. Ministry of Home Affairs approved Y+ security to her,11 CRPF personnel have been deployed for the same,” CM Jai Ram Thakur said.Ranaut is currently in the midst of controversy after she said that she felt unsafe in Mumbai following actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and also spoke of drug use in a section of the film industry. Her comments led to a tiff with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut over social media, with Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh saying “she has no right to stay in Mumbai”.“Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?” she had tweeted.On Tuesday, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a probe against Kangana Ranaut based on alleged drug claims made by Adhyayan Suman – the former boyfriend of actor Kangana Ranaut – in an interview three years ago.Ranaut said that she was more than willing to go through drug tests and was ready for an investigation into her call records. “I am more than happy to oblige Mumbai Police and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Please do my drug tests, investigate my call records if you find any links to drug peddlers ever I will accept my mistake and leave Mumbai forever, looking forward to meeting you,” Kangana Ranaut tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-tightens-for-kangana-ranaut-as-she-returns-to-mumbai-tomorrow/story-VYV52s2g8MNzTfoFwh1adL.html
08-09-2020||India||Amid surging Covid cases, Guwahati stares at scarcity of hospital beds||With 2,785 new Covid-19 cases recorded on Monday, Assam’s tally of positive patients reached 128,244. The fresh cases have put an additional burden on the state’s healthcare facilities, particularly the availability of beds.Till date, 99,073 patients have recovered, but there are still 28,798 active patients in the state who need beds and medical attention. The problem is more severe in private hospitals in Guwahati, the state’s biggest city. The state has been witnessing around 2,000-2,500 new cases daily for over two weeks now with Kamrup Metropolitan district, which includes Guwahati, recording around 500-600 cases daily. Out of total patients nearly 30% are in home isolation at present.“There is no dearth of beds. But gradually the requirement of patients needing tertiary care has gone up in the past two months. In recent weeks, the number of serious cases has gone up, so there is an issue in handling them,” said a senior health department official on condition of anonymity. “Initially most patients were young people who came from other states. They were mostly asymptomatic and recovered without much medical intervention. But now we have more aged patients with co-morbidities who need intensive care. We are alive to the issue and are adding additional ICU beds in more hospitals,” he added. The government hospitals in Kamrup Metropolitan district, including Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH), the biggest hospital in the state, have around 1200 beds for Covid-19 patients and nearly 95% of them are occupied now. The situation in dedicated private hospitals is even worse. Almost all beds and ICUs meant for Covid-19 patients in the 10 empanelled private hospitals in Guwahati are occupied at present and there’s a waiting list. “In our hospital out of the total 150 beds, 50 have been earmarked for Covid-19 patients. Right now all those beds and 18 ICUs for Covid patients are occupied and there’s a waiting list. The situation is similar in all other private hospitals,” said Dr Nasimur Riaz, superintendent of Hayat Hospital.In a Facebook post on September 5, Dr Navanil Barua, head of neurosurgery at GNRC Hospital informed that all Covid beds in their hospital were occupied and even the staff anaesthetist is waiting for a bed.“The situation is very critical and scary because cases are going up and the number of serious patients has also increased. People should follow social distancing, wear masks and come out of their homes only when it’s essential. Those in home quarantine also need to be extra careful,” said Samir Kumar Sinha, principal secretary (health and family welfare).Apart from scarcity of beds, another problem that has emerged is conducting last rites of Covid patients. In Assam, as bodies are not handed over to family members, the last rites are conducted by municipal and health workers. Till Monday, the state had recorded 370 deaths due to Covid. “The Kamrup Metro administration is also facing a tough time cremating those who have died of Covid. Resources are stretched to the limit and the team is working overtime. When my brother-in-law died of Covid, he was in serial number 17 waiting for cremation,” Dr Navanil Barua wrote on Facebook on September 6. Guwahati Municipal Corporation (GMC) officials didn’t respond to calls seeking information about the present status of cremation of Covid fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surging-covid-cases-guwahati-stares-at-scarcity-of-hospital-beds/story-qlRw9LIWgR6n5D97ERs0tO.html
08-09-2020||India||India to have 220 GW renewable energy capacity by 2022: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday exuded confidence that India will increase its existing clean energy capacity of 134 GW to 220 GW by 2022 and stressed on reducing tariffs further through technological advancements. The Prime Minister was earlier expected to deliver the inaugural address at the World Solar Technology Summit organised by the International Solar Alliance (ISA), but could not do so due to some other engagements. New and Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh read out Modi’s message at the virtual summit. “We have scaled up our non-fossil fuel based generation to 134 GW, which is about 35 per cent of our total power generation. We are confident of increasing it to 220 GW by 2022,” Singh said, reading out the Prime Minister’s message.  “Technology holds the key to scale up the use of solar energy. Technological advancements have already brought about a significant reduction in the price of solar power. A further reduction in the cost will provide a major boost to the use and expansion of renewable energy,” Modi said in the message. Modi also mentioned the ‘One World, One Sun, One Grid’ project which is aimed at clean energy supplies across nations. The Prime Minister asserted that ISA is part of this project which can bring transformational benefits for entire humanity. He also stated that the government wants to take solar energy to all villages in the country and replace diesel with this clean source in the farm sector. Speaking earlier at the event, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the government is actively encouraging the industry, oil and gas companies in particular, to become participants in this transition to solar energy. “Our oil and gas companies are also making efforts to deploy solar panels across the value chain of their operations, and current installed solar power capacity is 270 MW.  “Additional 60 MW solar capacity will be added in the coming year. We have taken up the mission of solarising about 50 per cent of fuel stations owned by public sector oil companies in the next five years,” he added. Five public sector undertakings (PSUs) under the Petroleum and Natural Gas Ministry will be joining ISA’s Coalition for Sustainable Climate Action (ISA-CSCA) as corporate partners. Pradhan said Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC), Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) and GAIL (India) Limited will be contributing to ISA’s Corpus Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-have-220-gw-renewable-energy-capacity-by-2022-pm-modi/story-0oMXYDZ4PdTqogRaiCwoMP.html
08-09-2020||India||PM, MP CM to take part in housing scheme e-function on September 12||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will take part in a virtual ‘grah pravesh’ (housewarming) function on September 12 for people who have built homes with assistance provided under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.The chief minister also transferred online a cumulative amount of Rs 102 crore, which was the fourth and last installment of home finance, to 68,000 beneficiaries on Tuesday, officials said.In a programme held in Mantralaya here, Chouhan said that 17 lakh homes out of a total of 20.30 lakh have been completed under the rural component of PMAY, and the target for 2019-20 was to build six lakh homes, of which 3.45 lakh have been completed.Those who could not get benefit of the scheme at this time will be covered under the ‘Awas Plus’ scheme of PMAY, the CM added.During his interaction with some beneficiaries, the CM was told by one Sushila Vishwakarma of Betul that she and her husband had built their home in 49 days on their own.Dhar’s Gulab Singh and Gwalior’s Namdeo, both beneficiaries, thanked the government for assistance under the scheme due to which they now have homes of their own.Additional Chief Secretary (Panchayat and Rural Development Department) Manoj Shrivastava said the PM would interact with three beneficiaries during the function on September 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-mp-cm-to-take-part-in-housing-scheme-e-function-on-september-12/story-mLxdfRxU04kMbGjQBzBcnM.html
08-09-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with street vendor beneficiaries of govt scheme in Madhya Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendors’ Aatmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme from Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement. The Union government had launched the PM SVANidhi scheme on June 1 to help poor street vendors impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic resume livelihood activities. Modi will also interact with three beneficiaries from the state by connecting virtually with them from their vending locations, the PMO said, adding that as many as 4.5 lakh street vendors were registered in Madhya Pradesh, with more than four lakh vendors having been given identification and vendor certification. Applications of 2.45 lakh eligible beneficiaries of the scheme have been presented through the portal to banks for credit facility, out of which acceptance has been granted to around 1.4 lakh street vendors of amount worth Rs 140 crore, it said. “The state of Madhya Pradesh stands first in the number of total applications accepted, with 47% of these coming from the state alone,” the statement added. Arrangements for beneficiaries of the scheme in the state to watch the programme in public places have been made through LED screens in 378 municipal bodies, it said, noting that Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, will also participate in the programme through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-street-vendor-beneficiaries-of-govt-scheme-in-madhya-pradesh/story-8owG8yX2ADBWzmogNa47VM.html
08-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand to revive one himalayan river in every district: CM Rawat||The Uttarakhand government has started work to revive one himalayan river in every district, announced chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday. “The goal is to revive one river in every district. A successful effort is being made to recharge more than 400 water bodies in the catchment area of Garuda Ganga river in Bageshwar district. Many works in the area such as plantation of broad leaf, trenches, check dams are being done,” tweeted CM Rawat. He added, “Our mountains, glaciers, rivers, water bodies, forests are all our priceless heritage. Their protection is the responsibility of all of us. During the last nearly three and a half years, the work of conservation and revival of the rivers, lakes, ponds and waters of the state has been done on a large scale.” Speaking on the rejuvenation of Garud Ganga river, Balwant Singh Shahi, divisional forest officer of Bageshwar forest division, said that Garud Ganga is a very important river for this region. It has nine recharge zones. “In the whole catchment area of the river, there are 443 streams which are on the verge of drying up. To rejuvenate the water sources of the river, many works are being carried out like making trenches, plantation of broad leaf plants and making stone check-dams. The main aim is to harvest all rainwater to the maximum possible limit and recharge the sources of water for the river.” As part of the rejuvenation project, a major plantation drive involving over 83,500 saplings has been carried out and the project aims to conserve around 21.90 lakh rainwater in the catchment area of Garud Ganga river, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-revive-one-himalayan-river-in-every-district-cm-rawat/story-KjQQZsY6l63AsLG4zFRV3J.html
08-09-2020||India||India dispatches additional dry chemical powder to douse oil tanker blaze||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has sent additional dry chemical powder on a request from the Sri Lankan Navy as part of efforts to douse the blaze on board an oil tanker off the island nation’s coast, the maritime agency said on Tuesday.           The Indian Navy and the Coast Guard have been helping the Sri Lankan Navy to douse the fire in Marine Tanker New Diamond since September 3. The fire, which killed one Filipino crew member and injured another, was extinguished completely on Sunday but a new fire broke out due to extreme heat, which has also been curbed considerably.Indian Coast Guard ship Abheek was sent with 1,500 kilograms of the dry chemical powder (DCP) for the Sri Lankan Navy at the Trincomalee harbour. A Coast Guard Dornier aircraft was also dispatched to Trincomalee, it added.           “In order to supplement the surface firefighting efforts with the aerial dropping of Dry Chemical Powder (DCP), the Sri Lankan Navy had requested ICG for additional DCP. “ICGS Abheek with 1,500 kgs of DCP was diverted from on scene to enter Trincomalee harbour for handing over the DCP to Srilankan Navy. “CG Dornier 770 with 700 kgs DCP was also dispatched from Chennai to Trincomalee. Sri Lankan ships, Indian Naval ships are also operating in the area,” the Coast Guard said in a statement. Being the competent national authority under South Asian Co-operative for Environment Protection (SACEP) for responding and coordinating pollution response in the South Asian Sea region, the ICG launched an operation towards fire-fighting and consequential pollution response since September 3. A bilateral MoU also exists between ICG and the Sri Lankan Coast Guard (SLCG) covering cooperation in the marine pollution response domain. The fire, which re-ignited late on Monday evening, increased drastically by midnight, with very high flames emanating from the funnel and aft section, reaching almost 50-60 metres from the weather deck. The sustained firefighting efforts by ICG Ships Sujay, Shaurya, Sarang and specialised ICG Pollution Response Vessel Samudra Paheredar along with Sri Lankan ships and tugs ensured the intensity and magnitude of the fire were reduced considerably by daybreak on Tuesday. The captain of MT New Diamond, onboard ICGS Shaurya, has intimated the Coast Guard that the fire appears to have been doused, it said. The situation is being monitored closely and boundary cooling with seawater and application of foam has been enhanced to avoid re-ignition. “The persistence of fire for eight days has weakened the accommodation superstructure. No significant list is observed. The vessel is trimmed by aft by about 3 feet,” the Coast Guard added. MT New Diamond is being held by Tug TTT1 in position about 30 miles from the nearest coast of Sri Lanka for preventing drifting of the vessel ashore and facilitating fire-fighting operation both by ships and aircraft including logistics ease. Continuous liaison and coordination are being maintained with Sri Lankan Navy and Coast Guard and other authorities for augmentation and effective response, the statement added. The Sri Lankan Navy, in a statement, said the re-ignited fire on board the Panama-registered tanker, carrying nearly 2 million barrels of crude oil, has been curbed to an extent. “There is no risk of the fire spreading to the oil storage or leaking oil from the ship into the sea as of now,” the statement said. Ships, aircraft and tugs belonging to the Sri Lanka Navy, Sri Lanka Air Force, Indian Navy, Indian Coast Guard and other stakeholders are continuing their disaster management operations to suppress the fire caused by adverse weather, the Lankan Navy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-dispatches-additional-dry-chemical-powder-to-douse-oil-tanker-blaze/story-fHm51pccZ0FhnyrdmrsAYM.html
08-09-2020||India||Farmer gets electricity bill of over Rs 3 crore for 2 months. This followed||A farmer in Rajasthan got a bill of Rs 3.71 crore for consuming 38,514,098 units of electricity in two months. Upon checking, it was found that the meter reading and his original bill amount got swapped in the form.The bill was issued on August 22 and the last date of payment was September 3 but the farmer got the shock of his life when he looked at the amount and ran to the nearest e-mitra centre, the Rajasthan government e-governance centres, with the bill in hand. Pemaram Patel, 22, of Gingla village in Udaipur, 65km from Udaipur, owns a shop which he has rented out to someone who runs an auto service centre in it. The bill is for this shop which has an electricity connection from Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (Ajmer Discom).“When I went to the e-mitra, I found out that the bill was exorbitantly high because of a printing mistake. The actual bill was for Rs 6,414, which I paid from the e-mitra itself,” said the farmer.Superintending engineer Girish Joshi said the operator who records meter readings mistakenly keyed in meter number in the column for reading. “Correction was done immediately and a new copy of the bill with the correct amount was given to the consumer,” he added.The bill is circulating on social media in the area and is talk of the town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-gets-electricity-bill-of-over-rs-3-crore-for-2-months-this-followed/story-2ZeTz0S0MFscbZBA0Zh6VP.html
08-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut responds to drugs probe against her with an offer to minister||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Tuesday said that she was willing to go through drug test and an investigation into her call log after Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a probe into the alleged drug claims made by Adhyayan Suman – the former boyfriend of actor Kangana Ranaut – in an interview three years ago.“I am more than happy to oblige Mumbai Police and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Please do my drug tests, investigate my call records if you find any links to drug peddlers ever I will accept my mistake and leave Mumbai forever, looking forward to meeting you,” Kangana Ranaut tweeted.While addressing the media in Mumbai on Tuesday, home minister Deshmukh said Adhyayan, who was once in a relationship with Ranaut, had alleged that she used to take drugs and had also forced him to consume the substances.“The Mumbai Police will investigate this matter,” the home minister said. The issue was raised by Shiv Sena legislators Pratap Sarnaik and Sunil Prabhu, Deshmukh in the Maharashtra legislative assembly on Tuesday.Deshmukh also said that Mumbai Police would conduct an investigation into the death by suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik three years ago.Naik, in his suicide note, had named a few persons, including a news channel’s editor, who allegedly did not pay his dues worth several crores of rupees, according to the deceased’s kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/please-do-my-drug-test-investigate-my-call-records-kangana-ranaut-after-maha-home-minister-initiates-probe/story-X3QToGkaoL2ObV8H0zrgWN.html
08-09-2020||India||After Ragini Dwivedi, Kannada actor Sanjjanaa Galrani arrested in Bengaluru to aid drug probe||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) wing of Bengaluru police on Tuesday arrested actor Sanjjanaa Galrani in the ongoing drugs investigation in the Kannada movie industry, also called Sandalwood. A team of police officers led by Inspectors Puneeth Kumar and Anjumala Nayak raided the residence of Galrani earlier in the day. The actress’s flat was searched for around four and a half hours. She was subsequently taken into custody for questioning and later arrested. She was produced before the 8th ACMM court via video conference where the judge remanded her to police custody for the next five days. Galrani was taken for a medical checkup at K C General Hospital before being shifted to a women’s remand home for further questioning.The actor is the second well-known person in the Kannada movie industry who has been arrested after Ragini Dwivedi. The police have filed an FIR against 12 people at the Cottonpet police station with film producer Shivaprakash being named the chief accused.ALSO READ | Kannada film producer among dozen named in FIR in Sandalwood drug racketAll the 12 accused have been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 120b (criminal conspiracy), and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act of 1985 under Sections 21, 21C, 27A, 27B, and section 29. The 12 accused are said to have held rave parties where select people would be invited including businessmen, celebrities, some film actors, disc jockeys, software engineers and others who would be supplied with drugs for a price.Among the 12 accused is Rahul Tonshe who is said to be very close to Galrani. However, the actor in the past has described Rahul as her ‘rakhi’ brother. A senior officer who did not want to be identified as the investigations are ongoing told HT that “there was more than what meets the eye initially, in the relationship between Rahul and Galrani”.The police have also arrested Niyaz Ahmed said to be a small-time Malayalam actor who is believed to have procured drugs from Kerala and also acted as a dealer and conduit for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ragini-dwivedi-kannada-actor-sanjjanaa-galrani-arrested-in-bengaluru-to-aid-drug-probe/story-GvFpKowZrQL25Mf9kjorjL.html
08-09-2020||India||PUBG pulls India rights from China-based Tencent Games after ban||Barely a week after PlayerUnknown’s BattleGrounds (PUBG), an online multiplayer gaming application (app) developed and published by PUBG Corporation, a subsidiary of South Korean video game company Bluehole, was banned by the Union Ministry of Information and Technology, the firm has pulled its India franchise from Chinese conglomerate Tencent. “In light of recent developments, PUBG Corporation has made the decision to no longer authorise the PUBG Mobile franchise to Tencent Games in India. Moving forward, PUBG Corporation will take on all publishing responsibilities within the country,” PUBG said in a statement. HT on September 2 had reported that PUBG, along with 118 mobile apps that have links with China, was banned because there were reports that these apps were “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner”.The government said these apps promoted activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. “This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace,” the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) had said. The was viewed as targeting some of China’s technology giants such as Tencent Holdings Ltd; the country’s search engine leader Baidu Inc; Xiaomi’s ShareSave; and online payments giant Ant Group Co’’s platform Alipay. PUBG was banned in the third round of blocks done by the government in the wake of the increased tensions between India and China along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC). Union Minister for communications, electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad had called the decision a “digital strike on China”. “This is a business call,” said an official, who did not wish to be named. However, the official added that there was no question of revoking the ban until the government was satisfied that all its concerns have been addressed. “The reasons and grounds on which the ban has been imposed go beyond ownership,” said the official. “Unless those concerns are addressed, there is no reason to revoke the ban. The larger issues are data privacy and security and the information that the apps are collecting from users. We have sent 70-odd questions to the blocked apps and asked them to review and respond.”The government is already going through the answers to the questions provided by the 59 apps banned earlier and the 47 mirror apps banned in the second round. It will also be analysing the response of 119 apps banned in the third round.All applicants will also be given a chance to make their case in front of a panel, which is yet to begin hearing their representations. PUBG’s statement said that the “corporation fully understands and respects the measures taken by the government as the privacy and security of player data is a top priority for the company”. “It hopes to work hand-in-hand with the Indian government to find a solution that will allow gamers to once again drop into the battlegrounds while being fully compliant with Indian laws and regulations,” said the statement. “As the company explores ways to provide its own PUBG experience for India in the near future, it is committed to doing so by sustaining a localised and healthy game play environment for its fans.” India accounts for over a quarter of PUBG Mobile’s lifetime installs though revenues from the country are still minuscule, a Bloomberg report said citing data from research firm Sensor Tower. PUBG had seen its user numbers sky rocket in India following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions.The banned versions of PUBG included PUBG Mobile Lite, a leaner version of the app suited to inexpensive smartphones, as well as PUBG Mobile Nordic Map: Livik, a newer game played on a Nordic terrain.Raman Jit Singh Chima, a lawyer and the policy director at Asia-Pacific at Access Now, believes that the government is citing law and order and data protection as grounds for an economic decision. “Usually, countries prosecute a firm civilly or use criminal law if it violates data protection standards, and not block their services,” said Chima. “PUBG’s actions seem to indicate that they are hopeful that the government may reinstate the app. If we look at the United States (US), they are clear about the fact that their move against Tencent is an economic one and aims to restrict its activities. The US has not banned PUBG,” he added. Chima said it appears to be a political move and the government must also explain why it has used these provisions. “The order should be made public, as should the reports that led to the action. There may be other apps in India doing the same thing but the government won’t take action against them. That shows that it is a response to counter Chinese interests and not to protect the privacy of citizens or for national security,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pubg-pulls-india-rights-from-china-based-tencent-games-after-ban/story-IcRn85Xx5ru9kCA7hcLpwI.html
08-09-2020||India||‘Due to Modi Govt’s gross mismanagement...’: Rahul Gandhi blames Covid crisis on PM||As India reached another grim milestone in the number of coronavirus disease cases, beating Brazil, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that India’s high tally is due to government’s mismanagement.“Due to Modi Govt’s gross mismanagement of Covid: 1. India’s total cases world’s 2nd highest. 2. India’s weekend tally higher than US & Brazil put together. 3. On Sunday, India’s share was 40% of total cases worldwide. 4. No flattening of curve,” Gandhi said in a tweet. Due to Modi Govt’s gross mismanagement of Covid:1. India’s total cases world’s 2nd highest. 2. India’s weekend tally higher than US & Brazil put together.3. On Sunday, India's share was 40% of total cases worldwide.4. No flattening of curve.Stay safe everyone.This is yet another jibe from the Congress leader who has relentlessly attacked the Centre on social media, blaming it for mishandling the outbreak of virus contagion and country’s economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/due-to-modi-govt-s-gross-mismanagement-rahul-gandhi-blames-covid-crisis-on-pm/story-EiL7sEKGSTaiZenHIamrUJ.html
08-09-2020||India||China’s PLA confirms 5 missing civilians from Arunachal Pradesh ‘found by their side’: Union minister Kiren Rijiju||Union minister Kiren Rijiju on Tuesday said that China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has confirmed that five civilians who went missing from Arunachal Pradesh last week have been found on their side. The process of handing over the youth to India is being worked out, the minister added. China's PLA has responded to the hotline message sent by Indian Army. They have confirmed that the missing youths from Arunachal Pradesh have been found by their side. Further modalities to handover the persons to our authority is being worked out.“Further modalities to handover the persons to our authority is being worked out,” Rijiju tweeted.The five civilians frp, Tagin tribe, who had gone missing on Friday from the Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh, were working as porters and guides for the Indian Army. They were a part seven-member group but went missing reportedly from Sera-7 on the Indian side of the McMohan line bifurcating Arunachal Pradesh and Tibet Autonomous Region of China. Two other men who were with the missing five reportedly managed to ‘escape’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-confirmed-5-missing-youths-from-arunachal-pradesh-have-been-found-by-their-side-union-minister-kiren-rijiju/story-8qbqjb8SLB3bvYt8Hsve5N.html
08-09-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh lifts weekend lockdown; no curbs on markets||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday revoked its order of mandatory closure of markets on Sunday, reverting to the pre-coronavirus lockdown arrangement.  According to a statement, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said in a review meeting that markets will now close as per their earlier schedule instead of the weekly closure on Sunday. He said except containment zones, hotels and restaurants should be made operational in all areas and it should be ensured that all safety measures are followed.The latest decision comes after the state administration on September 1 had decided to lift the weekend lockdown in the state on Saturdays.Adityanath also asked the officials to create more employment opportunities as the Covid-19 induced lockdown has left a huge number of people unemployed.He also said that except hotels and restaurants should be allowed to operate in all areas and by following all safety measures listed by the union health ministry in regards to the coronavirus disease. The restrictions will continue in the containment zones.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-lifts-weekend-lockdown-no-curbs-on-markets/story-csMHMsJHJM1baCOmMpZXHI.html
08-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi Metro morning ridership picks up on Day 2, over 8,000 take Yellow Line in morning and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi Metro morning ridership picks up on Day 2, over 8,000 take Yellow Line in morningDelhi Metro services continued on the Yellow Line on Tuesday with the ridership in the morning shift, between 7am and 11am touching 8,300 passengers as against the 7,500 on Monday, the first day after resuming services. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty arrested, says NCBThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested Rhea Chakraborty for procuring and consuming drugs. The arrest comes after three days of questioning by the NCB. Read more‘India fired first’: China repeats after New Delhi says PLA fired near Pangong TsoChina on Tuesday said it has made “stern representations” to the Indian government after Indian troops allegedly crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and fired warning shots at Chinese border personnel on Monday. Read moreAssaulted for ‘selling’ daughter, man dies in hospital in UP’s Mainpur; case registeredA 40-year-old man, who was allegedly beaten in Uttar Pradesh’s Mainpuri on Sunday over rumours that he was trying to sell his daughter, died in a hospital on Monday, his family and police said. Read moreWhy Faf du Plessis didn’t convince AB de Villiers to return after retirementThe dynamic batsman would have been an integral part of South Africa’s plans for the 2019 World Cup, and the decision to call time meant that captain Faf du Plessis would be without one of his biggest match-winners for the ICC tournament. Read morePoco M2 launched in India at a starting price of ₹10,999: Specs, price and moreThe Poco M2 features a 6.53-inch FHD+ (2340x1080 pixels) display with 19.5:9 aspect ratio and Corning Gorilla Glass 3 protection. Read more25 Years of Rangeela: Skater dresses, co-ord outfits, berets and everything we loved on Urmila Matondkar25 Years of Rangeela: Two and a half decades later, Urmila Matondkar’s casual style - from co-ords, skater dresses, leotards with scarfs to the oversized shirts, high-waist jeans and wool berets continue to be one of the main talking points of this film. Read moreDelhi poised to be the nerve center of India’s electric vehicle revolutionIndia is taking small but strong steps towards putting more electric vehicles on its roads and Delhi is well poised to charge up the path ahead with several steps either implemented, announced or in the offing. Read moreWatch | ‘World must be better prepared for next pandemic’: WHO ChiefWorld Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the world must be better prepared for the next pandemic. Tedros called on countries to invest in public health.Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-metro-morning-ridership-picks-up-on-day-2-over-8-000-take-yellow-line-in-morning-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jXHy399bhyJ7ybR4Y0u5oJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Maharashtra, Andhra, Karnataka, UP and Tamil Nadu account for 70% of Covid-19 deaths: Govt||The Union health ministry on Tuesday said the most coronavirus-affected states of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu account for 70% of Covid-19 deaths in India.“28 states/UTs have Covid-19 case fatality rate lower than national average of 1.70%. 14 states/UTs have less than 5,000 active Covid-19 cases; Lakshadweep has no active cases,” the ministry stated.Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Union Health Ministry said the case fatality rate is continuously declining, adding that it was at 2.15% in the first week of August, now it stands at 1.70%.“People should come forward to get themselves tested for Covid-19 if they have symptoms. India’s Covid-19 cases per million is 3,102 which is among the lowest in the world. India’s Covid-19 deaths per million population is 53 which is among the lowest in the world,” the health ministry said.India’s cumulative tests for detection of Covid-19 have surpassed five crore, while tests per million have witnessed a rise from 6,396 on July 1 to 36,703 as of date,the Union health ministry said.Aggressive and widespread testing have essayed an important role in India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the ministry said.“The average daily tests conducted (week-wise) are demonstrating a consistent increase. This has registered a 3.2 times expansion from third week of July (3,26,971) to first week of September (10,46,470),” the ministry added.The average Tests Per Million (TPM) Per Day have increased from 237 in the second week of July to 758 in the first week of September, it highlighted. In its Guidance Note on Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19, the WHO has advised countries to conduct 140 tests per day per million population for comprehensive surveillance for suspect cases.The average week-on-week data for India shows a rising improvement on this front. Expanding network of diagnostic labs has given a boost to Tests per Million. The testing lab network consists of 1668 labs in the country; 1035 labs in the government sector and 633 private labs. “The TPM have seen a sharp rise from 6,396 on July 1 to 36,703 as of today,” the ministry said.The number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 in India surpassed 4.28 million on Tuesday, a day after a record one-day jump of over 90,000 infections that pushed the country to the second spot in the world, Union health ministry data showed.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-andhra-karnataka-up-and-tamil-nadu-account-for-70-of-covid-19-deaths-govt/story-0iNnhmM0BWkIdE6XkP1ZeJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Bhima Koregaon case: NIA arrests 3 accused, says they are members of Kabir Kala Manch||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested three accused in connection with the violence that took place in Bhima Koregaon in Maharashtra in 2018.While two of the accused - Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe and Ramesh Murlidhar Gaichor - were arrested on Monday, the third named Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap was arrested today, the NIA said.“The accused people are members of Kabir Kala Manch, a frontal organization of banned organisation CPI (Maoist),” the agency said.The case pertains to an incident of violence that took place near the Bhima Koregaon war memorial (near Pune) on January 1, 2018, following alleged provocative speeches at Elgar Parishad conclave a day earlier.The conclave was organised by the Kabir Kala Manch at Shaniwarwada in Pune.Several vehicles were torched and one person killed in the incident, triggering large scale Dalit agitation in Maharashtra.During the investigation, it was revealed by the NIA that senior leaders of the CPI (Maoist) were in contact with the organisers of Elgar Parishad as well as the accused arrested in the case to spread the ideology of Maoism/Naxalism and encourage unlawful activities.The Pune police filed a charge sheet and a supplementary charge sheet in the case on November 15, 2018, and February 21, 2019 respectively.The NIA took up the investigation of the case on January 24 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhima-koregaon-case-nia-arrests-3-accused-says-they-are-members-of-banned-group/story-YCofqX5lsddjHDjwISWFaO.html
08-09-2020||India||Goa’s popular beach shacks will likely be missing this season||Goa’s famed beach shacks are likely to give this year’s tourism season a miss with shack owners saying that the likely absence of foreign tourists will be a huge dent in their business, making it an unprofitable exercise.“Around 79-80% shack owners have told us that they will not be setting up shacks this year. Many have suffered losses last year owing to the truncated season and with numbers expected to be low this year as well, many will opt to give this year a pass,” John Lobo, the General Secretary of Shack Owners Welfare Society, said.“Adding to the uncertainty is the likely absence of foreign tourists who it is very unlikely will choose to travel to India given our numbers so far and the Covid situation,” Lobo added.Foreign tourists are dependable customers for many shack operators as they patronise the shacks for the entire duration of their stay which can last a few months. Tourists from within India, on the other hand, spend on average 3-7 days in Goa.The seasonal shacks that are set up on the sand once the monsoons subside and are in place until the following summer are a huge draw for tourists.The season this year is likely to be dominated by domestic tourists, who now face no barriers for entry, with the state government lifting all restrictions on the movement of people.“Some shacks along the most popular and crowded beaches will reopen,” Lobo said.The first weekend of September saw tourists mainly from the neighbouring state of Maharashtra and Karnataka make a beeline for Goa after it was announced that mandatory Covid-19 test upon arrival and the need to pre-book a hotel would no longer be applicable.“The tourists have begun to come in greater numbers and hotel occupancy which was below 5% for most hotels has now marginally increased to 15%. These are encouraging signs and will prompt more businesses to reopen,” Nilesh Shah, president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, said.Many tourists on long term visas have chosen to stay back in Goa than travel during the pandemic back to their native countries.Tourism stakeholders have also begun to worry that it is only the low-spending tourists and not the high spending tourists who will make the trip, offering businesses little chance to break even.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-s-popular-beach-shacks-will-likely-be-missing-this-season/story-UiPPmFEFul35nKY31wBDbM.html
08-09-2020||India||Assaulted for ‘selling’ daughter, man dies in hospital in UP’s Mainpur; case registered||A 40-year-old man, who was allegedly beaten in Uttar Pradesh’s Mainpuri on Sunday over rumours that he was trying to sell his daughter, died in a hospital on Monday, his family and police said.Mainpuri’s Kotwali police station in-charge, Bhanu Pratap Singh, said Sarvesh Kumar, a Dalit, was trashed badly on the terrace of an under-construction house. No exact reason for the killing has been mentioned in the FIR [First Information Report] lodged by Kamlesh, brother of the deceased. But three people Rajan, Sahul Jadaun and Shivji Gaur have been named in the case,” said Singh. “Efforts are on to nab the named accused and other unidentified people involved in the incident.”Also read: Govt sacks 3 Palghar cops who didn’t stop mob from killing 2 seers, driverPolice have registered a case under Indian Penal Code’s Section 302 (murder) and under Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Samajwadi Party even tweeted a purported video of the lynching, demanding action against the perpetrators.मैनपुरी का यह वीडियो सामने आया है जहां बजरंग दल के कार्यकर्ताओं द्वारा कचौड़ी का ठेला लगाने वाले दलित युवक सर्वेश दिवाकर की लिंचिंग कर हत्या कर दी गई।दोषी बजरंग दल के कार्यकर्ताओं पर कड़ी कार्रवाई करे सरकार। @dgpup pic.twitter.com/H4xdLzNgWTThe rumour was spread when Kumar left his 16-year-old daughter at her aunt’s place in Noida and returned to Mainpuri while his wife and two other children were away at her parents’ place in West Bengal.“Sarvesh’s daughter has returned to Mainpuri and says she was away for studying. Such rumours about her being sold are baseless,” said Singh.Former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav condemned the killing and demanded immediate arrest of those involved in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assaulted-for-selling-daughter-man-dies-in-hospital-in-up-s-mainpur-case-registered/story-S3MFBiw1f7Z8fP7feX0uWK.html
08-09-2020||India||Centre’s eSanjeevani service crosses 300,000 tele-consults||Restrictions on health services and mobility because of the Covid-19 pandemic have accelerated the mainstreaming of telemedicine and e-consultation platforms with the Union health and family welfare ministry’s eSanjeevani telemedicine service crossing 300,000 tele-consultations on Tuesday. Of these, 100,000 were done over the last 20 days.The eSanjeevani service was launched in November 2019 to provide tele-consultation at 150,000 Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs) across states by December 2022. It is based on the hub-and-spoke model to connect HWCs with primary health centres, community health centres, medical colleges, and district hospitals.Also read: Digitising sector a step towards universal careThe platform completed 100,000 consultations on July 23 and 200,000 on August 18.eSanjeevani has been implemented by 23 states and the rest are in the process of rolling it out.Tamil Nadu has recorded the highest consultations (97,204) followed by Uttar Pradesh (65,173). Himachal Pradesh has held the highest number of AB-HWC teleconsultations of eSanjeevani, with 30,869 interactions. Andhra Pradesh is ranked fourth with 30,189 teleconsultations, and Kerala is fifth with 28,173.The platform supports two types of telemedicine services: doctor-to-doctor (eSanjeevani) and patient-to-doctor (eSanjeevani OPD), which was launched on April 13 to take medical services to patients unable to visit hospitals because of the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic spread.“Tertiary institutions such as Lady Hardinge Medical College and associated hospitals in Delhi, AIIMS [All India Institute of Medical Sciences] Bathinda in Punjab, AIIMS Bibinagar in Telengana, and AIIMS Rishikesh in Uttrakhand have set up eSanjeevaniOPDs. Centre Government Health Scheme has started offering eSanjeevaiOPD services for ENT, medicine, ophthalmology and orthopaedics since August 26. The growth has been accelerated because of Covid-19 as people are avoiding going to large hospitals because of fears of getting infected,” said a health ministry official, requesting anonymity.The Medical Council of India (MCI)’s Board of Governors in supersession issued Telemedicine Practice Guidelines on March 25 to strengthen delivery in a post-Covid-19 world, with a focus on HWCs that provide preventive and primary healthcare within a five km radius at the grassroots level.Dr Nikhil Tandon, who heads AIIMS Delhi’s endocrinology and metabolism department, said telemedicine has helped decongest secondary and tertiary hospitals and improve documentation, data-collection, diagnosis, and care without risking the safety of the patients or the health workers. “Technology platforms were being used but not regulated, which exposed both patients and providers to challenges. These guidelines provide guidance material for reference that can be refined before they become an annexure to the MCI Act, enabling regulation,” said Tandon, who is a member of MCI’s Board of Governors in supersession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-esanjeevani-service-crosses-300-000-tele-consults/story-qpz7FXZeFbtVX8tzRjOUVI.html
08-09-2020||India||Wife of BJD MP who filed for divorce complains of intrusion into bedroom||The case of marital discord between Biju Janata Dal deputy chief whip in Lok Sabha Anubhav Mohanty and his actress wife Varsha Pariyadarshini took another turn on Tuesday with the latter lodging a written complaint with police that two persons entered her bedroom on Monday and clicked photographs.Priyadarshini in her complaint before Purighat police station in Cuttack alleged that two persons, who work in Mohanty’s residence at Nandi Sahi in Cuttack where she is now staying, entered her bedroom Monday evening while she was eating food and clicked photographs and shot videos. Rashmiranjan Sahoo, inspector of police station said the actress had claimed that threat to her life and sought police protection. “A police constable has been assigned for her protection at her in-law’s house,” said Sahoo. On Monday, police had rushed Mohanty’s house after his wife sought protection by calling the emergency helpline.Last month, Priyadarshini had filed a case of domestic violence against Mohanty and his family under sections 12, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23 of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 at a court in Cuttack citing multiple instances of mental and physical torture and demanded Rs 15 crore compensation for the loss of her income due to losing out on movies as well as monthly amount of Rs 70,000 towards houserent and maintenance. She accused her husband of being an alcoholic and having multiple affairs with his co-stars.Mohanty and Priyadarshini married in a massive ceremony in Bhubaneswar in 2014 after years of courtship. Mohanty, superstar of Odia film industry, was then Rajya Sabha MP.The case which was scheduled for first hearing on September 7, was deferred to October 12 as her statement had not been recorded by the Cuttack District Protection Officer. On Monday, Cuttack District Protection Officer recorded her statement.Anubhav Mohanty who is MP from Kendrapara, however, said if his wife feels she is being harassed, her sister and mother should take her away from his house. “On what basis, is she still living in my house?” asked Mohanty, who has filed a divorce suit at a family court in Patiala House court in Delhi in July. “It’s my personal matter but truth will prevail. The matter shouldn’t be sensationalised for TRP,” he added.Mohanty in his divorce suit has alleged that his wife was torturing him mentally and showed no interest in consummating the marriage. Priyadarshini in a Facebook and Twitter post on Monday evening said she will break her silence on the matter soon. “Truth cannot be defeated, it shall be proven soon. Court will take its own action With Lord Jagannath’s blessings & everyone’s blessings I am going to break the silence, nobody has the right to accuse anyone falsely. Love you Odisha, Love you all. Jay Jagannath,” she wrote in capital letters.Meanwhile pressure seems to be mounting on chief minister Naveen Patnaik to take action against Mohanty with the state unit of BJP Mahila Morcha demanding Mohanty’s resignation from the post of MP on moral grounds while Congress accused the actor of submitting false information about his education qualification in his election affidavit in 2014.Congress spokesman Nishikanta Mishra alleged that Mohanty had submitted a false affidavit about his educational qualification while filing his nomination for the 2014 Rajya Sabha polls. “How did Mohanty get admission in Kandarpur College when he failed in +2 exam at Christ College. He has submitted a false affidavit about his educational qualifications during 2014 Rajya Sabha election. The state government had shielded him earlier as he belongs to the ruling party and they are still trying to protect the actor-turned-politician,” alleged Mishra.The BJP too demanded immediate action against Mohanty.“Anubhav’s wife Varsha has brought a domestic violence case against him. This indicates how women are becoming insecure in the state. We strongly condemn the incident. We will hit the streets if immediate action is not taken against the BJD MP,” said BJP Mahila Morcha leader, Smruti Pattnaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-of-bjd-mp-who-filed-for-divorce-complains-of-intrusion-into-bedroom/story-eXJHAlHaTx9uf1P6trLiLO.html
08-09-2020||India||Corbett Tiger Reserve set to open, Covid-19 test result must for entry||The Uttarakhand forest department has decided to ban entry of tourists into the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) without a Covid-19 test confirming their negative status, said forest officials. The tourists, said forest officials, will have to get the RT-PCR test done 96 hours before the visit to the park.Kalyani (who goes by her first name), deputy director of the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR), said, “Online booking for safari in Corbett will start from September 10. The park will be open for tourists from October 15, 2020.”“We have decided to follow the guidelines of the Central and state government regarding visit of tourists to check coronavirus infection inside the CTR” she said. Tourists have also been advised to follow all safety rules.“Tourists should follow the lockdown rules like wearing masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain social distancing in the CTR,” said Kalyani.“It is important to follow the rules of lockdown while moving inside the park. Only four tourists will be allowed in one gypsy,” she said.Generally, six tourists are allowed in one gypsy, but in view of the pandemic, said Kalyani, only four tourists will be allowed to sit in a gypsy.“Hotel, resorts, guesthouse rooms, gypsies will be sanitised after every visit of tourists. The staff has also been directed to follow the lockdown rules strictly,” she said.Deepak Budhani, a gypsy owner from Ramnagar, said, “Corbett’s online booking will increase tourism activities. People suffering from a financial crisis due to Covid-19 will get a lot of relief.”“The CTR administration should open all gates of the reserve with a strict following of the lockdown rules. The livelihood of a lot of people in Uttarakhand is dependent on tourism, especially when it comes to Corbett,” he said. All tiger reserves, sanctuaries and national parks, including the Corbett Tiger Reserve, had to shut operations on March 16 due to the coronavirus pandemic.In unlock 4, online bookings for the CTR have been opened again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corbett-tiger-reserve-set-to-open-covid-19-test-result-must-for-entry/story-wg96Shr9rNNtnFatus3CwK.html
08-09-2020||India||PM Modi, President Kovind condole radio astronomer Govind Swarup’s demise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday condoled the demise of Professor Govind Swarup who pioneered radio astronomy in India, saying that he was an exceptional scientist and his works have attained global commendation. “Professor Govind Swarup was an exceptional scientist. His pioneering works in radio astronomy have attained global commendation. Anguished by his passing away. My thoughts are with his near and dear ones. This thread gives a glimpse of Professor Swarup’s brilliance. Do read,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted. President Ram Nath Kovind and Union Home Minister Amit Shah also expressed grief over Swarup’s demise. “With the demise of Professor Govind Swarup, the world has lost an astronomy legend. A pioneer, he contributed to fundamental developments in radio astronomy and created two of the world’s largest radio telescopes in India. Condolences to his family, friends and countless students,” President Kovind tweeted. “Eminent professor and stalwart of radio astronomy, Govind Swarup ji will always be remembered for his immense contribution towards research and development of ingenious facilities. His demise is a huge loss for the entire nation. My deepest condolences with his family. Om Shanti,” Shah tweeted. K Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India also expressed grief over Swarup’s demise.“With Professor Govind Swarup’s demise, the world of astronomy has lost a great scientist, institution-, and telescope- builder. Ever-smiling, not one to take a no for anything he wanted to be done, he took on many impossible tasks, inspired colleagues to accomplish them,” Raghavan tweeted.“He could not but touch deeply everyone he met - Farewell dear Govind Swarup... He so proudly spoke of being inspired by Gandhi on the one hand, and of tracing his lineage (via Wikipedia) back to Isaac Newton - no less - on the other. And the lineage moves forward...” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-president-kovind-condole-radio-astronomer-govind-swarup-s-demise/story-gWgHO7Gek2W3OsPIsJiAJJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty arrested, says NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested Rhea Chakraborty for procuring and consuming drugs. The arrest comes after three days of questioning by the NCB.“Rhea has been arrested and due process of informing the family has been completed,” said deputy director of NCB, KPS Malhotra. The arrest comes after three days of questioning by the NCB.Rhea Chakraborty was being questioned over drug abuse case in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14. The NCB had questioned her for about eight hours on Monday and six hours on Sunday.Also Watch | Sushant death: Rhea Chakraborty arrested by NCB in drugs case after questioning  The 28-year-old was confronted with her younger brother Showik Chakraborty (24), Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda (33) and his house staffer Dipesh Sawant to ascertain their roles in an alleged drug racket.Also read | Rhea Chakraborty gives NCB names of ‘top Bollywood celebrities’ who may have consumed drugs: reportThe NCB arrested the three men in this case last week. Chakraborty’s family and lawyer had said that they anticipate her arrest after Showik was taken into custody.The agency had earlier said that it had obtained mobile phone chat records and other electronic data that suggested some banned drugs were allegedly procured by these people.Chakraborty’s father Indrajit had issued an emotional statement after his son’s arrest. “Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I’m sure next on the line is my daughter and I don’t know who is next thereafter,” Lt Col Indrajit Chakraborty (retd) had said in the statement.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered an FIR against Chakraborty and others in connection with the actor’s death.Chakraborty was earlier questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the CBI that are probing different angles surrounding Rajput’s death.Also read | Abetment to suicide, cheating: Rhea Chakraborty’s charges against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters, doctorSushant Singh Rajput’s autopsy had indicated that he died by suicide. His father, however, filed an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty in Patna, accusing her of driving his son to suicide and misappropriating his money. Chakraborty has denied the allegations on several occasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-rhea-chakraborty-prime-accused-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-arrested-by-ncb/story-q5tJR7PXm7gCbu0yOusU5O.html
08-09-2020||India||I take up roles that connect with the audience, says Geetika Tyagi||Actor Geetika Tyagi believes in moving forward with time and to take up good projects only. “I love acting it gives the right dose of happiness and creative satisfaction too. I just don’t take up roles to sustain in the industry but to connect with my audiences and leave a mark with my performance. The size of the role never really mattered and never will,” said the ‘22 Yards’ and ‘City of Dreams,’ actor.Talking about her initial days the ‘Powder,’ actor said “I belong to family of journalists and theatre lovers. So, I have imbibed that love for art from my parents and grandparents. I started doing theatre as a kid all thanks to my grandmother. Then I joined media and became a journalist but soon realised that the kind of reporting I was asked to do was not my cup of tea. As that’s not what I learnt from my father — mostly ‘circus’ was being broadcasted. As I continued doing theatre, I gave up media job and took up acting full time.” Geetika, who was recently seen in film ‘Class of 83’, feels that though her role in the film was small yet pivotal. “The story of the film is based on Hussain Zaidi’s book and accounts the story of a hero policeman and his team. My character Sudha is wife of the protagonist played by Bobby Deol. She is sacrificing but also a very decisive person who understands her husband too well. It’s a beautiful character and enjoyed playing every bit of it,” she said. The pretty actor will be next seen in the second season of the web show, ‘City Of Dreams’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-take-up-roles-that-connect-with-the-audience-says-geetika-tyagi/story-uBFtFMu1P15Eq6tnIdntAK.html
08-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Procedure to arrest Rhea Chakraborty underway, says NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday said that process to arrest Rhea Chakraborty, the prime accused in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, is currently underway.“The procedure to arrest Rhea Chakraborty is underway,” said deputy director of NCB, KPS Malhotra. The agency said she is being arrested after three days of questioning.Rhea Chakraborty was being questioned over drug abuse case in connection with the death of Rajput on June 14. The NCB had questioned Chakraborty for about eight hours on Monday and six hours on Sunday.Also Watch | Sushant death: Rhea Chakraborty arrested by NCB in drugs case after questioning Also read | Rhea Chakraborty gives NCB names of ‘top Bollywood celebrities’ who may have consumed drugs: reportThe NCB arrested the three men in this case last week. Chakraborty’s family and lawyer had said that they anticipate her arrest after Showik was taken into custody.The agency had earlier said that it had obtained mobile phone chat records and other electronic data that suggested some banned drugs were allegedly procured by these people.Chakraborty’s father Indrajit had issued an emotional statement after his son’s arrest. “Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I’m sure next on the line is my daughter and I don’t know who is next thereafter,” Lt Col Indrajit Chakraborty (retd) had said in the statement.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered an FIR against Chakraborty and others in connection with the actor’s death.Also read | Abetment to suicide, cheating: Rhea Chakraborty’s charges against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters, doctorChakraborty was earlier questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the CBI that are probing different angles surrounding Rajput’s death.Sushant Singh Rajput’s autopsy had indicated that he died by suicide. His father, however, filed an FIR against Rhea Chakraborty in Patna, accusing her of driving his son to suicide and misappropriating his money. Chakraborty has denied the allegations on several occasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/procedure-to-arrest-rhea-chakraborty-underway-says-ncb-probing-drugs-angle-in-death-of-sushant-singh-rajput/story-4Y5dVG5r3DbPm2NA5X7tdL.html
08-09-2020||India||Proposal to relocate 3 villages in Chhattisgarh tiger reserve sent to Centre||After Chhattisgarh State Tribal Advisory Council gave its approval to a proposal by the forest department for rehabilitation of three villages located in the Achanakmar Tiger Reserve in state’s Bilaspur district, the forest department has sent a request to the central government for the same. As per Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (APCCF) (wildlife) Arun Pandey, there are a total of 25 villages in the core area of tiger reserve out of which six villages were relocated and rehabilitated in 2010. “Out of remaining 19 villages, proposals of relocation of three villages have been sent to the ministry of environment and forest for the clearance of forest land diversion,” said Pandey. The officer further said that the survey report of the remaining 16 villages of core area of the tiger reserve has started and soon a proposal for their rehabilitation will also be sent to the Central ministry. “We are starting a door-to-door campaign to record everything about the families to be displaced and soon it will also be completed,” said Pandey. The Achanakmar Tiger Reserve was established in 2009. The total area of the reserve is 911.017 square kilometers in which 626.1 square kilometer is core area and about 287.8 is buffer zone. In between 2009 and 2011, a total of six villages were relocated by the forest department. “The people of these villages were initially reluctant to move out and there were other reasons due to which the relocation was stalled,” said a senior forest officer. The forest department claimed that they are giving all benefits to these villagers as per the relocation guidelines of the Central government. “When these villages are removed, we will get many grasslands in the reserve and then we can develop the tiger reserve,” said Pandey. Meanwhile, the wildlife activists also claimed that the relocation is a welcome step. “The people were agreed to be relocated from a long time but the forest department is relocating after 10 years of formation of the Achanakmar Tiger Reserve. This is very good for wildlife and tiger reserve, if it happens,” said Meetu Gupta, member of the State Wildlife Board. Chhattisgarh has two national parks, three tiger reserves, eight sanctuaries, and one biosphere reserve covering 11,310.977 sq km, which is 8.36% of the state’s total geographical area and 18.92 % of the state’s total forest area of 59,772 sq km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proposal-to-relocate-3-villages-in-chhattisgarh-tiger-reserve-sent-to-centre/story-WlwBTf7dwwtINmjlHqbqCI.html
08-09-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine latest developments: Russia releases Sputnik V, India candidate in final phase||Russia has released the first batch of Sputnik V vaccine against the coronavirus disease Covid-19, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. On the other hand, Chinese firm Sinovac Biotech Ltd said its vaccine candidate CoronaVac appeared to be safe for older people as per preliminary results from an early to mid-stage trial. In the United States, president Donald Trump has said that the vaccine to treat the deadly disease may become available in October whereas a new experimental Covid-19 vaccine originating from the University of Oxford has begun human trials in Australia in partnership with the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here At a time when the global Covid-19 tally has topped 27 million and the toll from the disease is at 892,880, here’s a look at the latest on Covid-19 vaccines being developed across the world-- India: The Post Graduate Institute (PGI) Rohtak is set to begin phase-2 human clinical trial of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate, based on inactivated virus procured by ICMR, on Wednesday. “We got permission from Bharat Biotech to start a phase-2 human clinical trial of their vaccine. We’ve 300 volunteers, aged between 12 years and 65- years, out of which screening of 15 has been completed,” Dr OP Kalra, vice-chancellor, PGI Rohtak told news agency ANI. Zydus Cadila’s candidate based on viral DNA is also in a second phase trial while the Oxford vaccine candidate developed by Serum Institute of India is already in Phase III trial in Maharashtra and some other states. --Russia: Sputnik V, vaccine developed by Russia against the viral infection, has been released into public civil circulation and regional deliveries are planned in the nearest future, the Russian health ministry was quoted as saying by ANI. It added that the vaccine has passed the necessary quality tests in the laboratories of medical device regulator Roszdravnadzor. --Australia: Australia expects to receive its first batches of a potential COVID-19 vaccine in January, its prime minister Scott Morrison said. Also, a new shot devised by a UK firm SpyBiotech has begun going into volunteers in a phase I/II trial in Australia run by the Serum Institute, which will eventually enroll several hundred participants, said Sumi Biswas, the company’s chief executive officer and a professor at Oxford’s Nuffield Department of Medicine.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage SpyBiotech has an exclusive licensing agreement with the Serum Institute for the vaccine. The institute reached a licensing deal with AstraZeneca earlier this year to produce 1 billion doses of the Oxford shot developed by Gilbert.--United States: US president Donald Trump said at a White House briefing on Monday that a vaccine may be ready in October.Three Covid-19 vaccines are undergoing final-stage, or Phase 3, clinical trials in the US. Each study is enrolling about 30,000 people who will get two shots, three weeks apart, and then will be monitored for coronavirus infections and side effects for anywhere from a week to two years.Also, under a program Trump calls “Operation Warp Speed,” the goal is to have 300 million doses of a coronavirus vaccine in stock by January. --China: China firm Sinovac’s candidate CoronaVac is being tested in Brazil and Indonesia in final-stage human trials to evaluate whether it is effective and safe enough to obtain regulatory approvals for mass use. It has already been given to tens of thousands of people, including about 90% of Sinovac employees and their families, as part of China’s emergency inoculation scheme to protect people facing high infection risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-latest-developments-russia-releases-sputnik-v-india-candidate-in-final-phase/story-PfkmwVO6c5JFjCnCn9EdVM.html
08-09-2020||India||Maharashtra tyrannizing doctors instead of consulting them, says IMA||Days after the Maharashtra government extended the price cap on the treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has decided to hold a peaceful rally against the decision at Azad Maidan on September 10.All branches of the IMA in Maharashtra will also burn replicas of their medical registration certificates at the branch office or at prominent places.“Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, around 100 doctors will gather in the morning. We will meet the chief minister with our memorandum and demands,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA, Maharashtra.IMA is a pan-India government accredited association of doctors. In Maharashtra, they have 216 branches with over 45,000 registered doctors. In April, the state government had mandated that private hospitals would have to allocate 20% beds for Covid-19 patients. Out of these, 80% beds are regulated by the civic body. On August 21, the health department issued a circular extending the duration of the price cap till November 30. The circular also stated that private hospitals can begin charging regular rates for the 50% beds reserved for non-Covid patients, even as the government rates will be applicable to the remaining 50% beds meant for Covid-19 patients. Following this, the Maharashtra unit of the IMA has come down heavily on the health department for unilaterally extending the Covid-19 price cap on private hospitals without consulting its members. Maharashtra’s Covid-9 tally stands at over 9.23 lakh.The IMA claims that hospitals are finding it difficult to meet the cost of oxygen, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, biomedical waste charges, staff salaries, disinfection at the current government rates. “For this, the health minister had convened a meeting to increase the rates, and it was decided to hold a meeting with IMA representatives, before August 31, to discuss the hike. However, without holding such a meeting, the state health secretary issued a circular on August 31 to maintain the rates and add more items in it to make it more unaffordable,” Bhondwe said.The association had informed the state health minister, Rajesh Tope on September 1 who apparently promised to hold a meeting within three days but till September 8 noon he had not responded.In an open letter, the IMA said doctors are being unjustly criticised. “On one hand the unaffordable rates have been forced on the doctors and on the other hand doctors are being prosecuted by sending auditors if there is any minor mistake in the bills prepared with the unaffordable rates. At the same time, ministers and leaders have continuously been proclaiming that the doctors are robbing patients. Because of this unjust criticism the doctors in the state of Maharashtra are losing their self confidence,” reads the open letter of Maharashtra unit of the IMA. The IMA claims over 150 private doctors have succumbed to Covid-19 while treating patients. But unlike government and municipal employees, they are not eligible for the Covid-19 insurance of Rs 50 lakhs. “The reason for the failure of the coronavirus pandemic in Maharashtra state lies in the short-sighted, unscientific, inhumane and repressive practices of the administrators, who are fully responsible for controlling the epidemic in this fashion, by tyrannizing the doctors instead of consulting with them. All the citizens know that the contribution of all the private hospitals in controlling the coronavirus outbreak in Maharashtra is invaluable,” said Dr Bhondwe.Simultaneously, such protests will also be conducted all across the state in front of the administrative offices like collectors, municipal commissioners among others in their respective regions seeking justice for doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-tyrannizing-doctors-instead-of-consulting-them-says-ima/story-cKPD5anASXUclYFL2OgbZK.html
08-09-2020||India||SC dismisses plea against rise in petrol, diesel prices||The Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking deregulation of petrol and diesel prices and to pass on the benefits to the public owing to a slump in international crude oil rates since April. The petition filed by a Kerala-based advocate, Shaji J Kodankandath, said that oil marketing companies (OMCs), which are directly under the operational control of the central government, were increasing petrol and diesel prices on a daily basis even though international crude oil prices have been at an all-time low since April.“Do you seriously want to argue this? If you do, we will impose costs,” said Justice Rohinton Nariman. The petitioner’s lawyer chose not to pursue the case and accepted that the matter fell within the ambit of the government’s policy decision.The petitioner had highlighted that the current price of crude oil was hovering at around Rs 38 per barrel and the total cost of manufacturing and selling of petrol and diesel would be around Rs 30 per litre.Petrol and diesel prices are over Rs 80, which is over 150% more than the manufacturing cost.“The price of diesel, which is traditionally lower than petrol, has increased. Diesel costs more than petrol in some cities for the first time in recent history,” the plea cited..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-against-rise-in-petrol-diesel-prices/story-Yu2vOIhyIzARywQdCsY8eK.html
08-09-2020||India||‘Hunar Haat’ to return in Prayagraj next month after Covid break||‘Hunar Haat’, the Minority Affairs Ministry’s initiative to generate employment for master artisans, will make a comeback on October 9 in Prayagraj with the theme of “local to global” and a focus on indigenous Indian toys. After a gap of about six months due to the coronavirus pandemic, the next ‘Hunar Haat’ will be organised in Prayagraj from October 9 to 18 and more than 30 per cent stalls will be for artisans who prepare indigenous toys, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said. The artisans will also be extended help through various institutions for attractive packaging of ‘swadeshi toys’, he said. Naqvi said here that every corner of the country has a traditional and ancestral legacy of indigenous toys. This legacy, which was on the verge of extinction, has got a boon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for ‘swadeshi toys’, the minister said. The Indian toy industry has got a tremendous boost after Modi advocated “vocal for local toys”, he said in a statement. Naqvi said that every corner of the country is endowed with various kinds of indigenous toys made with wood, brass, bamboo, glass, cloth, paper, clay, etc. ‘Hunar Haat’ will be an enormous platform, providing market and opportunities to master artisans who prepare these indigenous exquisite toys, he said. Prime Minister Modi’s appeal to get “vocal for local toys” will help the Indian toy industry to gain dominance in the toy market. ‘Hunar Haat’, which has provided employment and employment opportunities to more than 5 lakh Indian artisans, craftsmen, culinary experts and other people associated with them in the last five years, has become a credible brand of rare exquisite indigenous handmade products, Naqvi said. The Minority Affairs Ministry has organised more than two dozen ‘Hunar Haats’ so far across the country. In the coming days, ‘Hunar Haat’ will be organised in Jaipur (October 23 -November 1), Chandigarh (November 7- 15), Indore ( November 21 to 29), Mumbai (December 22 to 31), Hyderabad (January 8 to 17), Lucknow (January 23 to 31), India Gate, New Delhi (February 13 to 21), Ranchi (February 20 to 28), Kota (March 5 to 14, 2021), and Surat/Ahmedabad (March 20 to 27, 2021). Naqvi said that this time, people will also be able to buy ‘Hunar Haat’ products online also. The Minority Affairs Ministry is registering these artisans and their indigenous products on “GeM” (Government e-Marketplace). Several export promotion councils have shown interest to provide international markets on a large scale for handmade indigenous products of these artisans and craftsmen. Naqvi said that several lakh master artisans and craftsmen from across the country are happy and excited that ‘Hunar Haat’ is going to be organised again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hunar-haat-to-return-in-prayagraj-next-month-after-covid-break/story-gaqvsrJXoJRlu3R2t2TP6N.html
08-09-2020||India||PM Garib Kalyan package provided cash benefits of Rs 68,820 crore to 420 million poor: Fin Min||The Union government has so far provided cash assistance of Rs 68,820 crore to 420 million poor since it announced the Rs 1.7 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) on March 26, the finance ministry said on Tuesday.The package, which is around 0.8% of India’s gross domestic product (GDP), aims to ease economic distress, especially for the underprivileged, and promises food and cash security to the poor. Besides direct financial assistance, PMGKP also includes free distribution of wheat, rice, pulses and cooking gas cylinders.The statement said the government has front-loaded a payment of Rs 17,891 crore as the first instalment of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) to 89.4 million beneficiaries. PM-KISAN scheme was launched on December 1, 2018 to provide cash support of Rs 6,000 per year to all farmer families across the country in three equal instalments. While launching the Rs 1.7 lakh crore package on March 26, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the Rs 2,000 instalment of PM-KISAN would be front-loaded and given immediately.Also Read: Centre committed to pay full GST compensation to states, but states must borrowThe statement said Rs 10,325 crore has been already credited to 206.5 million women account holders under the Prime Minister Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) as the first instalment. Rupees 10,315 crore and Rs 10,312 crore were also credited to PMJDY accounts in the second and the third instalments, respectively. In order to help poor women in this difficult time when the livelihoods of most of them are disrupted, Sitharaman had announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 500 per month for three months starting April.“A total of Rs 2,814.5 crore disbursed to about 2.81 crore [28.1 million] old age persons, widows and disabled persons in two instalments,” the statement said. On March 26, Sitharaman had promised an ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 each to 30 million poor senior citizens, widows and divyang (disabled) who were vulnerable due to the economic disruption caused by Covid-19.About 18.2 million construction workers have received financial support amounting to Rs 4,987.18 crore, the statement said.Also Read: Lack of stimulus has hurt economy: Amit MitraBesides transferring cash, the government has already distributed food grains to millions of poor, it said.“Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMJKY), 37.52 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of food grains has been distributed to 75.04 crore beneficiaries in April 2020, 37.46 LMT distributed to 74.92 crore beneficiaries in May 2020, and 36.62 LMT distributed to 73.24 crore beneficiaries in June 2020,” it said.The scheme initially promised to provide 5 kg wheat or rice and 1 kg pulses for free every month till June this year to 800 million poor. The scheme was further extended for five months till November 2020.“Since then, 98.31 LMT food grains have been given to states and union territories so far. In July 2020, about 36.09 LMT food grains were distributed to 72.18 crore beneficiaries, in August 2020, 30.22 LMT were distributed to 60.44 crore beneficiaries, and, in September 2020, 1.92 LMT were distributed to 3.84 crore beneficiaries (as on September 7, 2020),” a finance ministry spokesperson said. In addition, a total of 5.43 LMT pulses have been distributed to 188 million beneficiaries between April and June 2020. This scheme was also extended for five months till November, 2020.The statement also said that a total of 85.2 million cylinders have been booked and delivered under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) in April and May 2020. So far 32.7 crore free cylinders have been delivered to the beneficiaries in June, 10.5 million in July, 8.9 million in August, and 1.5 million in September 2020, the statement said. PMGKY package includes free supply of three 14.5 kg gas cylinders to 80 million poor families.Giving details of the implementation of the package, the statement said, “36.05 lakh members of Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has taken benefit of online withdrawal of non-refundable advance from EPFO account amounting to Rs 9,543 crore.”The government has transferred 24% EPF contribution to accounts of 4.3 million employees, amounting to Rs 2,476 crore, it said. In order to help low wage earners in organised sectors, the government on March 26 announced it would pay 24% of their monthly wages into the PF accounts of wage-earners below Rs 15,000 per month in businesses with less than 100 workers for next three months. “This would prevent a disruption in their employment,” Sitharaman had said, while announcing the welfare package.The government has also notified the increased wage rate under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Program (MNREGA) effective from April 1, 2020, it said. “In the current financial year, 195.21 crore persons’ man-days of work generated. Further, Rs 59,618 crore released to states to liquidate pending dues of both wage and material,” the statement said. Sitharaman had raised wages for MNREGA workers under the PMJKY package by Rs 20 with effect from April 1 to provide an additional Rs 2,000 benefit annually to each worker. “This will benefit approximately 13.62 crore families,” she had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-garib-kalyan-package-provided-cash-benefits-of-rs-68-820-crore-to-420-million-poor-fin-min/story-ez1mkVax0wxpqRzThBhOvL.html
08-09-2020||India||Govt attaches properties of US-based Sikhs for Justice leader and designated terrorist Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, first under amended UAPA||The Centre on Tuesday ordered the attachment of properties of US-based Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) leader and designated terrorist Gurpatwant Singh Pannun under Section 51A of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.This is the first time that the government has attached property under the UAPA since its amendment last year.Pannun, along with eight other men, was designated a terrorist by the Union home ministry in July this year. Pannun has been running a campaign against India and motivating Sikh youngsters in his home state Punjab to join militancy, the government said. Govt. Orders Attachment of Immovable Properties of Designated Terrorists Gurpatwant Singh Pannu and Hardeep Singh Nijjar pic.twitter.com/7mOpa7UEkbAlso read: 9 wanted men designated as terrorists under anti-terror law, includes Pannun, Khalistani forcesThe others designated as individual terrorists under UAPA include - Paramjit Singh of Babbar Khalsa International, Hardeep Singh Nijjar of Khalistan Tiger Force, Gurmit Singh Bagga of Khalistan Zindabad Force and Ranjeet Singh from the same outfit.The properties of Pannun and Nijjar in Punjab’s Amritsar and Jalandhar respectively will be attached, the government order said.The order has been issued after the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is investigating the campaign being run by SFJ, approached the government for attachment of these properties. The NIA said that SFJ, a secessionist organisation, is running a concerted campaign “for creation of so called Khalistan”.Last September, the first four terrorists to be declared as individual terrorists under the changed provisions of UAPA were - Maulana Masood Azhar, Hafiz Saeed, Zaki ur Rehman Lakhvi and Dawood Ibrahim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-attaches-properties-of-us-based-sikhs-for-justice-leader-and-designated-terrorist-gurpatwant-singh-pannun-first-under-amended-uapa/story-WrTrGsIQOyZBWPJ984DmJM.html
08-09-2020||India||Rajasthan takes Rs 300-cr hit as alcohol sale falls sharply amid pandemic||Despite additional excise tax and Covid-19 surcharge on alcohol, Rajasthan witnessed a revenue deficit of over Rs 300 crore in the current financial year on the back of a sharp decline in sales amid the pandemic and particularly during the lockdown period. Between April to August this year, the excise department earned a revenue of Rs 3,301crore compared to Rs 3,607 crore for the same period in 2019 a deficit of Rs 306 crore despite additional tax and surcharge on liquor. The highest losses came in the April when it garnered revenue of Rs 145 crore against Rs 670 crore in the corresponding period of last year to set up a deficit of Rs 525 crore in the first month of the current fiscal. In subsequent months, the revenue has been more than that the corresponding months of last year because of higher taxes, but sales have dived.The Rajasthan State Beverages Corporation Limited, which has rights for sourcing and pricing of Indian made foreign Liquor (IMFL) sold 46 lakh cases of IMFL in 2019-20, which fell to 29 lakh this year. Similarly, the sale of beer cases fell to 66 lakh from 149 lakh in 2019-20. In comparison to 2019 (April to August 31), the sale of IMFL has reduced by 37% and beer by 56% in the corresponding period this year. Liquor shops which were shut in Rajasthan during the lockdown, reopened on May 4 except in containment zones and those places which were under curfew. To raise revenue amid Covid-19 crisis the state government on April 29 imposed an additional excise duty from 35%-45% on IMFL and 45% on beer. On the same day, the Rajasthan Excise Act was amended to raise the basic license fee for sale of country liquor and Rajasthan made liquor (RML). Thereafter, on June 2, a surcharge was levied on IMFL, beer, RML and country liquor from Rs 1.50 to Rs 30 per bottle. The surcharge was made for the purpose of mitigating natural or man-made calamities like drought, flood, epidemic, public health exigencies, fire etc. Though the government managed to go surplus with the revenue with imposing additional tax and surcharge but the volume of consumption declined steeply. Secretary finance, Prithvi Raj said, “We are getting almost the same revenue as that of last year. At the same time the volume of consumption has decreased, which supports the state’s policy of discouraging liquor consumption.” He said that other than April, the months from May to August are revenue positive – May registered 18% growth, June (15%), July (16%), and August (26%). “There is this price elasticity of demand concept, which says that whenever there is an increase in the price of any product its consumption tends to fall,” said Prithvi Raj. A senior official of the excise department said on condition of anonymity that there has been a decline in liquor sales compared to last year but the sale of IMFL is now rising. The department is focusing on increasing the lifting of the stock from depots. “The sale of beer has fallen in almost all states, which is because of a steep rise in prices; the product is preferred consumed chilled and doctors during the Covid-9 pandemic have cautioned against drinking cold beverages. The tourist footfall is low and the situation is the same with bars,” said the official. said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-takes-rs-300-cr-hit-as-alcohol-sale-falls-sharply-amid-pandemic/story-Kno4Q5sxg5VMjY35K1OdIO.html
08-09-2020||India||Dharmendra Pradhan urges railway minister to relaunch Shramik trains from Odisha||Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal, seeking his intervention to relaunch the now-suspended services of Shramik Special trains from Odisha to other states to facilitate return of migrant workers to their places of work.In a letter to Goyal, the petroleum and steel minister said he has received many representations from migrant labourers in the state, seeking resumption of such special train services to Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states.“As you would be aware, there was a mass exodus of migrant workers from states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra to Odisha in the wake of nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.“With the efforts of the Railway Ministry, thousands of workers across the country could reach their home towns by Shramik Special trains and the same was appreciated widely,” Pradhan said.There is a need to resume train services for migrant workers so that they can go back to their workplaces, he said, adding that these labourers have expressed their plight due to unavailability of jobs.“I am informed that even though some employers are willing to offer bus transport service from Odisha, due to the prevailing monsoon conditions, a long and arduous journey via road is neither feasible nor safe,” Pradhan said in his letter.“I request your intervention for restarting of Shramik Express Trains from Odisha to states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra at the earliest,” he added.Pradhan’s letter came after eight migrant workers, who were on their way from Odisha’s Ganjam to Surat in Gujarat, were killed and several injured when the bus carrying them met with an accident in Chhattisgarh last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharmendra-pradhan-urges-railway-minister-to-relaunch-shramik-trains-from-odisha/story-S7KHFpxoikGCoHaFKJWe3H.html
08-09-2020||India||Govind Swarup, pioneer of radio astronomy in India, dies at 91||Physicist Govind Swarup, known for pioneering radio astronomy in India and setting up giant radio telescopes, died on Monday in Pune. He was 91. Swarup was the brains behind the designing and installation of the Ooty Radio Telescope and the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope near Pune. Instead of studying the light emitted from an astronomical source like the regular optical telescopes, radio telescopes study the radio waves that are emitted.The Ooty Radio Telescope is a 530 m long and 30 m tall cylindrical parabolic antennae. The rotation axis of the telescope is parallel to the Earth’s rotation axis, which means it can follow a source from the rise to set. The telescope has helped in many discoveries in astronomy, contributed to the studies of the sun, pulsars (stars that cannot be seen but send out pulses of radio signals), and distant radio quasars (extremely luminious astronomical objects formed by gas spiralling into a massive black hole). Using the telescope, Swarup and his students showed that radio source counts were consistent with the predictions of the Big Bang theory.The construction of the telescope was completed in 1970 and it continues to be one of the world’s most sensitive radio telescopes.In the 1980s, Swarup thought of a radio telescope even bigger than the one at Ooty and began his Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope project. It uses 30 fully steerable parabolic radio telescopes of 45 metre diameter the information from which is then superimposed to create the whole picture.The goal of this massive new telescope, which opened up for research in 2000, was to discover primordial hydrogen clouds in the very distant universe.After completing his graduation and post-graduation in physics from Allahabad University, Swarup discovered a new type of burst from the sun, called a Type U burst, during his time at Harvard Observatory. When he applied for a PhD in the US, all the major radio astronomy centres of the time – Harvard, Caltech, and Stanford accepted his application. Swarup was offered a position as an assistant professor in the US but he always wanted to return to India. Along with three other Indians working in the field of radio astronomy abroad, he proposed to set up a radio astronomy facility in India in 1961. The proposal was quickly accepted by Homi Bhabha, then director of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) in Mumbai. He sent Swarup a telegram conveying TIFR’s decision to set up a radio astronomy group, marking the beginning of radio astronomy in India.“With Professor Govind Swarup’s demise, the world of astronomy has lost a great scientist, institution, and telescope-builder. Ever-smiling, not one to take a no for anything he wanted to be done, he took up impossible tasks, inspired colleagues to accomplish them,” wrote principal scientific advisor to the government, K VijayRaghavan.Swarup was part of London’s Royal Society and won India’s highest science award--Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize--and the fourth highest civilian award, Padma Shree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pioneer-of-radio-astronomy-in-india-govind-swarup-dies-at-91/story-q5zhYGFu0FuxjYxPJobtjL.html
08-09-2020||India||Over 5 crore Covid-19 tests conducted till date||India’s cumulative tests for detection of Covid-19 have surpassed five crore, while tests per million have witnessed a rise from 6,396 on July 1 to 36,703 as of date, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.Aggressive and widespread testing have essayed an important role in India’s fight against the Covid pandemic, the ministry said.India has come a long way from conducting just one test at the lab in the National Institute of Virology, Pune in January to 5,06,50,128 as on date with  10,98,621 samples being tested in 24 hours testifying the enlarged testing capacity in the country. “The average daily tests conducted (week-wise) are demonstrating a consistent increase. This has registered a 3.2 times expansion from third week of July (3,26,971) to first week of September (10,46,470),” the ministry said.The average Tests Per Million Per Day have increased from 237 in the second week of July to 758 in the first week of September, it highlighted. In its Guidance Note on “Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19”, the WHO has advised countries to conduct 140 tests per day per million population for comprehensive surveillance for suspect cases. The average week-on-week data for India shows a rising improvement on this front.  Expanding network of diagnostic labs has given a boost to Tests per Million.“The TPM have seen a sharp rise from 6396 on July 1 to 36,703 as of today,” the ministry said.The testing lab network consists of 1668 labs in the country; 1035 labs in the government sector and 633 private labs.India’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 42,80,422 with a single-day spike of 75,809 infections, while the  death toll climbed to 72,775 with record 1,133 new fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-5-crore-covid-19-tests-conducted-till-date/story-Wpa6SkqCiJaAvom534XvaN.html
08-09-2020||India||Hunar Haat to begin from October 9 in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj||Hunar Haat, a crafts fair organised by the ministry of minority affairs that gives platform to local artisans will be resumed after a gap of about 6 months from October 9 to 18 at Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh. The fair that was put on hold because of the ongoing Corona pandemic, will have local to global as the theme and the focus will be on indigenous exquisite Indian toys. Union Minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday said every corner of the country has a traditional and ancestral legacy of indigenous toys. “This legacy, which was on the verge of extinction, has got a boon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for Swadeshi Toys. The Indian toy industry has got tremendous boost after PM Modi advocated vocal for local toys,” the minister said in a statement. During his radio programme, Man Ki Baat, in August, PM Modi said the global toy industry is over Rs 7 lakh crore but India’s share is very small and urged start-up entrepreneurs to ‘team up for toys’. The Prime Minister held discussions with industry representatives to increase the production of indigenous toys. He also held a meeting with ministers and officials to discuss ways to boost manufacturing and global imprint of Indian toys and said India is home to several toy clusters and thousands of artisans who produce indigenous toys. This art, he said, not only has cultural links but also helps in building life-skills and psychomotor skills among children. The PM suggested that such clusters should be promoted through innovative and creative methods. Taking a cue from the PM’s suggestion, Naqvi said, the haat will offer a platform for indigenous toys made from wood, brass, bamboo, glass, cloth, paper, clay etc. “The Hunar Haat will be an enormous platform providing market and opportunities to master artisans who prepare these indigenous exquisite toys. More than 30%of the stalls will be for artisans who male indigenous toys, they will also be extended help through various institutions for attractive packaging of swadeshi toys,” the minister said. The fair, as per the minister, has provided employment and employment opportunities to more than 500,000 Indian artisans, craftsmen, culinary experts and other people associated with them in the last five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hunar-haat-to-begin-from-october-9-in-uttar-pradesh-s-prayagraj/story-ujFGhTiwfriIDETBCaWMSN.html
08-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput probe: Rhea Chakraborty at NCB office for third round of questioning||Actor Rhea Chakraborty reached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in Mumbai on Tuesday for the third round of questioning in the drug abuse angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Chakraborty was escorted from her residence in Juhu to the NCB office in Fort by a police vehicle after she was mobbed by a horde of mediapersons on Sunday, the first day she was summoned by the agency. NCB said Chakraborty, who was quizzed for around eight hours on Monday and six hours on Sunday, was cooperating in the drug-related probe linked to Rajput’s death on June 14. Also read| ‘Absolutely baseless, illegal’: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer reacts to Rhea Chakraborty’s chargesNCB deputy director general (south-west region) Mutha Ashok Jain on Monday said that the agency was doing a “professionally thorough and systematic job” and that it will inform the court about its “findings in detail”.The agency has said it wants to question the 28-year- old actor and confront her with her brother Showik (24), Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda (33) and his house staffer Dipesh Sawant to ascertain their roles in the alleged drug racket.The NCB launched its investigation after WhatsApp chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage and transportation in connection with Rajput’s death case surfaced.Chakrabortys’ lawyer, however, had denied that either of the two siblings ever consumed drugs. The agency has till now has arrested eight people including Showik, Miranada and Sawant in the case.Others who have been arrested are Zaid Vilatra, Kaizan Ebrahim, Abdel Basit Parihar, Karan Arora, and Abbas Lakhani.However, Vilatra and Parihar, two accused who had implicated Rhea Chakraborty’s brother and Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and domestic help Dipesh Swant, have retracted their statements given to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-probe-rhea-chakraborty-at-ncb-office-for-third-round-of-questioning/story-9szCh5DXHuUMFTq5Vzbo9L.html
08-09-2020||India||‘Absolutely baseless, illegal’: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer reacts to Rhea Chakraborty’s charges||Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer on Tuesday dismissed the police complaint lodged by Rhea Chakraborty against the late actor’s sisters and a Delhi-based doctor, accusing them of abetting suicide, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy.Bandra Police have registered a first information report (FIR) against Rajput’s sisters, Priyanka Singh and Mitu Singh, and Dr Tarun Kumar, an associate professor of cardiology from Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. The case has also been transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing Rajput’s death.“It looks like the Bandra police station of Mumbai Police has become Rhea’s second home. She runs to it on every small occasion and takes refuge just like someone takes refuge in their house. The FIR lodged by the Bandra Police is absolutely baseless and illegal,” Vikas Singh, lawyer of Rajput’s father, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Whatever Rhea Chakraborty is trying to say through this FIR, she could have given the same in a statement to the CBI. And if CBI considered it, it would have given a thought about it in its charge sheet. The second FIR is absolutely invalid in the accordance with the order of the Supreme Court and is in direct violation,” Singh added.Rhea filed a six-page complaint against the three at Bandra police station for allegedly prescribing medicines for Rajput that are banned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines, 2020.She has filed the complaint under sections 464, 465, 466, 468, 474, 306, 120 (B), 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and read with sections 8 (c), 21, 22, and 29 of the NDPS act.One of Rajput’s sister, Shweta Singh Kirti, has called Chakraborty’s complaint against her siblings ‘fake’. “Nothing’s gonna break us, definitely not this fake FIR!” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absolutely-baseless-illegal-sushant-singh-rajput-s-family-lawyer-reacts-to-rhea-chakraborty-s-charges/story-Ph1yiDBFKAIVtiWo8VNP5M.html
08-09-2020||India||At Congress’ parliament strategy meeting, Opposition decides to put up joint candidate for deputy Rajya Sabha chairman||The Opposition parties have decided to put up a joint candidate for the post of Rajya Sabha deputy chairman. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Congress party’s parliament strategy group.The Congress decided that it will reach out to various parties in this regard.The Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson’s post fell vacant after Janata Dal (United) MP Harivansh retired in April this year.There is, however, no word on the deputy speaker. The post couldn’t be elected in the budget session of the Lok Sabha which ended in March. And because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the legislative proceedings were affected so a discussion on the same could not be held.The decision comes ahead of the Monsoon Session of Parliament starting September 14. The last date of filing the nominations is September 11. Also Read: Only paper ballots for voting in Parliament’s monsoon sessionThe meeting was attended by party’s leaders in both houses including Rahul Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and leader of Congress party in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury.Congress deputy leaders in both houses and chief whips and party’s whips also attended the virtual meeting.This was the first time that some of the letter-writers, who had demanded an overhaul of the party, came face to face with the Congress leadership after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting.The Congress strategy group decided to raise the issue of restoration of the Question Hour in both houses during the session.The Congress also decided to raise the issue of the handling of the COVID-19 pandemic in the wake of rise in daily number of cases and India taking the second spot in total cases in the world, besides the effect of lockdown.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-congress-parliament-strategy-meeting-opposition-decides-to-put-up-joint-candidate-for-deputy-speaker/story-o6S80NABPCT43S4ugWseqK.html
08-09-2020||India||Indian Railways announces ‘clone train scheme’: All you need to know||The Indian Railways, which will operate 80 more special trains from September 12 in addition to the 230 already plying, has now announced a ‘clone train’ scheme to ferry passengers with waitlisted tickets to their destinations.“Wherever there is a demand for a particular train, wherever the waiting list is long, we will run a clone train ahead of the actual train so that passengers can travel,” Railway Board chairperson VK Yadav said while addressing a press conference.“Railways will monitor all the trains that are currently in operation to determine which trains have a long waiting list,” Yadav said.Here’s all you need to know about this scheme:* A ‘clone’ train will be run as an alternative to an actual one and will have its number.* Such a train will be operated only if there is a large number of passengers on the waiting list of a particular train.* Only waitlisted passengers will be accommodated on a ‘clone’ train.* Passengers on the waiting list shall be informed about their berths or seats on a ‘clone’ train after reservation charts of the actual train is released or four hours before departure.* Railways is likely to introduce these trains in the next 15 days and will issue a notification in this regard.* This scheme is similar to the ‘Vikalp’ scheme under which waitlisted passengers are accommodated in another train on the same route, regardless of booking quota and concession.* However, in the case of ‘Vikalp’ scheme, instead of the original boarding and destination stations, nearby boarding and destination stations may be allotted to the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-announces-clone-train-scheme-all-you-need-to-know/story-wuysM8pXqIdBYiQ6ytCTLM.html
08-09-2020||India||10-year-old girl killed in house collapse in Panvel||A 10-year-old girl was killed while her parents and three siblings sustained minor injuries after the family’s house collapsed in Taloja, Panvel in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) Tuesday morning, police said.Officials in the local ward office of the Panvel Municipal Corporation in Pendhar village, said the house collapsed around 7 am.Police officials said one Munna Harijan, 30, was staying in a rented house near a chawl in Pendhar in the MIDC area. Harijan was staying with his wife, and four children - three daughters aged ten, four and three and a son aged 12.“Hina, the eldest of the daughters was crushed under the slab when it collapsed on her in the morning. The entire house collapsed shortly after that. After the Panvel fire brigade was informed, the remaining family members were pulled out of the rubble,” said an officer from the Navi Mumbai police control room.The injured family members were admitted to a hospital in MIDC, Taloja. The local ward office said the cause behind the collapse is not clear yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-year-old-girl-killed-in-house-collapse-in-panvel/story-KBvJsKUNoxUI8YPCzCVZyM.html
08-09-2020||India||Only paper ballots for voting in Parliament’s monsoon session||Passing legislations will be a time-consuming affair in the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, which will be held between September 14 and October 1 and without any weekend breaks, amid the unprecedented raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.There won’t be any electronic voting system and the lawmakers have to cast their votes through the traditional paper ballots. The Members of Parliament (MPs) have to maintain social distancing norms, as part of the precautionary measures against the viral outbreak. As a result, few parliamentarians will be able to retain their own seat.Going by the plan, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs will occupy seats in both the Houses and the galleries when Parliament will meet in two separate shifts. Parliament, akin to Indian elections, has graduated to a more efficient electronic system to cast votes on bills and resolutions. Also Read: Congress to give final shape to its Parliament strategy todayHowever, paper ballots still have a limited use for MPs to rectify their votes in case of any mistake with the electronic system. The Covid-19 pandemic has led to the scrapping of the use of the electronic voting system during the upcoming truncated monsoon session of Parliament. “Recording of votes during Divisions, as and when required, will be held under Rule 367A as per the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Lok Sabha by distribution of slips. Division slips will be provided to those members who are seated in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha chambers and galleries only,” said a notice of the Lok Sabha secretariat on Monday. Also Read: Monsoon session of Parliament: Over 1k officials being screenedElectronic voting implies instantaneous results and the process takes less than five minutes. The ballots, including distribution and counting, takes at least around half an hour. The government wants to pass at least 11 ordinances, including three on farm sector reforms, and a few other pending bills during the packed 18-day Parliament session. “Members will be supplied with ‘ayes’/‘noes’ printed slips at their seats for recording their votes. ‘ayes’ slips are printed on one side in green and ‘noes’ on its reverse in red, both in English and Hindi languages,” said the notice. “On the slips, members may record votes of their choice by signing and writing legibly their names, Division numbers and date. Members who desire to record ‘abstention’ may ask for the ‘abstention’ slips,” the notice added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-paper-ballots-for-voting-in-parliament-s-monsoon-session/story-al3MNdSXUDj9xsIzS8ZJdN.html
08-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress to formulate strategy ahead of monsoon session of Parliament today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress to give final shape to its Parliament strategy todayThe Congress will formulate its strategy for the monsoon session of Parliament, beginning September 14, at a meeting on Tuesday. The meeting of the party’s parliament strategy group will be chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and attended by Rahul Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Jairam Ramesh, KC Venugopal, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Gaurav Gogoi, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu. Read more2,392 fresh cases push Telangana’s Covid-19 tally to 1.45 lakhTelangana on Tuesday logged 2,329 new cases and 11 deaths due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, taking the overall tally and death toll to 1.45 lakh and 906 respectively.A total of 1.12 lakh people have recovered from Covid-19 so far whereas 31,670 are under treatment. Nearly 25,000 are in home or institutional quarantine in the state. Read moreMBBS students can travel by Mumbai local trains to appear for final examsMumbai’s suburban trains will ferry undergraduate medical students who are slated to appear for their final year MBBS summer theory and practical examinations from Tuesday. The decision follows a request by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), less than 24 hours before the exam, seeking permission to allow MBBS students to travel by trains during exams. Read moreFitch projects Indian economy to contract 10.5% this fiscalFitch Ratings on Tuesday projected a massive 10.5% contraction of India’s economy in the current financial year. India recorded one of the sharpest gross domestic product (GDP) contractions in the world in April-June. India’s GDP shrank by a staggering 24% year-on-year amid the imposition of one of the most stringent global nationwide lockdown. Read moreKangana Ranaut’s office not bulldozed by the BMC, actor receives a notice to stop ‘leakage’ insteadActor Kangana Ranaut has announced that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has given her a notice to tend to ‘leakage work’ at her Mumbai office. Kangana on Monday had claimed that the BMC was going to demolish her Manikarnika Films office, presumably as a fallout of her recent war of words with the Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut. Read morePUBG Corp. responds to PUBG Mobile ban, Tencent will no longer handle its India franchiseThe Indian government banned PUBG Mobile along with 117 more China-linked apps last week. In response to the ban, PUBG Corporation, the parent company of PUBG Mobile has announced Tencent Games will no longer have publishing rights for the game in India. Read moreShilpa Shetty Kundra’s mantra for health: ‘Focus, willpower, consistency, but not at risk of mental, physical health’Shilpa Shetty Kundra has been advocating fitness and yoga long before it became a fad, and the fit actor is constantly sharing her fitness routine, healthy recipes and health tips on social media for her fans. In her latest social media post, Shilpa shared with her fans why it was important to be focused, consistent and have willpower to achieve one’s goals. Read moreIPL 2020: Mayank Agarwal targets elusive Indian Premier League highAs a youngster, Mayank Agarwal’s role model was Virender Sehwag. While retaining his aggression, the Karnataka batsman held firm through a rollercoaster early phase and started his Test career with a bang. Read moreMaruti Suzuki production up 11% to 1.23 lakh units in AugustMaruti Suzuki India said on Monday it clocked 11 per cent increase in production during August to 1.23 lakh units. The country’s largest passenger car manufacturer had produced a total of 1.11 lakh units in the same month of last year, the company said in a statement. Read moreSonu Sood’s reply to fan who painted his pic on SIM card is winning people overSonu Sood has won people’s hearts for going above and beyond to assist those who reach out to him asking for help. The efforts of the actor have also earned him a fan following on Twitter. Some of his fans also share artworks on the micro-blogging platform as a tribute. Read moreWatch: India’s active Covid cases nears the million mark; lockdown fatigue setting in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-to-formulate-strategy-ahead-of-monsoon-session-of-parliament-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qpFGk0owcRNNCEZyKuJidI.html
08-09-2020||India||Not just our products, India’s voice has also become global: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that the world now pays more attention to India and that its voice is being heard globally.“The world is now paying more attention to India, and we have strong presence at most global bodies,” the Prime Minister said while addressing a book launch event virtually. He also hailed the media for serving people in an “unprecedented way” by spreading awareness about the coronavirus pandemic and said that like Indian products, the media too needs to go global. “Not only Indian products but India’s voice also has become global, Indian media too needs to be global,” he said. “Though the media is also criticised at times, more so in this age of social media, everybody needs to learn from criticism,” he said, adding this is what makes India’s democracy strong. ALSO WATCH | ‘NEP focuses on critical thinking’: PM Modi, President Kovind address Governors’ conference He also pointed out how India’s freedom struggle movement was associated with literature. “In our country, writing has developed continuously with Indianness and nationality. During the freedom struggle, almost every big name was associated with writing from somewhere. We have had great saints, scientists and writers known for their literary contribution,” he said. The Prime Minister said that writers are like the guiding forces of any society. Books and authors play a major role in guiding the masses as schooling gets over but the learning process lasts for ages, he said. He also cautioned the country’s youth saying, “Today, in this era of text and tweet, it is more important that our new generation does not get away from serious knowledge.” (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-our-products-india-s-voice-has-also-become-global-pm-modi/story-BkaYX4GLbnb5ULyRkk1AzM.html
08-09-2020||India||Saharanpur wood carvers to begin a new chapter with wooden toys||Artisans in Saharanpur always had a reputation for wood carving. Now, the Saharanpur district administration has planned a project to give a new dimension to that skill by deciding to make indigenous wooden toys. They intend to launch the first lot of toys from the city by Dussehera in October, officials said.The move follows an appeal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address in August.Saharanpur is globally acclaimed for its wood carving skills and the state government has selected it under its ‘one district, one product’ scheme. Inspired by the advice of the PM, the wood carvers of Saharanpur will make non-toxic wooden toys as part of the national rural livelihood mission (NRLM).Saharanpur divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar explained that the city’s artisans are globally acclaimed for their wood carving skills and the idea is to utilise it for making non-toxic wooden toys.“It will help them add a new dimension to their skill and open new avenues of income for them,” said Kumar, who has directed officials to ensure that wooden toys made here should cater to the needs of children of different ages.Chief development officer (CDO) Pranay Singh is looking after the project and he said that local artisans are already skilled but what they need is proper training and guidance to try their hand at toy-making, which they can easily do with high precision.He said that the project will be linked to the NRLM, seeking financial assistance from NABARD. He further said that Chennapattanam in Karnataka is famous for wooden toys and efforts are underway to bring a trainer from there for basic training of toy-making and to educate artisans about other aspects including its marketing.Officials have shortlisted two self help groups to begin the project with and deputy commissioner (self employment) A K Upadhyay has been given the responsibility to coordinate with members of these groups to finalise training and other requirements. “These groups have more than two dozen women members who work with male artisans. They are skilled wood carvers and well trained in designing, polishing and other works and easily make toys after receiving basic training and other required support,” said Upadhyay, who has linked Bachatgarh and Azad self help groups with the project.Mohd Arif of Bachatgarh said that several rounds of discussions were held with Upadhyay and they are excited at the prospect of exclusively developing wooden toys. He said that they already manufacture some toys but they are mainly for display. He also said that dealing exclusively in wooden toys after seeking training will be a different experience and help in skill-diversification and business.Wood carving was brought to Saharanpur by migrant Kashmiri artisans almost 400 years ago, during the Mughal rule. Over the years, the skill blossomed and spread. Though artisans here are largely involved in making furniture and decorative wooden items, the new avenue of making toys will add a new dimension to their skill.CDO Pranay Singh said that the marketing of the toys will be promoted through Saras Mela, which is a potential platform for marketing items made by local artisans. Moreover, the use of these non-toxic toys could also be promoted in play and other schools in the area to create a demand for these toys. The officials are also excited about launching a whole new range of toys and hope that people will like and accept them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saharanpur-wood-carvers-to-begin-a-new-chapter-with-wooden-toys/story-FshQkT9AX30xee1T6q2gCM.html
08-09-2020||India||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut appointed party’s chief spokesperson||Uddhav Thackeray, the Shiv Sena chief, has appointed Sanjay Raut, a Rajya Sabha (RS) member of the Sena, as the party’s chief spokesperson amid criticism over his alleged comments about actor Kangana Raut. The announcement was made by the Sena in the party mouthpiece Saamana on Tuesday. Also read: Sena-BJP showdown in Maharashtra upper House as former allies field candidates for deputy chairperson postBesides Raut, the party has appointed 10 other members as spokesperson. They are Sena Members of Parliament (MPs) Arvind Sawant, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Dhairyashil Mane; Maharashtra ministers Anil Parab, Uday Samant and Gulabrao Patil; legislators Neelam Gorhe, Pratap Sarnaik and Sunil Prabhu. Kishori Pednekar, the mayor of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has also been appointed as the spokesperson. Sarnaik, too, has been vocal against Ranaut and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the latest controversy between the allies turned arch-rivals. Raut’s remarks on Ranaut have drawn flak from all quarters. Sena insiders said that the announcement has been made to send a message to party members not to speak on behalf of the party on controversial issues such as the spat between Raut and Ranaut. Earlier, a Sena functionary had appeared on a TV news channel debate on the Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, much to the chagrin of Thackeray, who is also the Maharashtra chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-appointed-party-s-chief-spokesperson/story-kAYn7MrHJQ3Nt16tNbZKpO.html
08-09-2020||India||2 gang rape and murder accused escape from police custody in Madhya Pradesh||Two gang rape and murder accused, who were among three men arrested by the police in Ratlam on Monday, escaped from custody at night, police said Tuesday.The accused - Deepak Singh and Ravi Singh – are residents of Gurjarpada village of Ratlam district. According to police, Kalu Singh, Deepak Singh and Ravi Singh, who are cousins and residents of Gurjarpada village were arrested on Monday for abducting and gangraping a 13-year-old from another village and killing her by drowning her.Later, the accused allegedly threw the body in a field on Sunday. “They were arrested after the villagers suspected involvement of four villagers in the crime who used to create nuisance in the village in an intoxicated state and one of them on Saturday night tried to mislead villagers when they were searching for the girl saying that she was abducted by some people in a car,” said Gaurav Tiwari, superintendent of police, Ratlam.“Three of the four were arrested. They confessed their crime and told the police that they abducted the girl when she was returning home after purchasing some items from a shop. They raped her and killed her,” said the SP. They were produced before the court and the court allowed police remand for three days on Monday.The SP said, “The accused were lodged at Biplank police station. They fought over some issue on Monday night when the police personnel on duty intervened and tried to stop them from fighting. It was when they ran away. Police nabbed one of the accused Kalu Singh but others succeeded in running away.” The police have announced a reward of Rs 10,000 to whosoever give information to police about their whereabouts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-gang-rape-and-murder-accused-escape-from-police-custody-in-madhya-pradesh/story-nVBw7pmWiI8lyknJh3QMiL.html
08-09-2020||India||Pradhan seeks special trains for migrant workers to return to places of work||Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal seeking Shramik special trains to states like Gujarat, Karnataka, and Maharashtra for the smooth return of migrant workers to their workplaces with the resumption of normalcy and the lifting of the nationwide lockdown imposed in March to check the Covid-19 pandemic spread.The Centre introduced Shramik special trains to help migrant workers, who were left jobless by the pandemic, to return to their homes this summer after tens of thousands of them were forced to walk amid the suspension of transportation services due to the lockdown.“There was a mass exodus of migrant workers from states like Gujarat, Karnataka, and Maharashtra to Odisha in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown. These workers have highlighted their plights due to the unavailability of livelihood options and difficulty in travelling back to their workplace for re-joining work. Even though some employers are willing to offer bus transport service from Odisha, a long and arduous journey via road is neither feasible nor safe for such long distances due to prevailing monsoon conditions,” Pradhan wrote.Pradhan’s letter came two days after eight migrant workers, who were on their way from Ganjam in Odisha to Surat, were killed and 20 others injured when the bus they were traveling on collided head-on with a truck in Chhattisgarh. The bus was carrying about 60 migrant workers.After the lockdown was announced, over 926,000 migrant workers returned to Odisha after losing their livelihood in Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bengal, Delhi, and Haryana. Of these, 358,000 workers returned on 256 Shramik Special trains while the rest came by buses, cars, taxis, and bicycles.The returnees included 550,000 unskilled workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pradhan-seeks-special-trains-for-migrant-workers-to-return-to-places-of-work/story-EexAPU3BYs003py0ZCq64K.html
08-09-2020||India||China’s PLA fired shots to intimidate Indian soldiers, says Army||India has said that Chinese troops on Monday fired shots to intimidate Indian soldiers while attempting to close in on a forward position held by the army along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh where the border row has worsened. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Indian Army said its troops exercised “great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner” despite the grave provocation. The Indian Army said its troops did not cross the LAC or open fire at any stage, denying accusations made by the PLA. “It is the People’s Liberation Army that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress,” the statement said. Also Read: PLA move in Ladakh is part of Beijing plan to destabilise IndiaThe development comes three days after defence minister Rajnath Singh asked China to strictly respect the LAC, not make attempts to unilaterally change the status quo, and work with India for complete disengagement from all friction areas in eastern Ladakh in the midst of military tensions between the two sides. ALSO WATCH | India calls for disengagement, China hardens stand: Key updates“In the instant case on September 7, it was the PLA troops who were attempting to close-in with one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by own troops, PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate own troops,” the army statement said. The army said while India was committed to disengagement and de-escalating the situation on the LAC, China was undertaking provocative actions to escalate the row. Also Read: Past midnight, China claims to have taken countermeasures to India’s ‘military provocation’“At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing,” the statement said. “The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity, however is also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs. The statement by the Western Theatre Command is an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience,” it added. The Western Theater Command had said that Indian soldiers illegally crossed the LAC and fired warning shots, forcing the PLA to take countermeasures. At a meeting in Moscow on Friday, Singh made it clear to the Chinese defence minister that India was fully determined to defend its frontiers. He told his Chinese counterpart, General Wei Fenghe, that the PLA’s aggressive actions in the Ladakh sector to unilaterally change the status quo on the ground violated bilateral agreements and the understanding between the special representatives of the two sides. Singh said while Indian troops showed a responsible approach towards border management, there should be no doubt about India’s determination to protect the nation’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. The latest round of tensions flared up in the Ladakh sector after the army occupied key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Lake to stop the PLA from grabbing Indian territory in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.China made another provocative move on August 31, targeting these positions but the Indian Army’s swift defensive action thwarted the Chinese attempt. Both sides have concentrated a significant number of soldiers, tanks and artillery pieces, and are within each other’s rifle range in the area.Last week, Singh said that the Chinese side should work with India for complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas, including the Pangong Lake, and also for de-escalation in border areas in accordance with bilateral agreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-fired-shots-to-intimidate-indian-soldiers-says-army/story-QSS1Rjs0lsFjnAViz4aO8O.html
08-09-2020||India||PLA move in Ladakh is part of Beijing plan to destabilize India||China’s moves in Ladakh and the South China Sea are based on a historical construct. If a Green Line crafted in 1960 by then paramount leader Mao Zedong is the People’s Liberation Army’s objective in Ladakh, it is the 9, 10 or 11 dash line (depending on political convenience; the concept has a dubious historical basis in the Sino-French war) that is the target of the Red army in the South China Sea.The PLA’s main enemy in the South China Sea is a competing superpower, the US, which is backing Taiwan, even as the members of the ASEAN look the other way. Its adversary in Ladakh, adjoining sensitive and restive Tibet and Xinjiang, is a rising power, India whose neighbours Have all become increasingly cosy with Beijing in recent years.Although the ambitious western theatre commander of PLA, Zhao Zongqi, portrayed the Indian Army as an aggressor or a warmonger after Monday’s clash at the Rezang La — Rechin La ridgeline, the fact is that Indian troops are only preventing the Chinese from reaching their outrageous Green Line claim in the south of Pangong Tso. The Indian Army did the same on August 29-30, and at the same spot. It is quite evident that there is a short-term and a long-term context to the latest clash, both of which are familiar to commanders on the ground. ALSO WATCH | Indian Army rejects China’s allegations, says never crossed LACClearly, the latest PLA aggression is aimed at teaching the Indian Army a lesson for using the Special Frontier Force, largely comprising Tibetans-in-exile, on the front line in the August clash. What has upset Beijing the most is that the sacrifice of a Tibetan SFF JCO Nyima Tenzin in the battle on August 29-30, something that has become a rallying point for Tibetans all over the world and sparked a new life to the resistance against the Chinese occupation of the region. To make matters worse, the SFF proved its worth in high mountainous terrain.Also read: India refutes China’s LAC allegation, says Chinese soldiers fired in the airHowever, the long-term objective of China is to destabilize India by putting continuous pressure along the 3488 km Line of Actual Control (LAC), fully knowing its impact on Indian polity and on the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On August 12, 2013, Shyam Saran, a China expert and then Chairman of National Security Advisory Board, had submitted a report to the then Prime Minister’s Office that advocated increased patrolling of the LAC by Indian Army and Indo-Tibetan Border. Saran said while the patrolling points (65 in Ladakh) within the Indian LAC were identified by the apex China Study group, there was a need for the Indian Army and the ITBP to patrol till the actual LAC as there were significant gaps between the points and the perceived line. While admitting the patrolling mountainous terrain was difficult, the former foreign secretary pointed to increased PLA activity in these areas due to upgrade in border infrastructure by China.Essentially, what Saran in context of the April-May 2013 PLA intrusion in Depsang Bulge meant was that PLA had the option of nibbling the LAC due to lack of Indian patrolling till the perceived LAC. The 2013 intrusion has ensured that the Indian forces virtually cannot patrol points 10 to 13 with the PLA sitting on the mouth of the Bulge at Raki Nullah. The PLA aggression in the past four months in East Ladakh has left the Narendra Modi government no option but to militarily contest the PLA nibbling of the LAC or lose political equity by ceding territory to Communist China.India is facing a triple whammy from China. First, its economy has shrunk 23 per cent in the first quarter due to the coronavirus pandemic that originated in Wuhan, China. Second, the economic cost of putting the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force on war-like alert with emergency purchases is significant and mounting each day. It is quite evident that the Chinese economy can afford this deployment, and Beijing would like to tire out the Indian Army and economically bleed India until such time status quo ante is restored in Ladakh. The PLA is an expert in tiring out the enemy since the Korean war. Third, the country it is using its all-weather ally Pakistan to provoke India on the Line of Control (LOC) through cross-border firing and terrorist infiltration. Had it not been for umbilical ties between India and the Nepalese army, Beijing may have well been successful in activating the fourth dimension to bleed India.While the PLA’s attention is today diverted on two fronts with the US activating the Indo-China front, with Australia and Japan, India will feel more military pressure in Ladakh should the US position change after the country’s presidential elections in November. Europe is still to understand the rise of China, which has close economic ties with EU powerhouse Germany. The big picture for India appears to be grim at the moment in context of China but the country will be in pole position if it can ride over this round of Chinese checkers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-move-in-ladakh-is-part-of-beijing-plan-to-destabilize-india/story-NUv4DSkiz8ULDg6swNcnHM.html
08-09-2020||India||Cidco opposes bid to declare Navi Mumbai flamingo havens as conservation reserves||The City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco), Maharashtra’s planning agency, has rejected the idea of declaring areas in Navi Mumbai and Uran, where thousands of flamingos migrated to in April and May, as conservation reserves, saying they are “developable land parcels” and originally salt pans.The flamingos coloured the Talawe wetlands near NRI Complex and Training Ship Chanakya (TSC) in Navi Mumbai pink during the Covid-19 lockdown thanks to lack of human activity. Flamingos are known to feed on algae, crustaceans, shrimp, and aquatic plants, which give them pink colour.Also read: Maharashtra forest department confirms mangroves were hacked at Navi Mumbai’s Panje; owner, Cidco to respond“They are developable land parcels and revenue records show them as saltpans. Cidco had constructed several bunds along Navi Mumbai’s coastline as a part of its development strategy. However, overtime villagers broke these bunds for fishing purposes and allowed creek water to create several ponds. TSC and NRI are a result of this. As per 2017 wetland rules, these lands do not qualify to be declared as wetlands,” Cidco said in a letter to the Maharashtra forest department, a copy of which HT has seen.Cidco plans to develop a golf course and 17 buildings with 1,564 flats and 20 offices in the area. Environmentalists and residents have opposed the proposed constructions and the Bombay high has also stayed them. The matter is now pending before the Supreme Court.The State Mangrove Cell in April proposed protection of five sites--NRI (21.9 ha), TSC (14 ha) in Navi Mumbai, and Panje (124 ha), Bhendkhal (8 ha) and Belpada (30 ha) in Uran--as conservation reserves based on a Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) report. It sought comments from the Raigad district administration and landowners--Cidco, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) and some private companies--under the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ). JNPT and NMSEZ have also rejected the proposed protection.Cidco called BNHS’s report incorrect and highlighted the latter’s another 2014 report that recommended making areas, including TSC and NRI, near the Navi Mumbai International Airport unattractive for birds to avoid the risk of bird hits. It added the BNHS’s 2019 report overlooked this aspect of flight safety while recommending conservation reserves.Cidco’s nodal officer (environment), Pramod Patil said they have also accessed a March 2016 letter of the then principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) citing recommendations from the previous Mangrove Cell head against proposing bird sanctuaries at NRI and TSC. “We have shared this letter with the Maharashtra government.”Cidco said the proposed areas in Uran were either salt pans, agricultural areas or allocated to NMSEZ. “Thus, none of these five locations are wetlands and shall not be considered as wetlands,” the letter said.In January, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray asked Cidco to look at alternate options such as a flamingo sanctuary or mangrove park at the site for the proposed golf course.The Mangrove Cell has asked BNHS to respond to Cidco’s submissions. “Our proposal was based on BNHS’ study, and we have also marked these sites as satellite wetlands in the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary Management Plan. There can be further clarity on this only after BNHS responds to [Cidco] submissions...,” said additional principal chief conservator of forests (Mangrove Cell), Virendra Tiwari.BNHS’s Deepak Apte said the suggestions made in the 2014 interim report were specific to a proposed mangrove park adjacent to NMIA’s runway. “It was not at all in the context of NRI, TSC, and the other three wetlands in Uran. Our view is consistent right from the beginning that all these five wetlands need to be protected.”BNHS secretary Debi Goenka said it is common knowledge that a final report will subsume any interim report. “In any case, the National Wetland Atlas Maharashtra, prepared by the Indian Space Research Organisation, already shows these areas as wetlands.”Navi Mumbai resident Sunil Agarwal said he will file a contempt plea in the Supreme Court against Cidco and the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority for failing to implement its directions on conservation and protection of wetlands. “The false stand of these state bodies that there are no wetlands in Navi Mumbai and Uran needs to be called out. Rules have been manipulated to benefit private builders and the large flock of flamingos earlier this year is a testament that the area needs no construction, especially not a golf course.”National Wetland Authority member Afroz Ahmad like the decision on proposing 600 hectares of Aarey in Mumbai as reserved forest, it is up to the state to take a final call on whether these sites are wetlands. “States have been given liberty. It is under their jurisdiction to declare relevant areas as wetlands if the environment is the foremost priority. All these state departments need to discuss and resolve the issue amicably. If these wetlands are coming under the framework and rules, they should be declared appropriately as massive biodiversity is involved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cidco-opposes-bid-to-declare-navi-mumbai-flamingo-havens-as-conservation-reserves/story-ThGrWHgNGmbunUXD2x9Y7L.html
08-09-2020||India||‘PLA tried to close in, fired shots in air’: India rebuts China’s midnight statement||India on Tuesday dismissed Chinese claims that Indian Army fired “warning shots” near the Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, saying its troops “exercised great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner”.China said early on Tuesday that the border troops of its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) took “countermeasures” after the Indian Army crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and fired “warning shots” near the Pangong Tso.PLA border troops were “forced to take countermeasures” after Indian Army soldiers fired at them near the Shenpao mountain region near the south bank of Pangong Tso, a statement issued by China’s western theatre command (WAC) said.The Indian statement said that the Indian Army did not transgress across the LAC at no stage or resorted to using any aggressive means, including firing.“It is the PLA that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagement at the military, diplomatic and political level is in progress,” India said in a statement.“In the instant case on 07 September 2020, it was the PLA troops who were attempting to close-in with one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by own troops, PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate own troops. However, despite the grave provocation, own troops exercised great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner,” it added.It said India is committed to disengagement and de-escalating the situation on the LAC, “China continues to undertake provocative activities to escalate.”“The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity, however, is also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs. The statement by the Western Theatre Command is an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-refutes-chinese-claims-it-fired-at-lac-says-pla-blatantly-violating-agreements/story-D7bD97P8TkqW0Fl6F6OaqK.html
08-09-2020||India||Bombay HC refuses bail to Finnish woman who aided Sri Lankan national’s illegal migration bid||The Bombay high court last week refused bail to a 60-year-old Finnish national arrested for helping a Sri Lankan national to illegally migrate to Europe.Justice Sarang Kotwal rejected the bail plea of Miira Mirva Helena Pasma observing that there were strong circumstances against her.Pasma was arrested after Sri Lankan national Kuhapriya Thevarasa was found carrying a forged French passport issued in the name of Pasma on June 28, 2019 at Mumbai airport. Thevarasa was stopped from boarding a flight to Frankfurt after the airline staff suspected immigration stamps on her passport and handed her over to the Sahar police.Preliminary investigation revealed that Thevarasa had entered the airport with a ticket for Ahmedabad, whereas Pasma had a French passport and a ticket and boarding pass for the Frankfurt flight. Pasma allegedly passed on the forged passport with purportedly fake immigration stamps to Thevarasa after she cleared immigration checks. Thevarasa attempted to board the Frankfurt flight on the basis of the forged documents, whereas Pasma took a domestic flight to Ahmedabad, where she was apprehended on June 30, 2019.Pasma’s interrogation revealed that she had come in contact with an agent who along with others was illegally sending Sri Lankan nationals to European countries from Mumbai, and Thevarasa’s parents had paid the gang Rs. 14 lakh. Pasma, who claimed to be a teacher, was promised 1,500 Euros for helping Thevarasa migrate to Europe.Both of them were then booked by Sahar police for offences punishable under sections 370 (dealing any person as a slave), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) read with section 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.Pasma had moved the high court for bail contending that the offences of human trafficking and cheating were not attracted in the case, as no one was being trafficked for exploitation and there was no dishonest inducement for cheating anybody.Justice Kotwal agreed that there was no material to support the charge of human trafficking, but there was material supporting other charges levelled against the 60-year-old.“The offence is serious. The immigration officers of this country were deceived. Indian territory was used by these two accused for their personal gain,” said the judge.The court refused to take sympathetic view of the fact that she was behind bars for about 14 months and the trial has not started yet. “It is unfortunate that the trial could not start immediately, but the court cannot be oblivious to the current situation which has arisen because of Covid-19 pandemic. All the under-trial prisoners are similarly awaiting trial.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-refuses-bail-to-finnish-woman-who-aided-sri-lankan-national-s-illegal-migration-bid/story-t2Kf28SUgEYz0DxQ1oi3QP.html
08-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surpasses 4.28 million, toll mounts to 72,775||The number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India surpassed 4.28 million on Tuesday, a day after a record one-day jump of over 90,000 infections that pushed the country to the second spot in the world, Union health ministry data showed.India’s Covid-19 tally is now only behind the United States that has 6,300,727 confirmed cases and is followed by Brazil with 4,147,794 cases, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s dashboard.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here As of Tuesday, as many as 883,697 cases are active while the viral disease has claimed 72,775 lives, according to the latest figures released by the Union health ministry. The mounting figures continue to be led by Maharashtra with 236,208 active cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh with 23,6208 cases and Karnataka with 99,285 cases.Surging recoveries from the infection, however, continued to keep the nation hopeful as 3,323,950 have been discharged from hospitals or have recovered in home isolation with 73,521 recovering in the last 24 hours. According to the health ministry, recoveries in India exceed active Covid-19 cases by 2,440,253.The rising recovery figures come in the backdrop of increased testing capacity. More than 1.17 million people are being tested for the coronavirus disease, the health ministry said. India’s cumulative tests are 4,95,51,507, it added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage As higher testing enables early identification of Covid-19 cases, the government has issued a revised and updated advisory that provides for the first time ‘Testing on Demand”, the health ministry said in a statement. The states and Union territories have also been given wider flexibilities to simplify modalities to enable higher levels of testing to ensure faster and higher numbers of recovery, lower fatality and saving of more lives.The global coronavirus tally has crossed 27 million while the toll from the disease stands at 892,443, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surpasses-4-28-million-with-toll-mounts-to-72-775/story-JGFGJ1Apu86dNhYGCQJoyO.html
08-09-2020||India||Climate change activist Ridhima Pandey writes to PM, says ‘worst nightmare was going to school with an oxygen cylinder’||Ridhima Pandey (12), an Uttarakhand-based climate change activist, in her two-page handwritten letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that her worst nightmare is going to school with an oxygen cylinder and has requested the PM to ensure that “an oxygen cylinder doesn’t become an essential part of the life of children, which we have to carry on our shoulders everywhere in the near future”. Pandey said she was compelled to write the letter as she felt that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak had shown that if human activities are limited and regulated, “we can have less pollution and clear blue skies”. “We observed the first United Nations’ (UN) mandated International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies on Monday (September 7) to create public awareness at all levels that clean air is key to health, productivity, the economy and the environment. So I chose this day. I hope the PM will receive my letter and he will respond. I have sent the letter to the PM through post”. ALSO WATCH | India at forefront of developing vaccine against coronavirus: PM Modi HT has a copy of the two-page handwritten letter. “My name is Ridhima Pandey. I am 12 years old. I live in Haridwar, Uttarakhand. I do hope you will read this letter from me and respond ... Once in school our teacher had asked us about our worst nightmares. I had told her that mine was coming to school with an oxygen cylinder because the air has become so polluted. This nightmare is still my biggest worry,” the letter stated. She cited hazardous air pollution levels in many densely-populated cities.“I am worried that, if nothing is done about this problem soon, then in the coming years, we will have to carry an oxygen cylinder to breathe clean air and survive ... kindly help by ensuring that an oxygen cylinder doesn’t become an essential part of the life of children, which we have to carry on our shoulders everywhere in the near future ...” the letter added. Pandey said amid the pandemic, she has come to know about many research studies that are suggesting a link between air pollution and Covid-19-related incidences and mortalities. “This is disturbing. Every year in many parts of India, the air becomes very polluted. It becomes very difficult to breathe after October. I worry that if a 12-year-old like me finds it hard to breathe, what it must be like for babies or children younger than me in cities such as Delhi and others,” the letter stated. She stated that “before the nation-wide lockdown, we thought that we would never be able to breathe clean air but the restrictions proved us wrong. The air became cleaner and the skies blue. It proved that breathing clean air for Indians is possible...” She said the PM has accepted climate change as a reality.“On Monday, on the occasion of the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies on behalf of all children of India, I would like to make a request to you. Please think about our future. Please give strict instructions to all the authorities and officers in charge of managing pollution across the country,” the letter made an impassioned plea. Last December, Pandey had started an online campaign urging the PM to talk about the alarming air pollution situation in the country in his monthly broadcast on radio Mann Ki Baat and declare the menace as a public health emergency. Last year, Pandey had joined Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg and 14 other children at the United Nations Climate Action Summit, a yearly conference held in the framework of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), and filed a complaint to protest the lack of government action on the climate change crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-change-activist-ridhima-pandey-writes-to-pm-says-worst-nightmare-was-going-to-school-with-an-oxygen-cylinder/story-IyQZEFUN0zNiO8HFZL1QOO.html
08-09-2020||India||Taj Mahal and Agra Fort to reopen from September 21: What you need to know||Six months after the Taj Mahal and the Agra Fort were closed to the public, the world heritage monuments will reopen from September 21. The two monuments have been closed since March 17—days before the nationwide lockdown was instituted to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “It is perhaps for the first time that the Taj Mahal, credited with attracting the largest number of tourists to India, has been closed for such a protracted period,” said Arun Dang, the former president of Tourism Guild . “It is truly unprecedented. Though the monument was closed during Second World War and also during the two wars with Pakistan in 1965 and 1971, the closure was never this long,” said Arun Dang. “When it was closed during the wars, the white monument was covered with a black cloth to save it from air strikes,” Dang said. “Taj Mahal was also closed during the floods of 1978. But then only the western gate was closed because the Yamuna waters had flooded the roads,” recollected Dang. The Agra administration plans to follow strict protocols while reopening both Taj Mahal and the Agra Fort.If you plan to visit either of these places, here’s what you need to know1. There will be a restricted number of visitors at the monumentsTo prevent crowding and maintain social distancing, not more than 5,000 tourists will be allowed in a day at Taj Mahal. Tourists at Agra Fort will be restricted to 2,500 a day. “We will allow visitors at Taj Mahal in two slots: pre-lunch and post-lunch. In each of these slots, there will be 2,500 visitors at the most,” said Vasant Swarnkar, superintending archaeologist of Archaeological Survey of India, Agra Circle. “All licensed commercial photographers permitted within Taj Mahal premises will also not be allowed in at the same time. Time slots will be given to them for being in Taj Mahal premises,” stated Swarnkar. “For Agra Fort, we will allow 1,300 visitors in the morning and 1,200 in the afternoon,” said Swarnkar. Also Read: Agra stares at possible second wave of coronavirus cases after new spike2. Tickets will be sold online Ticket sales will take place online. Tickets will first be sold for the first slot; once all 2,500 tickets are exhausted, then the 2,500 tickets for the second slot will be put on sale. Thus, in a day, a maximum of 5,000 visitors can visit Taj Mahal, Swarnkar said. Tickets will be sold in a similar manner for Agra Fort—first 1,300 for the morning slot, then 1,200 for the evening slot. “Physical tickets will not be sold. They can be booked online from the website and the mobile phone app of ASI. Tourists can also buy tickets online by scanning the QR Code on standees placed outside the monuments,” Swarnkar added. 3. The monuments will be closed to the public on certain days on the weekThe Taj Mahal will remain closed on Friday (its usual weekly closure day), as well as Sunday—the weekly restriction day across the state, as imposed by the government. Agra Fort, however, will be closed to the public only on Sunday.Also Read: Now, book tickets for monuments via app4. There will be strict adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols“Safety protocols against the spread of Covid-19 will be followed while allowing tourists inside the monuments,” said the district magistrate of Agra Prabhu N Singh. “The visitors will be thermally checked, asked to santise their hands and will be required to maintain physical distancing at all times while inside the monuments. The monuments themselves will be sanitised from time to time so that there is no scope for the spread of Covid-19. Guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Culture will be followed in letter and spirit. The idea is to avoid crowding within the monument so that visitors have a safe trip,” said Swarnkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-and-agra-fort-to-reopen-from-september-21-what-you-need-to-know/story-q9BjaQ3f13IAn4nBp9mrlM.html
08-09-2020||India||Army hands over 13 yaks, 4 calves to China in ‘humane gesture’ amid border row||In a humane gesture, Indian Army extended its arm of compassion by handing over yaks and calves strayed across the Line of Actual Control to China, said the Eastern Command, Indian Army on Monday. The eastern command said that the Chinese officials thanked the Indian Army for the “compassionate gesture”. “In a humane gesture, the Indian Army handed over 13 Yaks and four Calves that strayed across the LAC on August 31 in East Kameng, Arunachal Pradesh to China on 07 Sep 20. Chinese officials present thanked the Indian Army for the compassionate gesture,” the Eastern Command tweeted.The situation with China has been tense and India is continuously engaging with them at the military and diplomatic level, Army Chief General MM Naravane said on Friday, who visited Ladakh to review the situation.India recently outflanked China by taking control of strategic height near Pangong lake’s southern bank. It thwarted an attempt by the Chinese army to transgress into Indian areas near the southern bank of Pangong Tso near Chushul in Ladakh.India and China are engaged in a standoff since April-May over the transgressions by the Chinese Army in multiple areas including the Finger area, Galwan valley, Hot springs and Kongrung Nala. The situation worsened after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in violent clashes with Chinese troops in Galwan valley in June.The talks between the two sides have been going on for the last three months including five Lieutenant general-level talks but have failed to yield any results, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-hands-over-13-yaks-4-calves-to-china-in-humane-gesture-amid-border-row/story-QWQ3Z223LBbCsOAOJSbhbN.html
08-09-2020||India||23,000 Indian students stare at long wait to return to Chinese campuses||Beijing has conveyed to India that it is not allowing foreign students including students from India studying in China to return because of the global Covid-19 pandemic situation and has advised them to be in contact with colleges and universities until further notice.“At present, foreign students in China cannot enter the country…,” the Chinese ministry of education (MoE) told the Indian embassy in Beijing in a recent note.It did not specify a time frame for the Indian students to return.“In view of the fact that the epidemic situation in the world is still unclear and relevant policies on entry and exit in China are being gradually adjusted, it is suggested that Indian students should maintain close contact with relevant Chinese colleges and universities and arrange to study in China in strict accordance with the suggestions and guidance of the colleges/universities,” the MoE said.Though not explicitly mentioned in the note, it effectively means that Chinese colleges and universities are unlikely to allow foreign – including Indian – students back in China for the current semester, which began this month and will continue until early 2021.India’s increasing coronavirus caseload could make the return of Indian students to China even more complex.The Indian embassy statement pointed out that Beijing is only allowing foreign nationals to return to China in specific cases.“It is reiterated that following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic earlier this year, the Chinese government had restricted the entry of foreigners into China, permitting such entry only in specific circumstances,” the statement said.It added: “While some exceptions have since been made with regard to some categories of foreigners who can enter China with a fresh visa, foreign students have not been included in any of these categories”.China allowed a staggered reopening of colleges and universities from late last month under strict anti-epidemic rules including mandatory nucleic acid tests for returning students.However, only domestic students have been allowed to return to campuses.According to MoE, until the end of 2018, 4,92,185 international students from 196 countries and regions were studying in China.With 23,198 students, India was fourth on the list of a country-wise breakup of students studying in China.South Korea with more than 50,000 students topped it followed by Thailand and Pakistan with over 28,000 students each studying in China.Most Indian students are enrolled in medical colleges and only a handful of them remain in China at present; the rest having gradually returned to India since January.Many of them are keen to return to continue on-campus studies, especially medical students who are supposed to complete their hospital internships this year.A few medical colleges have given final year students the option to postpone their hospital internships by a year.Many Indian students have petitioned the Indian embassy to take up the matter with Chinese authorities to allow them to return and resume on-campus classes.The discretion to allow foreign students to return, however, is entirely with the Chinese government.As per the MoE note, which was shared by the Indian embassy in a statement on Monday evening, the best that Chinese universities can offer now is online learning.For China, which has effectively controlled the domestic Covid-19 outbreak, to allow hundreds of thousands of foreign students to return is tied with the fear of “imported” infections.Until Monday, including 10 new confirmed cases arriving from outside the mainland, 2,595 imported cases of Covid-19 have been reported in China.As of Monday, the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland had reached 85,144 and 4,634 had died of the disease, the national health commission said (NHC).China reported the last locally transmitted case in August in Urumqi in the northwestern Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.Given China’s controlled and calibrated anti-outbreak response, it is unlikely that it would allow hundreds of thousands of foreign students to return at the same time to campuses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-000-indian-students-stare-at-long-wait-to-return-to-chinese-campuses/story-hscxuuyfDI6f2oZ0EM7ljJ.html
08-09-2020||India||CBI to ‘locally prosecute’ Indian who committed fraud in Bahrain||Acting on a request from Bahrain, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case to “locally prosecute” an Indian national who allegedly embezzled funds worth 50,000 Bahraini Dinar or BD in the middle-eastern country, officials familiar with the development said. Rajeev Ranganathan Udayanandan, a native of Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, while working in one Abdulla bin Ahmed Al-Roomi Contracting Establishment between January and February 2016, allegedly embezzled the cash amounts of the company which were in his possession by virtue of his position, according to the FIR registered by the agency. Also read: CBI court rejects Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s anticipatory bail pleaAs part of his responsibilities in the company, he not only dealt with the customers and managed the establishment on behalf of the proprietor but also handled purchase, supply of building materials and payments for the same. After taking money from customers, he did not deposit the same in company’s account. Rather, he embezzled the same for himself, according to documents shared by Kingdom of Bahrain with the Indian government. From the embezzled money, he bought two vehicles for himself: a Tata Hilux pickup truck and a Nissan Sunny car, the documents reveal. Udayanandan was sentenced in absentia to three years imprisonment by a lower criminal court of Kingdom of Bahrain on November 23, 2017 for breach of trust after which the authorities there approached the Indian government. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) wrote to CBI, saying since the crime is punishable in Bahrain for at least one year imprisonment, similar conduct is punishable in India too and hence is extraditable under the Article 2 (1) of India-Bahrain Extradition Treaty. The MEA added that though article 6 of the treaty excludes extradition of own nationals, it obliges the requested state to prosecute its nationals in respect of the offence sought for. After deliberations, it was decided that CBI will locally prosecute Udayanandan and a case was registered few weeks back. The CBI is the nodal agency in India for prosecuting Indian nationals who have committed crimes abroad. Earlier, in January this year, it had registered a case to “locally prosecute” an Indian national who had committed a fraud in the UAE. Udayanandan could not be located by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-to-locally-prosecute-indian-who-committed-fraud-in-bahrain/story-K976zHkzqtL1LsVaqeOayJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Swapna Suresh shifted to ICU||Kerala gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh was shifted to the ICU at Government Medical College (GMC), Thrissur on Tuesday where she had been admitted after complaining of chest pain.Swapna, who was lodged at Central Prison, Viyyur in Thrissur district had complained of chest pain yesterday following which she was shifted to GMC, Thrissur.Although a slight variation has been noticed in the ECG report of Swapna, the GMC authorities, however, stated that her condition is satisfactory.Earlier on Thursday, the Kerala Police recorded the arrest of Swapna, in connection with a case related to the forgery of a fake degree certificate to secure a job in the Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited (KSITIL) under the Income Tax Department.A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Kochi had last week extended the judicial custody of three key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case -- Swapna Suresh, Sarith PS, and Sandeep Nair -- till September 9.The matter, which pertains to the smuggling of gold in the state through diplomatic channels, had come to light after 30 kg gold worth Rs 14.82 crores, smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage, was busted by the Customs in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-swapna-suresh-shifted-to-icu/story-UOZAGSBrZlIsGg6RrGN3MN.html
08-09-2020||India||India crosses the 50-million mark for Covid-19 tests||India crossed the 50-million mark for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests on Monday, as 1.09 million tests were conducted in a day until midnight. The country has ramped up its Covid-19 testing mechanism, as 13 million tests were conducted in the past two weeks. On Monday, the daily tests crossed over one million after a dip on the previous day.In July, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the country would build a daily testing capacity of a million swab samples. The announcement was made following a low test count per million population. The one-million daily test mark was crossed for the first time on August 21 and the figure has been consistent over the past week. At present, the number of Covid-19 tests per million population in the country stands at 37,079. Also Read: Covid-19: Uttarakhand crosses 25,000 casesTo be sure, the government has recently modified its strategy to allow Covid-19 tests on demand and did away with a doctor’s prescription in a bid to undergo the test. “Recently, the union government has issued an updated advisory that provides for the first time ‘testing on demand’. States and union territories (UTs) have also been given wider flexibilities to simplify modalities to enable higher levels of testing,” said the Union ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) in a press release. “Higher testing enables early identification of confirmed cases, which, in turn, leads to timely initiation of effective treatment in supervised home/facility isolation or in hospitals. These measures aid faster and higher number of recoveries, lower fatality, and saving of more lives,” the release stated. Also Read: Russia releases first batch of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V into publicThe recovery rate – the proportion of people who have recovered after they had tested Covid-19 positive– has reached 77%. The figure implies that three to four persons, who had been diagnosed with Covid-19 in the country, have recovered from their viral infection to date. The sustained high recoveries have been aided by nine states and UTs that have been reporting over 80% recovery rate, according to the data shared by the MoH&FW. The states that have reported higher recovery rates are the Andaman and Nicobar (88.6%), Bihar (88.4%), Dadra and Nagar Haveli (88.2%), Tamil Nadu (87.2%), Delhi (86.7%), West Bengal (85.2%), Nagaland (84%), Rajasthan (82.3%), and Gujarat (81.2%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-the-50-million-mark-for-covid-19-tests/story-up6ZUGGpE3NauxIedY1SzN.html
08-09-2020||India||Lightning kills a dozen people across Jharkhand||Lightning strikes in Jharkhand have killed at least 12 people in eight districts of the state on Monday while torrential rain left many places waterlogged, officials said on Tuesday.The state disaster management department officials said they were verifying the total death reports so that compensation could be paid to the next of kin of those killed. The Jharkhand government gives Rs 4 lakh to the family of a person killed by lightning.Three persons were killed after being struck by lightning in Giridih district on Monday afternoon. Giridih police said a 60-year-old woman, who went to bring water from a well in Devri area, died due to lightning strike while a 25-year-old youth and 16-year-old boy were killed in Saria and Birni in the district. Two elderly persons in Ramgarh, who took shelter under a tree during the heavy rains, were killed in a lightning strike. One death reported each from Ranchi, Gumla, Latehar, Deoghar, Jamtara and Bokaro.A farmer in Ranchi’s Bero block, identified as Jogi Munda, and his ox were killed in lightning. Munda had gone to the farm field to bring his ox from the field. Lightning has been a major killer in Jharkhand over the years with over 1,600 people dying due to lightning in the past one decade, according to the state disaster management department. Experts, however, say the numbers are much higher as several deaths in remote parts of the state go unreported. The torrential rain on Monday afternoon caused heavy damage in different parts of Jharkhand. Three youths on different bikes were swept into drains in heavy rain in Ranchi’s Khora Toli area and Hindpiri. Two youths, one at Khora Toli while one at Hindpiri, were rescued by local people while one is still missing.The rain caused waterlogging on major roads, overflowing drains and long-hour power cuts in Ranchi. Many low-lying areas and slums submerged due to the rains. Water gushed in Ranchi’s Prem Nagar slum causing heavy damage.In just 90 minutes, Ranchi recorded 23 mm rainfall on Monday afternoon. The rain left knee-deep water on Station Road, near Tribal Research Institute in Morabadi and Bihar Club. Overflowing drains caused a traffic jam in Ratu road. Usha Devi, a resident of Vidyanagar, said, “Drain water entered the house and we are in deep trouble.” The MeT office said similar weather conditions could prevail till September 11 in Jharkhand. “Thunderstorm is likely for next few days, as high convection is being recorded in day time,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lightning-kills-a-dozen-people-across-jharkhand/story-7Rm2vnay1ZfnXfQERhmKLI.html
08-09-2020||India||Infuriated over defeat in games, minor boy kills girl in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore||A boy allegedly killed a girl, who lived in his neighbourhood in Indore, located 188 kilometres south-west of Madhya Pradesh’s capital Bhopal, on Monday afternoon, because she would consistently beat him in games, including those played on mobile phones, and also killed his pet mouse a few days ago.Also read: 17-year-old boy in Kolkata kills 14-year-old friend in scuffleThe minor has been detained under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.The murder was allegedly committed by smashing the head of the girl with a stone in a vacant plot of land near the housing complex, where the victim and the alleged minor offender lived, said police. The girl studied in class 5 and belonged to a middle class family. The boy is a student of class 6. He, too, belongs to a middle class family. Both the families are neighbours and live in apartments of a housing society under the jurisdiction of Lasudia police station in Indore. Deputy inspector-general (DIG) of police, Indore, Harinarayanchari Mishra, said, “Preliminary investigation has revealed that the girl went out of her flat to collect flowers on Monday afternoon. She didn’t return for a considerable period of time. Her anxious father went out of his flat to look for her and spotted her body. Her head was smashed and hidden under a stone.” He said, “The boy was taken into custody after a police team spoke with several children in the housing complex and the neighbourhood and also examined the CCTV (closed circuit TV) footage of the complex. The girl was last seen with him. A boy told the police team that he had seen the boy returning and he had blood stains in his hands and clothes. The boy confessed to having committed the crime during interrogation.” The DIG added, “The boy told the police that the girl was her friend but he was angry with her because she would consistently beat him in games, including those played on mobile phones. She also allegedly killed his pet mouse a few days ago. This further infuriated him and he killed her to take revenge.” The victim’s elder sister said, “We can’t believe that the boy killed her over such petty issues. Police should investigate the murder as adult persons could be involved in the crime.” Dr Vinay Mishra, a Bhopal-based psychologist, said, “Defeat in games or killing of a pet mouse might not have been a significant reason to provoke the boy. Such children suffer from a conduct disorder. They display strange behaviour at an early age while deriving pleasure from hurting animals and setting things on fire. They have a strong desire to destroy things. Usually, they are poor in studies and that’s not because of their low intelligence quotient (IQ). They don’t like discipline in schools.” He added, “The conscience, which tells us what is right and what is wrong, is not fully developed in such children. Even after destroying things, hurting animals and indulging in unlawful activities they don’t repent it. They don’t feel that they have committed anything wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infuriated-over-defeat-in-games-minor-boy-kills-girl-in-madhya-pradesh-s-indore/story-Gj3g8RJP3pl8KQqlokGPeP.html
08-09-2020||India||Abetment to suicide, cheating: Rhea Chakraborty’s charges against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters, doctor||Police in Mumbai have booked two of Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters and a Delhi-based doctor after Rhea Chakraborty, who is facing multiple charges in the late actor’s death case, lodged a complaint against them.Bandra Police have registered a first information report (FIR) against Rajput’s sisters, Priyanka Singh and Mitu Singh, and Dr Tarun Kumar, an associate professor of cardiology from Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, for abetting suicide, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. They have also transferred the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Here is what Rhea Chakraborty said in her complaint:* Rhea filed a six-page complaint against the three at Bandra police station for allegedly prescribing medicines for Rajput that are banned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines, 2020. * The complaint was filed under section 464, 465, 466, 468, 474, 306, 120 (B), 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) read with section 8 (c), 21, 22, and 29 of the NDPS Act. * She has said in her complaint that she was living with Rajput from December 2019 to June 8, 2020. She had stated in her complaint that during the course of her relationship she learnt that Rajput was undergoing treatment for various mental health issues and had been diagnosed as suffering from Bipolar disorder by multiple renowned doctors. * “However, the deceased (Sushant Singh Rajput) was not disciplined in respect of his treatment and would often abruptly stop his medication to the dismay of his doctors and myself,” she said in her complaint. * “On morning of June 8, 2020, the deceased had been on his phone incessantly and when I enquired what he was doing, he showed me the messages he was exchanging with his sister Priyanka Singh. I say that I was shocked upon reading the said messages as his sister Priyanka had sent him a list of medications to take,” she added. * Chakraborty said that she had explained to Rajput “that given the seriousness of his condition, and the fact that he already had medications prescribed by doctors who had examined and treated him over several months, he ought not to take any other medication, least of all medication being prescribed by his sister who has no medical degree.” * She said in her complaint stated that this led to disagreement between them, and Rajput insisted that he would only take the medicines his sister was prescribing. “The deceased then proceeded to ask me to leave the house as his other sister Meetu Singh was coming to live with him and would take care of him,” she said and added that she left the house after that. * Chakraborty stated that she was shocked to learn about Sushant Singh Rajput’s father registering a FIR at Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna on July 25, 2020. “It was preposterous that such false allegations were being made out over 40 days after the demise of the deceased,” she said in her complaint. * She said WhatsApp messages were exchanged between Rajput and Priyanka on June 8, 2020. “In the said messages Priyanka Singh has advised the deceased to take various medication controlled under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance Act. Shockingly, it has come now come to light that his sister Priyanka had subsequently on the same day sent him a prescription by one Dr Tarun Kumar, an associate professor of Cardiology from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi,” she said. * Chakraborty said that prima facie “the said document appears forged and fabricated.* She has also said that the prescription prepared by them is fabricated whereby Rajput is shown as an OPD patient in the hospital in Delhi, while he was in Mumbai. “Deceased died merely in 5 days after he obtained the said prescription wherein he was unlawfully prescribed psychotropic substances at behest of Priyanka and Dr Kumar,” read the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forgery-cheating-rhea-chakraborty-s-charges-against-sushant-singh-rajput-s-sisters-doctor/story-VIdF0CSyZdpXDRbYmwY5IK.html
08-09-2020||India||Akhada Parishad calls for ‘liberation’ of Kashi and Mathura||Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), the top decision making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country, has now demanded ‘liberation’ of Kashi and Mathura by removing two mosques.It has also called for support of other Hindu religious bodies including the VIshwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Rastriya Sawayamsevak sangh (RSS) to back their demand. In Kashi (Varanasi), the Gyanvapi mosque shares a boundary wall with Kashi Vishwanath temple while in Mathura, the Shahi Idgah mosque stands next to the Krishna Janmabhoomi temple premises - both of which the saints want removed. In a meeting of the Akhada Parishad, held at Shri Mutt Baghambari Gaddi in the city, the saints from all prominent akhadas unanimously passed eight resolutions and demanded that as after a long wait of 500 years, work for starting construction of the grand Ram temple in Ayodhya has finally started, it was now also time to ‘free Kashi and Mathura’ for which, if needed, ABAP was ready to even move Supreme Court. “The Akhada Parishad appeals for voluntary support for liberating Kashi and Mathura from Hindu organisations including Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and also from common man of the country including both Hindus and Muslims. We wish for an amicable solution through consensus to this long pending demand but if this fails ABAP would move the Supreme court”, said Akhada prashad president Mahant Narendra Giri. On the issue of next year’s Magh Mela, the Akhada Parishad appealed to the state government not to ban the annual religious fair. “We want that mela should be held according to the Covid-19 prevention guidelines of the central and state governments. We demand that rather than organisations, only a limited number of saints and all regular kalpwasis be allowed to stay at the mela area so that norms under the present crisis could be followed”, said Giri. The saints also thanked the Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath for his action against so-called ‘love jihad’. Mahant Giri said that the Parishad demanded a probe by the CBI into the Palghar incident in Maharashtra where two saints and their driver were lynched a few months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhada-parishad-calls-for-liberation-of-kashi-and-mathura/story-vdNrwQfgDOZXfhPoc3pvWP.html
08-09-2020||India||17-year-old boy in Kolkata kills 14-year-old friend in scuffle||A 17-year-old boy killed his 14-year-old friend in a slum near Dover Terrace , a posh residential area in south Kolkata on Monday after an altercation, police said. Police who nabbed the accused have booked him for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Officials said that the 14-year-old boy was playing a game on his father’s mobile phone when the other approached him and asked what game he was playing. He, however, didn’t answer and instead questioned what the other boy was carrying in his hand. The elder one was carrying a tube of adhesive. “This kicked off an altercation and led to a scuffle between the two. The elder boy kicked and punched the younger one on his chest and abdomen. The latter fell unconscious. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead,” said an officer of the local police station. Locals said that the two teenagers were old friends and used to play and fight frequently. “Initially when the fight started no one cared as they were two friends and used to play and fight regularly. But on Monday when they became violent a few neighbours intervened. But by then the kid had fallen unconscious,” said Ghutan Singh, a neighbour who was an eyewitness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-year-old-boy-in-kolkata-kills-14-year-old-friend-in-scuffle/story-PBPfkWZBxDiJPVzJDFC9FK.html
08-09-2020||India||Congress to give final shape to its Parliament strategy today||The Congress will formulate its strategy for the monsoon session of Parliament, beginning September 14, at a meeting on Tuesday. The meeting of the party’s parliament strategy group will be chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and attended by Rahul Gandhi, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Jairam Ramesh, KC Venugopal, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Gaurav Gogoi, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu.Sonia Gandhi is also the chairperson of the Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP). Also Read: Expelled Uttar Pradesh Congress veterans asks Sonia to rise above ‘enchantment of the family’In the meeting, the Congress will discuss the issues to be raised in both the Houses during the session, such as the border standoff with China in Ladakh and Facebook’s alleged nexus with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the economic crisis and the decline in GDP, GST compensation to states, job losses and agrarian distress. It will also seek a discussion on the PM CARES Fund. The party will raise the issue of the sale of 32 Public Sector Undertakings and the handing over of railways and airports to private parties. A Congress functionary said the party will talk to other like-minded opposition parties to present a united front in Parliament on all critical issues confronting the country. A meeting of the opposition parties is expected to be held later this week. Opposition leaders are keen to work closely with each other to take on the government in Parliament. This was expressed by Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leader and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren at a recent meeting of non-NDA chief ministers with Sonia Gandhi on JEE/NEET and GST issues.Also Read: Opposition planning ‘joint offensive’ against govt in ParliamentIn the meeting, the Congress will also discuss the report submitted by a group, headed by former finance minister P Chidambaram, on the party’s stand on the 11 ordinances that the government is likely to bring in the monsoon session. This will be the first time that some of the 23 signatories to a letter to the party president seeking a complete overhaul of the organisation will come face-to-face with Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on August 24. Four of the 23 signatories who are CWC members —Azad, Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada—came under fire from other colleagues at the meeting for writing the letter. After chairing the meeting, Sonia Gandhi is likely to leave the country for a health check-up and will not be able to attend the full monsoon session of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-give-final-shape-to-its-parliament-strategy-today/story-kqjCXyDolONl1vExvKa70K.html
08-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Peninsular India to experience rain in next 4-5 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other updates from Hindustan Times.Many parts of peninsular India to experience rain for next 4-5 daysPeninsular India is likely to record widespread rain with thunder and lightning for the next four to five days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its bulletin. Read moreWhere is Covid-19 most active in the country?Around half of India’s 880,790 active cases as of Sunday night were located in just three states, and more than a quarter of these were in just 10 cities. Read moreTwo options offered to states only way out, says Centre on GST compensationThe Centre remains committed to reimbursing states for the entire shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in their share of Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue this financial year – only immediate compensation may not be forthcoming, senior finance ministry officials said. Read moreKangana Ranaut warns ‘movie mafia’ against harming her: ‘Trust me it will hurt you even more’Kangana Ranaut has issued a warning to the ‘movie mafia’ and said that their attempts to harm her might bring them ‘momentary happiness’ but will later blow up in their faces. She said that if they were smart enough, they would know that ‘(her) end is (her) beginning’. Read moreCricket Australia trying to find BBL team for Indian great Yuvraj Singh: ReportA report in the Sydney Morning Herald is claiming that fans could see one of India’s greatest limited-overs cricketers take part in Australia’s Big Bash League. It has been reported that Yuvraj Singh, who retired from international cricket last year, wants to take part in the T20 event. Read moreGovernment wants to use electric vehicles as main weapon in fight vs pollutionThe Centre has upgraded the fuel standard to BS 6 to fight pollution, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar recently said and urged people to shift to electric vehicles. Read moreInternational Literacy Day 2020: History, significance and theme of the UNESCO designated dayAt the 14th session of UNESCO’s general conference in 1966, the first ever International Literacy Day was declared and since then it has been celebrated annually on September 8, in an effort to highlight the importance of literacy to individuals and communities around the world. Read morePune Police’s advisory post references classic Nirma jingle. Seen it yet?“Washing powder Nirma, washing powder Nirma,” if rather than simply reading these words you hummed them in your head, then you probably have heard the classic Nirma ad jingle a whole lot while growing up. Read moreSudheer Babu on ‘V’, working with Nani, making it in film industry on his ownSudheer Babu, who plays a police officer in V, opened up about the film getting a direct-to-digital release, his experience of shooting with Nani, how the film will play up his action hero image and more in an interview with Hindustan Times. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-peninsular-india-to-experience-rain-and-all-the-latest-news/story-aFhp9NYW130WKNOrAyfZ8L.html
08-09-2020||India||Centre calls on cities to deliver on clean air goals in next three yrs||Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar on Monday urged states and cities to deliver on its clean air goals before the 2024 deadline for the national clean air programme (NCAP).The minister made the appeal during a webinar with principal secretaries of urban development and environment departments of all states and union territories (UTs). The webinar reviewed the progress of activities under NCAP. This was the first review meeting since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in end-March. Also read: Report says Air pollution cuts Indians’ life expectancy by 5.2 yearsJavadekar said that states and cities should try to achieve the target of reducing particulate matter (PM) concentrations in non-attainment cities by up to 30% by 2024 over 2017 annual average levels.Non-attainment cities don’t need to meet the national clean air standards.Javadekar was speaking on the occasion of the United Nations (UN)-designated the first International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies, which was observed on Monday (September 7).There are 122 non-attainment cities, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) out of which 48 cities exceed the PM standard by 100% and 35 cities by 50%. Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB, said air pollution action plans for 122 cities had been approved that are focused on management of pollution hotspots, public transport and fleet modernisation, paving of roads, cleaner fuels for industries etc. The 15th Finance Commission has allocated Rs 4,400 crore, which is largely meant for state pollution control boards and urban local bodies for clean air projects.Javadekar said though pollution woes caught the government’s attention since 2014, the problem persisted for decades. He cited that under the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s regime – until 2004 --- industries were moved out of the national capital and public transport had made a switch to compressed natural gas (CNG). “In 2014, PM Modi gave attention to the (pollution) problem again. The following year, we launched the air quality index (AQI). We accepted the problem and were never in denial. We started NCAP as well. India has leapfrogged to Bharat stage (BS)-VI while skipping BS-V emission norms for vehicles. It’s a huge step. In the last six years, several road projects have been launched in a bid to ease traffic congestion,” he said. The minister urged states to focus their resources on public transport, electric mobility, zig-zag technology for brick kilns etc. He also said states could impose tax on polluters.“PM Modi had announced on Independence Day that at least 100 cities will achieve clean air goals in four years. Let’s strive to make a difference in three years,” he added.The New Delhi- based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a not-for-profit public advocacy organisation, in an analysis released on Monday said the government needs a “green recovery” strategy to achieve and even exceed its NCAP goals. Two of the main interventions would be to revive public transport and a road map for electric vehicles to be scaled up, the analysis stated.All clean air action plans have included a bus transport strategy to cut transport sector emissions. But the public transport systems have nearly collapsed in several cities, the analysis showed.A survey conducted by the International Association of Public Transport (UITP) of 14 State Road Transport Undertakings (SRTUs) showed that 81% of the operators have reported no ridership at all during the Covid-19-induced lockdown phases, while others have reported 90% reduction in ridership from the pre-Covid-19 level. Ridership of SRTUs in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Delhi, and Hubli-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HD-BRTS) are still below 90%. Recovery of ridership is expected to be slow due to fear of contagion, but the government needs to have a plan, the analysis added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-calls-on-cities-to-deliver-on-clean-air-goals-in-next-three-yrs/story-ORmxO5RbyUxFih5btSrtiO.html
08-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: FIR against Sushant’s sisters, Dr Tarun Kumar; case sent to CBI||The Bandra police station has registered a first information report (FIR) against late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters Priyanka Singh and Mitu Singh and also Dr Tarun Kumar, an associate professor of cardiology in Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi, for abetting suicide, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy under section 464, 465, 466, 468, 474, 306, 120 (B), 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with section 8 (c), 21, 22, and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, on the basis of a complaint filed by actor and Rajput’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty. Rajput was found dead allegedly by suicide at his Bandra apartment on June 14. HT has a copy of the FIR.  Also Watch | ‘Mischief’: Rhea slammed by Sushant kin’s lawyer for filing new complaintN Ambika, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (headquarters-1) and a spokesperson for Mumbai Police, said, “As per Rhea’s compliant, an FIR has been registered at Bandra police station. In line with the Supreme Court’s (SC) order, the case is duly transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for further investigation.”On Monday, Rhea , who is at the centre of a raging controversy over her boyfriend’s death, filed a six-page complaint against the three persons cited above at Bandra police station for allegedly prescribing medicines for the deceased that are banned under the NDPS Act, 1985 and the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines, 2020. The complaint will further queer the pitch in the high-profile case that has caught the nation’s imagination. The CBI, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have been carrying out separate probes into the case. In her complaint, Rhea had said that she had stayed with Rajput from December 2019 to June 8, 2020. She had stated that during the course of her relationship she had learnt that Rajput was undergoing treatment for various mental health issues and had been diagnosed with suffering from bipolar disorder by multiple renowned doctors. “However, the deceased (Rajput) was not disciplined in respect of his treatment and would often abruptly stop his medication to the dismay of his doctors and myself,” the complaint stated. “On the morning of June 8, the deceased had been on his mobile phone incessantly and when I asked what he was doing, he showed me the messages he was exchanging with his sister Priyanka Singh. I was shocked upon reading the said messages, as Priyanka had sent him a list of medications to take,” the complaint stated. Rhea stated that she had explained to Rajput “that given the seriousness of his condition, and the fact that he already had medications prescribed by doctors, who had examined and treated him over several months, he ought not to take any other medication, least of all medication being prescribed by his sister, who has no medical degree.’ Rhea stated that this led to a disagreement between them, as Rajput insisted that he would only take the medicines that Priyanka was prescribing. “The deceased proceeded to ask me to leave the house as his other sister Meethu Singh was coming to live with him and she would take care of him,” Rhea stated. She had left Rajput’s house shortly after the disagreement and never got to meet him, as he was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. Rhea stated that she was shocked to learn about Rajput’s father registering an FIR at Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna on July 25. “It was preposterous that such false allegations were being made out over 40 days after the demise of the deceased,” stated the complaint. Rhea stated after the ED registered a case against her and her family members, all of them had handed over their mobile phones to the agency, which had proceeded to take a full data download of their devices. “It appears that based on certain messages that come to light from the aforesaid data download, the NCB also registered a case against various accused, including me,” stated Rhea. She stated that certain WhatsApp messages exchanged between Rajput and Priyanka on June 8 have come to light that are “disturbing and disclose the commission of various offences”. “In the said messages, Priyanka had advised the deceased to take various medication controlled under the NDPS Act, 1985. Shockingly, it has now come to light that Priyanka had subsequently on the same day sent him a prescription by Dr Tarun Kumar, an associate professor of cardiology in Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi,” Rhea stated. “The said document appears forged and fabricated. In addition, Dr Tarun Kumar appears to have prescribed medication under NDPS Act, 1985 to the deceased without any consultation as mandated by law. The drugs prescribed by Dr Kumar were prohibited from being prescribed electronically under the Telemedicine Practice Guidelines issued on March 25, 2020, which constitutes Appendix 5 of the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics Regulation, 2002),” the FIR added. Rhea has stated that in the said prescription, Dr Kumar has prescribed Nexito 5 milligrams (mg), Librium 10 mg, and Lonazep MD 0.5 mg to Rajput to overcome his anxiety. “It is pertinent to note that the tablet Librium is Chlordiazepoxide which appears at item number 36 in the list of psychotropic substances under the NDPS Act, 1985, while Nexito and Lonazep MD contain Clonazepam that appears at item number 38 in the list,” the complaint stated. Rhea has also claimed that the prescription prepared by them is fabricated because Rajput was shown undergoing treatment at an outdoor patient department (OPD) in a hospital in Delhi, while he was living in Mumbai. “The deceased died only five days after he had obtained the said prescription, where he was unlawfully prescribed psychotropic substances at the behest of Priyanka and Dr Kumar,” the complaint added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-bandra-police-registers-fir-against-sushant-s-sisters-and-dr-tarun-kumar-transfers-case-to-cbi/story-6Nz2efBYtb3Ng7w5zN0LdO.html
08-09-2020||India||Many parts of peninsular India to experience rain for next 4-5 days||Peninsular India is likely to record widespread rain with thunder and lightning for the next four to five days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Monday night.A low-pressure area is lying over east-central Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast with an associated cyclonic circulation. It is likely to weaken over the same region during the next 24 hours.Also read: South India to witness extreme rainfall by end of this century, says IIT studyAn east-west shear zone -- a zone of change in wind direction and velocity -- is running across the cyclonic circulation associated with the low-pressure area. The cyclonic circulation is likely to persist during the next three-four days. Under its influence, widespread rainfall and thunderstorm with lightning is very likely over peninsular India during the next four-five days.Heavy rainfall at isolated places is also likely over Karnataka and Kerala and Mahe until Friday (September 11); over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal until Wednesday (September 9). Very heavy rain is likely over coastal Karnataka between Tuesday and Thursday and over Kerala and Mahe on Tuesday.The western end of the monsoon trough at mean sea level is lying near its normal position and its eastern end lies north of its normal position. The eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to be north of its normal position or along the foothills of the Himalayas during the next five days, IMD said.Widespread and heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places over sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and the north-eastern states until Friday (September 11).Rainfall is likely to be deficient at least until September 13 in most parts of the country, including north-west and central India, before intensifying after September 17, according to IMD’s extended range forecast. Above normal rains are expected over coastal Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra after September 17.The normal date for the monsoon to begin retreating is September 17. Monsoon withdraws completely from the country by October 15, according to the new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates released by IMD in April.Until last year, the corresponding dates were September 1 and October 15. The new onset date is based on an analysis of the monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and the withdrawal date on the basis of the data from 1971 to 2019 by scientists at IMD in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-parts-of-peninsular-india-to-experience-rain-for-next-4-5-days/story-gEFgFI1kZk3aeMnSYFUPmI.html
08-09-2020||India||Delhi Police Special Cell had to convince then PM Dr Manmohan Singh that Batla House encounter was genuine||In his tell-all book about the Batla House encounter in Delhi on September 19, 2008, Karnal Singh, former Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP), Delhi Police, who had led the operation, has written that the incident was bedevilled by vote-bank politics, news channels’ obsessive competition over television rating points (TRPs) and conspiracy theorists. The 1984-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, who had retired as the chief of Enforcement Directorate (ED) in 2018, wrote: “the lack of a political consensus on how to deal with terrorism had made it difficult to have stringent policies to tackle it”. “It seemed like we were living in a world with divided media and public opinion. In one realm, our department, Special Cell, was the biggest villain, compromising human rights. In their eyes, we were doing everything wrong. The other realm, comprising public and media persons, was deeply appreciative and supportive of our work,” Singh wrote in his book, “Batla House: An encounter that shook the nation”. Also Read: Slain Batla House inspector among 215 selected for President’s gallantry medalsAsserting that the encounter was put on a public trial, Singh wrote that on October 12, 2008, a group of teachers of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) University had set up a Jan Sunwai, or public hearing. The jury comprised politician and activist Swami Agnivesh, human rights and political activist John Dayal, and Delhi University (DU) Professors Tripta Wahi, Vijay Singh and Nirmalangshu Mukherji. A dozen of residents of Jamia also gave testimonies at that meeting. “Later, the jury gave its findings, which were basically a repetition of what had appeared in some sections of the media and were already addressed and answered by us”. He wrote that the findings of the Jan Sunwai were “devoid” of merit and none of the people who deposed in it had firsthand knowledge of the incident. “That is the reason why none of them subsequently came forward to share these testimonies or gave any affidavit in the (Delhi) high court (HC) or the Supreme Court (SC)”. Also Read: Encounter! Bollywood’s brush with real life crime dramasOn October 14, a new dimension was given to the encounter, when a few senior politicians from the minority cell of the Indian National Congress (INC) decided to send a delegation to meet the then Congress president Mrs Sonia Gandhi and the then Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh to raise a complaint against “the injustice done to Muslims” and to order a judicial probe into the encounter, Singh wrote. “Kapil Sibal, Union minister for science and technology, along with other leaders visited the Batla House area before meeting Mrs Gandhi and Dr Singh. On the same day, Mulayam Singh Yadav, the founder patron of the Samajwadi Party, and Amar Singh met Dr Singh to ask for a judicial enquiry. Political pressure was building up from all sides,” he added. Singh wrote that it was only after he showed the evidence to Sibal at the residence of the then Delhi Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) Tejinder Khanna, the government was convinced that it was not a fake encounter. “In the end, Sibal admitted that he was convinced of the genuineness of the encounter and of the accused being involved in terrorist activities. He agreed to convey the same to Dr Singh ( the then PM). He took my number and true to his words, he rang me in the evening to confirm that he had conveyed what he found during discussions to the PM,” Singh wrote. Singh recalled that during the February 22, 2009, At Home function of the Delhi Police, Dr Singh had lauded him. You have done a good job, Dr Singh had told Singh.The retired IPS officer said the Delhi Police presented the truth before the Delhi HC, the SC and the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The SC, the apex court of the country, gave its verdict and cleared the Special Cell of all charges that Batla House encounter was fake, he added. “Although the NHRC report and the HC and SC verdicts were very comprehensive, the Batla House encounter continues to be referenced in political speeches during elections and TV debates till date,” Singh wrote alluding to the conspiracy theories that took a life of their own in the name of vote-bank politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-special-cell-had-to-convince-then-pm-dr-manmohan-singh-that-batla-house-encounter-was-genuine/story-uF4taUVDWLIH9Lv9P6RjWJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Face-off at Rechin La leads to scuffle with aggressive PLA. Situation tense but ground commanders talking||Two days before external affairs minister S Jaishankar meets his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow, there are reports of a scuffle between the Indian Army and an aggressive People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the Rezang-La-Rechin La ridgeline with some injuries sustained by Indian troopers as China wants to unilaterally change the status quo south of Pangong Tso.According to top Indian official on Tuesday morning, the situation is tense but both sides are talking to each other at the ground commander level. Apparently, the situation reached criticality on Monday evening after a stand-off between aggressive PLA troops and Indian troops on Rechin La. The stand-off started at 6.15pm.While the Western Theatre Command late on Monday night accused of Indian troops of firing warning shots and talked about countermeasures to “stabilize the situation”, the fact is that the Indian Army had to open warning shots even in the last week of August as the Chinese wanted to reach to the Green Line (their perception of Line of Actual Control since 1960), south of Pangong Tso. In the first week of September, PLA has fortified all its positions on the contested points and build up troop strength south of the lake as the difference in LAC perception is large in this area.While the Western Theatre Command, which functions directly under Commander in Chief Xi Jinping, accuses Indian troops of aggression, the Indian objective is to hold its territory and prevent a PLA land grab in the area. The Indian ground commanders are under firm instructions to take decisions on the spot so that there is no time lag in a reaction to PLA, which on the face of it is talking peace but out for a fight on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/face-off-at-rechin-la-leads-to-scuffle-with-aggressive-pla-situation-tense-but-ground-commanders-talking/story-hyXXzERKesl1HlBBMyfbEO.html
08-09-2020||India||Govt launches 24X7 toll free mental rehabilitation helpline KIRAN in 13 languages||The Centre on Monday launched a 24X7 toll free mental rehabilitation helpline for providing psychological support to people.The helpline ‘KIRAN’ (1800-599-0019) was launched by Union minister for social justice and empowerment Thaawarchand Gehlot.The helpline will offer mental health rehabilitation services with the objective of early screening, first aid, psychological support, distress management, mental wellbeing, promoting positive behaviour and psychological crisis management, the minister said.“The helpline will function as a lifeline to provide advice, counselling and reference in 13 languages to individuals, families, NGOs, parent associations, professional associations, rehabilitation institutes, hospitals or anyone in need of support across the country,” he said.“I hope this helpline will also be very useful for family members of those with mental illness,” Gehlot said.Prabodh Seth, Joint Secretary at social justice and empowerment ministry, gave a presentation to highlight the salient features of the helpline.“This toll free helpline will be operational 24 hours a day, seven days a week with the technical coordination of BSNL. It is backed by 660 clinical and rehabilitation psychologists and 668 psychiatrists,” he said.The 13 languages covered in the helpline are Hindi, Assamese, Tamil, Marathi, Odia, Telugu, Malayalam, Gujarati, Punjabi, Kannada, Bengali, Urdu and English, he added.Explaining the working of the helpline, Seth said when 1800-599-0019 is dialled from any mobile phone or landline of any telecom network, from any part of India, one gets the option of selecting the language following which they get connected to the helpline centre of native or desired state.The callers will then be connected to mental health experts who will help to resolve the issue or refer and connect to external help (clinical psychologists or rehabilitation psychologists or psychiatrists), the official explained.The helpline is dedicated to resolve mental health issues related to anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder, suicide, depression, panic attack(s) adjustment disorders, post traumatic stress disorders and substance abuse.“The helpline will cater to- people in distress, pandemic induced psychological issues and mental health emergency,” Seth said.The helpline is being coordinated by the National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD), Chennai and National Institute of Mental Health Rehabilitation (NIMHR), Sehore.Professional support for the helpline is being provided by the Indian Association of Clinical Psychologists (IACP), Indian Psychiatrists Association (IPA) and Indian Psychiatric Social Workers Association (IPSWA), he added.PTI UZM SRY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-launches-24x7-toll-free-mental-rehabilitation-helpline-kiran-in-13-languages/story-JSfacmFtDqpmht2km9nzGK.html
08-09-2020||India||GST compensation to states a legal obligation, Ashok Gehlot tells PM Modi||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday over “hurdles in the payment of Goods and Services (GST) compensation to the states”. Drawing the PM’s attention to the suggestion by Centre in the GST Council meeting on August 27, Gehlot wrote that the Central government’s position that the shortfall is to be paid from the Compensation Fund and was not Government of India’s obligation was against the letter and spirit of the constitutional amendment by which the states gave up their constitutional right to levy certain taxes. “The management of the Indian economy is the responsibility of the Central Government and as it benefits from the upside, it is also expected to accept full responsibility for the shortfall in GST collections due to the downside of the economic cycle,” Gehlot wrote in the letter according to a statement from his office.“Government of India is only recognizing GST loss by assuming a 10% growth over the previous year and attributing the rest to the Covid-19 pandemic. This is arbitrary, takes only the interest of the Central Government into account and has no legal justification. It must be noted that GST revenues were growing at about 4% in 2019-20, which was the pre-Covid year, GDP growth in the last financial year was 4.2%. Therefore, applying a rate of 10% growth to project a higher revenue loss due to Covid is statistically untenable and factually unsound,” the letter said. Gehlot said under the GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, states are guaranteed compensation for loss of revenue on account of implementation of GST for a transition period of five years, starting from 2017. “It is the obligation of the Central Government to ensure that the States receive, without liability, the full amount of compensation, notwithstanding the shortfall in the collection of cess and that the compensation can neither be increased nor decreased without amending this Act,” he wrote. Emphasizing that the quantum of compensation to be paid to the states was not an executive decision of the Central Government or the Council but a legal obligation, Gehlot said the former Union finance minister Arun Jaitley had stated that the GST Council could consider raising additional resources including through borrowing but it was never the understanding that the states would borrow this additional amount. “The Council does not have the power to alter the compensation mechanism without getting the Act amended. Therefore, there is no ambiguity that the shortfall in revenues must be met by revenue transfers from the Central Government,” Gehlot wrote. The CM said if the states borrowed from the RBI, will the RBI hold state government debt on its balance sheet as it does that of the Central Government? Secondly, would the loans so taken be interest bearing? “It is inequitable because under the RBI Act, all RBI surpluses are transferred to the Government of India as dividend. While the Central Government reneges on its promise of paying the compensation to the states, it would end up making profit from the interest paid by the states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-compensation-to-states-a-legal-obligation-ashok-gehlot-tells-pm-modi/story-d2SNcYsaTA3XIOFwGbqXPP.html
08-09-2020||India||Ensure ‘safe return’ of youth allegedly abducted by PLA: Gaurav Gogoi to Centre||Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Gaurav Gogoi wrote a letter to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh urging him to ensure the safe return of five youth from Arunachal Pradesh who have allegedly been abducted by Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).“I am writing to you to register my grave concern regarding the condition of the five young men from Arunachal Pradesh that have gone missing from the Upper Subansiri district during a hunting exercise. Members of the family have made statements alleging that they have been abducted, wherein they hold the Chinese People’s Liberation Army as the party responsible for the said abduction,” Gogoi stated.“I urge the Government to look into this matter and ensure that steps are taken immediately to ensure the safe return of these 5 youth and to strengthen security along the border region,” he said. The Member of Parliament said that such an action in the North East is “alarming” and must be dealt with more sternly in light of rising “aggression” by the Chinese in the Ladakh region.“As per reports, the Indian Army at present is merely waiting for a response from its Chinese counterparts at the respective border point. Besides these statements, the State Government has divulged no further information or elucidated any further steps that would be taken in this regard,” read the letter. “The people of Arunachal Pradesh have already expressed their displeasure at the State’s level of inaction and apathy in the situation. They have raised the question; why has the Government failed to take into account the numerous aggressions and incursions undertaken by the PLA along the McMahon line in Arunachal Pradesh?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-safe-return-of-youth-allegedly-abducted-by-pla-gaurav-gogoi-to-centre/story-s0IH7HFUzI6Nj5HUxZXj0L.html
08-09-2020||India||Unlock 4: Taj Mahal, Agra Fort to re-open for visitors from Sept 21||Taj Mahal and Agra Fort will re-open to the public from September 21 as part of unlock 4, Basant Kumar, Superintending Archaeologist, ASI said on Monday.According to Kumar, only 5,000 and 2,500 visitors will be allowed in both the monuments respectively in a day.As a precautionary measure, the ticket counters will not open and electronic tickets will be provided to the visitors.“Taj Mahal and Agra Fort to be opened for visitors from September 21. 5,000 and 2500 visitors to be allowed in Taj Mahal and Agra Fort respectively, in a day. Electronic tickets will be provided as ticket counters will not open,” Basant Kumar told ANI.The monuments have been closed to the public since a nationwide lockdown was imposed in March to combat the pandemic.According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 61,625 active cases in Uttar Pradesh with 3,920 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-4-taj-mahal-agra-fort-to-re-open-for-visitors-from-sept-21/story-IKyYWTvJOzG8grwS0CpcMM.html
08-09-2020||India||4.4 magnitude earthquake hits Kargil||An earthquake of magnitude 4.4 on the Richter scale jolted Kargil in Ladakh on Tuesday, according to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS).The earthquake occurred 435-km north-northwest of Kargil at 5.47 am.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-4-magnitude-earthquake-hits-kargil/story-leuOSIejQUX5cTIpR7kDwK.html
08-09-2020||India||MP: Minor held for killing girl over losing at games, death of his pet||Police detained a minor minor boy in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore city for allegedly killing a minor girl in his neighbourhood, police said on Monday. According to police, the boy allegedly killed the girl as he was infuriated after the girl allegedly killed his pet mouse and beat him in games on the phone.“As per preliminary investigation, the girl went out of her flat to collect flowers nearby this afternoon. When she didn’t return her father went out and spotted her body. Her head was smashed,” Indore deputy inspector general (DIG) of police Harinarayanchari Mishra said. The girl was a student of class 5 and the boy, class 6. “The boy was taken into custody after a police team spoke with several children in the area and examined the CCTV footage of the apartment. The girl was last seen with him. A boy told the police team that he had seen the boy returning and blood stains on his hands and clothes. During questioning the boy confessed to have committed the crime,” Mishra said. “The boy told the police team that the girl was his friend but what angered him often was her defeating him in games on their mobile phones and other games. A few days back, she killed his pet white mouse. This infuriated him and he killed the girl to take a revenge on her,” Mishra added. However, the elder sister of the deceased girl said, “We can’t believe that the boy killed my sister on such petty issue like defeat in games and killing of the pet mouse. Police should investigate the murder seriously as there might be involvement of some adult person too in the crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mp-minor-held-for-killing-girl-over-losing-at-games-death-of-his-pet/story-YCSrFOvHjJDGviqre88qwI.html
08-09-2020||India||Where is Covid-19 most active in the country?||As total active cases of Covid-19 in India approach the million mark, here is one of the most important statistics of the disease’s run through the country: around half of India’s 880,790 active cases as of Sunday night were located in just three states, and more than a quarter of these were in just 10 cities. A look at five charts that best capture the rise in India’s active cases:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-is-covid-19-most-active-in-the-country/story-YYRBTmz8F9nXB1Hu0jP40L.html
08-09-2020||India||BJP worker shot in south Bengal, party blames Trinamool Congress||A woman Bharatiya Janata Party worker was shot in her head in a village in south Bengal allegedly by goons backed by the ruling Trinamool Congress on Monday. BJP leaders identified the woman as Radharani Naskar. She is a BJP worker from Bishnupur in South 24 Parganas. The victim had to be rushed to a state-run hospital. Her condition was stated to be critical till reports last came in. “One person has been detained for questioning. Investigation is going on,” said an officer of the Bishnupur police station. While the BJP has alleged that she was shot by goons backed by the TMC, the ruling party refuted the allegations saying that it was a conflict between two neighborhoods. “The miscreants had targeted the victim’s husband. But as he was not at home they attacked his wife and shot her. The TMC has unleashed terror on BJP leaders, workers and supporters. Police are a mute spectator,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of the BJP’s West Bengal unit. TMC’s Rajya Sabha member Subhasis Chakraborty said: “The TMC is not at all related to this. What I gathered from the locality is that it was a conflict between two neighborhoods. The accused will be soon arrested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-worker-shot-in-south-bengal-party-blames-trinamool-congress/story-RWV5eQIEY0vaM2ON5WN4NJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown fatigue driving opening of businesses||Businesses continue to open and people are coming out in larger numbers in India even as Covid-19 cases surge. Experts are beginning to see this as a result of lockdown fatigue. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) climbed to 77.4 in the week ending September 6. This is an increase of 1.7 percentage points from the week ending August 30. To be sure, NIBRI is still 22.3 percentage points below pre-pandemic levels of economic activity. The report notes that “the largest upticks were seen in Google retail & recreation mobility and the Apple driving index, while power demand has tapered off”. Rise in retail and recreation mobility suggests that consumers are stepping out for purchases, the report said. “Alongside a faster rise in Covid-19 cases, this suggests lockdown fatigue may have set in”, it adds. The report does add that rising infections cast doubts over the durability of the recovery. Nomura has raised its estimate of India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contraction from 5% to 9%..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-fatigue-driving-opening-of-businesses/story-JYy83NxSMvmNJpGR5dAj6H.html
08-09-2020||India||2 Maoists killed in encounter in Telangana, hours after setting off landmine||Two Maoists belonging to outlawed CPI (Maoist) were killed in an encounter with the police in Telangana’s Bhadradri Kothagudem district on Monday evening, the police said. District Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said the exchange of fire took place at Vaddipeta-Pusuguppa forest area of Charla block at around 3 pm, when a special police team was combing the area following specific information that a team of Maoists was planning to carry out an attack on the people’s representatives and the security forces. “We have zeroed in on two male Maoists, whose identity is yet to be established,” the SP said in a statement. The encounter took place within 24 hours of the Maoists setting off a landmine at Pagidivagu bridge on Pedda Midisileru-Tippapuram road near Taliperu medium irrigation project on Sunday night. The Maoists called for a bandh in the district on Sunday to protest the killing of their outfit’s commander Devalu alias Shankar in an alleged encounter with the police forces at Devarlagudem of Gundala block on September 3. The SP said the exchange of fire lasted about 20 minutes. “On searching the area, the police found bodies of two male extremists. Police also seized two fire arms - one SBBL and one pistol and two kit bags,” Dutt said, adding that the combing operations were still going on. Earlier on Sunday night, the police forces had a providential escape when the Maoists set off an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) on Tippapuram-Pedda Midisileru road. The explosion left a three-feet deep crater on the road. The sound of the explosives was so deafening that it was heard in villages at least five kilometres away from the spot. Charla inspector of police Boddu Ashok told reporters that the Maoists may have set off the IED just to create panic among the villagers and to cause destruction. “There were no injuries to anybody and no casualties,” he said. The police recovered two separate letters written by the Maoist party’s Charla-Shabari Area Committee secretary Aruna and Mahadevpur-Eturnagaram Area Committee secretary Manthu from the spot where the explosion took place. In the letters, the Maoist party called upon the people to condemn the killing of their colleague Dudi Devalu alias Shanker from Konta in Chhattisgarh in an alleged encounter with the police at Devarlagudem in Gundala block on September 3. The Maoists had blasted the bridge over Pagidivagu three years ago and this is the second time that they resorted to explosions. The police believe that the extremists may have planted the IED during the construction of the road last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-telangana-hours-after-setting-off-landmine/story-BiZIvcQoN7UWwYq8woVYrK.html
08-09-2020||India||Ahead of assembly session, Odisha lawmakers to be tested for Covid-19||All MLAs, staff and others senior officials of the Odisha Assembly will have to undergo RT-PCR tests for detection of Covid-19, ahead of the upcoming monsoon session of the Assembly scheduled to be held by end of September.Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro who chaired a meeting to discuss the strategies to be adopted to ensure the smooth functioning of the house, said a special counter will be set up on the Assembly premises for the RT-PCR tests of the MLAs, staff and other officers two days before the commencement of the session.“The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation along with a medical team will collect the swab samples of all the 147 MLAs, employees and other officials two days before the commencement of the Assembly. Those testing negative for coronavirus will be allowed to participate in the Assembly proceedings,” said Patro.The members have to wear masks and maintain social distancing. It’s still not clear if journalists would be allowed to cover the proceedings since some MLAs may have to sit in the press gallery to honour social distancing norms.Five days after the start of the Assembly proceedings, all the legislators will have to again undergo Rapid Antigen test. “After the session is over, the legislators have to remain in home isolation,” said Patro. Special arrangements will be made for the MLAs who are above 60 years of age.So far 21 MLAs of Odisha Assembly, including 4 ministers have tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-assembly-session-odisha-lawmakers-to-be-tested-for-covid-19/story-5aHe4v8hRGmTvXyihWtCaK.html
08-09-2020||India||Newly-wed couple shot dead at their doorstep. His father is a suspect: Cops||A young couple married just three months earlier were shot dead by unidentified men late on Monday evening in Kashipur area of Udham Singh Nagar district, police said.Rashid, 24, and Nazia, 22, were returning from the local market in Kashipur area when the assailants came on a motorcycle and shot them dead. The couple were at the doorsteps when the firing started.Rakesh Bhatt, additional superintendent of police, Kashipur, told Hindustan Times that the initial probe had led the police to conclude that the man’s father-in-law was not happy with their love marriage.” “At present he is suspected to be behind the crime and is on the run. However, it is also possible that more people are involved in the incident. A probe is on,” said Bhatt. “As they were entering the house, some unidentified men came from behind on a motorbike and shot at them. Both fell on the ground and died on the spot. The accused fled from the scene after the crime. The police were then informed by neighbours after which it rushed to the spot,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newly-wed-couple-shot-dead-at-their-doorstep-his-father-is-a-suspect-cops/story-eHRj0AQlVmteBuXvO6b9sL.html
08-09-2020||India||Why police team did not wear bulletproof jackets in Batla House encounter||Why did the Delhi Police team that raided the flat at Batla House in an anti-terror operation on September 19, 2008 not wear bulletproof jackets? The shootout in which a police officer died had sparked a major controversy and became a political issue.Karnal Singh, the Delhi Police officer who led the operation years ago, now claims to provide some answers in his book Batla House: An Encounter That Shook The Nation.An IPS officer of the 1984 batch, Singh, who is now retired, was Joint Commissioner of Police in the Special Cell at that time, reveals what happened inside flat number 108 at L-18 Batla House that morning and why Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma who was killed in the operation, and his team did not wear bulletproof jackets and how the encounter was given a political colour despite irrefutable evidence against the Indian Mujahideen (IM) members. In his book, Singh says that his team had managed to piece together by September 18, 2008, a day before the encounter, that a number used by slain terrorist Mohammad Atif Ameen was key to solving the conspiracy was key to solving a conspiracy behind a string of blasts in Jaipur (May 13, 2008) and Ahmedabad (July 26, 2008) and the serial blasts on September 13, 2008 in Delhi’s Karol Bagh, Connaught Place and Greater Kailash.After it was established by the evening that Atif Ameen was a “person of interest”, Karnal Singh ordered the team to capture him alive.On September 18 evening, a small team was sent to Batla House to conduct a reconnaissance and familiarize themselves with the Batla House area. “The team was unanimous in its decision to raid Atif’s location – L-18 Batla House. The crucial question was, when? It was the month of Ramadan and, hence, it was not advisable to search in the evening or night. Mohan suggested that we should search Batla House during daytime since this is the time when they would be resting at home,” writes Singh. Two teams were formed for September 19. Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma led an 18-member team while DCP Sanjeev Yadav (ACP at that time) led the second team. Singh recalls Sharma’s son was hospitalized that day due to dengue but the slain Inspector put his duty first. He writes that most of the officers in the team, including Inspector Rahul, Dharmender and others had returned late that night or early morning on September 19 from other states after working on different inputs. “They all had familial responsibilities, emotionally strained spouses (rightly so), and children or/and older parents to be taken care of, among other things, but when it came to the call of duty, everything was secondary. This was my team. And we were ready for the Batla House operation,” writes Singh. Seconds before the raid was to start, around 11 am on September 19, Singh got a call from Sharma who said – “Sir, there are people inside L-18. We are going in”. “After about 10 minutes, my phone rang. This time it was Sanjeev (Yadav). ‘Sir, Mohan and Head Constable Balwant have been shot and are being shifted to hospital. The terrorists are also injured but they are inside the house’. His voice was choking, as if he was in tears”. This is when Singh himself and then Special Cell DCP Alok Kumar also rushed to Batla House while directing Yadav to contain the terrorists. Terming his walk as the “one of most tense moments of his career”, Singh writes, “I could sense animosity for the Delhi Police in the by-lanes”, as a huge crowd had gathered in the area shouting slogans against the department. On reaching the flat, Singh asked his team to explain the sequence of events. “Rahul explained that Mohan was leading the front team. All the team members, except Dharmender, were asked by Mohan to be in casual wear. This was done to ensure even if the target was not found in the apartment, the team could withdraw without anyone knowing about their presence or the search”. “That was also the reason why none of the team members were wearing bullet-proof jackets,’ adds Singh. The terrorists had fired indiscriminately at the first team due to which Sharma was hit by two bullets from the front. Head Constable Balwant was also received a bullet injury but he survived. Singh, who also headed the Enforcement Directorate (ED), says that Sharma’s team had parked their vehicles near the Khalilullah Mosque, which had bullet-proof vests and AK-47 rifles. Sharma’s team carried only small arms with them to the L-18 flat. Singh adds that when he came to know about Sharma’s death at Holy Family hospital, “I walked towards him, put my palm over his forehead and tears started flowing from my eyes. The very life of the Special Cell, the man whose investigation yielded us results, the one who could beat any encrypted message and intercept any call, the one whose network of human intelligence was immaculate, was lying there connected to machines and wires,” writes Singh. Singh recalls how the encounter was given a political colour and even the media was publishing unverified claims by witnesses, making Special Cell the “biggest villain”. Leaders like Mulayam Singh Yadav, Amar Singh, Mamata Banerjee and others had sought a judicial enquiry questioning the genuineness of the encounter. However, after the evidence was shown to then minister Kapil Sibal, he was convinced that it was a genuine encounter. Singh recalls that during the February 22, 2009 ‘At Home’ function of Delhi Police, then PM Manmohan Singh had told him – “You have done a good job”. “The Batla House encounter became a historic event in the fight against terrorism. It caused a critical blow to Indian Mujahideen, as it neutralized its key members and broke the backbone of its network in India. We lost one of the most intelligent and brave officers, whose findings led us to the core IM members. The work done by all the Special Cell personnel helped crack the bomb blast cases and neutralize the threat from this terror group that had caused many blasts across the country between 2004 and 2008, causing injuries to 765 people and killing 239 innocent men, women and children,” he writes. “This case stirred a political storm, instigated a witch-hunt against Special Cell officers, divided public opinion and became a raging controversial topic in the media that continues till date.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/book-claims-to-answer-key-batla-question/story-EYe64oHi7QJta7pDe6UkLJ.html
08-09-2020||India||Past midnight, China claims to have taken countermeasures to India’s ‘military provocation’||China early on Tuesday said its border troops took “countermeasures” after the Indian army crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and fired “warning shots” near the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh.Border troops of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) were “forced to take countermeasures” after Indian army soldiers fired at them near the Shenpao mountain region near the south bank of Pangong Tso lake, a statement issued by China’s western theatre command (WAC) said in a statement issued early on Tuesday.The Chinese statement, however, did not explain what the “countermeasures” were. ALSO READ | China’s PLA in race to reach the green line in LadakhThe statement from the PLA’s WAC would mean that shots were fired at the disputed Sino-India border for the first time in four decades.India has squarely blamed China for the tensions along the LAC in Ladakh over the past four months and said the only way forward was through negotiations – reflecting the impasse created by Beijing’s fresh attempts to alter the status quo along the disputed border.In a statement issued in Mandarin, and tweeted by state media, WAC spokesperson Colonel Zhang Shuili said Chinese border defence troops were forced to take countermeasures to stabilise the situation after Indian soldiers troops “outrageously fired warning shots to PLA border patrol soldiers who were about to negotiate”.ALSO READ | India calls China’s bluff in Chushul“During the operation, the Indian army blatantly shot and threatened the patrol personnel of the Chinese border defence forces who had made representations before, and the Chinese border defence forces were forced to take countermeasures to stabilise the situation on the ground,” Zhang said in the statement.“The Indian side’s move seriously violated related agreements reached by both sides, stirred up tensions in the region, and would easily cause misunderstandings and misjudgments, which is a serious military provocation and is very vile in nature,” the spokesperson said.“We demand the Indian side to immediately stop dangerous moves, withdraw personnel who crossed the LAC at once, strictly control frontline troops, seriously investigate and punish the personnel who fired the provocative shot and ensure similar incidents won’t take place again,” Zhang added.“The PLA WAC troops will firmly fulfill duties and missions and resolutely safeguard national territorial sovereignty,” Zhang said.The last time shots were fired at the LAC was in the Tulung La area of Arunachal Pradesh in 1975.Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a bitter standoff in multiple places in eastern Ladakh.Tensions flared up again in the region after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake last week when the two sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks to resolve the border row.The tension between the two sides escalated after violent clashes in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. The rise in the border tension comes days ahead of an expected meeting between external affairs minister, S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers’ meeting in Moscow on September 10,On Monday, Jaishankar, said the failure to observe several understandings on border management dating back to 1993 raises “very important questions” about the status of ties with China.“If peace and tranquillity on the border is not a given, then it cannot be that the rest of the relationship continues on the same basis, because clearly peace and tranquillity is the basis for the relationship,” he said while participating in an online interaction organised by The Indian Express newspaper to mark the release of his book ‘The India Way’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-blames-india-for-military-provocation-at-lac-says-it-took-countermeasures/story-rJ2WlEYh4cSGCyEwu6R7KM.html
08-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Two questions.One, what is India’s Infection Fatality Rate for Covid-19?This is different from the case fatality rate, which is simply the number of deaths represented as a proportion of the number of cases. The infection fatality rate, or IFR, is the number of deaths represented as a proportion of the number of infected. Caveat: Death numbers everywhere in the world, directly because of the coronavirus disease, or indirectly caused by it, are being undercounted, but in the absence of accurate death data and records, it is pointless to try and guess by how much.IFR is an important metric because it accurately measures the possible fatalities arising from a disease — and also the chances of dying from it. Measuring it, though, requires knowing the denominator — the number of infected people in a population.This is why sero surveys, blood tests that look for Sars-CoV-2 antibodies (in this case), are important. Such surveys measure the prevalence of a disease in a population — or the infection rate. Since Covid-19 deaths are anyway recorded, it is then possible to calculate IFR.There have been around 20 sero surveys in various parts of India covering close to 110,000 people. I decided to pick four of these, excluding ones with smaller samples. These four surveys, two in Delhi, and one each in Chennai and Ahmedabad, together covered around 78,000 people. The Ahmedabad survey showed that 17.6% of those studied had been exposed to the virus; the Chennai one 21.5%, and the two Delhi surveys 23% and 29%. The Ahmedabad and Chennai surveys were conducted in July; and the two Delhi ones in late June/early July and early August. Delhi’s third sero survey is nearing completion, and the results are expected next week. Based on these numbers, it can be assumed that at least 20% the population in large cities has been exposed to the disease.What does that make Delhi’s IFR? There have been 4,567 deaths on account of Covid-19 in Delhi till Sunday night. A 20% infection rate in the population would mean four million infections. That translates into an infection fatality rate of 0.11%. This compares with a case fatality rate of 2.4% in Delhi. In Ahmedabad, the IFR is again 0.11. And in Chennai it is 0.13. All numbers are based on current population and the total number of deaths in these cities till Sunday night. Three cities in different parts of the countries, all boasting similar IFRs, is interesting, but also expected. Pandemics respect math (it’s also the reason I have repeatedly called out states pretending all is well on the basis of positivity rates that have not followed the trajectory of such rates around the world).The second question, how common is a Covid-19 reinfection?This is prompted by media reports that claim India’s first case of coronavirus reinfection has been identified in a Bengaluru hospital. There have been 27 million coronavirus infections around the world — but only two known and established instances of reinfection (both in late August). There are probably more, but establishing a reinfection requires sequencing the viral genome of the first infection in the patient, and then sequencing the viral genome of the second infection in the patient, and proving that the two are different. Doctors and scientists established this in the case of a Hong Kong man whose second infection was asymptomatic (it was detected because he was travelling) and a US woman whose second infection resulted in severe symptoms.This doesn’t seem to have been done in the case of the Bengaluru patient — which doesn’t rule out a reinfection, but which also doesn’t rule out a residual infection or tests throwing up false negatives.Scientists are very interested in reinfections because these have a bearing on vaccine development. If there are significant reinfections (two in 27 million aren’t) and if the immune system in these patients did work the way it is supposed to, then it makes the vaccine development process a bit more complex — it is always easier to develop vaccines for diseases where an infection results in lifelong immunity (or at least immunity for a significant period of time).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-mtwod5mI80yuQoWEHMPZSJ.html
08-09-2020||India||After 90 days, Assam’s Baghjan gas-well fire doused; blazes again after glitch||Experts attempting to douse the blaze at an Oil India Limited (OIL) natural gas well in Assam’s Baghjan, which had a blowout on May 27 and caught fire on June 9, had temporary success on Monday and were able to put out the flames for nearly eight hours. According to OIL officials, effort to divert the gas from the well to flare pits to the Early Production System (EPS) was successful and led to dousing of the blaze. But due to technical issues, the blow out preventer (BoP) ram was opened and the fire started again. “The fire was doused for eight hours. But considering observed leakage through wellhead, it was decided for the well’s safety to open the BoP ram and flare the gas through it as was the case earlier. Experts will explore the possibility of welding the leakage point,” OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika said. On August 17, foreign experts engaged by OIL were able to cap the well by placing a BO stack over the wellhead. But problems surfaced two days later when attempts were made to douse the fire by ‘killing the well’. The operation was suspended on August 19 following rupture of a casing valve. “Today we were successful (in dousing the fire). It was a unique attempt (to douse fire by diverting gas to flare pits and start production from a blazing well). Hopefully, the leakage will be easily repaired and by Wednesday we should be able to divert the gas from the wellhead once again,” Hazarika said. Last week, Assam industry minister Chandra Mohan Patowary told the state assembly that it would take another 6-8 weeks to douse the fire at Baghjan. “Experts from Canada are coming to Baghjan in a chartered aircraft carrying equipment to kill the well with snubbing technology. It could take another 6 to 8 weeks to complete the operation,” he said. The well in Tinsukia district had a blow out on May 27, during a work over operation and caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-90-days-assam-s-baghjan-gas-well-fire-doused-blazes-again-after-glitch/story-3vioPG5NRmKksxp94UcpvN.html
08-09-2020||India||China’s PLA shrills border pitch, again claims Indian army crossed LAC near Pangong Tso||The Chinese military on Monday accused the Indian Army of crossing the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the southern bank of Pangong Lake, the focus of the latest faceoff between the two sides on the disputed border. There was no immediate response by Indian officials to the claim by the Chinese side. The Indian side has insisted that its troops have not violated the LAC and that it was the Chinese side that had triggered the latest faceoff with its “provocative military actions” near Pangong Lake. Also read: Amid border row, Army seeks to upgrade ‘night-blind’ infantry combat vehiclesIndian Army “again illegally crossed the Line of Actual Control in Shenpao mountain near the south bank of Pangong Tso Lake on Monday,” the Twitter handle of state-run Global Times tabloid quoted the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) western theater command spokesperson as saying.“Chinese border defense troops were forced to take countermeasures to stabilize the situation after the Indian troops outrageously fired warning shots to PLA border patrol soldiers who were about to negotiate,” the spokesperson was cited as saying in a second tweet from Global Times. No other details were immediately available. The Chinese claim came days before an expected meeting of the foreign ministers of the two countries on the margins of a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers in Moscow on September 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-shrills-border-pitch-claims-indian-army-crossed-lac-near-pangong-tso/story-Kzi7wwvjjTxCEkayyRfh2J.html
08-09-2020||India||Two options offered to states only way out, says Centre on GST compensation||The Centre remains committed to reimbursing states for the entire shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in their share of Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue this financial year – only immediate compensation may not be forthcoming, senior finance ministry officials said on Monday.“We can and will pay the compensation component arising from Covid-19 also, but only after the cess is extended,” a finance ministry official explained, referring to the cess levied on luxury products and sin goods that goes into the compensation fund and is used to make the payout to the states. At an August 27 meeting of the GST Council, chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state finance ministers, the Centre gave the states two options -- either borrow the compensation amount arising from implementation of GST (Rs 97,000 crore) or the entire shortfall (Rs 2.35 lakh crore). If they exercise the first option, the interest and principal amount will come from the cess levied on products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water and automobiles. In the second option, the states will have to bear the interest burden in the second case.Some states have opposed the proposals, and West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said on Monday that “state governments are not in a position to borrow any money from the market”, while lamenting that the “Centre is imposing something on states without any proper consultation”. The finance ministry official cited above explained that the Rs 97,000 crore was the amount that needs to be paid immediately under the law – “within the transition period”. “Option 1 is what can be immediately borrowed and taken. That is the hardwired compensation gap that will have to be paid under the Act, but in letter and spirit we want to give all the compensation that has to be paid to the states,” the official said. “The compensation arising from a shortfall because of Covid-19 will also have to be paid -- only that will have to wait till the cess gets extended.” Some of the states have since demanded that the Centre borrow the money, but the official said this wasn’t a good idea because it would harden yields in the bond market, and make life tough for private-sector borrowers or even states trying to borrow money for other needs. The idea, this person added, was for all states to borrow at the same rate through a special window of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). On August 29, the Centre detailed the options in a written communication to the states. Several states said they were not happy with the options and would not abide by them. On September 1, the expenditure and revenue secretaries met virtually with state finance secretaries to explain how the options would work. “All their doubts have been answered,” the finance ministry official said. “Now, we have to see how they respond.” The official also said too much was being made out of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s comment on the compensation crisis being caused by “an Act of God”. This is a “force majeure” this person added. “And instead of using the technical term, the minister used the common term. “Force majeure is an event or effect that can be neither anticipated nor controlled, freeing a party to a contract from a liability or obligation.” The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent 68-day hard lockdown has taken a heavy toll on the economy, causing a 23.9% contraction in the quarter ended June 30. Commenting on the economy, this person cited above said the ministry wasn’t speculating about when it will return to pre-pandemic levels, but is instead focused on “keeping all options open” to support it, especially “industry sectors that have been badly hit”. The officials cited in the first instance added that while they have to, at some point, sit down and figure out the exact hit to revenue on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, they have not done so thus far. Still, there are signs of people and companies restarting work, and the rural sector, both agricultural and non-agricultural doing well, the first official said. The ministry isn’t worried about the fiscal deficit or rating agencies, the official added, but on what the economy needs. As for a second stimulus, the pandemic is still growing, and a vaccine is yet to be developed, the official said, suggesting that the timing is important – but “all options are open”. West Bengal finance minister Mitra stressed that the payment options before the states were not feasible. “The discussion about the option never happened in the five-hour long meeting as the matter was placed before the [GST] Council only at the last moment. Why, five-hour long meeting when you are determined to give two options at the end,” he said. “There is no intimation when the Council will discuss this matter. But, there is only one logical and feasible option -- the Centre must borrow the entire money and the debt is serviced through the amount raised by the compensation cess. Honourable chief minister [Mamata Banerjee] has already written a letter to the Centre in this regard,” he added. Banerjee on September 2 wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that she was “deeply anguished” by the GST imbroglio which was violating the very premise of federalism. In the letter reviewed by HT, she wrote: “The Centre is duty bound to give compensation to states.” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac wrote in a tweet, “FMs of Punjab, Delhi, W Bengal, Chhattisgarh,Telangana and Kerala agreed to reject the Centre’s options on GST compensation .Our option: Central Govt to borrow entire compensation due regardless of acts of gods, humans or nature, to be paid back by extending the period of Cess.” An official in a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state said on condition of anonymity that most of the states were opposed to the Centre’s move, which would put an immense fiscal burden on them. Experts said the matter needs to be resolved speedily. ”Businesses would appreciate if the Centre and the states discuss and resolve the issue of compensation cess as it is not only a fiscal matter, but one that impacts businesses that have to charge, recover and deposit the cess. The situation is admittedly one where the finances of both the Centre and the states are stressed,” said MS Mani, a partner at consulting firm Deloitte India. An indirect tax consultant, who asked not to be named, said it was the duty of the Centre to pay full compensation to states, noting that when the GST regime came into place in 2017, there was no argument that revenue loss from an Act of God wouldn’t be covered. “And, if it is an Act of God for the Centre, it is also an Act of God for the states. God for both is the same. Hence, the Centre should follow the spirit of the federalism and GST law and take a loan for states that will be serviced by compensation cess,” the consultant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-options-offered-to-states-only-way-out-says-centre/story-8wGJf5bXsu0b9oD5eMv6AP.html
08-09-2020||India||India’s defence inches closer to hypersonic tech||India on Monday took the first steps towards developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence, with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) carrying out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from a launch facility off the Odisha coast.Only the United States, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-manoeuvring hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept. Mach 6 translates into a speed of 7,408kmph. India could develop hypersonic cruise missiles powered by air-breathing scramjet engines in about four years, a top government officer said on condition of anonymity.“The DRDO has successfully demonstrated the hypersonic air-breathing scramjet technology with the flight test of HSTDV at 1103 hours from Dr APJ Abdul Kalam launch complex at Wheeler Island off the coast of Odisha on Monday,” the defence ministry statement said.An improvement over the ramjet technology, the scramjet engine operates efficiently at hypersonic speeds and allows supersonic combustion. Hypersonic missiles travel at speeds in excess of Mach 5.Experts say that such vehicles are launched on rockets before they detach and move towards their target in the upper atmosphere. They can be steered to add unpredictability in an attack and because they follow a flat and low trajectory, it is hard to detect them early with radar.“Congratulations to DRDO India for successful flight of the Hypersonic Test Demonstration Vehicle today. The scramjet engine developed by our scientists helped the flight achieve a speed 6 times the speed of sound! Very few countries have such capability today,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. The hypersonic cruise vehicle was launched using a proven solid rocket motor that took it to an altitude of 30km, where the aerodynamic heat shields were separated at a hypersonic Mach number, the statement said.“The cruise vehicle separated from the launch vehicle and the air intake opened as planned. The hypersonic combustion sustained and the cruise vehicle continued on its desired flight path at a velocity of six times the speed of sound or nearly 2 km/second for more than 20 seconds,” the statement said. The first test of the HSTDV in June 2019 failed to meet mission parameters.Developing hypersonic missiles will require the cruise vehicle to travel at speeds above Mach 6 for a few hundred seconds for the weapon to strike its target, said a second official, requesting anonymity. “Critical events like fuel injection and auto ignition of scramjet demonstrated technological maturity. The scramjet engine performed in a textbook manner,” the statement said.The parameters of launch and cruise vehicle, including the scramjet engine, were monitored by multiple tracking radars, electro-optical systems and telemetry stations, with the engine working efficiently at high dynamic pressure and very high temperature, it added.A warship was deployed in the Bay of Bengal to monitor the performance during the cruise phase of the hypersonic vehicle. All the performance parameters indicated a “resounding success” of the mission, the statement said.“This marks a technological breakthrough for the country. The successful mission will enable us to develop many more critical technologies and pave the way for hypersonic vehicle development,” DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy told HT.The flight test has proven a raft of critical technologies including aerodynamic configuration for hypersonic manoeuvres, use of scramjet propulsion for ignition and sustained combustion at hypersonic flow, thermo-structural characterisation of high temperature materials and separation mechanism at hypersonic velocities, the defence ministry said.With hypersonic vehicles being key to defeating missile defences, the successful flight of the technology demonstrator vehicle is an important milestone, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.“This has been some time in the making and the challenge now is to make a time-bound transition to the prototype testing phase. China is quite ahead in hypersonics and India cannot afford to lag behind,” Bahadur said.The dual-use hypersonic technology has non-military applications too – it can be used for launching satellites and developing commercial planes, experts said.Defence minister Rajnath, who spoke with scientists associated with the critical project, congratulated the DRDO on the “landmark achievement” towards realising Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”.“The DRDO has today successfully flight tested the Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle using the indigenously developed scramjet propulsion system. With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase,” the defence minister wrote on Twitter. Reddy congratulated the scientists, researchers and other personnel associated with the mission for their “resolute and unwavering efforts” towards strengthening the country’s defence capabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-defence-inches-closer-to-hypersonic-tech/story-2XDXkfHhMiulSsdDfVNkbL.html
08-09-2020||India||Decline in demand for MGNREGS jobs||The government’s special job scheme for migrant workers, the reopening of some sectors of the economy, and a bumper sowing season have helped ease the pressure on the flagship job guarantee scheme, MGNREGS, in terms of providing work to millions of desperate daily wage workers in rural India. While MGNREGS has already completed at least 65% of its annual target for work in the first five months, demand for the programme has steadily declined since July. In June, 62.06 million workers wanted work under the scheme, according to the Union rural development ministry. But in July, the total number of beneficiaries asking for work came down to 42.57 million and in August, the demand saw a further dip, to 31.44 million.In the first week of September, 11 million workers asked for work under the scheme. Former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra said that the bumper kharif (monsoon crop) sowing season, return of millions of workers to the cities due to staggered re-opening of economic sectors and the Rs 50,000 crore special package for migrants have encouraged many daily wage workers to shift to relatively more lucrative jobs. At least 10 million migrant workers — mostly unskilled or semi-skilled — returned home amid uncertainties triggered by federal lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease between April and June. While construction workers accounted for nearly 60% of all migrant daily wage workers, about 40% were unskilled. As part of the government’s special scheme for migrant workers, public works worth Rs 50,000 crore were offered to create jobs for migrant workers in 116 districts across six states. Each of the selected districts had at least 25,000 returnee migrant workers. Expecting a surge in rural jobs, the Union government pumped in an additional Rs 40,000 crore to increase MGNREGS’ annual budget to Rs 1.05 lakh crore, the highest-ever. The government also enhanced its target to create 3 billion person days of work under MGNREGS this financial year. The world’s largest job scheme started on a tepid note this year. But demand for work surged in both May and June with millions of migrants returning home. As a result, 1.95 billion persondays or 65% of the annual target has already been completed. Mohapatra believes MGNREGS demand will again rise in the coming months due to a rise in Covid cases in big cities and lack of agricultural jobs in the early winter months. “It is indeed a good sign that people have found better jobs. After all, MGNREGS is used only for distress purpose. But the rural job demand will grow in the winter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decline-in-demand-for-mgnregs-jobs/story-6ZN5isASqn8CcAuQMuw5yN.html
08-09-2020||India||Public funeral for soldier of secretive force in Leh||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ram Madhav’s presence at the official funeral of a Tibetan soldier from the secretive Special Frontier Force (SFF) on Monday created a flutter in diplomatic and political circles amid the border standoff with China. The funeral of SFF company leader Nyima Tenzin, killed in a landmine blast in an operation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) during August 29-30, was held at Leh in the union territory of Ladakh. The funeral cortege was joined by scores of cars and motorcycles and people waving the Indian and Tibetan flags. Tenzin’s coffin, carried in an army truck, was draped in the Indian tricolour and Tibetan flag, which were handed over to his widow at the funeral. Experts noted this was probably the first time an SFF personnel who died in action was given a public funeral, complete with military honours and a volley of shots by a ceremonial guard. BJP national general secretary Madhav posted photos of the funeral and paid tribute to Tenzin on Twitter but subsequently deleted the tweet. Screenshots of his tweet, which were widely shared, showed he had posted: “Attended [the] funeral of SFF Coy Ldr Nyima Tenzin, a Tibetan who laid down his life protecting our borders in Ladakh, and laid a wreath as a tribute. Let [the] sacrifices of such valiant soldiers bring peace along the Indo-Tibetan border. That will be [the] real tribute to all martyrs.” People present at the funeral shouted slogans such as “Bharat Mata ki jai”, “Tibet desh ki jai”, “Vikas Regiment zindabad” and “We salute Tenzin”. SFF is also known as Establishment 22 and Vikas Regiment. Banners put up at the funeral site by SFF ex-servicemen described Tenzin as a soldier who “sacrificed his life to protect his second homeland India fighting common enemy China”. Madhav spoke to the media at the funeral, saying in Hindi that he hoped Tenzin’s sacrifice “will bring peace to the border” and that “efforts are on to end the tension”. He added, “We hope peace will be restored soon.” People familiar with developments said Madhav hadn’t attended the funeral as a representative of the government. On Sunday, Madhav began a two-day visit to Ladakh, a union territory that was carved out of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, whose special status was scrapped in August 2019. However, the move marks a shift from the government’s reported decision in early 2018 asking officials and leaders to skip events which were being organised at the time to mark the Dalai Lama’s 60 years in exile. As the government worked to improve ties with China, especially through the mechanism of informal summits, the Tibet issue was largely sidelined. SFF was raised with former Tibetan guerrillas in 1962 and went on to see action during the 1971 war with Pakistan that led to the creation of Bangladesh and the 1999 Kargil conflict. It is led by army officers and most of its personnel are men of Tibetan origin. Amitabh Mathur, a former special secretary in the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) who advised the government on issues related to Tibet, said it made sense for India to use a force such as SFF in the current scenario because of the special skills of its personnel. “They are used to operating at high altitudes and it would be an enormous waste if they are kept away from the terrain where they are most useful,” he said. However, he said the Indian side will have to ensure that their use is followed up with other messages that reach the overall Tibetan community and a consistent policy. “There has to be some sort of gesture, an overt sign and this message should reach the Tibetans in Tibet,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-funeral-for-soldier-of-secretive-force-in-leh/story-UkE10dmKOHGS58Peln6MhO.html
08-09-2020||India||States expedite work on freight corridor||Following union railway minister Piyush Goyal’s letter to the chief ministers of nine states seeking to remove bottlenecks which have hampered work on the Rs 81,000 crore dedicated freight corridor project, several states have expedited land acquisition clearances and deployed police in areas where issues of law and order were holding up work.According to officials aware of the development land acquisition clearances have been provided in the past week by states including Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat. Following concerns raised by the Prime Minister’s Office over delays in the completion of the Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFC), one of the largest rail infrastructure projects, Railways cited “poor progress of work” by contractors and raised concerns over law and order in Uttar Pradesh and delays in construction by Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab governments, Hindustan Times reported on August 26.Railways identified delays in both the Eastern and Western dedicated freight corridors and revised the deadline for completion to June 2022 from its earlier target of December 2021.“In Bihar’s Rohtas district, a detailed review was done by the DM (District Magistrate), and three teams have been formed to expedite payment and physical possession. Deployment of police at two road over bridge (ROBs) has been approved. Police force have also been deployed in Aurangabad,” one of the officials said.On August 26, Goyal wrote to the chief ministers of nine states including Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab, West Bengal, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Jharkhand, highlighting how the dedicated freight corridor has been facing “long-pending issues” that remain “unresolved”. Goyal flagged issues such as land acquisition, pending arbitrations, demands from local residents, and the slow pace of work by state authorities.The Centre has also agreed to the Punjab government’s demand for borrowing money from Railways’ project implementing arm the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) for construction of ROBs.DFCCIL, in an internal report reviewed by HT, cited slow progress of ROB approaches by Uttar Pradesh (total 46 ROBs out of which only 3 have been completed). It has also pointed to law and order issues in Meerut, Muzzafarnagar and Saharanpur District as an area of concern for the delay in the Eastern corridor. And it highlighted slow progress in construction of ROBs in Haryana and Punjab.In the Western Corridor, DFCCIL mentioned slow progress by the Gujarat government citing “slow acquisition of land for approaches”.In his letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Goyal highlighted a slew of problems including pending road over bridges, obstruction to physical possession of land in areas such as Muzaffarnagar, Meerut and Saharanpur among others due to agitation, arbitration, demand for compensation and jobs by villagers, and undue demand of lease rent by the Uttar Pradesh Forest Department. In a letter to Bihar CM Nirish Kumar, the minister raised concerns over land acquisition in certain stretches due to long delays in the disbursal of awards.“Constant weekly monitoring and meetings with all stake holders lead to acquisition of patches and sections of land which were long delayed . Railway minister Piyush Goyal held a review meeting with Chief Secretaries of State Governments to expedite the progress and resolve critical issues of Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC). ,” the railway ministry said on Monday.“Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Railway Board Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav also wrote letters to Chief Secretaries of State Governments and General Managers of Zonal Railways to expedite the progress and resolve critical issues. Shri Yadav also held a meeting with Dedicated Freight Corridor contractors to resolve their problems and issues,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-expedite-work-on-freight-corridor/story-OZeqHbGJNpVmVNE3W3I2OO.html
08-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty registers complaint against Sushant’s sister||Actor Rhea Chakraborty filed a complaint against Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Priyanka Singh and Delhi-based Dr Tarun Kumar on Monday, alleging Dr Kumar’s prescription for Rajput contained medication prohibited under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Deputy commissioner of police Manjunath Singe confirmed the receipt of the complaint. Chakraborty’s legal counsel Satish Maneshinde said the six-page complaint was submitted to Bandra police station on Monday, to register a first information report against Priyanka and Dr Kumar. This development came on a day the 28-year-old actor was questioned for nearly eight hours by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) as part of their probe into allegations of drug abuse in Rajput’s death. So far, the agency has arrested nine people in connection with this case, including Chakraborty’s brother Showik. Deputy director general, NCB, Ashok Jain said, “Rhea has been sent home after today’s inquiry and we have asked her to join again tomorrow. She has been cooperating with the investigation. We are verifying and examining the information that we are receiving from the accused.” Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer says Rhea Chakraborty filed case against Priyanka so Mumbai Police ‘can do some mischief’Chakraborty’s complaint stated that Rajput was diagnosed with bipolar disorder in addition to other mental health issues, and that he “abruptly” stopped medication. It further alleged that Priyanka, who had no medical training, was sending Rajput medication, which Chakraborty discovered on June 8 after Rajput showed her messages he had exchanged with Priyanka. “Prima facie, the prescription appeared to be fabricated. The medicines prescribed by the doctor are prohibited from being prescribed electronically without consultation with the patient,” Chakraborty said in the complaint. “Rajput died just a few days after he obtained the prescription, wherein he was unlawfully prescribedDr Kumar did not respond to HT’s calls or messages. Rajput’s family lawyer Vikas Singh alleged that the complaint with Mumbai Police is a ploy to derail the ongoing Central Bureau of Investigation probe. Singh said Mumbai police did not have any right in this matter. “The complaint is itself an offence. This is a ploy to derail and deflect the investigation. This is an attempt to keep Mumbai police alive in the case so that they can do some mischief and ensure that the family of Sushant does not get justice in this matter,” he told reporters.Chakraborty is an accused in the case of Rajput’s death. She lived with Rajput till June 8. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. His father, KK Singh, alleged Chakraborty abetted Rajput’s suicide in a complaint filed in Patna on July 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-registers-complaint-against-sushant-s-sister/story-mDf5MYYae5bl4p6r5x6g5N.html
08-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Cases of fatal syndrome reported in children||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection in children is often mild or asymptomatic, and rarely leads to death, but cases of an uncommon, but potentially fatal multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) are being reported in India after being documented in Italy, Spain, the UK and the US. MIS-C remains a rarity in India, where people under 20 accounted for just 1.22% of Covid-19 deaths as of August 22, according to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. MIS-C is marked by high fever, organ dysfunction and strongly elevated markers of inflammation, with many symptoms overlapping with those of the Kawasaki disease, another childhood ailment that leads to inflammation of the arteries (vasculitis), autoimmune dysfunction, encephalitis (swelling of the membranes surrounding the brain), cardiovascular shock and multiple-organ failure. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThere is, however, a marked difference in inflammatory response and biomarkers associated with arterial damage in MIS-C and Kawasaki disease, according to a pre-proof copy of a new study published in the journal Cell. A systems-level analysis of immune cells, cytokines and autoantibodies in healthy children, those with the Kawasaki disease before Covid-19, Sars-CoV-2 infected children, and children with MIS-C, showed that multiple autoantibodies were involved in triggering MIS-C, researchers from Italy and Sweden found. Autoantibodies are immune proteins that mistakenly target a person’s own tissues or organs while cytokines are proteins that regulate immunity and inflammation. While fever, conjunctivitis, swelling in the foot, swollen lymph nodes (throat) and rash were observed in both diseases, headache, abdominal pain, vomiting, sore throat and cough were more common in MIS-C, the study found. Also read: Too many children are going hungry amid Covid-19 pandemicThis supports an earlier study published in The Journal of Clinical Investigation that found MIS-C is a post-viral hyper-inflammatory reaction to Sar-CoV-2, the virus that causs Covid-19, and was related to but distinct from Covid-19 and Kawasaki syndrome. The study found MIS-C was marked with elevated levels of two cytokines, IL-10 and TNF-α, which were not or minimally elevated in children with mild to severe Covid-19. There were mild elevations of other cytokines and not IL-10 in Kawasaki disease. Two MIS-C case studies from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, also demonstrated that while all children develop high fever, other symptoms vary widely. A two-and-a-half-year-old child with MIS-C developed ever, cough, runny nose and seizures while a six-year-old had fever and rash, but no seizure, cough or other respiratory symptoms. Differences in immune response, cross-reactive immunity to common cold coronaviruses, better health compared to the elderly, and differences in the expression of the viral entry receptor ACE2 that Sars-Cov-2 binds to infect human cells are among the factors that protect children from severe disease. “Children have a strong innate immune response, which could be due to trained immunity because of frequent viral infections and vaccinations such as BCG. The expression of primary target receptors for Sars-Cov-2 varies with age, and that coupled with the excellent regeneration capacity of paediatric alveolar epithelium (respiratory membrane in the lungs) may lead to early recovery in children,” said Dr Rakesh Lodha, professor of paediatrics, AIIMS, New Delhi. Children are also less likely to have risk factors and co-morbidities, such as diabetes or heart disease, which raises risk of complications associated with Covid-19. These findings are helping clinicians in Covid-19 management in children, who have limited treatment options as remdesvir is not approved for use in children under 12, and convalescent plasma is recommended once daily for two days. “Treatment (can we explain} should be considered only after a risk-benefit analysis on a case-to-case basis after taking consent from parents. Tocilizumab may be considered in children with progressive disease with inflammation markers,” said Dr Lodha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-of-fatal-syndrome-reported-in-children/story-wY9edIQlBsNV8Ye1LUFhdN.html
08-09-2020||India||Lack of stimulus has hurt economy: Amit Mitra||New Delhi: India’s economy contracted sharply by 24% in the first quarter of the current financial year because the Union government did not infuse the required stimulus to tide over the devastating impact of a 68-day hard lockdown on the economy that was imposed to check the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said.“Centre rudderless & clueless. Why did India’s GDP [gross domestic product] shrink the most in the world? GoI spent ONLY 1 lakh crores more in April-July 2020, compared to 2019-20, while headlines scream 20 lakh crore stimulus! Negligible additional stimulus meant 11 lakh cr of GDP lost forever. 24% shrink,” he said in a tweet on Monday.His reference is to the incremental spending by the government in the first four months of this financial year compared to a year ago -- Rs 1.06 lakh crore.  India’s GDP contracted by a record 23.9% in the quarter ended June 2020, which makes it the worst performer among major global economies. Mitra said the sharp fall in GDP is mainly because of the wrong policy focus of the Union government. “Instead of focusing on demand generation, the [Union] government’s focus is on the supply side. This is not the right time to apply Say’s law,” he said.“Application of Say’s law – that supply creates demand – is on the condition that all other things are normal. This theory doesn’t work in an unusual situation like this,” he added.Mitra said the Union government should have spent money to create demand, but its Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package that was dubbed as a 10% of the GDP, leans more towards loans than direct fiscal stimulus. “The direct fiscal stimulus, which could have generated demand, is less than 2%, and out of that most of the expenditure is routine revenue expenditure.” “Factories are closed, MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) are in bad shape due to the lockdown. They are not in a position to take loan and start production when demand is subdued. The need is to provide direct fiscal stimulus to create demand, which will attract private investments in the second round,” he said.The Union finance ministry did not respond to HT’s queries on this matter.Earlier, chief economic adviser (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian explained the fall in GDP as “an exogenous shock” that was felt globally. “Just to give the comparison, United Kingdom (UK), where the lockdown was less stringent than India, if you use the Oxford University’s index, India’s lockdown was 15% more intense than that of the United Kingdom. I’m using United Kingdom’s [example] because, it’s a country that is of a similar economic size. The contraction there was 22%,” he said. “But what is important is that India is experiencing a V-shaped recovery after unlocks has been announced. For instance core sector growth, which had declined 30% in April, those declines have progressively reduced to 22% in May 13% in June and 9.6% in July,” he added.Boston Consulting Group (BCG), in its latest report, BCG India Economic Monitor, pointed to signs of recovery in industrial activity and a rise in power and fuel consumption. While year-on-year (YoY) gap in power consumption narrowed to 4% in July 2020 compared to 10% in June 2020, that in fuel consumption narrowed from 8% in June 2020 to 3% in July 2020. Nomura, however, said India’s GDP growth fell lower-than-expected because of a collapse in domestic demand due to one of the most stringent lockdowns. “In our view, the current weak economic conditions requires a more aggressive fiscal response, but budgeted fiscal support has been limited, while monetary policy is hamstrung due to inflation,” the report said.“We also expect a second round of targeted fiscal support in coming months, although it remains unclear if the government will provide a large scale demand stimulus,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-stimulus-has-hurt-economy-mitra/story-aniGDABsUrsTh9pZ7yCdUL.html
08-09-2020||India||ED arrests Deepak Kochhar in money-laundering probe||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday arrested former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar’s husband, Deepak Kochhar, in connection with a money-laundering probe against the couple and companies linkted to them, people familiar with the developments said.Officials said Deepak Kochhar was arrested in Mumbai after he failed to give satisfactory response to fresh evidence gathered by the investigation team suggesting suspicious transactions in his company NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd.He was called for questioning and confronted with several documents before being arrested. “He was evading answers to certain questions related to transactions in his company,” said an officer who didn’t wish to be named.He will be produced in a PMLA (prevention of money laundering act) court on Tuesday morning.Deepak Kochhar’s lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, declined to comment.Deepak Kochhar’s arrest is the first such action in a multi-agency investigation against the couple for decisions Chanda Kochhar took as the head of the private sector ICICI Bank in giving loans to Videocon Group in lieu of alleged bribes.Chanda Kochhar stepped down from ICICI Bank on October 4, 2018 after allegations of irregularities surfaced.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is also investigating the Kochhars for alleged corruption. In its FIR registered in January last year, CBI alleged that six high-value loans worth Rs 1,875 crore were given by ICICI Bank to Videocon group companies between 2009 and 2011.While attaching properties worth Rs 78.15 crore belonging to Kochhars in January 2020, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said an amount of Rs 64 crore — out of a loan of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Limited — was transferred to M/s NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd by Videocon Industries Limited (VIL) on September 8, 2009, just one day after the disbursement of the loan.“It is noticed that Chanda Kochhar and Venugopal N Dhoot (chairman-cum-managing director of VIL) are known to each other whereas family members of Chanda Kochhar are having joint holding in certain companies with the persons of Videocon group viz in NRPL (NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd) and SEPL (Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd). The nexus is evident from the changes in the shareholding patterns in the specified companies into and amongst such persons under a design and plan,” said an ED report in possession of HT.In an investigation report filed in a Delhi court, as first reported by HT in April 2019, ED claimed that it was investigating a total of 24 loans aggregating Rs 7,862 crore that were given by the bank to Videocon Group between 2009 and 2018.Both the agencies decided to look at quid-pro-quo arrangements between Dhoot and Kochhars after it emerged that former was an investor in Deepak Kochhar’s company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deepak-kochhar-arrested-by-ed/story-enLFgEf37cTXrNGdAJGQlO.html
08-09-2020||India||Passengers, staff cautious as Metros back on track||With the Centre issuing guidelines for their graded resumption under Unlock 4, Metro services resumed in Lucknow, Kochi, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad, apart from the national capital, on Monday after a gap of about five-and-a-half months. The services were still closed in Mumbai, Nagpur, Kolkata and Jaipur.Passengers and staff were cautious and followed social-distancing measures and other safety protocols specified by authorities. Traffic was thin on the first day as many commuters said that they were still not sure if taking public transport was safe due to the risk of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Stickers and markings were seen both in trains and on platforms so that passengers maintain social distancing.Around 6,000 people boarded Lucknow metro trains, as against over 70,000 in pre-lockdown days. Metro authorities said they were encouraging commuters to go for cashless/online ticket transactions. In Bengaluru, all passengers were asked to use smart cards as no tokens were being sold. On the station premises, passengers were permitted to enter the concourse only after temperature checks with thermal guns and sanitisation of hands. Frequently touched areas in coaches like grab rails, poles, handles, passenger seats and door surfaces were sanitised regularly.Tamil Nadu industries minister MC Sampath was among those who boarded the first Chennai metro train that departed from the airport to Washermenpet at 7am. He travelled up to Nandanam station.The Lucknow Metro resumed services at 6am at all 16 stations with a thin crowd. The total ridership by 6pm was around 6,000. “I am happy to see the trains running on tracks again...I hope to see more passengers in the coming days. Initially we have kept the frequency of trains at 5 minutes and 30 seconds, and when ridership increases, we will reduce the frequency to around 3 minutes,” said Kumar Keshav, managing director, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC).Metro Rail services in Bengaluru started operations on the Purple Line from Byappanahalli station to Mysuru Road and vice versa. Karnataka health minister B Sriramulu travelled in a train to review the preparedness. The trains ran between 8am and 11am in the morning and 4.30pm-7.30 in the evening. Only those above 10 years and below 55 were allowed to travel.In Hyderabad, metro train services between Corridor 1 (Miyapur to LB Nagar) started while operations will be resumed in a graded manner on other routes. People were facing a lot of problems in reaching their places of work or destination in the absence of public transport, Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director NVS Reddy told PIT. Trains were being operated from 7am to noon and 4pm-9pm, he said.Services resumed in Kochi with Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurating the newly completed Thykoodam-Pettah stretch, marking completion of the first phase of the urban transport mobility in the coastal city at a cost of Rs 6,218 crore. A Kochi Metro spokesperson said trains will run from 7am-9pm with a 10- minute break.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-staff-cautious-as-metros-back-on-track/story-SrCIFcV2hVRJlVHYeFTz4M.html
08-09-2020||India||Extended monsoon likely this year: IMD||Monsoon rains are likely to enjoy another extended run this year in keeping with the trend over the past decade, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday, emphasising that rainfall in September is likely to range between normal and above normal as the four-month weather phenomenon prepares for a late withdrawal.Rainfall is likely to be deficient at least until September 13 in most parts of the country, including northwest and central India, before intensifying after September 17, according to the IMD’s extended range forecast. Normally, withdrawal of the monsoon begins on September 17 when the rains start reducing across the country until a complete withdrawal on October 15.But this year, the IMD’s extended range forecast shows extensive and heavy rains along the west coast between September 11 and 24 and then until October 1 over several parts of central India, with complete withdrawal likely after October 15. An extended withdrawal process of the monsoon has become the norm over the past 10 years, officials say.“We have indicated in our weekly weather update last week that withdrawal of monsoon may begin from western parts of Rajasthan in the week ending September 18. But we are also expecting a low-pressure area to develop over west-central Bay of Bengal around that time,” IMD director general M Mohapatra said at a press conference.“So, while withdrawal of the monsoon may begin, we are still studying as to when it’s likely to withdraw completely. Withdrawal is likely to be extended. We are expecting normal to above normal rain in Kerala, Karnataka and coastal areas of Maharashtra around and after September 17,” he added.According to the new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates released by the IMD in April factoring in the trend of delayed monsoon withdrawal, the normal date for the monsoon to begin withdrawing is September 17; it withdraws completely by October 15. The dates were September 1 and October 15, respectively, until last year. The new onset date is based on an analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal date on data from 1971 to 2019 by scientists at the IMD, Pune.Last year the monsoon started withdrawing on October 9, against the normal date of September 1, and prolonged rains brought a deluge in parts of Maharashtra, Kerala and Bihar in August when rainfall usually reduces. The monsoon completed its withdrawal by October 17.“It’s very difficult for us to say immediately when will it stop raining completely and withdrawal can be announced. We are seeing a pattern of delayed monsoon withdrawal in recent years which needs to be investigated carefully,” Mohapatra said, adding that intra-seasonal variability of the monsoon has been high this year with rainfall excessive in June and deficient in July. August recorded excess rain by a high margin.An active Madden-Julian Oscillation -- characterised by an eastward shift of clouds and rainfall near the equator that recurs every 30 to 60 days -- and cold El Nino neutral conditions favoured good rains in August, he said. “Rain in September is likely to be normal or above normal,” Mohapatra added.A cool El Nino neutral phase indicates that the sea surface temperature is cooler than normal in the tropical Pacific Ocean. It is usually linked to above-normal monsoon rains over India.“This year a good monsoon should have helped farmers and the output must be very good. We don’t have an assessment as to how it will impact the economy,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.Monsoon rains are critical because nearly 60% of India’s net arable land lacks irrigation and half the population depends on agriculture for a livelihood. With good rains, spending by rural consumers on manufactured items such as television sets and gold jewellery goes up, and boosts factory output. A deficient monsoon cuts rural consumption and also drives up inflation.There was 17% excess rain in June with heavy rain and flooding in Saurashtra and some north-eastern states; July rainfall was 10% deficient, but the month was marked by heavy to extremely heavy rain in north-eastern states which led to floods in Bihar, Assam, some pockets of eastern Uttar Pradesh, and Arunachal Pradesh, and landslides in Assam, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim.Rainfall was 27% excess in August, mainly due to extra rain over Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Odisha because of five low-pressure areas developing over the Bay of Bengal. This led to frequent floods and inundation of low-lying areas and urban flooding over different areas; landslides occurred in the Ghat sections of Karnataka and Kerala, Mohapatra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extended-monsoon-likely-this-year-imd/story-xqFE2VDEjDdQYfVegzFUvL.html
08-09-2020||India||‘Right thing to do’: Devendra Fadnavis on Centre providing Y-plus security for Kangana Ranaut||Former chief minister of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis on Monday welcomed Centre’s move to provide Y-plus category security for Kangana Ranaut.The Bollywood actor started receiving threats soon after commenting on Mumbai Police. Applauding Centre’s decision, BJP leader Fadnavis said that protecting people is Centre’s responsibility. “There will be no rule of law. If you don’t like someone’s opinion then take legal action against them but it is the responsibility of those who have taken the oath of the constitution to protect them. I think what centre did is right,” senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said.Fadnavis, however, further clarified that BJP did not support Ranaut’s comments on Mumbai Police.The controversy erupted over Ranaut’s remarks Mumbai Police which sparked a political row on Friday, with Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh saying “she has no right to stay in Mumbai”. Ranaut tweeted that Sanjay Raut had issued an “open threat” to her to not return to the city if she had no faith in the Mumbai Police. “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/right-thing-to-do-devendra-fadnavis-on-centre-providing-y-plus-category-security-for-kangana-ranaut/story-laWPK5sssfqGWuGDB9VSLJ.html
08-09-2020||Editorials||Pakistan gets it wrong, again | HT Editorial||For decades, Pakistan has struggled with an insurgency in Balochistan, its largest but least populated province endowed with abundant natural resources. Unlike its other provinces, the local militants in Balochistan have rarely been inspired by radical or extremist Islam, and their demands have had more to do with enhanced autonomy for the region and a greater say in the exploitation of natural resources such as gas and minerals. It is, therefore, curious that the Pakistan army’s deradicalisation and rehabilitation programme for ethnic Baloch militants who have surrendered lays so much emphasis on Islam. Almost a fifth of the programme is devoted to a “religio-patriotism” module, including lectures by speakers such as local leaders of Jamaat-e-Islami, which is not known for espousing a progressive or moderate form of Islam. The Jamaat-e-Islami is known for its long-standing links with the Pakistani military and extremist and jihadi groups, which were strengthened during the days of the jihad in Afghanistan against Soviet forces. The deradicalisation plan is also unusual in that it strives to virtually replace the ethnic identity of the surrendered Baloch militants with one that suits the ends of the Pakistani military. In that regard, the similarity between the Pakistan army’s programme in Balochistan and China’s so-called re-education camps for Uighurs in the Xinjiang region is startling. Other Islamic countries, including Saudi Arabia have sought to use similar deradicalisation programmes to wean militants and terrorists away from hardline and extremist groups, with varying degrees of success. Very few, however, would have had training modules where the former militants would be taught about jihad as part of the concept of patriotism. Pakistan has for long sought to blame India of fishing in the troubled waters of Balochistan, without any evidence whatsoever. The problems in Balochistan are of Pakistan’s own making, ranging from a complete lack of sympathy for the genuine demands of the Baloch people to the rampant exploitation of the region’s natural resources, including for the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. Addressing the real issues affecting the Baloch people and stopping what human rights activists have described as the “kill and dump” policy of security and intelligence agencies could be much more effective than such a misguided deradicalisation programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/pakistan-gets-it-wrong-again/story-TXHYnRctNtsePf14wk6TRI.html
