13-09-2020||News||India needs to invest in regional disaster relief mechanisms | Opinion||On September 3, a fire broke out in a large crude carrier MT New Diamond off the eastern coast of Sri Lanka. The Indian Oil Corporation (IOC)-chartered ship was carrying 270,000 tonnes of oil en route to Odisha and was helped by the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) and Navy to douse the fire, rescue crew members, and prevent an oil spill. India’s response was initiated through the South Asian Cooperative for Environment Protection (Sacep) for coordinating pollution response in the South Asian Seas region. In 2018, India signed an MoU with Sacep assigning the ICG as the competent authority for implementation under the initiative.This response is unique in that it was evoked through a regional framework for addressing environmental emergencies. Historically, a key feature of India’s humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR) strategy has been the emphasis on bilateral engagement with the affected country. This year, for instance, Indian assistance to tackle the MV Wakashio oil spill in Mauritius and the help provided to countries in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic have both technically been bilateral in nature. An often-cited reason for this is India’s insistence on respecting territorial sovereignty while extending relief measures. The emphasis on bilateral emergency assistance has impeded the development of a regional mechanism for disaster relief in India’s neighbourhood.In the aftermath of the 2015 Nepal earthquake, India launched its biggest-ever relief operation. Although successful, the operation garnered criticism from a few quarters in Nepal who accused it of hindering other international efforts. Moreover, the international response featured bilateral assistance from six different South Asian countries but lacked a coordinated relief effort, including from the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) and the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (Bimstec).As seen in the MT New Diamond case, India’s neighbours would probably approve of the deployment of Indian military assets through a regional agreement as opposed to a unilateral relief operation on their soil. In a recent Brookings India policy brief, Neighbourhood First Responder: India’s Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief, I highlight the bilateral and regional dimensions of emergency assistance provided by India in its neighbourhood over the last 20 years. Saarc has codified disaster management by adopting the comprehensive framework on disaster management in 2006 and establishing the Saarc Disaster Management Centre (SDMC) as part of its mandate. In 2011, Saarc approved the Agreement on South Asia Rapid Response to Natural Disasters (SARRND), which formalised a policy for a cooperative response mechanism in the region. Also, the Saarc Food Bank was established in 2007. Under Bimstec, India has been leading efforts towards the “Environment and Disaster Management” priority area and established the Bimstec Centre for Weather and Climate as a platform to share information and build capacities on disaster-warning systems. While these are commendable initiatives, there is still a long way to go towards building an effective regional disaster relief mechanism. This is best exemplified by the fact that despite having an official policy in the form of SARRND, no Saarc-level contingent has ever been deployed during emergencies in the region. Similarly, in Bimstec, although member-countries have shown a willingness to work together on relevant issues, there is a large gap to fill in terms of establishing operating procedures for joint relief campaigns. With climate uncertainty, humanitarian emergencies in the region are poised to grow. India must invest in regional frameworks for disaster management and take the lead in setting up a road map for greater cooperation. Building capacities through training and joint exercises and coordinating comparative advantages for collective action will help India leverage goodwill among its neighbours through its disaster relief programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-needs-to-invest-in-regional-disaster-relief-mechanisms-opinion/story-NavRg25BXpH0sUFoAmMXYP.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Serial mobile thief on the run for three years, arrested in Mumbai||A robber who returned to Mumbai in anticipation of lockdown ending, was arrested by the crime branch officers of the government railway police (GRP) on Saturday. The 32-year-old mobile robber who was evading arrest since the past three years was arrested from Titwala. According to the GRP special task force officers, the accused Naimuddin Mehmood Alam has many mobile robbery and pick-pocketing cases registered against him across the Harbour and Central railway lines. API Hemraj Sathe from STF crime branch said that on Saturday they had received a tip off that Alam who had fled to his village after a lockdown was announced by the State government, had returned to Mumbai. “When the railway services were stopped owing to the pandemic, several robbers and criminals had fled the city,” said Sathe. The STF officers said that they had got Alam’s address in March, however, when they reached his house in Kalyan, they learnt that Alam who is a native in Uttar Pradesh had left Mumbai as he was unable to continue robbing commuters. Since the past year, officers of the STF had been tracing Alam. Sathe said that they had approached their informers at various places and asked them to keep an eye on robbers who were wanted and had left the city. On Saturday, Sathe said that they were informed that Alam had returned to the city anticipating that the lockdown would be over in a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/serial-mobile-thief-on-the-run-for-three-years-arrested-in-mumbai/story-3fT7q24BVxRcDWnL2U6wqM.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||59-year-old arrested for sexually assaulting a minor in Mumbai’s Dharavi area||The Dharavi police on Saturday arrested a 59-year-old man for sexually assaulting a five-year-old minor at Dharavi. Survivor’s 32-year-old mother in her statement said, “On Friday noon the neighbour called her daughter at his home where he gave her ₹10 and asked her to keep quiet and then he sexually assaulted her.” “The incident came to light when minor’s mother asked about the money which she had with her. The survivor later narrated the incident,” statement reads. Following the incident, mother decided to report it and visited Dharavi police station and filed a complaint against the accused. An officer from Dharavi police station said, “We registered a case under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 376 (punishment for rape) of Indian Penal Code and section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 8 (punishment for sexual assault), 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection Of Children From Sexual Offences Act and arrested the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/59-year-old-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-a-minor-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-area/story-VWhWzvuH9GN9QPmOe7CVYN.html
13-09-2020||City||10 youngsters go to lake for picnic near Mumbai, two drown||Two men, identified as Mangesh Rane and Suryakant Suvarna, drowned in a lake in Virar on Sunday late evening. Their bodies were fished out of the lake by night.The duo was among the group of 10 men, all in their mid-20s, who went to a lake in Shirgaon Khumbarpada in Virar (East) from Jogeshwari for a picnic. “Rane and Suvarna entered the lake, but misjudged the depth of the water. The lake was spilling over after the nearby Shirgaon dam started to overflow due to the rains,” said senior inspector Suresh Warade of Virar police station. Their friends alerted the locals, who called the fire brigade. The personnel then began search operations. “We have filed a case of accidental death and are awaiting the post-mortem reports to ascertain if the victims were drunk,” said Warade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-youngsters-go-to-lake-for-picnic-near-mumbai-two-drown/story-zT2zgyPizkz9CJdgNgDgjN.html
13-09-2020||City||Dombivli foot overbridge opens for commuters, CR bars connectivity to platforms||After almost a year, the Kalyan-end foot overbridge (FoB) at Dombivli railway station was opened to the commuters on Saturday. However, the FoB will only allow commuters to connect between east-west of Dombivli station as the Central Railway (CR) has barred its connectivity to the platform due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic lockdown. The FOB was shut in April 2019 as it was declared dangerous in an audit by the CR. It was dismantled in October 2019. After the collapse of the Himalaya FoB near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus on March 14, 2019, in which six were killed and 31 were injured, CR had ordered an audit of all its railway bridges. Many bridges were shut for repairs including the 40-year-old Dombivli FoB.The Dombivli station sees a footfall of almost four lakh commuters every day.“The commuters have been complaining about the delay for a long time. Now since the FoB is open, once the railway services resume, commuters can have better connectivity,” said Rupesh Singh, 30, a daily commuter.An officer from Dombivli railway station, requesting anonymity said,” The FoB was opened for commuters on Saturday to connect from east to west. The connectivity to the platform has not yet resumed, and it will be done only after the directions from the superiors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dombivli-foot-overbridge-opens-for-commuters-cr-bars-connectivity-to-platforms/story-LtnuzMrc1cvuRpH80OKq8I.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||September set to be Maharashtra’s worst Covid month||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 22,543 Covid-19 cases and 414 deaths, taking the tally and toll to 1,060,308 and 29,531 respectively. The state’s struggle to control the infectious virus is getting more difficult as numbers are climbing up rapidly. The average number of daily infections is marching towards 21,000 as 267,695 cases were recorded in thirteen days of this month. This also indicates that maximum cases in a month are likely to be recorded in September, as against 371,238 reported in August and 247,392 in July. In March, April, May and June, total cases reported were 30; 10,196; 57,157 and 102,172 respectively, according to state health department data.Sunday’s figures have pushed active cases in the state to 290,344, which has increased to a record 27.38% of total cases With the spike in cases, the positivity rate of the state continued to rise at 20.18% on Sunday with 88,836 tests conducted by the state. It was 18.82% a month ago on August 13 and 16.3% on June 13. Positivity test is an indicator of the prevalence of Covid-19 infection in the community. It also reflects the proportion of people who were found positive among those tested. The total number of tests conducted till date are 5,072,521.Officials said people need to follow precautions seriously and a careless attitude would bring more difficulties for the state, which was indicated by the chief minister. “We have been observing most of the people have stopped taking the pandemic seriously and don’t care about social-distancing norms. This is concerning as they are not only endangering their lives, but also of their families,” said a senior bureaucrat, wishing not to be named.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said there is no evidence that presence of antibodies guarantees protection from Covid-19 for a long time. “So far, those having antibodies are being claimed as protected, but it is yet to be proven and the new studies coming in are changing this perception.“A recent study says that antibodies that are developed after being infected with SARS-CoV-2 doesn’t guarantee long term protection from the virus as protective antibodies reduce in the body gradually. Thus, it is difficult to say that those who have developed antibodies are long-term immune to coronavirus,” Dr Salunkhe said.He also said that dependence only on vaccines cannot be called a wise step. “People should follow all the guidelines issued by the state in public interest as we cannot completely depend upon vaccines. It would be unwise to do so as we yet don’t know when it is actually going to be available and the level of protection it will give. We are only hoping the best,” he said.Pune city continues to contribute the highest number of infections to the daily caseload as it recorded 2,294 cases on Sunday. Its tally stood at 128,892 cases.Mumbai on Friday recorded 2,191 cases as the second-highest contributor, taking its tally to 169,741. Of them, active cases are 30,016.Nagpur city has occupied third position in the list with 1,534 cases and its tally went up to 39,077.The surge in infections is a result of getting new hotspots with a significant number of cases being reported in semi-urban and rural areas.Currently, the major hotspots in the state are Pune district, Pimpri-Chinchwad city, Jalgaon district, Satara district, Nashik city, Raigad district, Sangli district, Solapur district and Ahmednagar district where fresh cases recorded were 1,126, 1,004, 981, 912, 713, 682, 646, 630 and 620 respectively.Maharashtra also continued to report the highest casualties across states in the country. Figures show that the state’s contribution in total Covid casualties is around 37.57% if compared with 78,586 deaths reported across the country.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded at 2.79% on Sunday and comes at third position after Punjab and Gujarat. The CFR of Punjab and Gujarat were 2.97% (with 2,288 deaths) and 2.85% (with 3,195 deaths) on Saturday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.As many as 740,061 patients have been recovered and discharged from various hospitals across the state till date. On Sunday, 11,549 recoveries were reported and the recovery rate recorded was 69.4%, against the national average of 77.88%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/september-set-to-be-maharashtra-s-worst-covid-month/story-Nxaw1Xho8NEy9HfXBIyO5J.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||2020 monsoon is Mumbai’s second wettest in 10 years||This year’s monsoon is already the city’s second wettest over 10 years (2011-2020), according to weather bureau data, and there is still around a month left for the season to end. Mumbai recorded 3,219mm rain between June and September 13 this year, crossing the 3,154.8mm of 2011 (and close to 2010’s 3,327.9mm). Last year, the four monsoon months recorded 3,670.4mm, the second highest all-time seasonal rainfall. The all-time seasonal rain was recorded in 1958 at 3,759.7mm, according to rain data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) collated from the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of Mumbai and the suburbs. Monsoon spans from June to September, but withdrawal from the city has been extending to the second week of October over the past five years. This year, monsoon onset was declared on June 14, followed by deficient rain of 395mm, making it the lowest June rain in five years. However, over the next two months Mumbai witnessed above average rain with 1,502.7mm rain in July, the highest since records began being collated by the weather bureau (1944), followed by highest August rainfall since 1959 at 1,247.6mm. The IMD said several local weather systems ensured active monsoon conditions during July, while the formation of five low pressure weather systems in the Bay of Bengal led to extremely heavy rainfall during the first week of August, followed by moderate to heavy spells through the month. “The formation of another low pressure weather system is expected over Bay of Bengal in this coming week, which may further increase rain activity over the west coast, including Mumbai, between September 16-20,” said IMD director-general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra. The first 11 days of September saw only light showers. However, the city and suburbs recorded moderate rain with a few intense spells between Saturday night and Sunday morning. Overnight showers made it the strongest rain spell so far in September. So far, Mumbai has recorded 81.8mm rain from September 1-13 (5.30pm), against the monthly mean 341.4 mm. IMD had predicted a revival of active monsoon conditions over Mumbai over the weekend. Between 8.30am Saturday and 8.30am Sunday, the suburbs recorded 25.7 mm rain and 16.4 mm was recorded at south Mumbai. Of this, the majority of rainfall was recorded between 12.30am and 5.30 am Sunday. Thane recorded 22.8mm rain. Many areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) recorded 20- 40mm. The area around the international airport recorded 55mm, while Chembur recorded 47.2mm and Navi Mumbai 41.2mm. However, no rain was recorded on Sunday with sunny weather between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm. The weather bureau said light to moderate rain with the possibility of occasional intense spells was likely between Sunday night and Monday morning, but only light to moderate rain has been predicted from Monday to Thursday for Mumbai. “Factors such as the formation of a low-pressure weather system of west central Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh coast, an upper air cyclonic circulation over Maharashtra coast and associated systems such as an offshore trough from north Maharashtra to Kerala have allowed revival of active monsoon conditions for Konkan and interior Maharashtra,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Overall, Maharashtra has recorded 13% excess rain from June 1 to September 13, with 59% excess rain for south Mumbai and 57% excess rain for the suburbs, highest for any district along the Konkan coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2020-monsoon-is-mumbai-s-second-wettest-in-10-years/story-dnnX39lUVGjByx1JLcDXVK.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Review petition or fresh ordinance for Marathas? Maharashtra government to discuss with Opposition||The Maharashtra government is mulling on two options - review petition or fresh ordinance - to ensure the state retains the Maratha quota in jobs and education. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government has decided that it will take the Opposition in confidence and take a call based on political consensus. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting of his senior ministers to review the situation on Sunday.“We have decided to discuss the issue with Opposition parties, several organisations and legal experts and only then make a decision. We have an option to file a review petition, some have also suggested issuing fresh ordinance,” said Ashok Chavan, public works department (PWD) minister after the meet.The Apex court had stayed the reservation even as it referred the matter to the larger bench. The interim stay is a political setback as it has halted ongoing admissions and upset the Maratha community that makes up for nearly half of the state’s populace. “Last week an unexpected decision came on Maratha reservation. The state didn’t fall short in arguments because our demand for transferring the case to the constitutional bench was accepted by the court, but while doing so, it stayed the implementation of reservation which was not expected. As per my information, no such act for providing reservation above 50% cap was stayed by the court earlier,” Thackeray said in his address to the state. He also requested the community to not hold protests, as the state was backing them completely. Thackeray also said that he had already spoken to the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on the issue and would consult him again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/review-petition-or-fresh-ordinance-for-marathas-maharashtra-government-to-discuss-with-opposition/story-lIQ1CWK2SrzbjunQkMXDsI.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Pillion rider gets knocked down by falling barricade at WEH in Mumbai, gets run over by truck; driver booked||Samta Nagar police on Sunday arrested a truck driver Bablu Yadav for negligent driving for a mishap on the western express highway (WEH) at Kandivli which claimed one life and other sustained grievous injuries. According to the police, the incident occurred in the evening on September 12 at around 5pm at Kandivli when a barricade suddenly fell on a moving motorcycle. The barricade was very heavy due to which the rider lost his balance and the pillion rider was thrown on the road and was subsequently crushed under the wheels of a truck that was driving alongside the bike. The truck driver identified as Bablu Yadav was remanded to police custody. Raju Kasbe senior inspector from Samta Nagar police station said, “We have arrested the truck driver and have written to MMRDA asking them to give us the name of the person responsible for the barricade, so that we may take legal action against that person.” The 28-year-old deceased identified as Manoj Pawar, was a computer hardware expert and resided at Kranti Nagar in Kurar Village, Malad (East) while the 26-year-old injured rider is identified as Prashant Ambekar, who was admitted to Shatabdi Hospital where his condition is said to be critical. Kashiram Pawar, Manoj’s father said, “He told me that he is going to Borivli to collect bike parts from someone. Prashant was riding the bike and while they were returning, this unfortunate incident occurred. I lost my son due to the negligence of the people hired by the MMRDA.”Satish Jadhav, Prashant’s friend said, “I got to know that the police have arrested the truck driver which is wrong. They should arrest the actual accused due to who’s negligence we lost our friend.”“We have booked the truck driver and an unknown person under section 304-A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of Indian Penal Code and are investigating the case,” said Kasbe.When contacted, MMRDA in an official statement said, “This is a sad and unfortunate incident. The barricades were of the subway contractors on WEH at Akurli. We will investigate the matter. This is not Metro work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pillion-rider-gets-knocked-down-by-falling-barricade-at-weh-in-mumbai-gets-run-over-by-truck-driver-booked/story-N0mMphVQ22AaIVEXvRvRtI.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Can weather political storms and coronavirus, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||I can weather the coronavirus battle and political storms, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday, in his over half-an-hour address to the state through social media. Focussing on the worsening Covid-19 scenario, the CM warned people to take precautions and follow social-distancing norms as coronavirus could take a “monstrous form”. He also warned citizens that the state would have to start penalising those violating social-distancing norms, like in other countries, so as to curb the virus’s spread. While he did not make a political speech, Thackeray said that attempts were being made to defame Maharashtra and his silence should not be taken as a weakness or failure to respond. Thackeray, otherwise, gave a wide berth to the week-long political drama involving actor Kangana Ranaut by making no mention of the actor. “Right now, I won’t talk about politics but attempts are on to defame Maharashtra. I don’t talk, that doesn’t mean I don’t have answers. I am sitting on the chair of a chief minister and have to act accordingly,” he said. Senior Sena leaders said Thackeray had decided to not give any importance to the actor and had asked all leaders to follow suit by ignoring her. Recently, Ranaut had compared Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), after which BMC had demolished illegal portions of her office in the city. “The scenario that I was afraid of is before us now. Cases of coronavirus are rising and will continue to rise. Cases have again started increasing in Mumbai and they are spreading to rural areas as well. There is a concern that it can take a disastrous form. The World Health Organisation (WHO), too, has stated that this can be an indication for another major crisis,” Thackeray said. “Like other countries, the state will have to start penalising people for violating social distancing. For instance, people will be fined for not wearing a mask at a public place; action against people for crowding a public place, etc. We will have to take such steps as people are not following norms seriously,” the chief minister added. He said that the state government doesn’t want to re-impose lockdown restrictions, but this can be avoided only when people start taking all precautions, he warned. Thackeray also challenged the Opposition’s charge that he was missing in action on the ground. He said, “They make allegations that I don’t go on field, but with the help of video-conference technology I have already reached remotest areas where they are yet to reach.” The CM also asked people to share responsibility, while reiterating the government’s new initiative of a house-to-house survey starting from September 15. The survey called ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ aims to identify each and every citizen for influenza-like illness (ILI), severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and citizens with comorbidities. A team of health workers will conduct house-to-house survey and inspect every person of a family and suggest available services for the diseases. Those having Covid-19 symptoms will also be recommended for swab test, etc. On the issue of Maratha reservation, he asked the community to exercise patience and not to organise protests as the state government is taking all the efforts to ensure they will continue to get benefits of reservation in jobs and education. The Apex court, last week, while referring the state’s decision to grant Maratha quota to a larger bench, had stayed the ongoing reservation process. This is being seen as a political setback for the Thackeray-led government as it will stall ongoing admissions, leading to chaos, and antagonise the Maratha community that makes up nearly 50% of the state’s populace. The state’s BJP unit criticised the CM’s address, saying that Thackeray said nothing on how they were going to control the pandemic and bring the economy back on track. Party spokesperson Keshav Upadhye, in a statement, said, “The situation of coronavirus has become worse. There is a shortfall of oxygen supply due to which a few patients died in Pune. We were expecting an effective policy to be declared by the chief minister, but he chose to repeat basic norms and precautions to be taken at public places,” Upadhye said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/can-weather-political-storms-and-coronavirus-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-5gbbYaFb9omy6zOAvMY50M.html
13-09-2020||City||Fight against Covid-19: Citizens in Mumbai to be fined ₹200 for not wearing a mask from today||While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last week reduced the fine for those seen without masks to ₹200 from ₹1,000, it will enforce the rule strictly from Monday, amid the steady spike of Covid-19 cases. The civic body has also decided to examine if de-listed private hospitals need to restart taking in Covid-19 patients. The decision will be taken in a meeting of civic health officials on Monday afternoon. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the civic body’s public health department said on Sunday evening: “On Monday morning, I will convey to all officers in writing that the fine of ₹200 for not wearing a mask should be strictly enforced, so that there is no confusion. Powers will be delegated to field officers to fine citizens. These include staff of the solid waste management department, and any official from any department who is doing field work.” These include employees from the licence and health department. Kakani also said on Saturday, “In a meeting on Monday, we will take a call on whether we need to activate some private hospitals to increase bed capacity. Currently, the bed capacity we have is sufficient and we have many vacant beds at the end of each day.” In mid-May, when Mumbai witnessed a similar spike, the state had decided to reserve 80% of beds in private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. However, with the curve showing an improvement in May, over 70 such private hospitals and nursing homes were delisted. For the past two weeks, Mumbai has seen a steady spike in daily Covid-19 cases, with Thursday recording 2,371 new cases in a single day, the highest spike so far, and a significant number of days recording over 2,000 fresh cases. The number of active cases in Mumbai crossed the 30,000 mark on Sunday, with a total of 30,316 active cases. According to figures from BMC, the last time active cases in Mumbai crossed 30,000 was June 23, with 30,063 active cases, after which they had steadily declined, and did not cross the 30,000 mark again until Sunday. On Sunday, Mumbai recorded 2,089 new cases, taking the total to 169,741. Mumbai also recorded 41 deaths, taking the toll to 8,150. Mumbai’s recovery rate has dropped to 77% from the 80% recorded by the end of August. The doubling rate has dropped to 56 days, and the overall growth rate is 1.2%. According to the civic body, the bed capacity available is sufficient to cater to patients in the present scenario, even with a high number of cases daily. As of Saturday, Mumbai has 37% of its 16,063 total beds vacant, which include hospital beds, beds in jumbo facilities and in quarantine centres for asymptomatic patients. While 19% of its 6,879 beds available for symptomatic patients are vacant, 5% of the 1,417 intensive care unit (ICU) beds are vacant, and 36% of the 7,852 oxygen beds are vacant. Kakani said on Saturday, “The maximum number of cases coming up now are asymptomatic, and continue to come from high-rises in the suburbs. As BMC has allowed home quarantine for asymptomatic patients, if they have a separate room and an attached toilet, people are opting to stay at home. This is why, so far, we have not seen a shortage of beds.” Kakani said, “The trend in new cases shows more cases are coming from high-rises. We noticed even those are among domestic help and drivers working for the residents. The occupants are taking care.” BMC has attributed the spike to high number of daily tests. As per BMC data, on September 9, 15,701 tests were conducted in the city, 15,119 on September 10 and 15,827 tests on September 11, as opposed to August’s highest of 8,000-9,000 a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fight-against-covid-19-citizens-in-mumbai-to-be-fined-200-for-not-wearing-a-mask-from-today/story-hjiyN3IaLJHBUa1NBmqksL.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut complains to Maharashtra Governor Koshiyari over ill-treatment by state government||Actor Kangana Ranaut on Sunday met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari and complained to him about the unjust treatment meted to her by the State government. Ranaut, accompanied by her sister Rangoli, spent 20 minutes talking to Koshiyari at Raj Bhavan.“A short while ago, I met His Excellency the Governor of Maharashtra Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari Ji. I explained my point of view to him and also requested that justice be given to me it will restore faith of common citizen and particularly daughters in the system,” tweeted Ranaut, after the meeting.Ranaut has been in a running battle with the Shiv Sena, which was further aggravated after the Sena ruled BMC partially demolished her Bandra office, citing illegal construction.Commenting on the meeting, Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut said, “Anyone can meet the Governor.” He further said though the party will not speak about her, all her statements will be noted. “We will just listen to what she says but will not react to her. We will, however, take note of all her statements,” he added. Earlier this week, it had been reported that Koshyari was unhappy with the demolition drive by BMC on Ranaut’s bungalow. However, on Friday the Governor had clarified that he never expressed discontent over the civic body’s decision or intervened in the issue. The Ranaut-Sena verbal spat started when the actor responded to a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ram Kadam slamming the state government for not offering her protection. In reply, Ranaut said she does not trust Mumbai Police. Reacting to her criticism in the Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, Raut asked Ranaut not to return to Mumbai since she had no faith in the Mumbai Police. This provoked Ranaut to compare Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), which provoked all-round condemnation of her. The Central government then provided Y+ security cover to Ranaut, which angered the state government further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-complains-to-maharashtra-governor-koshiyari-over-ill-treatment-by-state-government/story-TCS9kLvnI4fBb8yttmjA8I.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||NEET conducted at 32 centres in Chandigarh amid precautions||In view of the Covid pandemic, the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) was held amid strict precautions for 15,931 candidates at 32 centres here on Sunday. The exam began at 2pm however, staggered entry started at 11am. Boys and girls were made to line up separately outside the centres. Only 15 students from each line were allowed to enter the centre at once. However, a rush of parents and students could be seen outside some centres. Parents could be seen lined up outside Sri Guru Gobind Singh Senior Secondary School in Sector 35, on the other side of the road. Shubham, who had come from Karnal to appear for the exam, said that no social distance was maintained by this crowd and that he was afraid of standing in the queue outside the school. Another candidate, Deepak Kumar of Chandigarh, said that parents’ crowding right outside the gate was making the applicants anxious while they were going through their notes for the last time before the exam. Around six to seven candidates here had a higher body temperature than normal. However, after 15 minutes their temperature was checked again following which they were allowed to take the exam. Outside Guru Gobind Singh Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School in Ratwara Sahib, Mullanpur, the situation was the same. Manas Prabhu, who gave his exam here, said, “While inside the centre all safety protocols were followed, outside, large crowds of students awaiting their turn and parents had formed.” Officials confirmed that the city didn’t witness any case where a student had to be shifted to an isolation room or had to be checked by health authorities. EXAM EASY AND NCERT-BASED Most students remained cheerful after the exam. Satyam Chaudhary, who had come from Yamunanagar, Haryana, said, “The paper was based entirely on the NCERT books. The answers to most questions were straightforward. Physics was mostly formula-based. I will score the most in biology.” Satyam added that all SOPs were followed and that 10 students were present in his class while two remained absent. Karanvinder Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib, Punjab, also found the exam easy. “The pattern was similar to that of the 2019 paper. It was very scoring. The extra vigilance owing to the Covid situation didn’t make students lose their focus.” Arun Gandhi of Chandigarh said, “Although the exam was easy I found it a little lengthy. After it ended, I still had around 10 questions left to answer. Physics was surprisingly easy, even compared to last year, and was very scoring.” Devinder Singh, principal, Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 22, said that attendance at his centre remained over 90%. Kunal Singh, who provides coaching for NEET in Sector 34, said this year around 13 questions had been repeated from the previous year papers.He said, “Around 34 out of the total 45 physics questions were simple two-step questions. Some questions on practical experiments were also asked. Cut offs for colleges are likely to go high this year as the exam was highly scoring.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/neet-conducted-at-32-centres-in-chandigarh-amid-precautions/story-L8gCinPZyiYd3GLPOnxrpL.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana agri varsity issues advisory against pest infesting maize crops||Punjab Agricultural University has issued an advisory to manage the fall armyworm, an invasive insect-pest that has been infesting maize crops in Punjab since mid-June. PK Chhuneja, head, department of entomology, PAU, said incidences of fall armyworm in timely sown grain maize has been rare, and at this stage, it has further diminished. He added that based on last year’s experience, incidence in the coming days on fodder maize is also imminent. So, farmers have been advised to regularly survey their fields, especially the crops sown late, and take up immediate management measures as soon as the pest is observed on the crop.During the regular survey, egg masses and younger larval instar can be collected and destroyed. Weather conditions in September-October are favourable for the infestation by this pest, Chhuneja said.He added that the pest is easier to control in the initial stage, while the grown larvae cause more damage, making round to oblong holes in leaves along with large amount of faecal matter. The larvae can be identified from four spots in square pattern at rear end and white-coloured inverted Y-shaped mark on the head. Pest management Fodder maize should not be sown after mid-August. Avoid staggered sowing of maize especially in adjacent fields Incidence of the pest is higher in high density planting of fodder maize while it is lesser in mixed cropping, for example, when sown along with bajra Use recommended doses of fertilisers Collect and destroy egg masses of fall armyworm from leaves. Egg masses are covered with hairs and are easily visible In case of higher pest attack, spray Coragen 18.5 SC (chlorantraniliprole). Use 120 litres of water per acre for up to 20 days old crop and increase the quantity by up to 200 litres as per crop growth. Direct the nozzle towards the whorl of the plantObserve a waiting period of 21 days (after spray) before harvest to ensure safety of animals||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-agri-varsity-issues-advisory-against-pest-infesting-maize-crops/story-xprF4x8jS0Dj6WNHFcTOaJ.html
13-09-2020||City||402 of 2,566 registered candidates skip NEET in Ludhiana||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) was held at three centres in the city on Sunday with stringent precautions and social distancing measures in place amid the Covid pandemic. The exam is conducted by National Testing Agency (NTA) for admission to MBBS/BDS courses and other undergraduate medical courses in approved/recognised medical/dental and other colleges/institutes in India.Paramjit Kaur, principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School and NTA coordinator, said 2,164 of the 2,566 students who had registered appeared for the exam at the three centres- SGND Convent School, Andlu, Amrit Indo Canadian Academy, Laddian Kalan and Guru Nanak Model Senior Secondary School, Doraha. Loudspeakers were installed to announce instructions and timings of the exam. To maintain social distancing, barricades were set-up and for staggered entry, there were separate rows for boys and girls. Staff was deployed at the entry gate for thermal screening and hand sanitisers were kept at several points.“The exam was conducted smoothly at all the examination centres. Abiding by instructions from NTA, all candidates wore masks and gloves. They carried transparent water bottle, small hand sanitisers and exam-related documents (admit card/lD card),” Kaur said.The paper was for 720 marks, comprising three sections- physics, chemistry and biology. Students who took the exam found a few questions from the chemistry section tricky. Samridhi Manchanda, 18, who appeared for the exam at Amrit Indo Canadian Academy, said, “The arrangements at the centre was satisfactory and sanitisers were kept in every room. As per instructions on the admit card, I reached the centre at 12.20 pm. The paper was easy and only few chemistry questions were difficult.”Amanpreet Singh, another candidate, said, “Overall, it was a balanced paper. Of the 45 questions in the chemistry section, some were indirect and took more time. To ensure students’ safety, the authorities at Guru Nanak Model Senior Secondary School had put all precautions in place. Twelve students were accommodated in every room at more than two-feet distance from each other.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/402-of-2-566-registered-candidates-skip-neet-in-ludhiana/story-x1pv9sqb4guH5eEjSB562L.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Tribune flyover: Expert panel to review fresh objections||The expert committee constituted by the UT adviser last year has taken up for review fresh objections raised against the Tribune flyover project , which has been marred by controversies ever since its conception.The move comes in compliance with an order of the Punjab and Haryana high court. In December 2019, the HC had asked the administration to respond to a representation of petitioners Jagwant Bath, an army veteran, and Chander Prakash, a city-based environmentalist, who had raised objections to the construction of the flyover.Notably, after their multiple reminders remained unanswered for nearly eight months, the petitioners filed a contempt petition against UT adviser Manoj Parida, chief engineer Mukesh Anand and executive engineer Rajesh Bansal. On September 10, the day their petition was listed for hearing in the HC, the administration finally called them for a meeting.The technical committee was setup on the directions of the HC in a petition by Run Club in October 2019. Staying the cutting of trees for the project, the court had directed the UT adviser to consider public and expert suggestions and objections to the project. The committee has already submitted its report to the adviser. The UT administrator later decided that his advisory council views will also be taken on the issue before the adviser submits the report to the HC.AGAINST MASTER PLANIn their representation, the petitioners have termed the project a result of “ad hocism” on the administration’s part and “antithetical” to the planned nature of the City Beautiful. “The project is in violation of the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031 and this has also been categorically stated by the UT urban planning department multiple times in their official communications,” they contended. They also highlighted in their submission that the approval of the Chandigarh Heritage Conservation Committee was elicited by calling a meeting of only its subcommittee.Arguing that it is a single-point project, they stated, “To support it, several such projects will be needed in the tricity. This is not the solution to traffic congestion and pollution, and will result in unacceptable levels of pollution in the entire tricity.”They have also raised objection on the project being private vehicle centric. “It is against the National Urban Transport Policy 2014 and a report of Inter-Ministerial Committee of Union Government. Flyovers merely push congestion to the next intersection and lead to increased traffic and congestion in the long term. Also, the Tribune junction was chosen arbitrarily for the flyover project.”The committee is yet to respond to the petitioners’ objections.PROJECT SO FARJune 2016: Centre approves the projectMarch 2019: Foundation stone laid by UT administrator VP Singh BadnoreNovember 20: High court stays removal of trees on a petition by NGO Run ClubDecember 23: UT adviser holds public hearing on project as per HC directionsFebruary 2020: Adviser’s technical committee submits report rejecting all alternatives to projectMarch 2020: UT administrator decides report to be tabled before advisory council||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tribune-flyover-expert-panel-to-review-fresh-objections/story-dxV6VK2GxjVztCDgqPkKOM.html
13-09-2020||City||Former Ludhiana village sarpanch held for embezzling ₹30.7 lakh||Sudhar police on Sunday arrested a former woman sarpanch of Pamal village for allegedly embezzling ₹30.7 lakh from village development funds. The accused has been identified as Manjeet Kaur. She was booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code on August 28, based on the complaint of Rupinderjeet Kaur, block development and panchayat officer.Now, police have also added Section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and Prevention of Corruption Act to the FIR. Former social education and panchayat officer (SEPO) Balvir Singh and gram sewak Harpreet Singh, who are also accused in the case, have yet to be arrested.Inspector Jasvir Singh, station house officer (SHO) at Sudhar police station said police will request the court for police remand of Manjeet for questioning as they have to recover financial records.He added that a hunt was on for the arrest of the other accused. The former SEPO is already facing trial in three cases lodged at Sudhar police station for embezzling funds to the tune of ₹1.52 crore.Manjeet will be produced before a court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-ludhiana-village-sarpanch-held-for-embezzling-30-7-lakh/story-fQFwz8b1YPZ6dgoHKH7cTM.html
13-09-2020||City||Two drug addicts who nicked LPG cylinders from deliverymen nabbed in Ludhiana||The Division Number 8 police have arrested two drug addicts, who stole LPG cylinders from delivery vehicles of gas agencies.As many as four gas cylinders and a scooter used in the crime have been recovered from the accused – Saurav Kumar, 20, of Shahi Mohalla and his accomplice, Prem Verma, 27, of Pritam Nagar.Sub-inspector Rajinder Singh, in-charge at Division Number 8 police post, said they had received a complaint about a cylinder theft on September 10.The complainant, Manoj Kumar of New Kailash Nagar, who works at a gas agency, had stated that he had parked his delivery vehicle near Pahwa Dharamshala in Upkar Nagar and went inside the street to deliver an LPG cylinder. When he returned, he found one cylinder missing.The police had immediately initiated investigation after receiving the complaint, and arrested the accused from Upkar Nagar on Saturday following a tip-off.The sub-inspector said the accused were drug addicts and used to steal the cylinders for easy money to meet their daily dose of drugs.During interrogation, they confessed to their involvement in four such incidents, following which four gas cylinders were recovered from their possession.The duo has been booked under Sections 379 (theft), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced before a court on Sunday and sent to one-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-drug-addicts-who-nicked-lpg-cylinders-from-deliverymen-nabbed-in-ludhiana/story-p38zlRg5m0fkn8EpgJ8gxO.html
13-09-2020||City||Bootlegger unleashes dogs on excise team out to seize illicit liquor in Ludhiana||High drama was witnessed in Basant Nagar of Daba on Saturday night after a bootlegger unleashed his two pit bull dogs on a team from the excise department that reached his house to recover illicit liquor. According to police, the excise department had received a tip-off that a man in Basant Park area was running an illicit liquor business at his house. When a team from the department reached the man’s house around 7pm, he locked himself inside and turned off the lights to ensure no one could enter.He then set off his two pit bull dogs to make sure that no one could enter the house by scaling its boundary wall.Police were called in and cops warned the accused to come out of the house, but to no avail. Minutes later, they all saw flames on the terrace of the house, which they suspect could be from liquor that the accused set on fire.The excise team and the police kept standing outside the house till 10pm, but had to return empty-handed.Inspector Pavittar Singh, SHO at Daba police station, said police personnel were sent to the house on the request of excise officials, but they could not nab anyone or recover any liquor, so had to leave. No complaint was lodged with the police till the filing of this report.A police team visited the house on Sunday as well, but the house was found locked from the outside, with the accused missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bootlegger-unleashes-dogs-on-excise-team-out-to-seize-illicit-liquor-in-ludhiana/story-lD7HH6LAgorxgAKmmWo2gM.html
13-09-2020||City||Evening rush hours most risky for Ludhiana commuters||Most fatal accidents in Ludhiana took place from 6pm to 9pm and 9pm to 12am, even as October saw the highest number of mishaps in 2019.According to the figures released by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB), city’s internal roads were more dangerous than national and state highways, as 58% of the total 526 road crashes in 2019 occurred on internal roads.The report reveals there were 365 fatalities in 526 accidents last year – a 59% jump from the 230 deaths recorded in 2018.The time slot of 6pm to 9pm accounted for 131 (25%) of the 526 road mishaps, while 9pm to 12am constituted 87 accidents (17%). It was only after the majority of the city called it a night between 3am and 6am that the lowest number of crashes were seen – 22 (4%).Across Punjab, as many as 1,343 road mishaps were reported in 2019 – 7,209 among these were between 6pm and 9pm.Police officials say these are office transit hours, when maximum number of vehicles is on the roads, and hence the highest number of accidents.October saw the most number of mishaps at 59, while the lowest were recorded in May at 30. The trend was similar in Punjab, where again October constituted for maximum accidents – 713 out of 7,209.INTERNAL ROADS RISKY AS WELLA total of 158 accidents occurred on national highways in Ludhiana, in which 127 people were killed, while 94 suffered injuries. Besides, 63 mishaps occurred on state highways, where 60 people lost their lives and 22 people were injured. The highest road mishaps at 305 occurred on internal roads that saw 178 fatalities and left 175 people with injuries.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh said police were working on identifying the problem areas to deter road mishaps. “Police are conducting a detailed study on accident-prone areas and have also identified 10 black spots that lead to collisions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/office-transit-hours-saw-most-fatal-accidents-last-year/story-3M5eBJW4lZKr3KmBDFZsSJ.html
13-09-2020||City||Residents foil house burglary bid in Ludhiana||Alert residents of New Kundanpuri foiled a burglary attempt at an NRI’s house on Sunday afternoon. However, the suspects managed to flee the spot on a motorcycle.On being informed, the police reached the spot and initiated an investigation.In-charge at Kailash Nagar police post, sub-inspector Rajinder Singh said that Makkhan Singh, caretaker of Joginderpal’s house, told the police that some unidentified persons tried to break into the house on Sunday afternoon.The onlookers said that two men tried to enter the house and when they were questioned, they fled the spot on a motorcycle.The cop added that the suspects have been captured on CCTV installed in the area, but a case will be registered after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-foil-house-burglary-bid-in-ludhiana/story-L8XY4P3bSh8r5cZ9IhZKiJ.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Wild growth, stagnating water: Mohali smart schools in bad shape||Overgrown weeds and shrubs and a haven for drug addicts – a number of primary and middle government schools converted a few months back to smart schools by the Punjab government are in bad shape due to neglect as they remain closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.With no gardeners visiting, many buildings are covered by wild growth. Flies are breeding in some places where water has collected after rain.A visit to Majri block of Mohali district revealed that the gate of a school had been left open. Addicts gathered there in the evening to take drugs, locals complained. Some of the teachers HT contacted said they had contributed to making the schools smart and were trying to get maintenance work done. Surinder Kaur, who is in charge of the Government Smart Middle School at Kasauli village in Majri block, said: “We have requested the village to get it cleaned under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). We don’t have any gardener or peon in the school. We have spent Rs 45,000 to make it a smart school and have received only Rs 15,000 from the education department. Most of the money has been contributed by the teachers and panchayat.”Commenting on the matter, district education officer (secondary), Himmat Singh said, “due to Covid-19, we are not getting the labour to clean the grass and carry out maintenance work in the school. The staff sometimes visits, but we will get it cleaned soon.“Most of the government schools are in a state of neglect as staff members don’t come in... even during the unlock period,” said former zila parishad member and resident of Majrian village, Chaudhary Sham Lal.“The school has become the den for the drug addicts, especially in the evening as main gates have not been locked,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wild-growth-stagnating-water-mohali-smart-schools-in-bad-shape/story-58pRpN91wtTSJwSFFKzDxI.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s poor show in ease of doing business rankings no surprise: Industrialists||For the industry insiders, Chandigarh’s poor show in the Ease of Doing Business (EODB) rankings last week has come as no surprise. The parameters on which the city failed to score high are good indicators of tardy industrial and business growth in the city, they say.The city’s industrial base had already been contracting before the Covid-19 pandemic hit hard. “In the last five years, the number of MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) decreased by nearly 35% and industrial workforce shrank by around 20%. Nearly, 40% space in the twin Industrial Areas remains vacant,” says Naveen Manglani, president, Chambers of Chandigarh Industry.The IT industry, which saw quick growth after the Rajiv Gandhi IT Park was set up in 2005, is also facing similar challenges in growth and expansion.“Chandigarh in the past had taken the lead in the IT industry in the tricity. We worked hard to propel the city on the technology map of India. By 2010, 25,000 jobs were created but now it has plateaued out. There is no additional land available for expansion,” says Vivek Atray, former director, IT, UT administration.LAND ISSUESWith the Industrial Area concentrated in a small area of 150 acres, land availability remains a major problem. “The demand for affordable conversion of leasehold property to freehold property is pending for more than a few decades,” says Pankaj Khanna, president, Industries Association of Chandigarh.High collector rates (minimum value of sale or transfer set by local development authorities) of industrial plots are a hurdle to growth too as Mohali and Panchkula offer much cheaper land rates.“Effectively, the FAR (floor area ratio – ratio of a building’s total floor area to the area of the land on which it is built) in the city’s industrial area is 0.75. In Mohali, it nearly three times higher,” says Manglani.The inspector raj too is still prevalent, industrialists complain, asking for lower misuse and violation charges.SINGLE WINDOW SYSTEMAnother factor for the city’s poor industrial growth is lack of an online single window system.Highlighting the problem, the EODB 2019 report states: There is no “online single window system with functionality for online application submission, payment and approvals system.” Anyone setting up a business here cannot expect a one-time response to all queries/clarifications related to applications, reads the report. Services like labour, water, electricity, etc are also unavailable through a single window.ACCESS TO INFORMATION“For smaller businesses and entrepreneurs trying to set up their units, access to information from one single source is required. This enables quick and easily accessible information on all approvals and other requirements needed,” says Munish Jauhar, founder CEO of GrayCell Technologies and former president of TiE, Chandigarh.Commenting on the matter, Harjit Singh Sandhu, director, Industries, says, “Most of the UT departments, including the municipal corporation, estate office, etc have either already made many of the services available online or are in the process of doing it. This will improve the city’s EODB rankings.”Referring specifically to the industry, Sandhu, adds, “Paucity of land for starting new projects is a big impediment to industrial growth and expansion in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-poor-show-in-ease-of-doing-business-rankings-no-surprise-industrialists/story-prx5idc4KPs3MN7Am4G7gJ.html
13-09-2020||City||Only 1,436 opt for Sukanya Samriddhi scheme against 8,076 last year||The lockdown enforced due to the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana with only 1,436 residents opting for the scheme from April 1 to July 31, as against 8,076 last year.The scheme was started in 2015 and to date, 36,846 residents have opted for it at the head post office.As per sources, the lockdown imposed by the government had impacted people financially due to which many of them did not opt for the scheme.Senior superintendent of post office, Patiala Division, Aarti Verma said, “Due to the lockdown, people were not able to venture out of their homes and could not opt for this scheme. Fund crunch and layoffs can also be a reason that many residents have not been able to opt for this scheme.”A resident Sukhwinder Singh said, “I opted for this scheme in 2017 for a better future of my daughter and decided to open another account for my eight-month-old daughter, but due to Covid-19 outspread, I was unable to open the account.”Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana is a government-backed savings scheme as part of the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Yojana’ for the benefit of the girl child. A parent or a guardian can open only one account in the name of one girl child and a maximum of two accounts in the name of two different girl children.Sukanya Samriddhi Account can be opened up to the age of 10 years only from the date of birth. To open the account, one has to fill the Sukanya Samriddhi Account opening form and submit it in any one of the authorised bank branches or a post office.One needs to submit identity documents including the birth certificate of the girl child, address proof of the guardian or parents of the girl child, and identity proof of the guardian or the parents of the girl child.The parent or guardian can deposit a maximum of ₹1,50,000 in a financial year. The scheme fetches an interest rate of 7.6% per annum. The scheme is completely exempted from income tax under Section 80 C and any amount deposited under this scheme will be exempt from tax at the time of investment, accrual of interest and payout of returns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-1-436-opt-for-sukanya-samriddhi-scheme-against-8-076-last-year/story-FtDhqI2wwy0VGnpZYUcEBL.html
13-09-2020||City||PAU holds webinar on suicide prevention||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) observed ‘World Suicide Prevention Day’ on Sunday. Vice-chancellor Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon called upon all the sections of the society to work together to prevent suicides in the country.He mentioned the efforts of the university to strengthen family bonding and promote social brotherhood among farming families.He said one must never hesitate to reach out for help. The PAU slogan ‘Karoge Gal Milega Hal’ (talking is healing) is getting a very good response from farmers, he said.On the occasion, the department of human development and family studies, organised a webinar on the theme ‘Working Together to Prevent Suicide’ with the objective to widen the perspective and deepen the understanding of suicide and its prevention. The webinar was attended by 229 students and faculty members of the College of Community Science.The resource persons for the webinar sessions were Dr Harprit Kaur, professor of psychology, Punjabi University, Patiala; and Dr Sarabjeet Singh, professor and head, agricultural journalism, languages and culture, PAU. Dean, College of Community Science, PAU, Dr Sandeep Bains stressed the need and importance of celebrating the ‘World Suicide Prevention Day.’Dr Sarabjeet Singh emphasised that suicide attempts have a ripple effect that impacts families, friends, colleagues, communities and societies. He explained how the growing intolerance, rage, anger and degrading human values are fuelling the suicidal tendencies and thoughts.Dr Harprit Kaur in her presentation highlighted the value of psychological first aid, peer support and volunteerism for helping a person with suicidal ideation or depression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-holds-webinar-on-suicide-prevention/story-x1gNV1Xfi1fabZs3Tk0BPI.html
13-09-2020||City||Save dairy animals from hyperthermia: GADVASU professor||Like humans, animals too suffer from heat intolerance, particularly when they are left in the direct sun and do not get adequate water.Domestic animals and poultry birds are particularly vulnerable to the heatwave. Hyperthermia (heat intolerance syndrome) is one of the commonly encountered problems among dairy animals in Punjab. The problem is most common in exotic and crossbred animals as said by Dr Charanjit Singh, professor-cum-head, department of veterinary medicine, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana.The condition occurs due to high environmental temperature and humidity. During the weather conditions, heat loss is reduced leading to an increase in body temperature called hyperthermia. Panting (marked increase in respiration rate), reduced appetite and milk production are the common manifestations.The most common initiating factor is poor ventilation and also sometimes in animals that have suffered from foot and mouth disease in the past as a result of damage to the heat regulation system in the brain. This condition is cannot be treated with antibiotics.Senior scientist in the department of veterinary medicine, Dr Sushma Chhabra said that hyperthermia is mostly observed during months of May to September with maximum cases recorded from July to September.Farmers remain cautious in July and August, while in September as the heatwave begins to recede, it has been observed that farmers become casual in their approach which triggers the problem, she said.During humid weather, the ambient temperature and relative humidity frequently exceed the critical comfort level of the temperature-humidity index (72), resulting in elevated body temperature and panting. The temperature-humidity index describes the effect of the environment on the animal’s ability to lose heat.Dr Charanjit Singh revealed that a study conducted by Dr Sushma Chhabra, and Dr SNS Randhawa, on dairy animals, showed that subcutaneous administration of 5 ml iodized oil ( containing 750 mg of elemental iodine) for three consecutive days may prove helpful in its management.More than 95% of the hyperthermic dairy animals recovered with this therapeutic regimen and no relapse was recorded during the post-treatment period of two months. He advised farmers to provide an ample quantity of water to animals, keep them away from direct sunlight in well-ventilated places, and give bath to dairy animals 2-3 times a day.He said that often farmers treat such animals with antibiotics and other drugs (diminazene or buparvacone). “This is absolutely not required unless the tick-related diseases have been confirmed by blood tests. If high fever persists or there is a loss of appetite and milk yield, get the blood of your animal examined at GADVASU for tick-borne diseases or other infections. Self-medication should be avoided by farmers. Contact only qualified veterinarians for treatment,” he added.BOX:Hyperthermia occurs due to high environmental temperature and humidityIt is one of the commonly encountered problems among dairy animals in PunjabPanting, reduced appetite and milk production are the common manifestationsThis condition is cannot be treated with antibioticsExperts advised farmers to provide an ample water to animals, keep them away from direct sunlight||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/save-dairy-animals-from-hyperthermia-gadvasu-professor/story-Z5GiaQ01CUlhvFQ1l0AsfM.html
13-09-2020||City||Virus claims four more lives in Himachal, toll 75||Four people died due to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, taking the death toll in the state to 75, officials said. A 62-year-old woman from Plodha village in Jawali tehsil of Kangra succumbed to the virus. She was admitted at SARI ward in Tanda as she was suffering from fever, cough and breathlessness. She had tested positive in the morning.A 36-year-old man from Jawalapur area in Sirmaur’s Paonta Sahib succumbed to the virus. He was being shifted to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, from Nahan but died on the way. He has been cremated as per the protocol, officials said. A 51-year-old man from Baddi died late on Saturday. “He was referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla from Baddi in the morning and was immediately put on ventilator after his condition deteriorated,” Shimla chief medical officer Dr Surekha Chopda. A migrant labourer working at a factory in Baddi also died due to the virus.326 fresh cases, tally mounts to 9,555 The coronavirus tally in Himachal reached 9,555 on Sunday as 326 more people tested positive in the state. Also, 152 more patients have been cured, taking the overall recoveries to 6,099. Active cases in the state stand at 3,364. Of the new cases, 97 are in Solan, 54 in Sirmaur district, 47 in Kangra, 45 in Mandi district, 38 in Una district, 21 in Shimla district, 19 in Bilaspur district and five in Chamba district.With 2,169 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra where 1,480 cases have been reported till date. Also, 1,249 cases have been reported in Sirmaur, 808 in Mandi, 841 in Una, 734 in Hamirpur, Chamba 632, Shimla 604, Bilaspur 515, Kullu 383 and 121 in Kinnaur. With only 19 cases so far, Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virus-claims-four-more-lives-in-himachal-toll-75/story-XVW9FjWBVvXCDFFtIjURCN.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||PU panel recommends offline exam facility in rural colleges||A Panjab University (PU) panel on Sunday recommended that arrangements be made for offline exams in rural colleges for students who might face WiFi connectivity problems or not have computers or mobile phones for appearing in online exams.The recommendation was made by the panel after it factored in technical difficulties likely to be faced by students in rural areas. Headed by PU’s dean university instruction (DUI) RK Singla, the panel met on Saturday and Sunday.The university’s online exams for the final semesters of undergraduate and postgraduate courses are scheduled to start from September 17. The question paper will be available to students 10 minutes before the exam on PU’s official website.A member of the panel who attended the meeting said recommendations had been made for arrangements to conduct offline exams on campus by following Covid-19 precautionary norms in colleges primarily in rural areas where connectivity was an issue or where students had no mobile phone or desktop available for online exams.However, all recommendations are subject to the approval of PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.PU has 196 affiliated colleges mostly in Punjab with a few in rural areas.The university will set up around 40 nodal centres for the smooth conduct of exams. Among other recommendations, the panel said colleges/ centres and departments should be reimbursed the expenditure of online examination at the rate of Rs 15 per student for a single paper. Evaluators should also be paid Rs 15 per answer sheet.A proposal regarding the matter has been forwarded to the finance and development officer of the university. All these payments will be made after submission of the expenditure bill.For online exams on Sundays, the panel said answer sheets could be despatched the next day in a sealed envelope.Meanwhile, Students Organisation of India (SOI), PU, has launched helpline numbers for students facing problems during exams. “If a student faces any issue with online exams, he or she can contact us and we will take queries of the students to university authorities for their solution,” said Chetan Chaudhary of SOI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-panel-recommends-offline-exam-facility-in-rural-colleges/story-NCzLRQK4EKoqmqqnDztbyN.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||Phase-4 stations will accept ‘One Nation One Card’, mobile phones to also work for entry: DMRC||The automatic fare collection system in the upcoming Phase-IV lines of the Delhi Metro will be fully compliant with the National Common Mobility Card (NCMC), and commuters will also be able to use a mobile phone to enter or exit a station on its corridors, DMRC chief Mangu Singh has said.Asserting that Delhi Metro is a “modern metro system” comparable to the best in the world, he also said that these two facilities might be rolled out at the Airport Express Line by the end of this year.Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March 2019 had launched the indigenously-developed NCMC to enable people to pay multiple kinds of transport charges, including for metro and bus services across the country, through a common card.Dubbed as ‘One Nation One Card’, the inter-operable transport card would allow the holders to also pay their toll taxes, parking charges, retail shopping and even withdraw money.Singh said the facility to use mobile phones to enter or exit automatic fare collection (AFC) gates, are available in major modern modern systems in various countries, including in the Seoul Metro.“We are working to continuously improve our system, with better technological and other interventions, to improve our rolling stocks and energy efficiency. In Ph-IV, our AFC system will fully accept the national common mobility cards, which can be used in any cities,” he told PTI.“Also, a mobile phone will effectively work as smart card, and riders will be able to use to enter or exit the AFC gates, in Ph-IV lines,” Singh said.The managing director of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, however, underlined that e-payment system and technology are fast-evolving and by the time the Ph-IV work is complete, new technologies may emerge.“But, we have been working on it for quite some time, and the facilities of NCMC and entry and exit using mobile phones might be available by the end of this year on the Airport Express Line” he added.Currently, riders on the Airport Express Line can also enter or exit AFC gates using a QR code on mobile phone that has to be collected from a mertro counter, but the future plan is to have a system whereby commuters can generate their own QR codes on phones and enter through AFC gates using that facility, the top official said.The DMRC chief said, these two facilities will be first available on the brand new lines to be built under Ph-IV, and hopefully by the time the construction is over, the corridors to be built under this phase as extensions of existing lines, would “also be upgraded” for compliance.Asked if old smart cards will work in Ph-IV lines, he said, “Yes.” The Union Cabinet, in a meeting chaired by the Prime Minister, in March last year had approved three out of the six corridors of the Delhi Metro’s proposed phase IV.Under approved segment of Phase-IV, 61.679-km of new metro lines shall be constructed across three different corridors comprising 45 metro stations. These new sections shall provide interconnectivity among the already operational lines of the Delhi Metro. According to the government, the Mukundpur-Maujpur, R K Ashram-Janakpuri West and Aerocity-Tughlakabad corridors were approved by the Cabinet.The other three proposed corridors of Phase-IV which have not yet been approved by the Union Cabinet are Rithala-Bawana-Narela, Inderlok-Indraprastha and Lajpat Nagar-Saket G Block.After a long wait, work had begun on the construction of Delhi Metro’s Phase-IV project with a groundbreaking ceremony held at Haider Badli Mor here on December 30 last year.And, with that piling work had begun for construction of 10 stations of 28.92-km Janakpuri West-R K Ashram Marg corridor, which is an extension of the Magenta Line and will have a total of 22 stations. Asked about the status of construction of stations under Ph-IV, Singh said, tenders have been floated and finalised for all the major elevated sections.The DMRC chief said Ph-IV work has been affected by the COVID-19 situation but the ongoing project will get delayed only by a couple of months and the therefore “won’t entail much cost escalation”.“Individual projects have longer timelines, so impact wouldn’t be much. And, construction work has not been affected really as funding for such projects comes from JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency) loans. Also, 80-90 per cent labourers are back after they had moved back to their native places due to the pandemic,” he said.“So, work is going on in full swing now,” Singh asserted.On the status of three remaining corridors of Ph-IV, he said, “currently there is a setback to all new projects, as far as central government is concerned, so we expect some delay in getting the sanctions”.“If sanction happens in a year’s time say, but we are keeping ourselves ready by then with the design and detailing. Also, from time of approval, work will begin in one-and-a-half year time, and completion time likely to be two-and-a-half years from then,” he said.The Ph-4 project will see many highs and several firsts for the DMRC, including the first-ever metro bridge over Yamuna to be built using the cantilever construction technique, and the highest point in the DMRC system, at Haiderpur Badli Mor, where the viaduct level is going to be at 28 metre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/phase-4-stations-will-accept-one-nation-one-card-mobile-phones-to-also-work-for-entry-dmrc/story-RUvTeNB6ayeB1pzIswL0JJ.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||45-year-old man dies by suicide in Zirakpur||A 45-year-old man from Charanji Enclave at Lohgarh Road died by suicide on Saturday evening. He was reportedly suffering from mental health problems. Sub-inspector Hardeep Singh of Zirakpur police station quoted statements from the dead man’s family to say they found him on the terrace of their house when they returned after visiting relatives. Doctors at the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital where he was taken declared him deadA suicide note recovered from the suicide spot said the man was ending his life because of mental health problems. The body has been handed over to the family after post-mortem and further action has been initiated, Hardeep Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/45-year-old-man-dies-by-suicide-in-zirakpur/story-98uYd67dLXTmIpJfy2mjVO.html
13-09-2020||City||Haryana’s terminated PTIs protest in Karnal, demand Ordinance for reappointment||Demanding continuation of their services, hundreds of terminated physical training instructors (PTIs) in Haryana organised a state-level protest rally at Karnal on Sunday. The sacked PTIs found support from the Haryana Sarv Karamchari Sangh, the members of which came out in large numbers to join their protest. Alleging that the government had taken away their employment due to the fault of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), the PTIs demanded an Ordinance to reappoint them. It is pertinent to mention that the Supreme Court had set aside the recruitment of 1,983 PTIs, made in 2010 by the then Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government, after some irregularities were found in the recruitment process. On August 23 this year, the HSSC had conducted a fresh recruitment exam for about 7,500 candidates, who had applied against the vacancies in 2006. Most PTIs had boycotted the fresh exam that was conducted over a decade after the posts were first advertised. The agitating PTIs are now demanding that the government should not declare the result of the fresh recruitment exam. The agitators planned to hold a protest march but called it off after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar agreed to meet their representatives on October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-s-terminated-ptis-protest-in-karnal-demand-ordinance-for-reappointment/story-tNW3nTczzDfeXvqpJa3IUM.html
13-09-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 4,424 positive cases, 59 deaths on Sunday||Pune district reported 4,424 fresh positive cases and 59 deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday as per the state health department.Sunday’s state data takes the progressive positive count in the district to 2,32,840. Of these total cases, 1,50,403 have recovered from the Covid-19 infection, 4,813 were declared dead and 77,624 are active cases. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 2,294 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,28,892. PMC also recorded 42 deaths in the last 24 hours till Friday evening which took the total death toll to 2,966. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 1,004 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday taking the total Covid-19 cases to 61,857. PCMC also recorded two deaths in the last 24 hours till Friday evening which took the total death toll to 910. Pune rural areas reported 1,126 fresh Covid-19 positive cases taking the total Covid-19 cases to 42,091. Pune rural areas recorded 15 deaths in last 24 hours till Friday evening which took the total death toll to 937.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-4-424-positive-cases-59-deaths-on-sunday/story-vuVpdtQlngDlPSOVwR8qCI.html
13-09-2020||City||BKU threatens to block roads in Haryana on Sept 20 against Central ordinances||In continuance of their agitation against the three farm ordinances brought in by the Centre, 19 farmers’ unions on Sunday announced to block all roads in Haryana on September 20. The announcement comes days after protesting farmers were lathicharged by the police during their statewide protest in Kurukshetra. In a meeting in Jind, Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni said the farmers’ unions have decided to hold protests in all district headquarters on September 15 and block roads across the state on September 20 for three hours, if their demands are not met. “If the government remains defiant on this issue, we will start a statewide yatra from September 27,” Chaduni added. The BKU state chief also alleged that the government is trying to start another parallel agitation against them to weaken their fight against the three ordinances. “A few political parties are trying to gain mileage from our agitation, but we will not allow them to pull the protest from our hands,” he added. Chaduni hits out at Vij, Dalal for calling protesters ‘Cong workers’ Hitting out at Haryana home minister Anil Vij and agriculture minister JP Dalal, Chaduni said all protesters were farmers fighting for their rights. “Our protest is only associated with farmers. BJP ministers and other political parties should refrain from dividing us,” the BKU chief said. He added, “Vij is lying that the police did not resort to lathicharge on farmers. The videos are in public domain to expose his claim. The farmers were thrashed by policemen in civvies, who were deputed with an advance planning to thrash agitating farmers in Pipli,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bku-threatens-to-block-roads-in-haryana-on-sept-20-against-central-ordinances/story-1vDUatWwqsEVjO0Kn5SbAN.html
13-09-2020||City||Chandigarh hits a new high with 449 fresh Covid cases||Witnessing a huge surge in Covid-19 infections, Chandigarh on Sunday recorded 449 new cases besides a death.The Union Territory’s previous steepest single-day spike was on September 8, when 377 people had tested positive. In just 13 days this month, Chandigarh has recorded 3,645 cases, which is 45% of the total infections that have surfaced since the first on March 18.Meanwhile, the number of fresh cases also went past 800 for the first time in the tricity. The total stood at 865, with 296 cases surfacing in Mohali and 120 in Panchkula. In Chandigarh, the infection tally is inching towards 8,000, as 7,991 people have tested positive so far. As many as 2,728 cases remain active, while 5,170 patients have been discharged.With a 56-year-old man from Sector 47, who also suffered from diabetes, succumbing at the civil hospital in Sector 48, the UT’s death toll has reached 90.Mohali district on Sunday recorded six more deaths, including of a seven-year-old girl from Phase 11 who was also suffering from liver disease, taking the Covid-19 toll to 134. Also, 296 fresh cases surfaced while 178 patients were discharged. The other patients who succumbed included two senior citizens with comorbidities: Mundi Kharar woman, aged 75, and Zirakpur man, aged 79. A 40-year-old man from Dhakoli and 39-year-old woman from Zirakpur were also among the casualties.The fresh cases have taken the total count to 6,663, of which 2,227 remain active while 4,302 have recovered. Mohali city reported 107 new infections, followed by Dhakoli (56), Gharuan (51) and Kharar (33). In Panchkula, 120 people tested positive on Sunday, taking the count to 4,110. There are 1,331 active cases in the district while 2,738 people have been discharged and 41 have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-hits-a-new-high-with-449-fresh-covid-cases/story-tB5EaI1kN2TLk22d0zdbFK.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi records over 4,000 Covid-19 cases for fifth day in a row: Explained in 10 points||Delhi on Sunday recorded 4,235 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the cumulative tally past 218,000. The death toll in the national capital due to the viral disease climbed to 4,744 after 29 new fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours.Here is all you need to know about Covid-19 outbreak in Delhi on Sunday:• There are 28,812 active Covid-19 cases in Delhi, a significant rise from last month’s figure of around 10,000. Out of these 15,946 patients are being treated in home isolation.• In the last five days, Delhi has recorded more than 4,000 cases every day, sparking concerns of the resurgence of the viral contagion and a second wave.• Authorities carried out more than 56,000 tests on Sunday, out of which 10,116 are Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), Cartridge-based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (CBNAAT) and TruNat tests and 46,540 are rapid antigen tests. • Delhi has conducted 21,39,432 Covid-19 tests so far.• Delhi’s positivity rate was logged at 7.48 per cent on Sunday, while the overall positivity rate is at 10.20 per cent.• Out of the 218,304 Covid-19 cases reported in Delhi so far, 184,748 have either recovered, been discharged or migrated, according to the health bulletin released by the authorities.• The case fatality rate in the national capital has been recorded at 2.17 per cent.• The death rate in Delhi, based on the statistics shared by authorities in the last 10 days, is at 0.68 per cent.• Delhi has 1,488 containment zones as of Sunday.• Delhi had recorded its biggest single-day jump of 4,321 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-over-4-000-covid-19-cases-for-fifth-day-in-a-row-explained-in-10-points/story-lR76hzgOABISRO86NPxLgP.html
13-09-2020||City||Taliban-Afgan peace talks: India’s muscle-flexing only for Kashmir, say Valley politicos||The regional political parties in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday criticised the Indian government for warming up to the Taliban-Afghan government talks in Doha while employing harsh measures in Kashmir.People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and People’s Conference leaders asked why the muscle-flexing was only for Kashmir.“No issues joining a meeting with Taliban but Mehbooba Mufti must be in jail and nothing but the gun must speak to teenaged Kashmiri youth,” tweeted senior PDP leader Naeem Akhtar while sharing the news of Delhi’s “shift” towards the intra-Afghanistan negotiations.On Saturday, Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar joined the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha, Qatar, via videoconference and reiterated India’s support for an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process.Representatives of the Afghan government and Taliban will come face-to-face for the first time on Monday for peace talks in Qatar’s capital for a negotiated settlement after nearly two decades of war.“Spot on. The bravado is only for Kashmiris. The might is only for Kashmiris. Wonder where the muscle-flexing disappears when it comes to species like the Taliban or for that matter the PLA,” responded People’s Conference president Sajad Lone to Akhtar’s tweet.Kashmir has been in the throes of militancy since 1989 over demands of ‘Aazadi’. Though the violence has come down considerably, every year hundreds, majority of them being local and foreign militants, die in gunfights with the security forces.Akhtar and Lone, both former ministers in PDP-BJP government, were among nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders who were detained for months when the central government effectively nullified Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5, 2019, which accorded special status to the region, and bifurcated the state into two union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislature and Ladakh without one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taliban-afgan-peace-talks-india-s-muscle-flexing-only-for-kashmir-say-valley-politicos/story-lWRi8bcvlfocXjIaDkjvMJ.html
13-09-2020||City||Sirmaur admn to distribute homeopathic medicine for Covid immunity||To prevent further spread of Covid-19 and boost people’s immunity, Sirmaur administration has decided to distribute homeopathic medicine ‘Arsenic Album 30’ to every household in the district.Sirmaur deputy commissioner (DC) Dr RK Purthi said the medicine will first be distributed in Paonta Sahib and Nahan which are most affected by coronavirus in the district.He said the Ayush ministry has advised the central and state governments to promote consumption of the homeopathic medicine along with other methods to boost immunity against Covid.Adults have been advised to take six pills in the morning for three days and four pills for children in the morning for three days.People are advised to not to eat or drink 30 minutes after and before taking the medicine, the DC said.Apart from boosting immunity, Arsenic Album 30 is also helpful in treating cough, fever, cold and respiratory diseases. This medicine is safe for children, pregnant and lactating women and has no side effects, the DC added.Sirmaur is the third most Covid-affected district after Solan and Kangra as it has reported over 1,200 cases and five deaths till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sirmaur-admn-to-distribute-homeopathic-medicine-for-covid-immunity/story-vndRwmnyc1d8H1XMGIIfyK.html
13-09-2020||City||Woman’s death in hospital sparks protests in Jammu||Death of a 24-year-old woman during treatment triggered protests by her relatives here on Sunday as they alleged medical negligence and demanded a probe against the hospital.The deceased, Kuljeet Kaur, who had delivered a dead baby 10 days ago, complained of abdominal pain and breathlessness at home on Friday evening and was subsequently admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), where she died.The protesters, along with the woman’s body, blocked Karan Bagh road for three hours.He mother alleged that Kuljeet’s condition deteriorated at the hospital after being administered an injection and she collapsed within 10 minutes. Thereafter, the doctors declared her Covid positive, but when we questioned the claim, a re-test was done which turned out negative, the mother said.Jammu additional district commissioner Ghanshyam Singh said, “An inquiry into the incident has been ordered and culprits, if any, would be punished within a week’s time.”A three-member panel will conduct a magisterial investigation in the case and submit its report in a week, said district commissioner Sushma Chauhan.This the second time in the past 24 hours that a patient’s relatives have alleged negligence by the GMCH staff. On Friday, a four-year-old boy, who had fallen off the stairs, had allegedly died due to the doctors’ neglect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-s-death-in-hospital-sparks-protests-in-jammu/story-rpp64rI3S6i1vOGvX0ZFGI.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||55-year-old truck cleaner dies in Zirakpur||Bir Singh, a 55-year-old truck cleaner from Kishangarh village in Moga died suddenly on Sunday while fetching water from Peer Baba Dargah on Patiala Road near Chhat village of Zirakpur.Kulwinder Singh, driver of the truck said in his statement to the police that he and Bir Singh were on their way to Parwanoo in Himachal Pradesh. They halted near the airport lights near Chhat village where the latter suddenly vomited blood and fainted after going to fetch water from the dargah.He was taken to Dera Bassi Civil Hospital after a passer-by called an ambulance, but was declared dead by doctors.Sub-Inspector Bhinder Singh Khangura, who is investigating the case, said the body had been handed over to relatives after post-mortem.Proceedings under section 174 of CrPC had been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/55-year-old-truck-cleaner-dies-in-zirakpur/story-5YrTpfzgxmPLo1De2AALGM.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man’s body found in Dhanas temple, seen entering premises on Sat in CCTV grab||The body of a man in his forties was recovered at the Kali Mata Temple in Dhanas on Sunday. A CCTV camera grab showed him putting his head between the tines of a trishul (trident of lord Shiva put up in most temples) and going still after what appeared to be a seizure, police said.The body was discovered by the priest who opened the temple at around 6 am. CCTV footage from cameras installed at the spot showed the man entering the temple on Saturday night and lying down at one spot. At 10 pm he started shaking uncontrollably, put his head between the tines of the trident and became still, police said.It was not clear how the man had entered the temple as it was closed.The body, which is yet to be identified, has been kept at the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH) mortuary in Sector 16. A post-mortem examination will be carried out after a Covid-19 test.“Nobody at the temple seemed to recognise the man. We suspect he was either suffering from some mental condition or was under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Things will be clear after the post-mortem,” added a police official.Inquest proceedings have been initiated under section 174 of the Code of Criminal procedures (CrPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-s-body-found-at-dhanas-temple-seen-entering-premises-on-sat-in-cctv-grab/story-xWMbfER0zETxXCvz1t4PnM.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||BJP’s policies would ruin small farmers, bizmen: Selja||Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of making policies which are detrimental to the interests of farmers and in favour of a handful of private companies. Stating that the Central government has already passed three Ordinances to deprive the farmers of their natural rights, Selja said now the Union government is planning to present the Pesticides Management Bill-2020 that would ruin small farmers and businessman. She said the government is prepared to pass this Ordinance during the Parliament session starting on Monday. “However, neither the farmers nor farmer associations have been taken into confidence before proposing this Ordinance that would be hampering their interests,” she said. The state Congress president demanded a detailed debate on the proposed Ordinance in the Parliament, saying that new suggestions should be incorporated in the Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-s-policies-would-ruin-small-farmers-bizmen-selja/story-XEXDtT7UbgDpPEWEue9nCK.html
13-09-2020||Pune||750 litres of adulterated ghee seized in Wadgaonsheri, two arrested||Two men have been arrested by the Pune police crime branch on Saturday for running adulterated ghee production units in Pune.The two have been identified as Sohil Mehendi Bhanodiya and Dinesh Mehandi Bhanodiya.The police have seized 750 litres of ghee from two godowns owned by the men in Wadgaonsheri. The raw material, equipment and ghee seized during the raid were estimated to be worth ₹7,00,000, according to police.“On receiving input regarding some people indulging in manufacturing of adulterated ghee, anti-narcotics (west) team co-ordinated with Food and Drug Association (FDA) and raided the place and arrested two people. Seizure of 750 litres ghee worth ₹7 lakh was done. Further legal action is going on,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune.There were rats seen inside some storage containers of the ghee manufacturing units.The police called upon officials of the Food and Drug Association (FDA) and raided the two godowns. The FDA officials have taken samples for further testing and are conducting an investigation.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/750-litres-of-adulterated-ghee-seized-in-wadgaonsheri-two-arrested/story-rEr6j3FRyOLZcmAT6ecTqL.html
13-09-2020||City||Virbhadra demands exemption on loan EMIs till next year||Former chief minister and senior Congress leader Virbhadra Singh on Sunday demanded the Centre to exempt people from paying EMIs for all types of bank loans till March 2021 as a relief amid the financial crisis being faced by many due to the Covid pandemic.Singh asked chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to raise this matter with the central government. Himachal has the status of a special state, therefore, the government should demand a special financial package from the Centre, he stressed.“Financial aid should also be provided to unemployed people,” he added.Laying emphasis on cleanliness, Virbhadra has urged the people to maintain patience and increase awareness towards health. He also expressed concern over the increasing Covid cases in the state and said proper testing of every person who enters Himachal should be done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virbhadra-demands-exemption-on-loan-emis-till-next-year/story-Zwd8ww7LZGIRSf9WnGaIeN.html
13-09-2020||Election:||‘New India, New Bihar’: PM Modi hails state as ‘powerhouse’ of talent, praises Nitish Kumar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi marked his first step in the campaign for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar on Sunday as he inaugurated three petroleum sector projects worth Rs 900 crore.PM Modi lauded chief minister Nitish Kumar as he reached out to people, calling the state a “powerhouse of talent”.Here are the key takeaways from PM Modi’s address:• Now the country and Bihar are coming out of the era in which one generation used to see a project being started and the other generation saw it being completed. We have to strengthen the identity of this new India, new Bihar, this work culture and of course Nitish ji also has a very big role in it.• Bihar is the powerhouse of the country’s talent. The influence of Bihar’s youth and talent is everywhere. If you go to any IIT, Bihar shines there as well. If you go to any other state, the strength of Bihar, the impression of labour here will be seen in the development of every state. • In the last 15 years, Bihar has shown that if there is a right government, right decisions are taken, then development happens and reaches everyone.• We are advancing the development of every sector of Bihar, trying to solve their problems so that the state can take a new flight of development.• Today, big centres of education are opening in Bihar. During the rule of Nitish ji, two large universities, one IIT, one IIM, one NIFT, one National Law Institute in Bihar have been started.• The power situation in Bihar is well known. Today, the availability of electricity in Bihar’s villages and cities is more than ever. The construction of modern infrastructure is making people’s lives easier and along with industries, the economy is also gaining momentum.• Under the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga Yojana, about 3,000 kilometres long pipeline is being connected to seven states, among which Bihar is also prominent. The line coming from Paradip-Haldia has just completed to Banka. This gas pipeline is creating thousands of new jobs in Bihar with new industries.• What has changed in the lives of the poor through the Ujjwala scheme, we have all felt again during the coronavirus pandemic. Today eight crore poor families in the country have a gas connection. These include about 125 million families of Bihar. The gas connection at home has changed the lives of crores of poor people in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/new-india-new-bihar-pm-modi-hails-state-as-powerhouse-of-talent-praises-nitish-kumar/story-BBwwfpzESY4O5V0nbXwQ4H.html
13-09-2020||Pune||Implement Janata curfew if necessary, but bring down Covid-19 numbers: Ajit Pawar||Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar has instructed the administration to introduce Janta curfew if necessary to bring down the number of Covid-19 cases in Pune city and district.Pawar was speaking during a review meeting of Covid-19 situation in the city, at Council Hall, on Friday. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioners, district collector, police commissioner and other senior officers were present for the meeting.Some of the officials in the meeting pointed out that in the country wherever the Covid-19 cases are on a rise, the administration is implementing curfew to break the chain. “If the administration feels that this can help bring down the cases, they can introduce it but, I need results,” he said.Pawar said, “If Mumbai can bring down the positivity rate, why is Pune not able to achieve it? The administration must act and give results. If needed take strict measures and initiate action against those who are not cooperating.”District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “The demand for Janta curfew is coming from rural areas, mainly from Wagholi, Baramati and Indapur. Wherever people make demands, the administration allows them to take decisions at the local level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/implement-janata-curfew-if-necessary-but-bring-down-covid-19-numbers-ajit-pawar/story-3pOsvN7N6jhawdBGHbd1iN.html
13-09-2020||Pune||Onus of implementing Covid precautions on Shivaji market traders, violators to be penalised: PCB CEO||All 550 traders of Camp’s Shivaji Market were finally able to restart their business on September 1, post the lockdown. Prachi Bari speaks to Amit Kumar, chief executive officer (CEO), Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), to understand the dynamics behind opening up the busiest marketplace in Camp amidst an ongoing pandemic. What prompted you to finally open up Shivaji Market?We have been in talks with the newly formed Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Traders’ Association, who have been relentless in their demands to reopen the market and hence, we gave them permission to open all 550 shops. It is their responsibility to maintain social distancing, have sanitiser stands and also wear masks and gloves. What kind of precautions have been taken at the market?The responsibility of taking care and maintaining social distancing among the customers lies with the shop owners. It will be their responsibility to follow the directives of wearing masks, installing santiser stands and wearing of gloves by the staff members working inside the market. We opened the market in a staggered way to see a response to it. A shopkeeper or vendor will be penalised Rs 1,000 if PCB finds social distancing norms being violated. For the next two counts, he/she will be fined Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000 and if they are still found flouting norms, the shops will be closed.How are you checking if the norms are followed or not?We have PCB guards manning the gates, but they are only to keep vigil. I have directed the police to take necessary action and keep a squad to watch the movement of customers and stall owners and penalise violators.The market association claims that there is no electricity at the market. Why is it so?The stall owners owe the PCB Rs 50 lakh in lease. Besides, we have requested the chicken and beef market to be moved to Kondhwa, but these stall owners refuse to move and some of the stalls are using illegal electricity connections, from the main junction for streetlights which has been identified by MSEDCL. Thus they have imposed a penalty on the Cantonment board of Rs 4 lakh. Once the stall owners pay the lease, only then can we work on giving full electricity supply inside the market. Which other areas are still under lockdown in Camp?We are keeping places like Kumbhar Bavdi, Ghorpadi market and Fashion Street closed. When the cases are under control, we will look at reopening. 447 fined for not wearing masks properly inside marketEver since Chhatrapati Shivaji Market in Camp restarted business on September 1, shopkeepers were happy to see customers trickling in. However, last week, footfall diminished as police squads made their way into the market alleys to check for violations of Covid-19 norms. Customers who did not wear a mask were penalised by the police squads.Even the stall operators were not spared. Moin Sheikh, who works at the mutton stall inside the market, had worn his mask, but did not cover his nose with it. The police squad clicked his photo and penalised him (Rs 500). Senior police inspector Chandrakant Bhosale of Lashkar police station, who with his team, was keeping vigil at the market, said, “We are following the directives given by the Maharashtra government to penalise those who don’t wear a mask or don’t cover up their nose. In the past week, the police have fined 447 people for not wearing masks properly. I urge the people to consider this as a serious offence and follow the rules if you are outside your home and maintain social distancing at markets and on the roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/onus-of-implementing-covid-precautions-on-shivaji-market-traders-violators-to-be-penalised-pcb-ceo/story-VTbhRJIzxpzYvUGOleG59K.html
13-09-2020||City||Sobha Singh Art Gallery to reopen for visitors from September 16||Sobha Singh Art Gallery and Museum situated at Andretta village, 11 kilometres from Palampur, will reopen for visitors from September 16.As per sources, the gallery will open on the occasion of Himachal’s cultural festival ‘Sair’ almost after six months after it was closed on March 20, owing to the pandemic. Initially, the art gallery will open only on the weekends and start operating regularly when the Covid situation improves.Visitors will be able to see some added artifacts and belongings of the artist at the refurbished museum. During the lockdown, the old roof of the complex was repaired, while the cracked floor was re-laid with tiles in addition to the painting work.For the first time, an additional exhibition hall displaying the artworks of other artists will be accessible to the public. With this, the visitors will be able to visit Sobha Singh’s studio, gallery, museum and artist residency and souvenir shop ‘Prampara’.The gallery attracts a large number of art lovers, artists, tourists and visitors from all over the country and abroad. Sobha Singh Art Gallery has around three dozen original works of the legendry artist. In 2011, Sobha Singh Museum was added to the complex. Around 100 photographs depicting the journey of the artist are displayed there. Some of Singh’s personal belongings have also preserved here.One of the greatest Indian artists of the 20th century, S Sobha Singh was born on 29 November 1901 at Sri Hargobindpur (Gurdaspur), Punjab. It was here that he learned to draw and sculpt. In 1905, his mother Bibi Acchran died. His father S Deva Singh died in 1917. He mastered painting by self-practice. He joined the British Indian Army as a draughtsman and was posted at various places in Iraq. He studied European paintings and got inspiration from the works of English painters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sobha-singh-art-gallery-to-reopen-for-visitors-from-september-16/story-JimE3bx9ISU11vsKakwFZP.html
13-09-2020||Pune||Not a ‘fish market’ anymore: Camp’s Shivaji Market fails to rev up business, draw in customers post lockdown||The iconic Shri Chatrapati Shivaji Market in Camp, which has been serving Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) residents, with fresh fruits and vegetables over the years, is missing its typical buzz. The pandemic has caused the booming business at the British-era heritage structure lose its lustre. After all vendors were allowed to operate from September 1, the business still hasn’t picked up pace. A place which was the quintessential ‘local fish market’ with all its bearings of loud sale calls by vendors and bylanes brimming with customers making their way to get fresh produce, is now a dull, silent place. However, residents say that the market area has become cleaner with all the Covid-19 protocols in place and they do not see muck on the market floors and there are santisers everywhere. Residents also like the slightly empty alleys of the marketplace as it helps them manoeuvre through the area while maintaining social distancing, which would have been impossible in pre-Covid times here.The empty lanes, however, paint a sorry picture for the 550 traders who had been waiting for four months to restart their business. Despite being part of ‘essential services’, one of the oldest marketplaces in the city, is facing huge losses as customers now look at home deliveries and do not want to step out. The market, with lower stalls and upper stalls for fish, chicken, mutton, vegetables, fruits and provision stores, runs between 7am and 7pm. Traders say they get a glimpse of the bustling life between 9am and 12pm, when most of the footfall is registered now. However, despite implementing all Covid-19 precautions, the footfall is too low to help the market survive.“We reopened our shops after four months. There are no good signs of business here as customers do not want to come because of the fear of spread of the virus,” Abdul Wahid Momim, a committee member and chicken stall holder of the newly formed Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Traders’ Association.The shops in the market were open for 12 days in July from July 1-12 followed by a 10-day lockdown. On July 22, PCB allowed reopening of 33% stalls with the odd-even formula. This shutdown has hit the traders hard. “We are facing a 70 per cent loss in business and ever since we opened up, we are doing only 25 to 30 per cent of our earlier business volume,” added Momim.As per Manzur Shaikh, president of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Traders Association, constant vigilance by the police officials from the nearby Char Bawdi police chowky, has contributed to keeping customers at bay. “The fear of being caught inside the market without a mask is affecting our customers. We often get calls from them asking if it is safe for them to come in. Some of them relay their orders over the phone and then, we deliver them, thus maintaining social distancing, but it only works on certain days and on large bulk orders in terms of meat and fish. Sadly, it is not the same for vegetable vendors.”The vegetable and fruit market are empty inside the market. “We have followed all the protocols set by the PCB- from masks to sanitisers. However, the pandemic has managed to kill our business, which has been running for the past 55 years. We are facing 70 to 80 per cent loss in business as we are paying rent (which is hiked every three years, this year by 30 per cent), electricity, as well as our staff salary. We had to remove most of our staff and now family members are managing the stall,” said Sharad Borate, owner of Jai Bharat vegetable suppliers, which has been a part of the market since 1965. Meanwhile, there are some who live close to the market and cannot resist the call of fresh produce. Manali Thopte, a regular customer, said, “When the lockdown was announced, the market shut down and it was a problem for us as we usually stock everything from the market because the produce is very fresh. When I heard that the market is open again, I came back. Initially, I was hesitant to enter the market as I have an infant at home and was worried about the virus, but I come equipped with gloves, mask and sanitiser.”Similarly, a student of Azam Campus, and resident of Bhavani peth, Achumi Lhosheto, has been coming to this market for the past three years. “The vegetables are sold at a higher price elsewhere, while here it is quite reasonable and fresh.”Adding to the traders’ woes is no electricity and water supply to the market. Although the stall owners are paying for electricity and water within the market, the electricity has been cut due to non-payment by PCB , leaving the streetlights inside the market shut for almost a year. Also the stalls dealing with meat, need running water, which too has been shut off. “We are all using our personal connection of water and electricity to run the business,” said Dhanajay Varad, a member of the association. “We completed 100 days of keeping the fish market closed, and are bearing a loss of Rs 16 lakh. I have seven freezers and all of them were stocked with fish when the lockdown was announced. I had to throw all the produce as the electricity supply to the market was cut off. Currently, only 5 per cent of the sale is happening as compared to the sale earlier which was around Rs 1.5 lakh before the lockdown. We are selling fish at the cheapest rate possible, for example, Bombay duck which usually would cost Rs 300 per kg this season, is being sold at Rs 100 per kg,” said Ashwin Pardeshi, Aatish Seafood, stall owner.For Khushnuma Daruwalla, a resident of East Street, fish is a staple diet of their family. “ I am a Parsi and we love to eat fish. Earlier, I would come here twice a week to pick up the freshest produce that was available, but ever since the lockdown, we pick up in bulk and store it. With the market open, I come here twice a week and take enough produce to last a week. The place is very clean and is sanitized.” Aasma Shaikh, a resident of Taboot Street, said, “ I have pets at home and I have to buy chicken for them. During the lockdown it was difficult to manage, but now that they have opened the market, I am happy to see that they have sanitizer stands and the place is cleaner. The staff wears gloves and masks. Earlier, I used to come here thrice a week, now only twice, if need be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/not-a-fish-market-anymore-camp-s-shivaji-market-fails-to-rev-up-business-draw-in-customers-post-lockdown/story-dRMZu0gFljcLjyUWNVZNtJ.html
13-09-2020||City||Kerala: Parents of minor girls found dead 3 years ago stage protest||The parents of two minor girls, who were found dead under mysterious circumstances at Walayar in Kerala three years ago, staged a sit-in protest in Kochi on Sunday seeking justice. The mother of the deceased girls said she is under tremendous pressure to withdraw the case and the official, who had allegedly weakened the case, was promoted to the rank of Indian Police Service (IPS) in August. The siblings, aged 12 and eight, were found dead at their home within a span of 52 days at Walayar in Palakkad district when their labourer parents were out for work. The incident, which had occurred in 2017, had hit national headlines after many compared it with the rape and murder of an eight-year-old in Kathua in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K). Also read: Telangana man kills 5-year old daughter of a woman he was stalking“Three years have passed and we are yet to get justice. We feel sad when the people who committed the heinous crime roam freely. The official, who weakened the case, was recently promoted to the rank of IPS. We are forced to hit the street again,” said the mother. The elder girl had died on January 13, 2017, and the younger sibling 52 days later. The autopsy report had revealed that both the girls were subjected to sexual assault.The mother had named a few accused after the death of her elder daughter, but police allegedly failed to take any action. “There were many attempts to sabotage the case. If the government was sincere, the poor parents would have got justice long ago,” said Justice Kamal Pasha, a retired Kerala high court (HC) judge. He said only an independent probe could ensure justice to the poor parents. Kerala was rocked by protests last year when a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) court in Palakkad had set free the four accused and passed serious strictures against the investigating team. Many witnesses turned hostile during the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-parents-of-minor-girls-found-dead-3-years-ago-stage-protest/story-vmQs0WtteUZpeVcvrRMJuO.html
13-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s ancient Chhadi Yatra cut down to 72 hrs due to Covid-19||Uttarakhand’s ancient Chhadi Yatra (holy mace) from Haridwar to Bageshwar has been curtailed this year to 72 hours due to a record number of positive cases of Covid -19 seen recently in the Himalayan state. The yatra was a month-long affair last year.The Chhadi Yatra in Uttarakhand is almost similar to the Chhadi Mubarak event carried out in Jammu & Kashmir prior to the opening of the revered Shri Amarnath shrine. It is believed that the Bageshwar-Haridwar Chhadi Yatra pilgrimage dates back to one thousand years and was stalled only for a brief period during the British rule.On the banks of the sacred Gomti and Darati rivers in Bageshwar at Bagnath temple, the mace is worshipped. Shri Panch Dashnami Juna Akhada revived this pilgrimage last year after a hiatus of seven decades. It is now being carried out under Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad banner. While on Sunday the yatra reached Bageshwar, on Monday, it will return to the revered shrine of Mayadevi and special rituals will be held at Shri Daksheshwar Mahadev temple here. Ganga Sabha will also hold special Ganga prayers for the holy mace at the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri. Also Read: New landslide zones activated on Char Dham road: ExpertsShri Mahant Prem Giri, national chairperson of Juna Akhada, said initially the Chhadi Yatra was to be held for a months’ duration but due to the Covid pandemic, the pilgrimage is being done symbolically with full rituals. Sub divisional magistrate, Haridwar, Gopal Singh Chauhan, said the pilgrimage holds immense significance and providence of facilities to the saints accompanying the mace has been put in place. Also Read: PM Narendra Modi wants Badrinath to retain legacy as mini-smart spiritual city“Last time the month long Chhadi Yatra covered Gangotri, Kedarnath, Badrinath, Poornagiri Dham, Jageshwar Dham, Binsar Mahadev, Mayakund, Gobindghat, Janki Chatti, Bhatwadi, Koteshwar, Guptkashi, Gopeshwar, Dangoli, Someshwar, Bageshwar , Tanakpur, Pitthoragarh, Kashipur and other places in both Garhwal and Kumaon divisions of the state,” said Akhada Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj. Akhada Parishad office bearers said that earlier the plan was to start the Chhadi Yatra prior to commencement of Char Dham pilgrimage but due to the coronavirus outbreak and subsequent restrictions, the pilgrimage got deferred this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-s-ancient-chhadi-yatra-cut-down-to-72-hrs-due-to-covid-19/story-Fgs1QoVtmVVzcyKMgWvGqI.html
13-09-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Grateful to staff at Covid-19 care facilities||Even as the administration claims to take measures to ensure Covid patients are provided medical attention; patients and their relatives and private caregivers have mixed responses. Readers share experiences…Civic official arranged hospital bed facility My elder daughter and I were tested Covid-19 positive. As a medical officer said that it was asymptomatic cases, we decided to follow the home quarantine guidelines. However, after three days, my daughter and I became restless. Our struggle to get hospital beds began. Despite willingness to pay for medical facility, beds were unable in private hospitals. We were told that government hospitals are already facing bed shortage. Finally, a Pune Municipal Corporation staffer arranged a semi-private room in a private hospital for us. Though the hospital administration was indifferent when we inquired for bed availability, the staff took care of my daughter and me after admission.NATreatment at Naidu hospital is commendableI tried to get admitted at the jumbo Covid care facility that came up at the College of Engineering Pune (COEP) grounds, but was denied admission citing bed shortage. Later, with the help of a corporator and one of the PMC officials, I got admitted at the PMC-run Naidu hospital, one of state’s first dedicated Covid hospitals in Pune. I was given proper medical care at the hospital and even the food provided was satisfactory. Despite being a government hospital, staff were cooperative and helpful.ASWorst experience of my life I went through a worst phase of my life during the present coronavirus situation. Our family was on panic mode when my father and I were detected positive. Being an asymptomatic case, I preferred to stay at home and followed the guidelines for Covid-19 patients issued by the authorities. However, my father had to be admitted at the Covid jumbo facility at COEP grounds because of his age. Initially, there was no means of communication as my father’s mobile was not charged and the reception was not giving proper information. We were clueless about his health before we were able to contact him. Later, I got a message that my father passed away. PRDelay in ambulance serviceAfter being tested Covid positive with symptoms, the medical officer directed for hospital quarantine. The symptoms included difficulty in breathing, dip in oxygen saturation, pain/pressure in chest and numbness in limb. My family tried to contact ambulance operators, but were unable to get any ambulance despite calling many people for three to four hours. Many said that they have few ambulances and are facing heavy rush. Later, we visited three private hospitals, but were told that all beds are occupied. Finally, we decided to stay put in front of a reputed private hospital. We requested them to allow us to wait at their premises and give us admission when there is bed vacancy. Later, with the help of a hospital staff and after waiting for a few hours, I was given a bed in the general ward of the private hospital. Post admission, the experience was good as they provided good medical care and food. I was also able to communicate with my family under hospital quarantine.SDStaff deputed at Covid care centres are working hardThe medical treatment given to me as a coronavirus patient has been an eye-opener and I appreciate the work done by all stakeholders in checking the virus spread. I was admitted to a PMC Covid care centre after being tested Covid-19 positive. Initially, I was unhappy with the facilities, mainly food quality. Later, when one of my co-patients showed me news on mobile that many Covid positive cases are unable to get hospital beds and ambulance facility, I was grateful to the given medical treatment. The experience increased my respect for civic staff. I realised that the Covid care facility is not a home or hotel that I would get everything I want. My priority should be to get well and this positive thought helped me a lot to improve. It also helped to have friendly relations with the staff working at the facility. The staff deputed at Covid centres are working hard and risking their lives to provide treatment to patients.RPFollowed home isolation norms strictly I was advised home isolation after a health official confirmed that I was an asymptomatic case. I was monitored by a field staff and was told to give daily update to a dedicated call centre contact. My medical health was recorded by the centre, including body temperature, pulse rate and oxygen saturation. The field staff guided me on measuring these parameters. My family was also informed on what all steps to be taken as per quarantine norms. I adhered to the home isolation norms as guided by the medical staff strictly. Even my details were updated to senior medical staff. I completed the quarantine period and later was tested negative after undergoing a few tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-grateful-to-staff-at-covid-19-care-facilities/story-bcBpx1eFsIbgPgRnzYqJHO.html
13-09-2020||Dehradun||In a first, Uttarakhand mapping human-snake conflict hotspots||For the first time, human-snake conflict hotspots will be mapped in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region while the state forest department conducts a three-year long project to learn more about the different types of snakes found in the region. The forest department aims to train 750 locals from 250 villages, considered high-risk from the human-snake conflict point of view, under the project named “Community based human-snake conflict mitigation in Kumaon Himalayas of Uttarakhand, India” Tejaswini Patil, chief conservator of forests (CCF) Kumaon region said that the state government had been spreading awareness about human-snake conflict, but with this project, the department will also be able to learn more about the different types of snakes found in the region. “A lot of different kinds of snakes are found in the Kumaon region, but not a lot is known about them. Every year, we conduct awareness generation programmes due to which people now, do not kill snakes but rather inform quick response team for rescue, but still as the awareness level is low, people always feel a threat. With this project, we will be studying different types of snakes found in this region and map the areas where they are found, to find conflict hotspots,” said Patil. Also Read: 5,000 Himalayan streams to be rejuvenated under MGNREGA in UttarakhandShe added that the project aims to assess the abundance, intensity of human-snake conflict and awareness level in communities for snakes and mitigation of human-snake conflict. As part of the project, the status of the conflict will be studied division and species wise. It will also study the mitigation measures currently employed, status of compensatory measures and public opinion on this issue. As part of the project, the forest department will train three people from each high-risk village in snake rescue and rehabilitation process. Also Read: Rare species of orchid found for first time in western HimalayasSnake sightings increase in the state with the onset of monsoon. Every few days, snakes are sighted in and around residential areas in different parts of the state. In the first week of September, forest department officials rescued 12 snakes, including six cobras, from Haldwani area of Nainital district. A copper-headed trinket snake, Forsten’s cat snake, Russell’s viper, two rat snakes and a python were also among those rescued. In the last week of August, state forest department officials rescued a 15.4 feet long King cobra snake from Jamunwala area in Dehradun, claiming it to be the largest King cobra they had ever rescued in the district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-a-first-uttarakhand-mapping-human-snake-conflict-hotspots/story-JWgEznAdJZwMyaB0NJXAeM.html
13-09-2020||Pune||Pashan, Bibvewadi in Pune see highest ready reckoner rates’ revision||Even as ready reckoner (RR) rates for properties under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits have been increased up to 1.56 within the city; Pashan, Bibvewadi and Lohegaon have witnessed the highest rise for an apartment. According to the office of Inspector General of Registration and Stamps (IGR), revised RR rates for Pashan and Bibvewadi have seen a rise of 20 per cent while Lohegaon has witnessed a rise of 17.5 per cent. Bhavani peth and Pune Cantonment areas have witnessed a rise of 15.25 per cent respectively. The RR rates are standard value of immovable property assessed by the state on the basis of which stamp duty is charged. This means, the higher the RR rates, the higher will be the stamp duty. The revised RR rates have come into effect from Saturday across the state. The revision in RR rates has come at a time when the state government has slashed stamp duty in Maharashtra. According to the IGR note, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, areas which have witnessed a maximum fall in RR rates are parts of Narayan and Budhwar peths (5 per cent). The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (Credai) Pune chapter has protested the revision in the RR rates saying it will have a negative impact on the economy as a whole. “Though the government claims that the average increase is only 1.74 per cent, it is misleading the public. In certain cases, the increase is as high as 10 per cent. Since there is no improvement in the situation, the sector needs a booster rather than such an uncalled upward revision. The increase is adhoc and has no scientific base,” said Suhas Merchant, president of Credai-Pune Metro. According to Ashwin Trimal, managing committee member of Credai-Pune Metro, the rates of residential properties have increased across the board in developing areas, including 23 villages merged recently. However, the rates in old city limits are untouched which can be termed as developed areas, since there is not much development and hence, no sale happening in those areas, observed Trimal. Besides 1.56 per cent increase in PMC limits, there has been an increase of 3.41 per cent in Pimpri-Chinchwad. The, IGR however, has not increased rates for Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pashan-bibvewadi-in-pune-see-highest-ready-reckoner-rates-revision/story-H8EIBHo1eHEAJxbM9OpQbL.html
13-09-2020||Pune||National highways traffic passing through Pune back to 95% of pre-Covid level||The traffic on national highways passing through Pune region is back on track to at least 95 per cent of its normal levels during the pre-Covid period. The three national highways passing through Pune include Mumbai-Bengaluru highway, Pune-Solapur road and the Pune-Ahmednagar road. Post lifting of movement of goods and people with e-pass - traffic had increased to 50 per cent. However, after the Maharashtra government abolished e-pass system from September 2, highway traffic has resumed almost 95 per cent of its level compared to pre-Covid levels on three national highways, according to highway police. Police have noted that after e-pass was abolished, there is an increase in private passenger vehicles with people travelling more and numbers growing on weekends. According to the highway police, the expressway is seeing traffic at an average between 35,000 to 40,000 vehicles passing through daily while the other highways passing through the city are seeing an average of 8,000 vehicles passing through all and it the same. Highways superintendent of police for Pune region, Pritam Yawalkar, said there have been traffic jams at toll posts and lane cutting incidents have increased in number. “With all restrictions on travel removed, the vehicular movement has increased considerably. Traffic is almost normal and returned to 95 per cent of normal levels and will become completely normal in the next few days.”Similar observations were noted by regular commuters and toll collection staff. The traffic had come to complete standstill during the lockdown and even after reopening, the traffic moved at a slow pace. However later, as the demands of the markets increased, it put pressure on the transport operators to ensure that their entire fleet was on the roads for supplying essentials and goods to the nook and cranny of the country. Santosh Jondhale, who works at the Khed Shivapur toll post, said, “During the past one month, we have seen a significant increase in the number of heavy vehicles, goods carriers and cars passing through the area. Sometimes, traffic jams take place at the toll post and we have to ensure that the commuters follow lane discipline and adhere to Covid-19 norms.” Vanshika Patil, who was travelling along with her husband to Satara, said, “It is the fourth time during the past two months that I had come to Pune to meet my ailing parents who stay in Baner. During my first visit, the traffic on the highway was sparse and few heavy vehicles and passenger vehicles were seen. However, as of today, there is regular traffic and it seems that we have already inched towards normalcy on the highway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/national-highways-traffic-passing-through-pune-back-to-95-of-pre-covid-level/story-ReAntvaqbEDGIbcLZpheuK.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||HP tourism has no money for employee salaries||The Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC), which has suffered losses of ₹36 crore due to the Covid-19 pandemic, has no money for employee salaries or benefits for retired workers. The Jai Ram Thakur-led government had sanctioned a relief amount of ₹20 crore to support HPTDC, but because of bureaucratic bungling only ₹11.60 lakh was released. The situation is so grave that even though the middle of September is approaching, Class-III and Class-IV employees of HPTDC are yet to get their salaries. Many of them say they have been paid only up to July.The corporation’s coffers emptied out after all hotels closed as tourists stayed away from the state due to the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown. And now, most hotels are running empty during the unlock phase.The government’s decision to convert some HPTDC hotels into institutional quarantine centres, however, helped generate Rs 5 crore. But losses continue to mount as the corporation has to spend ₹5.30 lakh on salaries and allowances every month. The government also has to pay ₹ 8 crore to HPTDC for losses it suffered due to Himachal Bhawan and Sadan remaining closed in Delhi and Chandigarh, respectively. Meanwhile, it has been learnt that CM Jairam Thakur has issued instructions to the secretary, tourism, and top officials of the finance department to resolve the matter of salaries.Congress MLA Sukhvindra Singh Sukhu has also asked that the employees be paid immediately.Bleak future for 60,000 taxi operators Over 40,000 taxi operators in the state are on the verge of losing their livelihood while 20,000 are without any work.Many operators have sold their vehicles to repay bank loans for the taxis. Many of them have also demanded waiving of road taxes for a year if there is no business.“I had three taxis. I sold two to pay my monthly installment. Over 20,000 operators are jobless,” says Narendra Thakur, general secretary, Devbhoomi Taxi Operators’ Union. There are 16,000 taxi operators in Shimla district alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-tourism-has-no-money-for-employee-salaries/story-vPJPfFRVgVsnVL0GM14W6J.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt directs 33 pvt hospitals to reserve 80% of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday the city government has instructed 33 big private hospitals in the national capital to reserve 80 per cent of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, amid a shortage of such beds at some facilities. Delhi has been witnessing a surge in novel coronavirus cases from the last week of August. Delhi recorded its biggest single-day jump of 4,321 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the city’s tally to over 2.14 lakh, authorities said. It was for the fourth day in a row that over 4,000 fresh cases were recorded in Delhi. “Yesterday, we instructed 33 private hospitals to reserve 80 per cent of their ICU beds for coronavirus patients. This has been done since issues were being faced with regards to ICU beds in some private hospitals. I also held a video conference over this and an order has been issued in this regard,” he told reporters here. Jain said there are sufficient number of ICU beds in state-run and Centre-run hospitals, and also said there are sufficient number of other beds in hospitals. “We have also instructed hospitals to increase bed strength by 30 per cent for coronavirus patients, in case they want to. More than 50 per cent beds are available in hospitals. Out of the total 14,372 beds available for Covid-19 patients, 7,938 are vacant, according to live status on Delhi Corona app,” he added. Asked if there can be another lockdown amid a spurt in coronavirus cases, the Health Minister ruled out the possibility. “The time for enforcing a lockdown has ended. We have gained enough experience through the lockdown and know that wearing masks is an effective way to fight the infection. We are creating awareness to wear masks,” he said. Jain said the national capital has ramped up testing, which is why an increase in cases is being observed and stressed that it will help in containing and isolating cases of the infection. On Saturday, over 60,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted. “If you test positive without symptoms, we will be able to isolate you in time and prevent the infection from spreading. The number might be increasing at this point but this will help in containing the virus,” he added. Sharing numbers, he said the positivity rate in the national capital is 7.19 per cent while the death rate in the last 10 days has been 0.68 per cent, “which is a good sign”. The overall death rate is 2.23 per cent, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-directs-33-pvt-hospitals-to-reserve-80-of-icu-beds-for-covid-19-patients/story-hlzSz4eBQwdufbXVjDOmYL.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||2 more doctors get Covid, Mohali Civil Hospital staff strength down by 50%||Two more doctors of the Civil Hospital in Phase-6 tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total count of infected staff to 20. As it has 40 employees on its rolls, the hospital, a designated Covid-19 centre, is now running with just 50% employees.Only one doctor is managing 100 patients, it has been learnt.The hospital’s list of doctors infected in the past one week include Dr Sandeep Singh, Dr Shivani Chuchra, Dr Meena, who has resigned, Dr Megha Makkar and Dr Charan Kamal. All of them were on Covid-19 duty for sampling, treatment and shifting of patients. With this, staff is struggling to cope in a hospital that has 400 persons visiting every day for Covid-19 tests in addition to over a 1,000 persons seeking treatment for other ailments.Bolstering staff strength looks unlikely at the moment as just one of seven new doctors appointed last month has joined work.Dr Areet Kaur, senior medical officer of the hospital, said though things were not comfortable, “we are managing. We will be asking field staff to join the hospital. As far as seven new doctors are concerned, only one has joined. We have the authority to hire staff and we have done it,” she said.Staff struggling to cope “There is only one doctor per shift to attend to more than a 100 patients. It’s easier to handle the rush in the morning, given that a number of students are interning with us, but a lone doctor has to handle 50-odd patients at night,” said a doctor on condition of anonymity.Though a 200-bed hospital requires at least 10 nursing sisters (head nurses), this hospital has been making do with just one since its primary health centre days before it was upgraded to a hospital.The lone nurse has to take care of her duties and oversee the work of safai karamcharis as well. “Only one nurse has remained, it’s just that the beds have increased from 20 to 200,” said the doctor.Also, though the hospital has 27 authorised posts of Class IV employees, it has only 15 with one away on deputation. “Sometimes we have to ask for help from a gardener or a safai sewak to do a patient’s dressing during an emergency,” said a staff member requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-more-doctors-get-covid-mohali-civil-hospital-staff-strength-down-by-50/story-P5O9wJYfTqDMoUXi4VgvAP.html
13-09-2020||Bhopal||MP farmer arrested for causing brother’s death, hiding corpse||A farmer was arrested in Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh on Saturday night for causing his brother’s death by electrocution earlier this month and hiding the corpse. The man died after coming in contact with an illegal electric fence laid by the accused to save his crop from stray pigs, said police. The accused, Pooran Silawat, 48, a resident of Raipur village of Bhopal district, surrendered at Eintkhedi police station on Saturday. An FIR has been registered under section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Pooran and three others. Sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP), Bairasiya, Bhopal, Manak Mani Kumawat said, “Ganesh Silawat, 50, went missing on September 2 from the field where he was last seen. His brother Suresh lodged a missing person’s report with Eintkhedi police station. On September 9, Suresh informed the police that his other brother Pooran had also gone missing.” “While police were trying to locate Ganesh, Pooran surrendered at Eintkhedi police station. He told the police that he was farming on a piece of government land in his village Raipur where he laid the electric fence to protect the crop from pigs. His brother Ganesh didn’t know about the fence, came in contact with the live wire and was electrocuted on September 2,” said Kumawat. “The accused said when he saw his brother’s body in the field, he got scared of possible police action. So he tied the corpse to a heavy stone and flung it in a river near the village,” said the SDOP. He was helped by three of his friends in doing so, said the police.However, his guilt forced him to surrender. Police have fished out Ganesh’s body from the river and sent it for a post-mortem examination. Pooran’s accomplices are yet to be arrested, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-farmer-arrested-for-causing-brother-s-death-hiding-corpse/story-lNyItbnR1MexfmkLKGU24O.html
13-09-2020||Kolkata||Crisis-hit tourism industry pins hope on festive season||The tourism sector, crippled by the Covid-19 pandemic, hopes to see some businesses in the upcoming Durga puja and Diwali seasons with queries from interested travellers coming in, officials of the industry bodies said on Sunday.In the domestic and short-haul segments, people are showing interest, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI) eastern region head Anil Punjabi said. “There is interest and queries are coming in about destinations and safety measures, but these are yet to be translated into bookings,” he said, adding that people have changed their priorities amid the Covid-19 crisis. “There will be businesses in the Durga Puja and Diwali seasons with interest growing among people, though it is likely to be much less than what it used to be in the previous years,” Punjabi told PTI.With people starting to learn to live with the pandemic, at least some of them are likely to start travelling with requisite safety measures, he said. The TAFI eastern region head said the tour operators are providing people with all kind of information regarding tourists’ destinations and the safety of the places.A lot depends on how the Covid-19 situation emerges in the next few days as people would not want any cancellation. “Bengal is a value-for-money destination and is safe also,” he said, expressing hope that domestic tourists would travel during the holiday season.The reopening of Darjeeling hills to outsiders has led to tourists making queries about bookings in different destinations there for the Puja season, according to Raj Basu, convenor of the Association for Conservation of Tourism.“Many destinations in Darjeeling hills and Dooars forest in North Bengal are in village areas, which have around 70 per cent share of tourist footfalls,” Basu told PTI.Since these places are spread across villages and are not like hotels or resorts in urban centres, operators of tourism clusters are being informed about safe practices.“Each cluster comprises around 12 to 15 villages. At the meetings in each cluster, sensitisation is being done so that the tourists, the operators as also the villagers stay safe while livelihood is also earned,” Basu said. He said safe practices and how to deal with any kind of emergency situation are being described through workshops to the village tourism operators in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Dooars areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/crisis-hit-tourism-industry-pins-hope-on-festive-season/story-vK4XIkfmtFWWPNGeYYjSMM.html
13-09-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Amid high demand, tempo with oxygen cylinders stolen||A tempo carrying seven oxygen cylinders meant for hospitals amid the coronavirus outbreak was stolen in Pune’s Chakan area, police said on Sunday.The complainant has a business of transporting such cylinders and he had parked his tempo outside his house on Thursday night from where it went missing a few hours later, Inspector Balaji Sontake of Mhalunge post said.“We have registered a theft case and efforts are on to trace the tempo and nab the accused who stole it,” said the official.There is high demand for oxygen in hospitals due to the coronavirus outbreak and the district administration here has even formed dedicated teams to oversee and coordinate supply between oxygen manufacturing units and medical facilities.Adequate oxygen support, along with anti-coagulants and other medicines, is the mainstay of Covid-19 therapy and medical oxygen is listed as an Essential Public Health Commodity by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-amid-high-demand-tempo-with-oxygen-cylinders-stolen/story-DectosXqeEQsAvk1dTAL2N.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 hospitals allowed to increase bed capacity: Jain||All dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospitals in the national capital have been allowed to increase their bed capacity by up to 30% and 33 major private hospitals have been asked to reserve 80% of their intensive care unit (ICU) beds for patients suffering from the viral infection, said Satyendar Jain, Delhi’s minister for health and family welfare, during a press conference on Sunday. The move comes at a time when Delhi is seeing a record surge in Covid-19 cases. On Friday, 4,321 new Covid-19 cases were reported --- the highest single-day spike in the national capital to date.Jain attributed the spike in Covid-19 cases to aggressive testing mechanisms undertaken by his government. He also said the uptick in Covid-19 cases is because of unlocking restrictions in a bid to revive the economy. “It is very much on the expected lines. This surge in Covid-19 cases will stabilise within 10-15 days,” he said. Jain ruled out further lockdown restrictions in Delhi. He said lockdown is no longer a solution to Covid-19 and the public should wear masks. Also read: Venkaiah Naidu undergoes Covid-19 test ahead of monsoon session Jain said around though 50% Covid-19 beds in the city are lying vacant, the availability of ICU beds in a few major private hospitals is scarce as most patients are preferring private healthcare facilities to government-run ones. “I held a meeting through a video conference with all private hospitals on Saturday. They have agreed to our plan. Orders have been issued to allow all Covid-19 hospitals in the city to increase their bed capacity by 30%, if required. While 33 major private hospitals have been asked to reserve 80% of their total ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. If some of these ICU beds are occupied, then the figure must be updated in a common pool after Covid-19 patients are discharged,” Jain said. The minister explained that if a Covid-19 hospital has 100 beds, it would be allowed to increase its capacity to 130 beds, according to the latest orders. At present, Delhi has 14,372 hospital beds, of which 7,924 are lying vacant. Of these, 489 ICU beds with ventilators and 277 ICU beds without ventilators are unoccupied.The Delhi government’s decision came after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on September 9 had asked officials to draft a plan to increase Covid-19 bed capacity in Delhi, especially ICU beds.The situation is worse in multi-speciality private hospitals in the national capital. Over 89% of ICU beds with ventilators in 11 private hospitals were occupied until Friday. While 82% of ICU beds without ventilators in eight private hospitals were also filled on that day.Delhi recorded the highest-ever total hospitalisation due to the contagion in a single day on Friday after 6,294 people were admitted. The previous record was 6,264, which had occurred during the Covid-19 surge in Delhi in June-July.“Wearing masks reduces the chances of spreading and contracting Covid-19 significantly. The public should wear masks. The government is also running an intensive awareness campaign on the importance of masks. Everyone should wear mask and follow strict social distancing norms. We have moved far away from the times of lockdown. That (lockdown) is not going to happen again,” he added. Over 60,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the city for the second consecutive day on Friday. Hospitals and mohalla clinics are also testing asymptomatic people. However, the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) count continued to remain low, as compared to the less accurate rapid antigen detection (RAD) tests. Data showed 9,182 swab samples — 15% of all the tests — were conducted using the RT-PCR method, according to Saturday’s health bulletin. Jain said the results of the third serological survey, which was conducted in Delhi between September 1 and 5, would be announced in a few more days as the study of the samples is still in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-hospitals-allowed-to-increase-bed-capacity/story-hfrijn0xBMpg2LvPI9mBVP.html
13-09-2020||City||BJP worker’s body found hanging from tree in Bengal’s Hooghly district||Tension prevailed in Goghat town in West Bengal’s Hooghly district on Sunday morning after the body of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker was found hanging from a tree near the local railway station. Relatives of Ganesh Roy, the deceased, alleged that he was murdered by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers. “Roy was our active worker and he was murdered. If he had died by suicide, the body should have been hanging. Roy’s feet were touching the ground,” alleged Biman Ghosh, BJP’s Arambagh organisation district unit president. Talking on the condition of anonymity, an officer from Goghat police station said police personnel were stopped from taking the body to the morgue for autopsy. “A crowd created disturbance and blocked the Kamarpukur-Kolkata highway. We had to chase them away,” the officer said.The body was later taken to Burdwan Medical College for postmortem. Additional police force was deployed at Goghat.“Killing our workers, leaders and hanging their bodies has become a routine in Bengal. Our legislator from Hemtabad was killed in a similar manner,” said BJP state president Dilip Ghosh. He met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to complain about law and order situation in the state. Reacting to the BJP’s allegation, urban development minister Firhad Hakim said, “BJP is doing politics with every death that takes place. Whenever there is an unnatural death, they charge the TMC with murder.”Meanwhile, the criminal investigation department (CID) of the West Bengal Police on Saturday submitted charge sheet in the mysterious death of Debendranath Roy, the BJP legislator from Hemtabad in north Bengal. Roy’s body was found hanging outside a shop on July 13. The CID has charged two acquaintances of Roy with criminal conspiracy, cheating and abetment to suicide. The accused were arrested after Roy’s death. “We had said Roy was murdered and demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). We will move the Supreme Court with our demand,” Ghosh said in Kolkata while talking about the Goghat incident. In August, the Calcutta high court turned down the BJP’s petition for CBI probe into the MLA’s death. Subsequently, a Kolkata resident filed a petition in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-worker-s-body-found-hanging-from-tree-in-bengal-s-hooghly-district-kin-blame-tmc/story-Daep1kj4lDkWxzt0ufeWiJ.html
13-09-2020||Ranchi||PLFI ultras gun down Jharkhand man on suspicion of girl trafficking||Suspected members of the banned People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI) gunned down a 30-year-old man from Jharkhand suspecting him to be a girl trafficker. The incident took place at Khanda village under Naxal-hit Bandgaon police station in West Singhbhum district, police said.The incident took place on September 4, however, the matter came to the fore only after family members of the deceased youth, identified as Nungu Barjo, informed the police on Thursday.Police said they were investigating all angles, including a failed love affair, after exhuming Nungo’s body from his grave in forests near Khanda village on Friday.“We exhumed the body of Nungu Barjo from the grave inside the jungles near Khanda village in the presence of a magistrate. The villagers had buried him instead of informing the police. They had, however, informed his family about the incident, who later informed the police on Thursday. Khanda village being in the remote and deeply forested Naxal-hit area, and the legal obligation of exhuming the body from the grave, led to the delay in police action,” Nathu Singh Meena, Porahat sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), said.Meena said a preliminary investigation has revealed a love angle. “The deceased had a love affair with a girl from Khanda village and the couple’s families had even discussed their marriage about a year ago. We have, however, not yet found any instance of human trafficking in the village or adjacent areas. We are interrogating the villagers in Khanda and other nearby villages and further investigation is on,” said Meena.Some locals allege that Nungu had gone to Khanda village on September 4 and was allegedly trying to lure some village girls with job offers. This information somehow reached PLFI extremists, who shot Nungu. The ultras returned to the forests after the killing, while fearful villagers buried the body.Man held in Chaibasa for trafficking minorA man was arrested from Gandhi Maidan in Chaibasa on charges of trafficking a minor girl, who was being taken to Tamil Nadu along with 50 other girls and boys on the pretext of providing them jobs at one Loyal Textiles Mills Ltd, Tamil Nadu police said on Saturday.The man, identified as Jawahar Das (38), was arrested following a tip-off on Friday and in coordination with the district child welfare committee (CWC).“Chaibasa-based agent Jawahar Das was arrested and sent to jail on Friday, while a case was lodged against three accused, including Das, at anti-human trafficking unit police station under Sections 370(1), 370(4), 34 of the IPC and 14 (1A) of Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2016. Two buses from West Bengal were also seized among other things,” Amar Pandey, Chaibasa DSP, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/plfi-ultras-gun-down-jharkhand-man-on-suspicion-of-girl-trafficking/story-BQl14q6oZNwYLDypB3Of2H.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||After overnight moderate showers, Mumbai likely to see more rains today||Mumbai and its suburbs received moderate showers with intense spells recorded in isolated areas between Saturday night and Sunday morning.Overnight showers made it the strongest spell of rainfall in September. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted a revival of active monsoon conditions over Mumbai over the weekend. Between 8.30 am on Saturday and 8.30 am on Sunday, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of Mumbai and its suburbs, recorded 25.7 millimetres (mm) of rain and 16.4 mm was recorded at Colaba, which covers south Mumbai. Intense rainfall was recorded between 12.30 am and 5.30 am Sunday. Neighbouring Thane district recorded 22.8 mm of rain.Over 24 hours, a location-wise distribution showed many areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) recorded between 20 mm and 40 mm of rainfall. The highest rainfall was recorded in parts of the western and eastern suburbs. The area around the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport recorded 55 mm of rainfall, while Chembur and Navi Mumbai received 47.2 mm and 41.2 mm, respectively.The IMD said light to moderate rain with the possibility of occasional intense spells would continue on Sunday. “Factors such as the formation of a low-pressure weather system of west-central Bay of Bengal off the coast of Andhra Pradesh, an upper air cyclonic circulation over Maharashtra coast and associated systems such as an offshore trough from north Maharashtra to Kerala have allowed the revival of active monsoon conditions for Konkan and interior Maharashtra. Moderate to heavy rain is likely to continue for the next 24 hours,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.Over the past 24 hours, the highest rain was recorded in Ratnagiri at 40 mm, followed by Vengurla in Sindhudurg (30.4 mm), Matheran (28.4 mm), and Mahabaleshwar (26.2 mm).Maharashtra has recorded 13% excess rainfall between June 1 and September 13.South Mumbai and suburban Mumbai received 59% and 57% of excess rainfall, respectively. The rainfall received by suburban Mumbai is the highest for any district along the Konkan coast during this monsoon season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-overnight-moderate-rain-mumbai-likely-to-see-downpour-on-sunday/story-JJB9F7XPOAd1j02O8mrCgO.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||1993 Mumbai blasts: HC refuses emergency parole to four convicts||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has refused to grant emergency parole to four convicts in the March 1993 serial bombings in Mumbai.The four convicts, Sardar Shahwali Khan, Mohammed Moin Faridulla Qureshi, Niyaz Ahmed and Shaikh Ali Shaikh Umer, are serving life term at Harsool central prison at Aurangabad. They had moved the court after their applications for emergency parole, following a May 8 notification by the state for decongesting prisons in view of Covid-19 pandemic, were rejected by jail authorities on July 7 on the ground that they were convicted under provisions of a special statute -- the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) (TADA) Act -- and therefore, were not entitled to the benefit.The bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar upheld the decision and held that the TADA convicts were not entitled to emergency parole. The bench said the notification states that those convicted for serious economic offences or bank scams or for offences under special Acts etc. were not entitled to emergency parole, and that these categories also included convicts under the TADA Act.Two hundred and fifty seven people died and about 1,400 others were injured when a series of 13 high-intensity bombs exploded in Mumbai on March 12, 1993. Sardar Shahwali Khan, a civil contractor and aide of prime accused Tiger Memon, was convicted for conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1993-mumbai-blasts-hc-refuses-emergency-parole-to-four-convicts/story-5lpqci6sEAxPWXaPG96D6M.html
13-09-2020||City||Chhattisgarh anganwadis keep doors open; turnout yet to pick up||Leela Sahu, an aganwadi worker in one of the six anganwadi centres of Birkoni village in Mahsamund district of Chhattisgarh, reaches the centre at around 8.30 am and starts cleaning the premises with phenyl and sanitises the rooms. Waiting for children to come to the centre, she starts preparing food for them. But the turnout is very low. Out of 63 kids enrolled at this centre, only six who are severely malnourished come and are served a hot meal. For the rest, the centre sends Take Home Ration (THR) every week. While the Chhattisgarh government is the first state that decided to operate the anganwadi centres from September 7, which were shut mid-March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is not like earlier days. Parents are living in fear. I go door-to-door, convincing them to send their kids to the anganwadi but most of them are reluctant,” said Sahu, who was busy in the kitchen of the two-room centre. She said that Birkoni, with a population of around 5,000, has five aganwadi centres. Of them, three are closed because they fall in containment zones and local opposed their reopening. “My anganwadi centre caters to 38 kids between six months and three years of age, 25 kids between three and six years of age, 12 pregnant women and 16 lactating women. Many of them are not coming but we are sending THR to them,” said Sahu. “Apart from the six malnourished kids, four lactating women, who are anaemic, come to the centre. We are advising them to come here for better nutrition. The anganwadi centres were earlier opened from 9 am to 3 pm for physical and education activities of kids and now we only open for providing hot, cooked meal,” said Aprana Shrivastava , supervisor of women and child department for Birkoni village. Mahasamund Project of Women and Child Development Jyoti Chatur says things are not easy. “During the lockdown, we were providing THR to kids and mothers but for better nutrition, we have to provide hot, cooked meal hence the government started operating the anganwadi. Some people are not willing to send their kids but our workers and employees are trying hard. Only some sarpanchs have cooperated with us thus far,” Chatur said, adding that all the guidelines for the opening of angwanwadi centres are duly followed. In Chhattisgarh, there are 51,455 anganwadi centres and the National Health and Family Welfare Phase 4 survey put the malnutrition level in the state at 37%, said a senior government official. “The anganwadis were closed since March 14 and workers had been delivering dry ration to beneficiaries’ homes. Even international agencies like WHO and UNICEF believe Covid-19 might result in rise in malnourishment and have suggested that effective steps be taken to check it. Keeping that in mind, we have opened the centres for a limited period every day to provide freshly-cooked food to children and pregnant women. Besides, immunisation of children and health check-up of pregnant women can also be done,” the official added.However, the centres don’t still have thermal screening facility. “Thermal screening equipment has not been given to us till now . As far as personal hygiene and physical distancing is concerned, we are taking care and continuous monitoring is going on,” said Chatur. Nandini Dhurv (24), a lactating women and resident of Birkoni village, believes that the opening of centre is helpful for people like her. “ I come here for hot, cooked food every day,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-anganwadis-keep-doors-open-turnout-yet-to-pick-up/story-d1vmXjwXUAm9O7PTFlyE7L.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers protest in Haryana and Punjab: What has happened so far||Farmers in Haryana and Punjab have been protesting against three ordinances passed by the Centre. The protests began on Thursday when the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) staged a rally and blocked National Highway 44 near Kurukshetra. The farmers were charged by the Haryana Police for not following Covid-19 prohibitory orders and damage of property. Farmers expressed their outrage over the passage of these ordinances by the Centre which they called “anti-farmer”. They believe that the ordinances will lead to destruction of the peasants and will expose them to the whims of the market forces, said BKU leader Gurnam Singh, as quoted by news agency PTI.What are the three ordinances that have been passed by the Centre?The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 are the three ordinances that the Centre had passed during the lockdown period.Haryana farmers protest against three agriculture ordinancesThe farmers are more concerned with the first one - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020. The ordinance seeks to “provide for barrier-free trade of farmers’ produce outside the markets notified under the various state agricultural produce market laws (state APMC Acts). The Ordinance will prevail over state APMC Acts.”Farmers fear that this ordinance will end the Mandi system of selling of agricultural products and will lead to sale of their products below the Minimum Support Price or the MSP.SAD appeals to Centre not to enact laws on farm ordinances till redressal of farmers’ fearsThe ordinance states that farmers are allowed to trade products outside, “ the physical premises of market yards run by market committees formed under the state APMC Acts” and such trade “can be conducted in any place of production, collection, and aggregation of farmers’ produce including: (i) farm gates, (ii) factory premises, (iii) warehouses, (iv) silos, and (v) cold storages.”Congress supports farmers in their demandsAccording to PTI, former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupender Singh Hooda said in a statement, “These ordinances are against the interests of farmers. If the government wants to implement them, then it should ensure that no purchases are made below MSP.”Three-member panel meets Haryana farmers to hear grievancesBJP’s Haryana unit chief Om Prakash Dhankar, Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh met the farmers on Saturday and claimed that farmers were being misled about the ordinances. They also said that the Centre aims to bring structural reforms and allow the farmers better access to a larger market. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Sunday while addressing a virtual press conference said that they will support the farmers’ demands. He said that the ordinances passed by the government will adversely affect the farmers as well as the foodgrain procurement processes. He also highlighted that the ordinances will disrupt “the agrarian foundation that has been laid carefully in the past 50 years.”The central government seeks to bring this ordinances in order to bring structural reforms to the agricultural sector.Farmers still feel that MPs should raise these issues in the Parliament’s monsoon session beginning Monday and clear any confusion regarding these ordinances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protest-in-haryana-and-punjab-all-you-need-to-know/story-PU4HE2qXkvFViaNeDCTpeN.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Rise in Mumbai cases prompts rethink, BMC mulls roping in more private hospitals||With Mumbai seeing a steady spike in the number of Covid-19 cases reported in the past two week, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to examine if de-listed private hospitals need to restart taking in Covid-19 patients. The decision will be taken in a meeting of civic health official s in BMC on Monday afternoon. Also read: AstraZeneca resumes trial, China develops nasal sprayMid-May, when Mumbai witnessed a similar spike, the Maharashtra government had decided to reserve 80% of beds in private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. However, with Mumbai’s covid curve showing an improvement by the end of the month, over 70 such private hospitals and nursing homes were delisted. For the past two weeks, however, Mumbai has seen a steady spike in daily cases, with Thursday recording 2,371 new cases, the highest single-day spike in Mumbai so far, and a significant number of days recording over 2,000 fresh cases. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the civic body’s public health department, said, “In a meeting on Monday afternoon, we will take a call on whether we need to activate some private hospitals to increase bed capacity.”According to the civic body, the current bed capacity is sufficient to cater to patients, even with the high number of cases thrown up each day. As of Saturday, Mumbai has 37% of its 16,063 total beds vacant, which include hospital beds, beds in jumbo facilities and in quarantine centres for asymptomatic patients. While 19% of its 6,879 beds available for symptomatic patients are vacant, 5% of the 1,417 ICU (intensive care unit) beds are vacant, and 36% of the 7,852 oxygen beds are vacant. Kakani said, “The maximum number of cases coming up now are asymptomatic, and continue to come from high-rise buildings in the suburbs of Mumbai. Since BMC has allowed home quarantine for asymptomatic patients if they have a separate room and an attached toilet, people are opting to stay at home. This is why, so far we have not seen a shortage of beds even though cases are rising. Many private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients have vacant beds, and even Sion, Nair and KEM hospitals have 25% less occupancy as compared to earlier.” From Monday, BMC will begin strict enforcement of reduced fine for not wearing a mask, that has been brought down to Rs 200 from Rs 1,000. The rise in Covid-19 cases is partially attributed to people not following Covid discipline, such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, according to BMC officials. Kakani said, “The trend in new cases after the spike continues to show more cases are coming from high-rises. But we noticed even those are among domestic helpers and drivers working for families living in high rises. The occupants are taking care. In one building, we got 14 domestic helpers positive, but not a single occupant of the building was positive.” This is because the helpers step out for grocery shopping but don’t necessarily wear masks, or use sanitisers, according to Kakani. He said, “We have reduced the fine amount from Rs 1,000 to Rs 200 which will be enforced from Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-rise-in-mumbai-cases-prompts-rethink-bmc-mulls-roping-in-more-private-hospitals/story-Zlb3cocceD5V1ZkyNoeIBN.html
13-09-2020||Lucknow||Make rules for statutory meetings including trust vote amid Covid-19: HC||In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the Allahabad high court has directed the state government to consider framing of guidelines regarding holding of statutory meetings of local bodies, including those for the consideration of no confidence motions, within three weeks.“During the Covid-19 pandemic, everybody has to act with utmost caution so that the spread of infection may be curtailed as much as possible,” observed a division bench of justice Shashi Kant Gupta and justice Piyush Agrawal while passing the order and dismissing a writ petition filed by Tripti Rani, the head of kotwali kshetra panchayat, Bijnor.A no confidence motion was moved against Tripti Rani in accordance with the procedure laid down in UP Kshetra Panchayat and Zila Panchayat Act, 1961.The district magistrate, Bijnor, then issued a notice on August 21 for convening a meeting for considering the no confidence motion against Tripti Rani on September 15.The petitioner had challenged the notice on the ground that since there were about 185 members in kotwali kshetra panchayat in Bijnor, they exceeded the number of persons permitted to gather at a place under the guidelines issued for Unlock-4 by the government of India on August 29. Her petition further stated that the meeting called on September 15, 2020 would be in violation of the Disaster Management Act.Also Read: UP logs 6,846 new Covid cases in last 24 hours; active cases nearing 68,000Rejecting the plea of the petitioner, the court observed, “In a democratic set up where the right to govern depends on the will of the people, the person who has lost the majority cannot be permitted to hold office. If a representative no longer enjoys the confidence of the people, elected representatives have a right to remove him and he cannot be permitted to remain in power even for a second and has to be immediately replaced by a newly elected representative”.Also Read: Mayawati requests Centre, states to waive school fees of childrenThe court then directed the district magistrate, Bijnor to ensure all the protocols applicable for social and physical distancing are adhered to in the meeting for consideration of the motion of no confidence.The court observed that everybody had to act with utmost caution so that the spread of infection may be curtailed as much as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/make-rules-for-statutory-meetings-including-trust-vote-amid-covid-19-hc/story-RzW8M7BOKRBrYJ94BjS7WO.html
13-09-2020||Kolkata||In 2021 polls, TMC prepares to regain its lost ground in ‘Jangalmahal’||The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal, which appears to have lost ground in ‘Jangalmahal’ in the western parts of the state, is eyeing to regain it in the coming assembly elections slated to be held in the middle of next year.The TMC is preparing a three-pronged attack in a bid to take on the rival Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has made deep inroads into the tribal-dominated areas over the past few years and also swept all four seats there in last year’s parliamentary polls.TMC chief and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is banking on her development card, has introduced a raft of organisational changes to bring young and honest faces in the ruling party. There are also reports of alleged Maoist activities in ‘Jangalmahal’, once a Communist Party of India (Maoist) stronghold, after a gap of almost a decade.The counter-insurgency force (CIF) is being reactivated to nip Maoist activities, if any.However, Banerjee has claimed that the news of alleged Maoist activities was fake and that the truth would be uncovered soon. The TMC announced a structural overhaul in Bankura and Purulia districts last week.“The party is calling it the ‘great purge’. Local leaders and workers, who received poor feedback from the grassroots, have been removed from key roles. Instead, new and honest faces have been promoted,” said an I-PAC functionary, the company owned by election strategist Prashant Kishor, who has been roped in by Banerjee for her bid to win the next year’s assembly polls.Earlier in July, the TMC had inducted Chhatradhar Mahato and appointed him as a secretary of the state unit. Mahato used to be the poster boy of the Maoist-backed tribal movement at Lalgarh in ‘Jangalmahal’. Political analysts said that Mahato’s induction was an attempt to use his image by the TMC to curtail the BJP’s influence in the tribal-dominated belt.“People didn’t vote for the BJP in Jangalmahal on the basis of the party’s ideology. They just voted against a section of the grassroots TMC workers as they were peeved with their corruption and high-handedness,” Mahato recently told media persons.The BJP’s influence in ‘Jangalmahal’ started growing since 2014. The TMC suffered a blow in the area in the 2018 panchayat elections. In Jhargram district, of the 780 gram panchayats, where elections were held, 373 and 329 seats were won by the TMC and the BJP, respectively. Similarly, in Purulia district, of the 1,921 seats, where voting was held, the TMC and the BJP won 754 and 528 gram panchayat seats, respectively. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP gave the ruling TMC another jolt after it won all the seats that fall under ‘Jangalmahal’ (Purulia, Midnapore, Bishnupur and Jhargram).‘Jangalmahal’ has been one of the focus areas of Banerjee since the TMC came to power in 2011. The party can also hope to play the development card to counter the BJP’s growing influence.“The region has seen a sea change since Banerjee came to power as far as development is concerned. The government can speak of significant achievement in almost every sector whether it is education, health, tourism and infrastructure,” said Shantiram Mahato, minister for pashimanchal unnyan affairs department. Over the past few weeks, posters allegedly written by Maoists have resurfaced in ‘Jangalmahal’, prompting Virendra, director-general of police (DGP), West Bengal, to rush to the area in August to take stock of the security measures. Banerjee has sought a report on the ground reality and has also asked the police’s stop brass to reactivate the CIF, which was formed in 2010 to tackle the Maoist insurgency in ‘Jangamahal’.“It appears that Maoists are trying to regroup and have also held some meetings, including one attended by a TMC state committee leader. The TMC government has failed as most of the people in ‘Jangalamahal’ still live below the poverty line. It will be difficult for the ruling party to regain its lost ground,” said Amal Mukherjee, a political commentator and a former principal of Presidency College, which has since been upgraded to a state university, in Kolkata. The organisational changes came after the TMC’s survey and feedback from the people through the Didi ke Bolo campaign hinted at ominous signs that the public were unhappy with the local leaders and workers.“If the TMC thinks that it can regain its lost ground then it is living in a fool’s paradise. The party’s efforts to create trouble in Jangalmahal by reactivating the Maoists will boomerang. It will expose them further,” said Rahul Sinha, national secretary, BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/in-2021-polls-tmc-prepares-to-regain-its-lost-ground-in-jangalmahal/story-DIKvKGGln9hsklRFEDomxI.html
13-09-2020||Lucknow||NSA likely against those accused of killing farmer in UP’s Malihabad||The National Security Act (NSA), 1980, would be imposed against the assailants involved in the killing of a farmer, Ram Vilas Rawat (30), in a village on the outskirts of Malihabad town in Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Friday, said Lucknow district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Prakash after his visit to the incident spot the following day.Also read: Body of 13-year-old found in UP districtThe DM transferred Rs 5 lakh ex-gratia into the bank account of the farmer’s widow Suman Devi after meeting the aggrieved family. He assured the family of the strictest action against the people involved in the attack on the farmer.He said the victim’s family would be provided a house under the Gramin Awas Yojana. The farmer’s wife and father would get widow and old-age pension, respectively, Prakash said.A district administration official said the DM visited the incident spot on Saturday after he sensed that tension was brewing at Dilawar Nagar under Malihabad tehsil following the death of Rawat, a Dalit .He said five persons — Gulam Ali, Mustaqeem, Mufeed, Shanu, Guddu and Mufeed, who are residents of the same village — drove their motor bikes over a hosepipe on Thursday night. Ali and his accomplices attacked Rawat when he objected to their act. Rawat was seriously injured in the attack and succumbed to his injuries on his way to Malihabad community health centre in the intervening night on Thursday and Friday, he added.A police official said after Rawat’s death several villagers had blocked the Hardoi Road, which led to a clash with the police.Laxmi Singh, inspector-general of police (IGP), Lucknow range, said a first information report (FIR) was filed under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, against the accused. She said the three key accused — Ali, Mustaqeem and Mufeed — were arrested while efforts were on to nab the other two suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nsa-likely-against-those-accused-of-killing-farmer-in-up-s-malihabad/story-RDZAOaDh3Cl6Wj1BkxfqZK.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||114 commuters penalised for violating norms as DMRC resumes full services||The Delhi Metro resumed its full services on Saturday, with the Airport Express Line re-opening after a hiatus of over 170 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Over 1.5 lakh people had availed metro services across the various corridors till 7:30 PM. Of these, 2,268 people used the Airport Line, a senior Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) official said.All corridors of the DMRC network are now operational and the services will follow the pre-coronavirus time schedule -- 6 AM to 11 PM.“With the resumption of service on the Airport Express Line, all lines of the Delhi Metro network are now open! Remember to follow the guidelines when travelling. #MetroBackOnTrack,” the DMRC said in a tweet earlier in the day.The DMRC said around 200 passengers were counselled for not wearing face masks properly.In addition, 114 passengers were fined Rs 200 each for violation of social distancing norms or not wearing masks or face covers inside trains, it said in a statement.Many commuters said they felt safe travelling in the metro.Shahjahan Khan (29), who works with a private firm in Seelampur, said, “I believe it’s safer to travel in metro with necessary measures in place and more than anything else, it saves time and money,” he said.Before the resumption of the metro services, he used to travel to work in a cab or an autorickshaw, he said.Sangeeta Verma (45), a homemaker, who had to step out due to a family emergency said, “Many of my relatives who have travelled in the metro said it was safe as all safety measures have been taken by the authorities. So I thought why not give it a try.” “How long can we wait for the situation to normalise? We need to step out, if not today then tomorrow,” said Verma, a resident of Dwarka as she exited the Rajiv Chowk metro station.Metro services in Delhi and the National Capital Region were closed on March 22 to check the spread of coronavirus.The Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12.The Delhi Metro resumed services on Monday with curtailed operation of the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro. Stage two kicked in on Friday with Magenta and Grey lines also opening their doors to commuters and service hours being extended.Stage three came into effect from Saturday onwards with metro services going back to the pre-COVID-19 time schedule.Now that services have resumed on all lines, the DMRC will be henceforth be making public only the “line utilisation” figures as was done before the lockdown. These figures reflect the actual utilisation of the metro system spread over 400 km with 28 interchange stations.On Sunday, the DMRC will start its services two hours early than the normal timing of 8 AM to facilitate students appearing for NEET examination on September 13.“This Sunday, 13th September, Metro operations will start at 6:00 AM on all sections. Starting next Sunday, 20th September, regular timings as per earlier time table with services starting at 8:00 AM on Phase 3 sections (on Sundays) will continue. #MetroBackOnTrack,” the DMRC said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/114-commuters-penalised-for-violating-norms-as-dmrc-resumes-full-services/story-xNBbsQlOa8Pjy1g74BKnIO.html
13-09-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh man ends life after killing two kids, 3rd child survives||A man in Madhya Pradesh allegedly killed his two kids before taking his own life after a quarrel with his wife in Balaghat district, 432 km southeast of Bhopal, on Saturday late afternoon, said police.The man, a resident of Chartola village of the district was found dead along with his two sons, aged six and four, said Arun Kumar, town inspector Roopjhar police station. The man’s third son, a 10-months old infant, was found unconscious at the crime spot. He was rushed to a district hospital by the police where his condition is stated to be stable. Kumar said, “the man was a drunkard and he used to beat his wife in an intoxicated state. Upset with domestic violence, she left the home with her children a week ago and started living at her mother’s home in a neighbouring village.“The man went to his wife’s maternal village to bring her home but she refused. He then forcefully took his three kids back with him. He again went on Saturday afternoon to bring the wife back and fought with her when she refused to come,” Kumar said.“He threatened his wife that if she didn’t come, he would kill all the kids besides himself. He returned to the village and took his kids to the nearby forest. In the evening, villagers found his and the kids’ bodies and informed the police,” added Kumar. Also Read: Bhopal police arrest three from Noida for duping 10,000 people on pretext of ‘loans’Police took them to a hospital where doctors declared the man and his two sons dead while the infant was admitted for treatment. Kumar said, “Prima facie, the doctors said the cause of deaths of kids has been found to be asphyxia due to strangulation. Police also found marks around the neck of the 10-month old boy. His father might have tried to kill him too, but he survived.”After post-mortem, the bodies have been handed over to the dead man’s kin. Suicide prevention helplines in Madhya PradeshSpandan: +91 9630899002 +91 7389366696Disha: 1056Jeevan Aadhar: 1800-233-1250||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-man-ends-life-after-killing-two-kids-3rd-child-survives/story-trGgaeSUxi9UJ1XO2KLqIN.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||DDA to start on-site camp to hand out possession letters to allottees||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has started an on-site camp to give possession letters to allottees of its last year’s housing scheme.The camp will be held at Vasant Kunj in south Delhi on September 14 and 15. The allotment process, which had started last December, got stalled in March because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The land-owning agency had resumed the allotment process in September after a gap of five months. Also read: DDA sets up service centres to help residents with ownership rights“We decided to hold on-site camps in a bid to minimise the allottees’ trips to our office. Allottees should bring all original documents along with a set of their photocopies and an identity proof for verification. Those who were earlier called to our headquarters for paperwork should also come to submit their documents,” said a DDA official.The DDA had put on sale 18,000 flats — 8,300 lower income group (LIG), 1,550 middle income group (MIG), 450 high income group (HIG) and 7,700 for the economically weaker section (EWS)-- in its housing scheme in March, 2019 before the parliamentary elections. The draw of the lottery, which got delayed because of the polls, was held in July, 2019 .Of the nearly 18,000 flats, the DDA could manage to sell 8,438 because of a poor response to the scheme.“Once the allotment of the last year’s scheme is done, we will start work on new projects,” said a DDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-to-start-on-site-camp-to-hand-out-possession-letters-to-allottees/story-dPr9WLaL6dA65pRFdFeJ9K.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi to have partly cloudy, humid Sunday: IMD||Delhi is likely to have a partly cloudy sky with high moisture levels on Sunday. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, though there will be clouds, no rainfall activity is expected in the national capital until early next week. “The day and night temperatures are likely to remain on the higher side because of the high humidity levels. There could be slight rainfall activity around September 15-16,” said a senior IMD official. On Saturday also, the day temperature was 37.3 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal, while the minimum temperature settled at 25.3 degrees C. “Even though it’s not raining in Delhi now, the neighbouring regions are experiencing rainfall, because of which there is high moisture content in the atmosphere leading to humidity. Delhi may get some relief from heat in the day with slight rainfall next week,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-have-partly-cloudy-humid-sunday-imd/story-3uEHReaH5nRmU9C2kHp0BO.html
13-09-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro specials and more than 2500 buses on road for NEET examinees||The Kolkata Metro would run 79 special trains on Sunday for candidates appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). Apart from the metro, the state transport corporations have planned to run more than 2,500 buses across the state for the candidates.Many students accompanied by their guardians would be coming down to Kolkata from far flung areas to appear for the exam. “The special trains would operate from 10 am to 7 pm. Candidates would have to show their admit cards at the gates to enter the stations. Guardians can accompany them,” said a metro spokesperson. More than 77,000 candidates are expected to appear for the NEET exam in West Bengal across 189 centres in nine zones. Around 30,000 are expected to appear at centres in the Kolkata zone. Several examinees are headed to Kolkata from different districts of the state. “The three state-run corporations would run more than 2500 buses across the state. Besides this, the private bus associations, taxi and auto associations have also been requested to operate their vehicles in full strength. The app cabs would also be plying,” said a senior official of the state transport department. Also Read: Mumbai locals to allow NEET 2020 candidates, other examinees with I-cards, hall ticketsMany candidates already reached the city on Saturday to avoid inconvenience while a few others are putting up in hotels and guest houses since Thursday as the Mamata Bnaerjee administration had earlier declared a lockdown on Friday and Saturday. “At least four rooms in my guest house had bookings since Thursday. Guests have already been put up in three of them, while one booking was cancelled. They are all NEET examinees and have their exam centres in Salt Lake,” said Samir Dutta of Manorama Guest House in sector V of Salt Lake Also Read: West Bengal reports 59 more Covid-19 fatalities, 3,161 new casesThe state government, however, later cancelled the lockdown on September 12, keeping in mind the inconvenience that students might face. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said that 75% of the candidates failed to appear in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) on the first day on September 1 due to the pandemic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-metro-specials-and-more-than-2500-buses-on-road-for-neet-examinees/story-NrqYtBeRDYNZRyhsOo7ehO.html
13-09-2020||Patna||Bihar’s ace politician Raghuvansh Prasad Singh on ventilator in AIIMS||Former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s health condition deteriorated in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday and he was put on ventilator at the ICU unit of AIIMS, New Delhi, where the 74 year old has been undergoing treatment for over one week. “Raghuvanshji is having problems in intake of oxygen and is put on ventilator support,” said a close aide of the veteran socialist on phone from New Delhi, seeking anonymity. He said the leader’s health deteriorated at around midnight, following which he was put on a ventilator. “We are praying for his early recovery. He is being constantly monitored by doctors,” the aide said. Singh has been in news for the last few days after he resigned from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Thursday, apparently peeved over his marginalization in the party in the last few years, leading to speculations that the ailing former union minister could switch over to the ruling JD(U) in the coming days. Also Read: The importance of Raghuvansh Prasad SinghSingh has also written a series of letters with one addressed to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, in which he has demanded changes in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) job scheme and development of Vaishali. In one of his letters, circulated in the media, Singh has also flayed the culture of dynastic politics and taken indirect potshots at family-rule in the RJD. Also Read: JD(U) takes exception to Lalu’s letter to Raghuvansh Prasad, terms it violation of jail manual Singh’s exit from the party has given the JD(U) and BJP leaders another opportunity to train guns at the RJD, claiming the opposition party does not know how to respect its elders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-ace-politician-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-on-ventilator-in-aiims/story-XUuJvI1BIA58Ws2GT6mBHJ.html
13-09-2020||Kolkata||‘Political conspiracy’: Bengal Congress hits streets to defend ‘victim’ Rhea Chakraborty||The Congress party in West Bengal took out a rally in Kolkata on Saturday in support of Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty and to protest against the alleged victimization of the actor in the drugs-related case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. A few hundred party workers took part in the rally that was brought out from the West Bengal pradesh Congress committee’s headquarters in central Kolkata. Similar rallies were taken out by the party in West Midnapore and West Burdwan districts. The activists shouted slogans opposing the alleged ‘vilification campaign’ against the ‘daughter of Bengal’ in the name of investigation, and held placards that read “we will not stop till she gets justice”. This comes three days after Congress Lok Sabha leader and West Bengal party unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury termed Chakraborty as a “Bengalee Brahmin”. Also Read: Rhea Chakraborty has revealed names of 15 Bollywood celebrities involved in drug use“Political conspiracy and vindictive behaviour against Rhea Chakraborty, the daughter of Bengal, will not be tolerated,” the West Bengal Congress tweeted a few hours ago. On Wednesday, Chowdhury had said Rajput was an Indian actor, but the “BJP turned him into a Bihari actor” only to score electoral brownie points. The BJP has lashed out at the Congress. Also Read: NCB arrests 6 more in Sushant Singh Rajput-linked drugs case“The century-old Congress party has no issue in hand today and that’s why they are playing such petty politics over language. This is unfortunate. Law will take its own course. Raising questions on this means they are raising questions over the judicial system. Whatever the investigating agencies do, ultimately the matter would reach the court,” said Rahul Sinha, national general secretary of BJP. “She was victimised even before she was proven guilty in court. The vilification campaign once again proves the sheer hatred of the BJP towards the Bengalis,” Saugata Roy, TMC lawmaker had earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/political-conspiracy-bengal-congress-hits-streets-to-defend-victim-rhea-chakraborty/story-Vlpe1sC66QCONr1qNb78dN.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro starts following previous timetable on all sections||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which recently resumed its operations after a five-month break due to the coronavirus pandemic, started its services on September 13 (Sunday) at 6 am. The metro trains are usually available from 8 am on Sundays.However, from next Sunday (September 20), the DMRC said that the operations will resume from 8 am as per the pre-Covid timetable.‘’This Sunday, 13th September, Metro operations will start at 6:00 AM on all sections. Starting next Sunday, 20th September, regular timings as per earlier time table with services starting at 8:00 AM on Phase 3 sections (on Sundays) will continue,” DMRC tweeted. This Sunday, 13th September, Metro operations will start at 6:00 AM on all sections. Starting next Sunday, 20th September, regular timings as per earlier time table with services starting at 8:00 AM on Phase 3 sections (on Sundays) will continue. #MetroBackOnTrackDelhi Metro, six days after its graded reopening, resumed normal services on all its lines on Saturday.Data suggested at least 1,52,845 people took a ride on the Delhi Metro on Saturday - which is 23,959 people more than Friday’s total passenger count.The metro services in Delhi resumed services on Yellow line from September 7 with many measures for the safety of passengers and curtailed operations.The services in Blue Line and Pink Line were restored on September 9 from 7 am. Metro services in Delhi-NCR were shut down on March 22 following lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-starts-following-previous-timetable-on-all-sections/story-9pCIJUOKRlIM1oL53EBCGO.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers protest against three agriculture ordinances||Farmers took out a protest rally over the introduction of three ordinances in the agriculture sector, in Haryana’s Kurukshetra on Saturday.“These ordinances will create a system under which mandis will collapse and MSP scheme will be repealed,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union state chief Gurnam Singh. “We were lathi-charged earlier and it is condemnable. The government should not have stopped the rally. Even political leaders are conducting rallies amid COVID-19 crisis. Police had resorted to lathi-charge leaving several people injured. Cases have been registered against farmers at various places,” he added. Earlier on September 10, farmers blocked National Highway 44 near Kurukshetra to lodge a protest against the three recent agriculture ordinances passed by the Union Cabinet.Speaking to media, Kurukshetra Superintendent of Police (SP) Astha Modi said, Legal action will be taken against those who have violated law and order and Disaster Management Act.“Police are alert and we have tried hard that without using force the farmers agree and move away,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-protest-against-three-agriculture-ordinances/story-BLZ8W8etwDxoabFpFY1OfI.html
13-09-2020||Kolkata||NEET 2020: Kolkata Metro to run special services for aspirants on Sunday||In a bid to ease travel woes of several thousand National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) aspirants, the Metro Railway in Kolkata will on Sunday operate special services.This service will be exclusively for medical entrance examinees and their guardians, Metro Railway spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said, according to news agency PTI. Examinees will have to show NEET admit cards at the gates of Metro stations.Normal Metro services were suspended due to lockdown announced in March and efforts are on to restart operations soon.“No token will be issued to commuters and only printed card tickets will be issued to the bonafide students and their guardians,” Banerjee said.A total of 66 trains - 33 each in up and down directions - will run on Sunday from 11 am to 7 pm from the two terminal stations-- Noapara and Kavi Subhash.These services will be available in every 15 minutes, she said.Candidates for Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) had faced a tough time reaching exam centres due to lack of transport facilities earlier this month.The Kolkata Metro has already come up with a list of dos and don’ts for the passengers which include wearing or masks, sanitising hands at stations and maintaining social distancing, among others.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/neet-2020-kolkata-metro-to-run-special-services-for-aspirants-on-sunday/story-nU7hWcH4rWbO3nAu0Dih4M.html
13-09-2020||City||UP man’s hand chopped: Panipat SIT starts investigation||A special investigation team (SIT) of the Haryana Police on Saturday initiated a probe into the chopping off of the hand of a 28-year-old man. The man was also booked for sexually assaulting an 11-year-old boy on the same day. The SIT recovered Akhlaq Salmani’s hand from the railway track near Kishanpura locality of Panipat city where the man was allegedly attacked by a few residents on August 23. Panipat deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Satish Kumar Vats, who is heading the SIT, said, “We have found crucial evidence in the case. Akhlaq’s hand and some blood samples have been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for examination and matching DNA”.“We have also issued notice to Akhlaq to join the investigation as he was also accused of sodomising an 11-year- old boy on the same night,” the DSP said. The first FIR was registered on September 7 after a resident of Kishanpura locality accused Akhlaq of kidnapping and sodomising his son.The complainant said when the local residents found the minor with Akhlaq, they beat him up and forced him to disclose his identity. Subsequently, Akhlaq managed to flee the scene and enter the railway track. Police say there is a possibility that his hand was chopped off by a train as the government railway police spotted him on the railway track the next morning. As per the zero FIR filed by the GRP, Akhlaq accused the area residents of beating him up and chopping his right hand with a sawing machine. Akhlaq said he was dumped on the railway track by his assailants. His brother, Ikram, However, told the local media that Akhlaq’s hand was chopped off after the assailants spotted the number 786 tattooed on his right arm. The number has a holy context in Islamic scriptures. Police say the man who accused Akhlaq of sodomising his son has a sawing machine at his house but there is no evidence to prove that the machine was used to cut his hand. “We have issued a notice to the boy’s father to join the investigation, too” said the DSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-man-s-hand-chopped-panipat-sit-starts-investigation/story-10KlWdS7LYEzJxzEIwCj9H.html
13-09-2020||City||Three-member panel meets Haryana farmers to hear grievances||The three-member panel, formed by Bharatiya Janata Party’s Haryana unit chief Om Prakash Dhankar to look into grievances against the agricultural ordinances brought in by the Centre, met farmers and traders in Rohtak and Karnal on Saturday.Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, who is part of the panel along with Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh, said that Union government had brought these ordinances with an aim to double the farmers’ income.“A few people are misleading the farmers over the ordinances. But we have briefed the farmers about the benefit of these ordinances. We are taking suggestions from farmers and will discuss the same with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar,” said MP Dharambir.Hisar MP Brijendra Singh said the main objective of bringing these ordinances was to bring structural reforms in agriculture.“There are efforts being made to spread confusion regarding the three ordinances. The reality is that these ordinances will neither abolish the existing Mandi system nor abolish the minimum support price,” he added. BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankhar had formed a committee on September 10 after farmers protesting against the Ordinances at Kurukshetra were canecharged by the police.Kisan Sabha opposes OrdinancesThe five-member delegation of All India Kisan Sabha that met the three MPs demanded the withdrawal of these three ordinances. Inderjit Singh, vice-president of the delegation, said these ordinances are against farmers and the MPs should raise this issue in the Parliament.“The Haryana government should pass a resolution to withdraw these ordinances, otherwise farmers will be destroyed. We have submitted our grievances in the written to the three members MPs committee,” he added. Another farm leader Preet Singh of Kisan Sabha said they don’t think the three-member panel will be able to help revoke these ordinances. “The committee formed by Dhankar is an eyewash. The BJP government has become arrogant and we are surprised how a state president of the ruling party can form a such committee,” he added. Govt trying mislead farmers: ChaduniBhartiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who is leading the farmers’ protest against three ordinances, has termed the three-member panel as an attempt to weaken the agitation. He said the Union government has already proposed to pass these ordinances in the coming session of the Parliament beginning from September 14. Chaduni urged the farmers “not to get misled by such panels” and said that agitation is the only way to force the government to withdraw these ordinances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-member-panel-meets-haryana-farmers-to-hear-grievances/story-HiwMiEd27n54lrQ168L4hM.html
13-09-2020||City||Karnal school reopens after six months, three-hour workday observed||Excitement was palpable as 70 Class-12 students entered their classrooms in Government Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu, on Saturday, around six months after the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. The students were allowed to come to school after their parents gave written consent. “It felt good to meet my teachers and classmates after such a long gap,” said one of the students Rekha Rani. Another student Ankit Kumar said, “Staying away from school, the classroom, teachers and friends for such a long time was not pleasant. We are glad that our school is among the two schools that were chosen to be reopened”.The Haryana education department had selected two schools — Government Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu, in Karnal, and Government High School, Bajidpur in Sonipat, for reopening as most parents at the school were keen on it.Students and teachers took all preventive measures such as wearing face masks and observing social distancing. A team from the education department along with experts videographed the proceedings. Teachers and students were allowed to enter the school, following thermal screening and sanitisation of their hands.Principal Dharampal Singh said the school was reopened as per the guidelines of the government and only 15 students, all of whom were wearing face masks, were seated in a classroom. As per the time table provided by the department, students were taught for three hours on the first day.As per government guidelines, these two schools were reopened on trial basis. The videos will be shown to students of other schools in the state through the EDUSAT network to encourage parents to have their wards returned to school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-school-reopens-after-six-months-three-hour-workday-observed/story-hkNY4IxlT99iBD9MoseTWI.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||82% new Covid-19 infections in Haryana from 11 districts||Half of Haryana’s 22 districts accounted for 82% of the 2,783 new Covid-19 infections reported on Saturday. The new infections pushed the cumulative tally to 91, 115. A medical bulletin said that 24 infected persons died on Saturday, taking the toll to 956. Among those who died on Saturday, five were from Karnal, three each from Faridabad and Ambala; two each from Gurugram, Hisar, Sirsa and Yamunanagar; and one each from Kaithal, Fatehabad, Kurukshetra, Panchkula and Rohtak. On Saturday, four districts threw up more than 200 cases each while seven reported more than 100 cases each. They are Gurugram (326), Faridabad (278), Karnal (272), Hisar (213), Ambala (197), Panchkula and Panipat (178), Jind (174) Kurukshetra (173), Sonepat (165), and Sirsa (131). Substantial numbers were also reported from Rohtak (77), Rewari (68), Yamunanagar (61), Jhajjar (56) and Mahendergarh (55). The bulletin said that 2, 188 infected persons recovered from the virus, taking the total number of recoveries to 70, 713. The number of active infections was 19, 446 with seven districts, each having more than 1, 000 active cases, accounting for over 58% of them. The bulletin said there were 322 critically ill patients, including 42 on ventilator support.Among other districts, Fatehabad reported 48 new cases followed by Palwal (40), Kaithal (39),Bhiwani (30), Nuh (16) and Charkhi Dadri (8).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/82-new-covid-19-infections-in-haryana-from-11-districts/story-7MUyaqZmE0DR8FcpS8CLWK.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||Ensure North-East Delhi riots probe was impartial, ex-Mumbai top cop tells Delhi Police chief||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Julio Ribeiro reportedly wrote a letter to Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava, requesting him to look into the North-East Delhi riots probe and make sure it was impartial.Riberio is learnt to have told the Delhi Police chief that police have failed to act against those who made hate speeches that led to the riots. When contacted by HT, Riberio, who was also the director general of Punjab Police in mid-1980s, confirmed he had written to Shrivastava. “ Yes. I wrote to them. I have written about my opinion of police’s investigation in my column too (in an English daily published in Punjab).”Responding to the email sent by Riberio, a Delhi Police statement said, “Since the officer in whose name the email has been received has not been in touch with Delhi Police in the recent times and especially in the past six months, we are trying to ascertain the veracity and the genuineness of the mail.”Delhi Police have been widely criticised for their investigation of the riot case as they arrested student leaders, activists, local politicians who were prominent voices of the anti-CAA protests on the grounds that the riots were planned at the site of the protests. This has been denied by the arrested persons, who have accused Delhi Police of arresting anti-government voices in the name of investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ensure-north-east-delhi-riots-probe-was-impartial-ex-mumbai-top-cop-tells-delhi-police-chief/story-HrzGGNJJ2KwwTBLUyx6GFL.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Five godowns in Bhiwandi gutted||Five godowns were gutted in a fire that broke out in Mankoli, Bhiwandi, on Saturday afternoon. The fire was doused after two hours. No one was injured in the incident. The fire broke out in a godown that stored plastic, paper, cardboard, said the fire brigade officials of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC). The fire led to a huge amount of property loss.“As soon as we got a call, two of our fire tenders rushed to the spot and initiated the fire-fighting operations. The fire was spreading to other godowns that were closely located. The blaze was brought under control in two hours, “ said a fire officer of BNCMC requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/five-godowns-in-bhiwandi-gutted/story-dT5VfbA4mYpYUOAQIRF8zL.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Thane cops nab three bike thieves||Kopri police arrested three in the theft of 10 high end bikes on Friday. The bikes have been recovered from them. The accused are identified as Pratik Palkar, 22, a resident of Kalyan, Vishal Chalke, 32, a resident of Mulund and Nitin Wadkar, 20.Kopri police received information about the first two accused, habitual bike thieves, arriving at Mithbunder Road in Kopri on Friday. Police team laid a trap and nabbed the duo while they were about to flee away with one of the Bullets.After interrogation, the duo confessed to the crime and informed about their third partner Wadkar. Police said, “The accused have hiding spots for these bikes in Belapur, Khandeshwar, Nerul and Panvel where 10 Bullets which they had stolen in past three months were hidden. We have recovered all bikes from the accused worth Rs 14.65 lakhs. Further investigation about the trio is on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-cops-nab-three-bike-thieves/story-BzEZklZOGpFU1ub4QN8dZP.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Thane civic body to maintain roads, flyovers from next year: Minister Eknath Shinde||In an order passed by cabinet minister of Urban Development and Public Works, Eknath Shinde, all roads and flyovers within the limits of Thane Municipal Corporation will have to be maintained by the civic body from next year.The funds for some roads/ flyovers that come under MMRDA, MSRDC, PWD and MIDC will be provided by these planning authorities, but the maintenance, henceforth, will be carried out by the Thane Civic body. Earlier, every agency maintained the roads and flyovers they constructed but this required a lot of coordination.Moreover, most major roads including highways and bypass roads developed craters leading to traffic congestion in the city. There was a long standing demand from the TMC to take up the maintenance of roads in the city.A special online meeting was held by Shinde with all concerned departments on Saturday. “Many of the prominent roads and flyovers within Thane civic body have potholes due to the ongoing monsoon. Most of these are under the jurisdiction of other authorities apart from TMC but the maintenance was not done efficiently,” Shinde said.“Firstly, each one has to ensure that the pending repair work was completed at the earliest. From next year onwards, they will transfer all the funds to TMC, which will be solely responsible to carry out the maintenance,” said Shinde. All departments have been asked to allot funds for the repair work and submit them to the Thane civic body by April next year onwards.Meanwhile, TMC has to begin the repair and maintenance from January onwards and submit the work completed report by May, well before the monsoons begin.  The prominent roads and flyovers within Thane which are currently not under the civic body are Teen Haath Naka flyover, Cadbury Junction flyover, Kapurbawdi flyover, Bhiwandi bypass, Mumbra bypass and flyovers along Ghodbunder Road. These will now be maintained by the Thane civic body.“TMC is often criticised for not maintaining these prominent roads whereas they aren’t under TMC jurisdiction,” added Shinde. Ravindra Khadtale, city engineer, TMC, said, “The potholes that would resurface on these prominent roads and flyovers would be blamed on the TMC despite not being the authority responsible for this. Hence, we are glad that we can manage these roads and flyovers now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-to-maintain-roads-flyovers-from-next-year-minister-eknath-shinde/story-9jFzHP1DWOmK9J8sHzxe4J.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Boundaries of containment zones in Kalyan-Dombivli sealed again||With the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation has decided to re-seal the boundaries of the containment zones on Saturday to ensure no one goes in or out of the zone apart except for essential work.The twin cities are recording, on an average, 500 to 600 cases per day since the Ganeshotsav festival.The borders of the zone were opened just before the ten-day festival.Based on the directions from the KDMC chief Vijay Suryavanshi, the ward officers of the civic body initiated sealing of the borders of containment zones with bamboo and also by placing boards.The borders of Paar naka, Sahajanand chowk, Adharwadi chowk, Thankarpada chowk, Beturkar chowk and Phadke maidan were sealed.In KDMC, there are 112 containment zones and 44 hotspots.“During Ganesh Chaturthi, the sealed areas were opened in order to make it convenient for people to move out. However, now the civic body chief has asked to seal all the zones again. Our team has sealed some of the zones on Saturday,” said Bhagaji Bhangare, ward officer, KDMC.On Friday, the KDMC recorded 623 Covid cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 37,696. The city also recorded two deaths, taking the death toll to 709 as per the state government records.In July, the average new cases recorded in KDMC limits were around 200-300.“The sealing of borders of the containment zones and hotspots will be strictly followed now as the numbers are rising. There is a need to control the movement of the public in such zones,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/boundaries-of-containment-zones-in-kalyan-dombivli-sealed-again/story-VzD1bOtj7yhopnD1sTY8aP.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Scarcity of oxygen cylinders in Badlapur put families in quandary||Between 20 and 30 patients admitted after testing positive for Covid-19 in Badlapur have been forced to run helter and skelter due to scarcity of oxygen-equipped beds in the town on Saturday.Patients were also asked to get their own oxygen cylinders or shift to hospitals.Amol Parab, 32, Badlapur east resident, admitted his father in a city-based private hospital seven days ago with complaints of breathlessness. He was suddenly asked to shift from the hospital on Saturday early morning as there was no oxygen cylinder left.Parab said, “My 72-year-old father has been admitted in the hospital seven days back, and on Saturday I received a call around 7 am from a doctor to shift him immediately. They informed that the hospital did not have oxygen cylinders. I tried to shift him to another hospital but no beds were available. I looked for cylinder in nine different places including government hospital suppliers but no one had any in stock. Finally, a Ulhasnagar-based cylinder dealer gave me one for Rs 500 with Rs 10,000 as deposit.”In another case, a patient was admitted on Friday evening and on Saturday morning, family received a call to immediately shift the patient.Alok Vichare, 33, admitted his 63-year-old mother for pneumonia and Covid-19 treatment at a private hospital in Badlapur on Friday evening. She was on oxygen supply. Suddenly, at 7.30 am on Saturday, Vichare got a call to immediately to shift the patient. Vichare said, “We felt so scared at the moment as, at a time, 20 to 30 families were searching for hospitals to shift their patients. I called suppliers in Badlapur but there were no spare cylinder. I went all the way to Thane and bought an oxygen cylinder. “District civil surgeon of Thane, Kishor Pawar, said, “There is an issue of scarcity of oxygen cylinders in Badlapur. After checking the issue, we come to know that the refilling agency has not sent the cylinder because of which the issues occurred. We have spoken to our suppliers from Navi Mumbai and now the issue has been resolved. Soon hospitals will get their cylinder refilled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/scarcity-of-oxygen-cylinders-in-badlapur-put-families-in-quandary/story-9Hj7OC7V4wWy0wZZDUTZ3J.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan civic body climbs to 3rd rank under Centre’s Amrut Yojana||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has managed to improve its ranking under the Central Government’s Amrut Yojana, bagging the third position in August. In July, the civic body ranked ninth among the 15 cities across Maharashtra in which the scheme is being implemented.One of the major reasons for the improvement in the ranking is due to implementation of several projects under the scheme in KDMC vicinity, claimed the officials.“The ranking is declared every month by the government. From ninth position, we have managed to jump to the third position which is a great achievement. We are working on several projects under the scheme and most of them are being implemented,” said an officer of KDMC, who did not wish to be named.In KDMC, total work worth Rs 484cr is being undertaken under the scheme.Under the scheme the civic body has managed to finish the work on three new parks and in developing green belt at Umbarde, Netivali.The civic body has also completed 65 per cent work of phase 1, 50 per cent work on phase 2 that includes work related to drainage line. The progress of work in water supply and management is seven per cent.The KDMC falls under the category of those 15 cities that have undertaken work under the scheme costing more than Rs 200cr.Under the scheme, the civic body has also taken up the water supply project in 27 villages. Although 18 villages have been separated to form a new municipal body, the work undertaken in the villages under the scheme will continue.  “As there is no direction regarding the projects undertaken in the 18 villages from the government as of now, the work which was taken up will continue,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-civic-body-climbs-to-3rd-rank-under-centre-s-amrut-yojana/story-9Z2U8WEKG0V11hfjREzECO.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan civic body suspends licence of hospital for overcharging patients||In yet another crackdown on hospitals overcharging Covid patients, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) suspended the licence of a hospital here on Friday. The civic body has also suspended the permission to treat the Covid patients in this hospital.As per the KDMC squad that monitors Covid hospitals and addresses the complaints against such hospitals in its vicinity, the hospital has overcharged charged patients for beds and PPE kits among other things.“We have suspended the licence of the hospital till September 30 or till the overcharged money is refunded to the patients and other irregularities are rectified by the hospital,” said an officer of KDMC who did not wish to be named.As per the civic body, the hospital charged Rs 1,980 for PPE kit while it is supposed to just charge Rs 1,000.  After the auditing of bills, the civic body also found that the hospital had overcharged around Rs 6.93 lakh from Covid patients through three different bills.“We have served notice to the hospital before the suspension asking it to explain its side.  However, there was no response from its side,” added the officer.After the suspension, the hospital will not be allowed to admit any new patient but will treat the existing patients. The civic body’s medical officer will be deployed at the hospital to keep a track.Owner of the hospital said, “The hospital staff had informed me about the notice. We will figure it out soon. Earlier, when we received a notice we had replied to the civic body.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-civic-body-suspends-licence-of-hospital-for-overcharging-patients/story-DguxvV9wup4M0nIY9Vk1pK.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Nightmare for motorists along Kalyan-Shilphata stretch continues||The nightmare for commuters travelling along the Kalyan-Shilphata stretch is far from over as merely 25 per cent of the road widening and concretisation work on this stretch has been completed so far.The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) that took up the work in March has claimed that the designated contractor has finished the work at Shilphata and Kongaon patches of the vital 21km stretch.The MSRDC is working on widening the existing four lanes stretch to six lanes and also concretising it for smooth traffic flow. As per traffic police, on an average around 85,000 vehicles take this stretch on a daily basis.Shashikant Sontakke, chief engineer of MSRDC, said,” The work order for the widening and concretisation was given to the contractor in March and the work started immediately. In last six months, 25 per cent of the work is completed. This includes Kon village and Shilphata stretches. The work is under progress and the estimated duration for its completion is 24 months.”The 21-km-long Kalyan-Shilphata route, which connects Kalyan-Dombivli-Bhiwandi-Thane to Navi Mumbai, is a vital link and sees a major congestion during peak hours.  Presently, the work of one lane concretisation of Desai Creek Bridge to Shilphata, which is 2km and the work at Palava junction and Katai bridge are under way. The work of three lanes from Durgadi–Kongaon- Rajnouli chowk is over while the work of fourth lane is being undertaken. A total of 120 labourers are deployed for the work on this stretch.Poor traffic managementCommuters, though, are glad about the work being undertaken. However, there have been complaints about the ordeal they face due to poor traffic management along the stretch and bad roads.Himanshu Joshi, 27, who travels from Dombivli to Thane for work daily claimed that it takes around 1.45 hours to reach his workplace, and around 2.15 hours  from his office to home, while the actual time to reach workplace is 50 minutes. “The roads are horrible and there is a humongous traffic on the stretch on a daily basis. I have tried travelling at different time spans like leaving Dombivli at 8.30 am, 9 am or 10 am but the scenario is same all the time,” said Joshi.He added: “Those portions that are yet to be concretised are not in good condition. There are potholes.  There are multiple crossings near the Bhiwandi side of the stretch leading to congestion as there is no control on two-wheelers.”Several commuters have also taken to social media, slamming the poor management of traffic on this stretch. Commuters taking this stretch have claimed it to be the worst affected stretch in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).   “I think it is the worst affected stretch in the MMR as there is no way out from the traffic snarls. Even though the work has begun, there is no clear picture on when will it get over and ease the traffic. There are no signals on this stretch,” said Manoj Kurlekar, 38, who takes the Shilphata stretch to reach his workplace in Navi Mumbai from Kalyan.The work of Patripool and Durgadi Bridge is also being carried out. In August, the work of laying girders for the Patripool bridge was taken up,  while the MSRDC officials claimed that the bridge shall be ready by another month.Meanwhile, the work of the Durgadi Bridge, which was in full swing before the lockdown, was affected and is now being undertaken at a slow pace. Right now, 50 per cent of the work of Durgadi Bridge is completed. Short-term remedies Thane traffic police claim that they have provided the immediate short-term measures to the authority for ease of traffic congestion.Amit Kale, deputy commissioner of Thane traffic police, said, “We did a survey with the authority and also gave short-term remedies in writing so that they can be imposed. These include filling the gap between the new concrete portion and the old asphalt portion so that vehicle can move smoothly. The MSRDC has agreed to work on these remedies.”He added: “I have even asked the MSRDC to fill the potholes across this stretch as the completion of the project will take time. At the same time both my Kolsewadi and Mumbra traffic police units are deployed for the management of traffic on this stretch. Due to them, at least the traffic can move.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nightmare-for-motorists-along-kalyan-shilphata-stretch-continues/story-T4oIuTkW34JFRbZedDny9M.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai police keep coronavirus in check||More than 800 police personnel in the Navi Mumbai police commissionerate have tested positive for Covid-19 till date. However, the police department has claimed that the city has less Covid deaths among the cops compared to the neighbouring cities.While 18 police personnel have succumbed to Covid-19 in Thane commissionerate so far, the deaths in Navi Mumbai so far are six. This, the department claimed, was possible due to timely testing, extensive contact tracing and regular health check-ups.Last week, former city police commissioner Sanjay Kumar tested positive for Covid-19, only a day after he handed over his charge to the new police chief Bipin Kumar Singh.In May, Kumar was instrumental in starting institutional quarantine facilities for the city police staff after a city police constable’s wife died of Covid-19. A three-storied apartment under Savli Trust in Nerul was converted into a quarantine facility along with a hall at the police headquarters in Kalamboli.Out of a total of 4,800 police personnel, 818 including 100 officers were tested positive for the virus while six policemen have died till date. As of now, nine persons are in ICU, one person is on ventilator and seven require oxygen among the total 182 persons currently admitted.“When Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) procured rapid antigen kits, we requested 5,000 kits for the police force as they are frontline workers. In a phased manner, we conducted the testing drive across departments during which 137 persons were found positive. They were isolated and it helped prevent and keep the further infections’ count low,” said Shivraj Patil, deputy commissioner, headquarters.Officials said a wellness team comprising police officers and constables helped to combat the virus in an effective manner. The team coordinated with doctors to make the required medicines available on time. The team has travelled from Navi Mumbai to Ghatkopar and Dadar on multiple occasions to get the medicines including Remdesivir for severe Covid-19 patients.After taking over the mantle of the police chief from Kumar, one of the first tasks for Singh was to take stock of the quarantine facilities for policemen.“The reason for the low mortality rate amongst Navi Mumbai police is early testing and a strict contact tracing. We have encouraged everyone to get tested at the earliest at the first sign of flu symptoms. Regularly sanitising the workplace has also helped lower the risk of new infections at police stations,” said Singh, adding that a good diet and meal is provided to policemen at quarantine facilities and also the welfare fund is readily made available when required.Ravindra Daundkar, inspector at the Vashi police, tested positive for the virus in June with his family including two children. It came as a shock to him as Daundkar would rigorously follow safety protocols by not mingling with his family after coming from work. He would keep his uniform aside and wash it separately.“For most of us in the department checking vehicles during lockdown to ensure only people with essential service pass, the risk of exposure to the virus was high. We could only practice caution. But eventually the virus got me despite trying to be careful,” said Daundkar.While the officer and his family recovered within two weeks, he was not prepared for the fatigue that followed after he beat the virus. “It was even difficult to walk. But fortunately, with time and proper dosage of vitamins, I was fit enough to join duty again,” he added.How Navi Mumbai police is tackling virusRegular supply of vitamins along with homeopathic and allopathic medicines is being given to the infected persons at quarantine facilities and to even those under home quarantineHealthy diet and timely health update by wellness teamReadily available critical medicines following regular coordination with doctors in Navi Mumbai and Thane Covid Care facilities for Navi Mumbai police Savli: A three-storied building in Nerul for isolationNivara: Covid care facility at Navi Mumbai police headquarters in KalamboliHospital: Reserved beds at DY Patil Hospital, NerulHELP AT HAND On September 4, the day former commissioner Sanjay Kumar tested positive, traffic police constable Sandesh Gaikwad, 39, diedGaikwad was on a ventilator for several days following intense bouts of coughing.Gaikwad’s colleagues at the Panvel traffic police pooled in money and collected around Rs 70,000, which was donated to his family earlier this week.Help was always available for policemen as Sunil Gurav, sub-inspector at Panvel rural police station proved. Gurav recovered a few weeks ago and when his colleague constable was infected, the latter’s family needed plasma donation for his critical wife. Gurav stepped up and donated plasma and it helped the constable’s wife recover.One of Gaikwad’s seniors, sub-inspector Anil Shinde, recovered from the virus earlier this month. He was infected days after he escorted a political leader’s convoy passing through Panvel. He suspected he got infected after he came in contact with the driver, who was found positive a few days later.Shinde’s diabetic wife and three children were subsequently tested positive and were all admitted at DY Patil Hospital, Nerul. In a fortunate turn for the family, Shinde’s wife managed to pull through after she was put on a ventilator for four days.Shinde remembers the calls with Kumar, who enquired about the health of his family and spoke with the doctors.“In my entire career, I have never seen a kinder commissioner. He (Kumar) would regularly call each and every person admitted in the hospital, irrespective of their rank and inquire about their health and treatment. The gesture has touched many. Those calls have kept the morale high among the force,” Shinde added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-police-keep-coronavirus-in-check/story-lPHCpbmEYhcXUrjCp79cdK.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Blame game over 100-bed ICU facility at Mumbra Dedicated Covid Centre||A fortnight after the much-talked about 100-bed Intensive Care Unit at the Dedicated Covid Centre (DCC) in Mumbra was inaugurated by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the facility is already facing problems galore.Patients from Mumbra approaching the centre for ICU are being sent all the way to Thane as the ICU facility here is non-operational.The doctors working at the centre claimed that it lacks basic facilities like proper ventilation, non-functioning air conditioners, no power back-up and internet connection.The temporary shed set up at the hospital too has led to inconvenience as the facility gets heated up quickly.The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) and the MHADA authorities are now each putting the responsibility of this shed on the other.The facility also does not have enough stock of essential medicines. The Dedicated Covid Healthcare Centre at Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad Stadium in Kausa, Mumbra, has 400 beds including 100 ICU beds, 200 for Covid Care Centre (including 100 for men and women each) and 100 general beds.On August 24, CM Thackeray inaugurated the centre online from TMC office. Set up at a cost of Rs 30cr, it is among the five emergency centres set up recently across Thane.Lack essential medicines The centre, at present, does not have essential medicines to treat Covid patients in ICU while the power supply in Mumbra is also erratic. So, with no power back up, the ICU cannot be operational, expressed a doctor from the centre requesting anonymity.He said: “A list of more than 300 medicines was sent to the authorities but hardly 50 of them had been received. The hospital also lacks proper ventilation, the air-conditioners aren’t working making it difficult for the staff to work, we have repeated cases of nurses vomiting and fainting. There is also no power supply till afternoon on most days, the temporary shed heats up the entire facility making working difficult.”Another doctor informed that there is no internet connection at the front desk, so they cannot get details of the patients or the bed availability across the city.On Monday, a meeting was held on this issue at the TMC. Ganesh Deshmukh, additional municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “The centre was built by MHADA, which is taking care of the problem with the shed.”When questioned about the empty bed in the ICU centres, he said, “We are working to start the ICU facilities as soon as possible.”The issue of lack of medicines, ventilation, printing facility, sonography machine and drainage problems too were discussed in the meeting and the corporation said they would soon be resolved.Bhushan Desai, chief officer, Konkan Region, MHADA said, “We have only built the shed. The other facilities and further operations are taken care by TMC. When the centre started operating, we came to know about the ventilation issues. A meeting was held recently to discuss issues with the centre. We will see that all the problems are sorted out.” Dr Khalid Shaikh, Director of Om Sai Medicare Trade taking care of the medical facilities at the centre, said, “The centre is too hot due to the temporary shed making the patients uncomfortable. We mostly accept asymptomatic patients at the centre, while patients above 50 are sent to Thane Global Hospital. The TMC authorities are making all the necessary arrangements for the shifting of patients. Once all the facilities are available in the ICU, we can start admitting patient.” Over 1,150 asymptomatic patients have so far been admitted in the hospital.Dr Sharmin Dinga, in-charge of the Covid Care Centre, said, “We also treated patients with mild symptoms who have recovered. We have admitted patients from Thane, Diva, Shirdi, Sawantwadi and Mumbra among others who have totally recovered and were given better facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/blame-game-over-100-bed-icu-facility-at-mumbra-dedicated-covid-centre/story-bqjgzyLQpsHIEMCSLoEYmI.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Coastal road project: BMC applies for wildlife clearance to translocate of 18 coral colonies along south Mumbai coast||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has approached the Maharashtra forest department for wildlife clearance to translocate 18 coral colonies at Worli and Haji Ali, for further reclamation for the coastal road project.Since March, BMC has reclaimed over 53 hectare of sea along south Mumbai, for the 9.9-km coastal road, which is to be an eight-lane highway connecting Princess Street flyover to the southern tip of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link. BMC had told the Supreme Court (SC) in July that they would commence reclamation only after garnering wildlife clearance. According to the civic body’s proposal, accessed by HT, they plan to reclaim areas with coral presence by October, after receiving clearance. The National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Goa, had been appointed to assess the marine biodiversity along the project area. NIO had submitted a report in September 2019 identifying six coral species along south Mumbai. Two species of the Rhizangiidae family (Oulangia and one unidentified species) with 18 colonies documented across 0.251 square metre (almost 3ft) in Worli region of the project site, and another species (Dendrophylliidae family) along with Rhizangiidae across 1.1ft area at Haji Ali.“We have requested the forest department for permission to translocate 18 colonies along the Mumbai coastline itself but outside the project area. Translocation will be done by NIO scientists,” said Niranjan Khanolkar, chief engineer (coastal road), BMC.Corals are marine invertebrates that attach themselves to rocky intertidal regions. They garner the same protection as a tiger or elephant under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972. Permissions are required from the principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF-wildlife) before any translocation of the species.The proposal, dated September 3, was submitted to the state mangrove cell earlier this week, and will be vetted by mangrove cell officials, and finally the PCCF-wildlife before granting final clearance. However, the cell has already called for clarifications from the civic body on the proposal. “We have asked for a map of the location where the corals are present and to elaborate on the project details, to verify whether any areas with coral presence have been missed out,” said DR Patil, divisional forest officer (mangrove cell).On June 10, 2019, HT had reported the presence of 11 coral species along the coastal road route by the Mangrove Foundation of Maharashtra.Shaunak Modi, director, Coastal Conservation Foundation, who has documented corals along Mumbai’s shoreline, said that against NIO’s claim of only a few square feet of corals, surveys over the past three years had shown a much larger area of coral colonies across the city’s western seaboard. “Since these corals are small and the colonies are scattered, it may be difficult to find all of them in just a few surveys,” he said.WHAT THE BOMBAY HIGH COURT HAD SAID ABOUT CORALSOn December 17, 2019, the SC had put on hold previous orders by the Bombay high court (from July 2019) that quashed coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearances to the civic body, and allowed reclamation of land but restricted BMC from carrying out any other development work. The HC’s order from July 16, 2019, while staying the project had said, “Notwithstanding the fact that corals presence is minuscule, the same shows that the ecosystem in the area (project zone) is conducive to corals. It establishes that the area is ecologically sensitive...we hold that BMC could not have commenced work without obtaining Wildlife Protection Act permission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coastal-road-project-bmc-applies-for-wildlife-clearance-to-translocate-of-18-coral-colonies-along-south-mumbai-coast/story-buqrM2aWEH0CTmb6wnCfsI.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Defence minister Rajnath Singh speaks to Navy veteran attacked by Shiv Sena workers in Mumbai||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday spoke to Madan Sharma, the retired naval officer who was attacked by six Shiv Sena workers in Mumbai’s Kandivli (East) area on Friday, after he allegedly shared a cartoon mocking Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray. Singh in a tweet said that such attacks on former servicemen were “unacceptable” and “deplorable”.“Spoke to retired naval officer, Shri Madan Sharma who was attacked by hooligans in Mumbai and enquired about his health. Such attacks on Ex-Servicemen is completely unacceptable and deplorable. I wish Madanji a speedy recovery (sic),” the defence minister tweeted on Saturday.Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis also condemned the attack on Sharma and termed the incident as “state-sponsored terrorism”. Fadnavis appealed to Thackeray to put an end to the “goonda raj” in the state.Fadnavis, who was in Ara, Bihar, to campaign for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the polls in Bihar, said, “What happened very wrong and was a kind of state-sponsored terror situation. I called upon Uddhav ji through my tweet to stop goonda raj. After we created pressure, the six accused were arrested.”Earlier in the day on Saturday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), led by leader of Opposition in legislative Council Pravin Darekar, along with Sharma’s family, held a protest outside the office of additional commissioner of police (north region).Darekar and BJP Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Atul Bhatkhalkar demanded that the accused who were released on bail, should be booked under sections 326 (causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons and means), 452 and 450 (house-trespassing) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which are non-bailable offences.“Sena shakha pramukh and workers mercilessly beat up Sharma. The accused were released on bail. The police should have booked them under the sections for trespassing and causing harm and for using dangerous weapons. We have been assured by the joint commissioner of police that these sections will be included after investigations. If they do not incorporate it, our protest will continue,” Darekar told reporters.Denying any political interference in the case, joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil, who met the protesters, said the bail was granted to the accused in view of the Covid-19 situation. By evening, Samta Nagar police in Kandivli invoked a non-bailable section against the six accused.Senior inspector Raju Kasbe of Samata Nagar police station said that section 452 of the IPC was added in the case.When HT asked Kasbe why the section of house trespass was not added in the case, he said the incident took place outside the society premises. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena parliamentarian and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut issued a statement over the incident and said that nobody is above the law.“Maharashtra is a law-abiding state. Those who take law in their hands, whoever they may be, will not be spared. This is the policy of CM Uddhav Thackeray. Yesterday in Mumbai, a retired naval officer was assaulted. The cartoon circulated by the ex-officer on the CM was defamatory. The attack was a spontaneous and furious reaction. But the attackers were immediately arrested and all the procedure was followed as per law,” he said.Raut also slammed the BJP for making the incident a political issue.“It is unfortunate that the Opposition party is making this a political issue. Patience should be followed by both the sides. People lose patience while criticising those on constitutional posts such as the prime minister, president, governor, chief minister, as there is unrestrained behaviour in the garb of freedom of speech and expression. Therefore, this is the time to respect one another and act responsibly. Maintaining peace in the society is as much the responsibility of the Opposition as it is of the ruling party,” he said.Sharma had forwarded a cartoon of the CM in a WhatsApp group. On Friday, the six accused asked Sharma to meet them at his housing society’s gate in Thakur Complex. After the veteran went there, the accused, including shakha pramukh Kamlesh Kadam, assaulted him.“They punched and kicked me. My right eye has sustained injuries,” Sharma said in the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/union-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-speaks-to-navy-veteran-says-attack-by-shiv-sena-workers-in-mumbai-deplorable-and-unacceptable/story-BWwxaXrJaBHetRCQEnvBHM.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case tally rises to 1,037,765||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 22,084 Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,037,765. The active cases in the state now stand at 279,768. The state also saw 13,489 people discharged, taking the tally of recovered to 728,512.The state continued to record over 350 fatalities for the sixth consecutive day with 391 deaths reported on Saturday. The death toll in the state due to Covid-19 stood at 29,115. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state has improved to 2.81%.Of the fatalities reported on Saturday, 280 were recorded in the previous 48 hours, while 70 deaths were from the previous week. The remaining 41 fatalities were from the previous weeks, health department data said.Mumbai, meanwhile, recorded its second-highest single-day jump in numbers with 2,350 new cases. The city’s tally rose to 167,656, while active cases in Mumbai stood at 29,176. Mumbai’s highest single-day cases was reported on September 10 at 2,371 cases.Besides Mumbai, Pune city and its surrounding areas continued to record a chunk of the fresh cases. Pune district reported 4,706 new cases and 61 deaths. Nagpur city reported 1,495 new cases and 30 fatalities, Nagpur rural saw 404 new cases and 10 fatalities. Sangli, Satara, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur, too, had contributed a chunk to Saturday’s caseload.The absolute number of deaths being reported over the past few weeks is a matter of concern. In September alone, the state has added 4,483 fatalities or 15% of its deaths due to Covid-19. The state also saw its highest death toll on September 10 with 448 deaths.According to Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, the CFR has dropped in September. However, state-appointed Covid task-force members, pointed out with higher case count, the CFR has reduced, but absolute count remains high. “The CFR on a week-on-week basis has reduced to 1.7% in September, which is lower than the state’s overall rate,” he said.Subhash Salunkhe, former director of health services in Maharashtra and Covid task-force member, said, “It should not be looked at in CFR; the rate is reduced because cases are increasing. It’s the calculation method adopted by the nation. But the number of deaths has gone up.” He added that there is a need for implementation of protocols, including aggressive tracing and testing so that patients do not admit themselves in hospitals at a critical stage.Districts, including Mumbai, Solapur, Akola, Parbhani, Sangli and Ratnagiri, have a CFR over 3%.State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “Best measures are being adopted in treatment protocol to bring down CFR. We have started tele-ICUs through which local doctors can get in touch with experts for guidance. We are increasing beds, getting more doctors [to help people get treatment].”The health minister also conceded that the increase in number of Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks is a concern. A day after, Maharashtra surpassed 10 lakh cases, Tope said, “Even if the cases have crossed 10 lakh mark, but it has to be seen that over 7 lakh people have recovered. Now there are around 2.75 lakh active patients. Among them, around 3% to 4% are critical patients. The remaining are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. However, cases going up is definitely a concerning factor.”Tope ruled out any lockdowns to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, Pune, and other semi-urban and rural areas. He, however, said that Janata Curfew might be imposed if there is a demand from locals.“Janata curfew is imposed for two things to breach the chain of transmission and to ramp up health infrastructure in the city or district… wherever district administration or the guardian minister feel the need a short Janata curfew is being looked at, but over we are not going to impose lockdown. We are moving towards unlocking in stages,” he said.The minister said that there is a need to increase awareness campaigns. He said that the state is also thinking of imposing fines on people not maintaining physical distancing and not wearing a mask in public places. “Now we have reached a stage where we will have to penalise those who do not wear masks and do not keep physical distance in public places. Till a vaccine comes, we have to live with these measures,” he said.Meanwhile, the health minister has directed all divisional commissioners to keep a reserve stock of 50 dura cylinder and 200 jumbo oxygen cylinders to tackle the need for oxygen for Covid-19 patients. The minister added that a war room has been set up under the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) commissioner to monitor demand and supply of oxygen in the state. He added the state has adequate quantity of medical oxygen.“The demand from each district will be monitored and supply will be done effectively. We have stationed FDA officials at refilling plants to ensure that oxygen does not go to industries and is supplied to hospitals. In the next eight days, a [oxygen] plant will start functioning in Pune. With that, we will have more cylinders than our demand. We do not have shortage as of now,” he said.So far, the state has tested 5,164,840 samples, of which 92,319 were tested in the previous 24 hours. On September 11, BMC conducted highest single-day tests by testing 15,827 samples. It also crossed the 9 lakh mark of testing Covid-19 samples. As of September 11, Mumbai had conducted 9,03,101 samples and the positivity rate is 18.30%.The state’s overall positive rate has gone over 20%. The positivity rate on Saturday was 23.95%. As on September 12, 16,52,955 people are under home quarantine, while 38,275 people are under institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-case-tally-rises-to-1-037-765/story-TeFFifSbhuzHMOiBTLoqXL.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Kolkata man held for threat calls to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, home minister Anil Deshmukh, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) along with Kolkata Police, arrested a 49-year-old man who threatened several politicians in Maharashtra and also called on the landline numbers of Matoshri, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s private residence, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s home, and state home minister Anil Deshmukh’s residence claiming himself to be a member of fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s gang (D-Company). A case was registered by the Kalachowky unit, ATS after Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut received multiple death threats this week. During the inquiry, police traced the calls and identified the caller as Palash Bose, a resident of Tollygunge in Kolkata. Bose was using international SIM cards to make the threat calls to Raut. Ghose had threatened Raut of dire consequences through calls, text messages and even video calls. “He had made internet phone calls to threaten Raut,” said an ATS officer. “Soon after these calls were made, the number was traced to Kolkata. Police inspector Daya Nayak got specific information and sent his team of ATS officers from Juhu unit to Kolkata, where they arrested Bose with the help of Kolkata Police,” said deputy commissioner of police Vinay Rathod. He was brought to Mumbai and will appear before a court soon. Bose was previously working in Dubai for more than 15 years, and ATS is enquiring if he had any links with Dawood Ibrahim or any other member of D-Company, added ATS officers. Police recovered two mobile phones, one Indian SIM card and three international SIM cards from his possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kolkata-man-held-for-threat-calls-to-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-and-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut/story-zuqop0jBeH2pfRvANgt6IO.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Nagpada man stabbed and buried alive in Thane forest, two arrested||Nagpada police on Friday arrested two persons for stabbing their 46-year-old friend and then burying him alive in a thickly forested area near Bhiwandi in Thane district. The murder case was detected while Nagpada police were investigating a missing complaint. According to Nagpada police, a missing complaint was registered in the last week of August by the family of the victim, after he did not return home for more than a day. His office colleagues were also unaware of his whereabouts. “While analysing his mobile phone location and call records, we found three mobile numbers reflecting at the same location in Bhiwandi. We also came to know that before the man went missing, he had contacted one of the accused, a 22-year-old man,” said an officer from Nagpada police station. “We called the 22-year-old for questioning, and he revealed that he was behind the murder and was aided by his 21-year-old friend. The accused further revealed that after stabbing the victim, they buried him in the forest,” the officer said, adding that the accused said the victim was still breathing when they buried him. The first accused told police that the victim used to allegedly sexually assault him, and he wanted it to end. “Fed up with the abuse, he hatched a plan to kill him and called him to Bhiwandi for a liquor party. The two accused then stabbed him to death, and buried him alive,” said a police officer. “We are verifying the claims made by the 22-year-old,” added the officer. The accused were taken to the spot, and the victim’s body was recovered. The body has been sent to JJ Hospital for post mortem and the accused have been arrested under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nagpada-man-stabbed-and-buried-alive-in-thane-forest-two-arrested/story-lrWx9jrxFsVd7jWMvXXSvI.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Family of deceased patient booked for abusing, threatening doctors at KEM Hospital, Mumbai||Bhoiwada police on Saturday evening registered a first information report (FIR) against family members of 17-year-old boy who died of cardiac arrest at KEM Hospital in the wee hours of September 9, for abusing and threatening doctors at the hospital. Prakash Parmar, father of deceased Jatin Parmar, said, “My son was admitted at KEM Hospital as he had fever. However, during the treatment doctors declared him dead, but he was alive.” Navin Parmar, Jatin’s brother, said, “Jatin was down with fever since September 6. The local doctor advised us to admit him, so we admitted him to KEM Hospital. On September 7, the doctors kept him in the intensive care unit, and in the intervening night of September 8 and 9 they told us that my brother had died. But when we touched his chest we felt that his heart was beating.”“Doctors had taken off the ventilator so we asked them to put him back on ventilator. But instead of listening to us, they called the police. We demanded for a post-mortem but the hospital authority denied. He had tested negative for Covid-19,” Navin added.Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital, said, “We did his ECG, which proved that the patient was dead. Doctors put him on ventilator after they [Jatin’s family] threatened them and ventilator pushes air into the lungs which makes a sound. His preliminary post-mortem report states he died due to cardiac arrest.”“After his death, more than 30 people came to the hospital and started threatening and abusing doctors. They even tore government records. On September 10, we spoke to the police regarding this issue. A video of that incident went viral on social media today,” Deshmukh said.Hospital authorities then approached Bhoiwada police and filed a complaint against the persons seen in the video. Senior inspector Vinod Kamble said, “We have registered a case under sections 141 (unlawful assembly), 143 (being member of unlawful assembly), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code, section 6 of Epidemic Diseases Act and section 5 of the Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act, 2010. We are investigating the case and examining the video to identify the people who were abusing doctors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/family-of-deceased-patient-booked-for-abusing-threatening-doctors-at-kem-hospital-mumbai/story-FFQDKyv4BFoh0E64MplqHP.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority approves two proposals to connect Aarey, Poisar stations on Metro-7 corridor with commercial complexes||What if you could just walk to the nearest Metro station from your home or workplace? With the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (MMRDA) two new proposals, this could soon turn into reality. MMRDA has approved two proposals for establishing direct connectivity between Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) stations and two commercial complexes. It is also open to more proposals. The authority has approved proposals to build a 514-metre (m) foot overbridge (FoB) from the upcoming station at Poisar on the Metro-7 corridor to Sarova properties. It has also approved the proposal for construction of a 1,300-m bridge connecting the upcoming Aarey station to Oberoi Mall, officials said. BG Pawar, joint metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “The work will commence once we approve the detailed engineering design.” Officials also said that the cost of building the connectors will be borne by the developers. As both the routes pass along many commercial complexes, MMRDA said that it is expecting a better response from developers after the lockdown. “Owing to the pandemic, we haven’t received a good response from developers. But we are hoping that they will approach us in the future, as direct connectivity to a Metro station will also increase the property value of a complex,” an official from MMRDA said. The authority is looking to open Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) lines by May 2021. This year in July, MMRDA had approved a policy to enable direct access between Metro stations and the complexes nearby. Direct access is a worldwide concept that will ease the problem of first and last-mile connectivity to the metro stations. The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is executing the 33.5km fully underground Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) corridor, has also been in talks with commercial and residential complexes along the route to enable direct access to its underground stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-metropolitan-region-development-authority-approves-two-proposals-to-connect-aarey-poisar-stations-on-metro-7-corridor-with-commercial-complexes/story-tQuzCoZW2ZvPDMPBUdP5IM.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Uncertainty over partial reopening of schools in Maharashtra amid Covid-19 crisis||Though the Centre had on September 8 released guidelines to start schools for students from Class 9 to Class 12 from September 21, parents and teachers in Maharashtra are yet to get clarity on the issue as the state government and education department have not made any official announcement on it.Over the past few days, the state education department has held several discussions with all the stakeholders, including school managements, teachers and parents along with non-governmental organisations (NGOs), to get their views on the physical reopening of schools. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad did not respond to calls and messages. However, an official from the state education department said, “The popular opinion seems to be against the physical reopening of schools anytime soon. With the rising (Covid-19) cases in the state, there seems to be a lot of risk involved in reopening schools. However, the government’s decision is awaited.” The official added that the plan to reopen schools only post-Diwali break is also being considered. The guidelines released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) for partial reopening of schools stated that only those schools which are outside containment zones will be allowed to reopen for Class 9 to Class 12. The guidelines further stated that before resuming classes, schools have to be sanitised and seating arrangements have to be based on social distancing norms. Anyone who develops symptoms in the school has to be isolated, and in the case of students, the school would have to immediately inform their parents. Recently, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) ordered the sanitisation of all its schools which were used as quarantine facilities and were later handed back to the civic body. Similarly, other schools were asked to ensure basic cleaning of classrooms and school premises. Teachers, however, said that starting schools, especially in places like Mumbai where the number of cases is growing every day, is not a good idea. Rajesh Pandya, a teacher at Fatima Devi English High School, Malad, said, “Most teachers in Mumbai travel by the train and even if they follow the 50% attendance rule as suggested in the central government circular, it is not possible to do so. Several teachers from private schools have not even got their full salaries for the past few months. They won’t be able to afford transport on a daily basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uncertainty-over-partial-reopening-of-schools-in-maharashtra-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-N0gXWmofMWZxIgyxpEKcUP.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Andheri, Vile Parle have most active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai at 2.8K||Andheri, Vile Parle and Borivli, all in the western suburbs, have the most active Covid-19 cases in the city, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. Andheri and Vile Parle have 2,824 active infections, followed by Borivli at 1,972; Kandivli, Ghatkopar, Mulund at over 1,200; Dadar, Dharavi, Mahim at 1,172 and Bhandup, Kanjurmarg, parts of Vikhroli at 1,173, data revealed. According to BMC officials, Andheri and Vile Parle’s tally is due to the areas being near the airport, where there is higher risk of the virus’ spread owing to movement of people. Previous data had also revealed that Andheri had seen the most number of citizens fined for not wearing a mask in public places. In case of Borivli, Bhagyashree Kapse, assistant municipal commissioner, R Central ward (which covers Borivli), said, “We are at the peak currently and most cases are coming from high-rises, compared to slums. The reason behind the increase in cases is that we are conducting around 1,000 tests daily and also the relaxations in lockdown measures have resulted in a spike in active infections.” Kapse added, “We are also seeing a trend wherein those testing positive and are home-isolating themselves also see their family members infected when they are tested within 14 days. But we are taking all precautions, and whichever housing societies have multiple active cases, we are sealing them completely, instead of sealing just the floor.” For south Mumbai, D ward, which covers Malabar Hill, Grant Road, Chowpatty, has 1,185 active cases, compared to other areas of south Mumbai having fewer than 600 active cases. A ward, which covers Churchgate, Colaba and CST, has 514 active cases, followed by B ward, covering Dongri, Pydhonie which has the lowest number — 176. C ward, covering Marine Lines, Kalbadevi, has 263 active cases.The city’s Covid-19 case tally was 165,306, including 27,642 active cases, as of Friday. The breakup of active cases is available for 157,662 total cases, of which 22,927 are active ones. As per the data, more than 50% of the cases are from 10 of the 24 administrative wards in the city, which includes the above mentioned areas.The number of active cases in the city has started rising in the city since the past 10 days as the number of tests has increased in the city. Civic commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had told HT on September 6 that, “For the next 30 days, the city will report around 2,000 cases daily as the BMC is scaling up tests to between 12,000 and 14,000, up from around 9,000 tests daily in the last week of August.” This increase in the daily cases has also resulted in an increase of active cases in the city. Active cases are at a two-month high, as per the BMC data. Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a private health consultant, said, “BMC has to analyse the trend and start stricter containment measures in the areas where active cases are rising since the past 10 days. We should consider sealing entire buildings from these areas, instead of only floors.”Meanwhile, as per BMC’s data, there are 7,217 sealed areas in the city, consisting 2.4 lakh households and a population of around 8.6 lakh, followed by 542 containment zones, including slums and chawls, covering 7.8 lakh households and a population of around 34 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/andheri-vile-parle-have-most-active-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-at-2-8k/story-pXIJBZWtzq5Lj3h9vZWE1O.html
13-09-2020||City||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar admitted to hospital for Covid-19 treatment||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, has been admitted to the civic-run SevenHills Hospital in Andheri on Friday evening, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said. Pednekar posted a tweet confirming her hospitalisation on Saturday evening. After Pednekar’s rapid antigen test came positive on Thursday, she had quarantined herself at home. However, after she experienced body ache a day later, she was admitted to the hospital, an official from SevenHills Hospital said. The official added that Pednekar has no other symptoms nor does she have any comorbidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-mayor-kishori-pednekar-admitted-to-hospital-for-covid-19-treatment/story-ZWOVj3pS2qjx0h0ISkosBN.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body collects 100 voice samples for Covid-19 detection using AI||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has collected 100 voice samples of suspected Covid-19 patients as part of a pan-India study that will use artificial intelligence (AI) to identify Covid-positive individuals. If the results are encouraging, then AI-based voice tests may be used to screen patients since there is almost no waiting time for these results. The study is being carried out by Vocalis Health, an Israel-based start-up. For the pan-India study, which will be undertaken in two phases, 10,000 samples will be collected of which 2,000 will be from Mumbai. In the first phase, 500 samples will be collected and analysed using AI, which will help formulate a specific voice wavelength to detect Covid-19 patients within 30 seconds. The civic body signed a memorandum of understanding for the study with Vocalis Health on August 21. “First, we will take samples of 500 individuals, then the remaining ones. The researchers will analyse the health condition of suspected patients from their voice modulations. Through this, they [the researchers] will be able to set a specific voice wavelength which might help to detect Covid-19 patients,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. BMC has collected 100 samples from its jumbo Covid facility at NESCO Ground in Goregaon (East). This study is based on the hypothesis that the infection may affect the voice of individuals, given the interdependence between the respiratory and speech systems in the body. “If the pilot shows promising results, we have plans to use the program in other hospitals as well. It is non-invasive and can deliver results quickly,” said Kakani. The gold standard test for to diagnose Covid-19 is reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). However, it takes over eight hours to deliver results. Though rapid antigen tests give results within 30 minutes, its false negativity rate is higher. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of BYL Nair Dental Hospital and in-charge of the Covid facility at NESCO Ground, said this is the first time that voice biomarkers have been used to identify Covid-19 patients. “We have to wait for the study to get over to gauge the effectiveness of the technique,” she said. Dr KK Agarwal, a cardiologist and former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) said, “This technology may be new but is being widely-used across the globe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-collects-100-voice-samples-for-covid-19-detection-using-ai/story-rONCZ2uV1BSHhexVRuPQjO.html
13-09-2020||Mumbai||NCB arrests 6 more in Sushant Singh Rajput-linked drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday conducted multiple raids in Mumbai and Goa, arresting six more people as part of its ongoing investigation into allegations of drug abuse and distribution in the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. On Saturday, NCB conducted raids at multiple locations in Mumbai. Bandra resident Karam Jeet Singh Anand, alias KJ, was brought in for questioning to the agency’s office in south Mumbai and later arrested. While NCB did not reveal quantities, marijuana and hashish were seized from him. According to officers, Anand is part of the drug syndicate the agency had busted as part of its ongoing investigation. Joint director of NCB, Sameer Wankhede, confirmed the arrest. Later, NCB officers arrested Dwayne Anthony Fernandes and two others from Dadar, and seized 500 gram of marijuana. After a raid in Powai, Ankush Arenja was arrested. NCB recovered 42 grams of hashish and ₹112,000 from him. According to NCB, Arenja used to receive contraband from Anand and supply it to arrested accused Anuj Keshwani. “NCB also arrested one Chris Costa from Goa in the same case,” said deputy director KPS Malhotra. Earlier, on September 6, NCB had seized 590 grams of hashish, 0.64 gram of LSD sheets, 304 gram of marijuana (including imported marijuana joints and capsules) and ₹185,200 and 5,000 Indonesian Rupiah from Keshwani’s residence in Khar. So far, NCB has arrested 16 people as part of its investigation. The other arrested accused are members of Rajput’s household staff, Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant; actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother, Showik; and six alleged drug peddlers. Showik’s statement to NCB reportedly mentioned Anand as a “supplier”. NCB traced Keshwani on the basis of information provided by Kaizan Ebrahim, who was arrested by the agency on September 3 and granted bail soon after. In their bail plea, Chakraborty and Showik had contended that they were unfairly charged under section 27A (financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act as their alleged role in Rajput’s death is the same as Ebrahim’s who was granted bail within a day of his arrest. However, the special court instituted under the NDPS Act denied Chakraborty and Showik’s plea on Friday. Chakraborty has maintained she is innocent. On the basis of a complaint she had filed earlier this week, Bandra police registered a first information report (FIR) on September 8, against Rajput’s sisters Priyanka and Mitu Singh, as well as associate professor of cardiology at New Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Dr Tarun Kumar. Chakraborty has alleged Rajput’s sisters had supplied him prohibited medication on the basis of a prescription – that may be forged – from Dr Kumar. On Friday, Chakraborty and Showik were remanded in judicial custody till September 22. Miranda, Sawant and alleged drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar are also in judicial custody. Keshwani is in NCB’s custody till September 14. Three others – Ebrahim, Karan Arora, Abbas Lakhani – were granted bail soon after their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-6-more-in-sushant-singh-rajput-linked-drugs-case/story-rAlywDRM2fmpGH9nIuN3GO.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||Increased vigil, more security as Metro goes back to normal operations||Delhi Metro, six days after its graded reopening and more than five months after being forced shut owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, resumed normal services on all its lines on Saturday.On Saturday, data suggested, at least 152,845 people took a ride on the Metro system — which is 23,959 people more than Friday’s total passenger count.The acid test, Metro officials however said, will be on Monday, when the office crowd pours in during the rush hours and the social distancing and other security norms put in place as part of SoP is tested.Hindustan Times on Saturday travelled through multiple corridors of the system to see if Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) was prepared to manage the increase in passenger load, now that all its lines were fully functional. At 6am on Saturday, when the gates were thrown open for passengers, the attendence in many Metro stations was thin. The crowd, however, started picking up within a few hours, resulting in queues forming outside some stations by 10am, as passengers waited patiently to get their temperature checked, their hands sanitised and their baggage sterilised before being allowed entry. By evening, the rush had died down with stations and trains witnessing a steady influx of passengers. Metro and security staff were seen rationing passengers in queues outside station premises to ensure minimal crowding while making sure all social distancing norms were adhered to. Shikha Sharma, a passenger who was travelling from Mayur Vihar Phase-1 interchange station to INA on the Pink Line, said that while there were a “decent number” of passengers waiting for trains on the platform, the crowd inside trains were still thinly spread, which left enough space for everyone to be seated. “I was apprehensive about the safety and the frequency of trains. But the service was regular, which gave passengers the confidence to skip a train or two, which they felt were crowded,” said Sharma. Compared to last week, a larger number of Metro officials and security personnel were spotted on the station premises on Saturday — a move officials claimed was put in place to tackle the expected additional rush. The newly created flying squad of the Delhi Metro was also seen moving in and out of trains to ensure that people were wearing masks at all times. “It is a weekend and since the Airport Express Line, which was opened on Saturday, does not usually have a very large footfall, we anticipated the ridership to be somewhat similar or probably a little lower than yesterday (Friday). The true test will be from Monday and we are prepared,” said a Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) spokesperson on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/increased-vigil-more-security-as-metro-goes-back-to-normal-operations/story-JKwF866BUg7pglY9JsJCcO.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||NGT pulls up e-commerce firms Amazon, Flipkart for excess plastic use||Responding to a plea filed by a 16-year-old boy, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on September 4 expressed its displeasure at the use of excessive of plastic in packaging by e-commerce giants like Amazon and Flipkart, and suggested that the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) conduct an environmental audit and then recover fines from the two companies for violating green norms.The order was uploaded on the NGT’s website on Friday.Hearing a petition filed by the boy, Aditya Dubey, who approached the tribunal through his legal guardians, to stop Amazon and Flipkart from using excessive plastic in their packaging, the NGT said the authorities concerned were not following the dictum of “polluter pays” even as there were statutory norms prescribing this.In environmental law, the polluter pays principle dictates that a party responsible for producing pollution compensate for the damage caused.The NGT then asked the CPCB to take steps necessary in the matter and file an action-taken report by October 14.“A report has been filed by the CPCB on September 4, which again mentions one or other reasons for not enforcing the law but does not mention the coercive measures adopted either directly by CPCB or in coordination with the state PCBs/PCCs (pollution control boards),” noted the tribunal, headed by justice Adarsh K Goel.The green panel also said the CPCB could also consider ordering an environmental audit against the two firms to assess and recover compensation, following due process of law.The plea, argued through lawyers Priya Hingorani and Meenesh Dubey, has pointed out that Plastic Waste Management Rules (2016) defined the duties of e-commerce firms, but because of the lack of monitoring and implementation of the rules, plastic packaging has become a serious environmental challenge.Dubey’s plea in October 2019 had contended that the companies deliver items in cardboard boxes that were much larger than the size of the item being delivered. The plea said that the boxes along with the plastic wraps used to keep these items in place ultimately end up in landfills.Submitting its reply on September 10, the CPCB too had agreed before the NGT that the waste management rules required Amazon and Flipkart to establish a system for collecting back the plastic waste generated due to the packaging of their products, under ‘extended producer responsibility’.“Amazon Retail India Private Limited and Flipkart Private limited are involved in packaging and selling of other companies’ products and thus introducing plastic packaging in the market. They need to fulfil their extended producer responsibility under PWM Rules and should obtain registration as brand owner after submitting proper documents,” CPCB said in its affidavit.At this, the NGT had asked for a report from the pollution monitoring body derailing the steps taken by it to ensure implementation of the rules and penalties imposed for violations.As the case took up the massive problem of plastic waste generation in the national capital, experts said that Delhi needs an effective ‘extended producer responsibility’ to ensure better take-back mechanism.Tara Roychowdhary, a Delhi-based solid waste management expert, said that while the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change has released a detailed document on the EPR (extended producer responsibility) recently, it was not being implemented effectively.In an email response to HT, Amazon India said, “Amazon India has been working along with industry bodies and has made various representations to the Ministry of Environment to obtain clarity on roles and responsibilities of e-commerce players. While our teams are working to review the orders and await guidance from CPCB in the present matter, we have always been committed to be compliant with Extended Producer Responsibility mandate under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016.”Flipkart did not respond to repeated requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ngt-pulls-up-e-commerce-firms-amazon-flipkart-for-excess-plastic-use/story-54HxLejVZkCWfUZy6Mbm4K.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||Slum dwellers reach SC against Railway slum eviction order, 11 dwellers file plea to join as parties||A group of slum dwellers affected by a recent eviction order have approached the Supreme Court, seeking to be included in any hearing before demolition of their homes and contending that their relocation could affect their livelihood at a time when the pandemic has made matters difficult.The top court on August 31 ordered that approximately 48,000 slums situated along train tracks must be cleared, affecting an estimated 240,000 people. The matter has also taken a political tone with the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) targeting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for eviction notices issued by the Union railways ministry. The BJP has in turn criticised the AAP for not making alternate residential arrangements for those affected.In their applications filed to the top court, a group of 11 who reside in some of these clusters said: “The impleaders (slum dwellers) work in the markets and industrial areas near their residence. It will be very difficult for them to earn their livelihood if they are removed from the said area in these difficult and unprecedented times of the pandemic.” The affected applicants are residents of Jhuggi Jhopri (JJ) clusters of Sarai Rohilla, two camps of Kirti Nagar, and another cluster near Defence Colony.This is the second application filed in the top court – on Friday, senior Congress leader Ajay Maken sought court orders for alternate housing for the affected people under the Delhi Slum & Jhuggi Jhopri (JJ) Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015, before they are removed. He sought urgent intervention since the Railways has proposed the demolition drive between September 11 and 14.HT first reported about order on September 3.Advocate Lubna Naaz, who filed the application on behalf of the slum dwellers, said, “At present 11 slum dwellers have come but any order by the Court will impact dwellers residing in the 48,000 slums. In the current circumstances of the pandemic, these people need compassion and a little help from the Court for their suitable rehabilitation.”The slum dwellers in their application have annexed two documents that could be relevant to decide the future course of action. The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) began a survey of the JJ clusters situated close to the railway tracks situated on land belonging to the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the Central government. Out of 196 JJ clusters, the survey covered 158. It was stopped midway after DDA instructed DUSIB on October 23, 2019 to suspend the process due to the Delhi Assembly elections that were held in February 2020. Another document annexed to the application is a communication by director, Railway Board on January 7, 2016 which records a decision with regard to removal of jhuggis situated on Railway land. The document records a decision that no demolition is to be carried out without joint notice by representatives of DUSIB and railways and without a Rehabilitation Plan.A closer look at the proceedings in the Supreme Court which resulted in the order of eviction reveals that at no stage did the court call upon the slum dwellers to be heard. The action had its genesis in a February 28, 2020 order where the court observed: “By the sides of the railway lines in outer Delhi region, heaps of plastic bags and garbage are lying on both sides and people living in the slums. The situation is pathetic.”Accordingly, it recommended an expert body on environmental issues – EPCA (Environment Pollution Prevention and Control Authority), Delhi government and various Municipal Corporations to chalk out a concrete plan for removal of the plastic bags, garbage and other waste materials lying along the tracks. EPCA, a report on July 9, 2020, asked the court to direct the railways to prepare a time-bound plan. The railways in turn told the court that “predominant presence of jhuggies along 140 kilometre route length of track” was a major hindrance in the process. Such encroachments, the railways said, “are not only adding to the present menace of accumulation of garbage, municipal solid waste, human waste along the railway line but are a safety threat to the day-to-day operation of the railways.” This became one of the factors for the court to order immediate eviction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/slum-dwellers-reach-sc-against-railway-slum-eviction-order-11-dwellers-file-plea-to-join-as-parties/story-ZHzf5FOu22nTuh1Hafb8hN.html
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC Bar: Council changes poll panel||The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) has changed the election committee constituted for the Punjab and Haryana high court Bar body polls, which are slated for September 30. The development came after the previous committee — headed by senior advocate KS Sidhu — refused to hold the election as per the council’s directive, citing Covid-19 outbreak. Sidhu in a letter to the Bar council on Friday had said that it cannot force elections on a Bar association. There are no provisions in the Advocates Act or rules which authorise BCPH to suo motu conduct the elections of any Bar associations, Sidhu had stated in his letter, while underlining that many lawyers have gone back to their native places that do not have sufficient infra for online polls. He had also raised doubts over the transparency of online elections. Now, BCPH in a fresh communication has constituted a new committee to be headed by Munish Jolly, directing it to take over and comply with the council’s order on elections with immediate effect. BCPH is a statutory body that regulates entry into legal profession. It has nearly 1 lakh members in Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh. Its chairman Karanjit Singh in a fresh letter has stated that elections are being held as per the Bar Association (Constitution and Registration Rules) 2015, upheld by the HC in December 2016. BCPH has also reasoned that council rules are applicable to all Bars, including HC Bar, as per a 2018 judgment. It further mentions that there are provisions for holding online elections. The letter states that after Sidhu’s letter, a committee was constituted to examine the issue, which suggested forming a new panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-bar-council-changes-poll-panel/story-v8ycpjXbgvw1GdSu1HPQwO.html
13-09-2020||Delhi||HC to reduce physical benches in view of rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi||With Covid-19 cases on the rise in the national capital once again and several court staffers testing positive for the virus infection, the Delhi high court has decided to reduce the number of benches holding in-person hearings. The new roster is set to be implemented from September 15, sources in the know of the matter said.On Saturday, Delhi reported 4,321 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the city’s overall tally to 214,069. Delhi’s Covid count has risen exponentially ever since the government ramped up testing from the first week of September.On September 1, the high court had started in-person hearings with five benches,which will now be reduced to three.The others will continue taking up matters through videoconferencing, the way they have done since the nationwide lockdown started on March 25. The high court has so far reported 45 cases of Covid-19 from among its staffers, while the seven district courts have reported 192 cases in all. A bank branch situated within the high court complex had to be closed recently after three of its officials tested positive for Covid-19. A recent feedback from advocates had revealed that nearly 84% of them preferred the virtual mode of hearings to physically appearing in court. This had prompted the court to consider reducing the number of benches. “Most of the advocates, whose matters were listed before the benches constituted for in-person hearings, expressed their inability, reluctance or unwillingness to appear in person. We received a large number of requests for taking up matters through videoconferencing,” a high court official, privy to the decision, said. The official pointed out that when physical hearings resumed on September 1, only five benches were holing hearings on a rotational basis. These included two division benches and three single judge benches. “The physical appearances were largely before the single benches...whereas the appearance before the other benches was relatively low,” the official said, on condition of anonymity. After deliberating over the issue, the judges and the chief justice decided that beginning September 15, physical hearings will be conducted only by three benches – one division bench and two single judge benches. “Despite the adverse circumstances, the court has decided not to discontinue physical hearings altogether,” the official said. Chief justice Naranbhai Patel has also directed the district and sessions judges to review the requirement physical courts in their respective districts. However, not all advocates are in favour of virtual hearings. Dhan Mohan, a member executive of the Delhi High Court Bar Association, said there are multiple problems with virtual hearings. “In these financially tough times, novice lawyers are forced to spend on purchasing laptops and other devices to be able to attend physical hearings. The hearings themselves are now of shorter duration and hurried as lawyers are afraid that their internet connectivity will be lost midway through the hearing. Due to network issues, judges are also unable to hear the lawyers completely,” Mohan said. He, however, said once can’t do without virtual court at this juncture . “The pandemic is set to last for many more months and there are senior advocates and others who can’t risk an in-person appearance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-to-reduce-physical-benches-in-view-of-rising-covid-cases-in-delhi/story-LVBPeudzMvHgGNXT6VqlHP.html
13-09-2020||Election:||Jharkhand CM meets Lalu Yadav, says ‘will contest Bihar polls together’||Jharkhand chief minister and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) working president Hemant Soren on Saturday called on Lalu Prasad Yadav, the incarcerated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi where he is admitted.It was the second meeting between the two leaders after CM Soren took charge as Jharkhand chief minister.The meeting lasted for nearly one hour where Soren enquired about his health condition. The two leaders discussed politics in view of the upcoming Bihar polls.Coming out of Kelly’s bungalow, where Lalu has been moved to from a private ward in view of Covid-19 threat last month, Soren said it was long since he last the Bihar leader.Also read: Former Union minister Tariq Anwar’s elevation in AICC hints at party’s focus on BiharHe said it was the state’s responsibility to take care of him in the pandemic. He also said the JMM and the RJD will fight the Bihar assembly election together.The JMM has entered in the grand alliance led by the RJD for the upcoming Bihar polls where the Congress, the RLSP and the VIP are the other partners.When asked about how many seats the JMM would contest, Soren said, “Wait for a while, it would be made public who will contest from where. It will be communicated through a political platform at an opportune time”.The JMM had identified 12 assembly seats in Bihar and left it for the state unit to discuss with the RJD leaders. However, it is learnt that the RJD has indicated that two to three seats could be allotted to the JMM to contest under the banner of the Grand Alliance.Also read: Bihar polls - Nitish, Nadda hold initial talks on seat-sharing, agree on earliest solutionThe former Bihar chief minister was serving jail terms and was admitted to RIMS with critical ailments in December 2018. His lawyer has moved a petition for regular bail in Jharkhand High Court. The court on Friday deferred the hearing on October 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/jharkhand-cm-meets-lalu-yadav-says-will-contest-bihar-polls-together/story-vGqzlmrBinoaJ6xbdpNt6O.html
13-09-2020||Noida||At this Noida hospital, Covid-19 patients have a humanoid friend for company||In a step towards adapting emerging technologies in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, a private hospital in Greater Noida has deployed robots in the intensive care units to interact with patients. Developed by a Bengaluru-based start-up, the five foot tall artificial intelligence-enabled humanoid named ‘Mitra’ blinks its eyes while interacting with people, is able to recognise faces, manoeuvre using wheels, and has a high-quality touch-screen mounted display. Mitra was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Ivanka Trump, advisor to US president Donald Trump, at the Global Entrepreneurship Summit held in Hyderabad in November 2017. A week ago, two Mitra were put on Covid-19 duties at Greater Noida’s Yatharth Super speciality Hospital, one of the four major hospitals in the district that is treating Covid-19 patients. Deployed to enhance the screening process and safeguard the health care staff, Mitra’s main function for now is to interact with patients, make video calls for them and hold sessions with doctors and psychiatrists, hospital officials said. “We have two such robots which were earlier deployed at the hospital gates for the screening process of visitors. Each costs Rs10 lakh. They can take the temperature and assign a gate pass to those who are fit, and inform the health staff if anyone has a higher body temperature. A week ago, we kind of promoted one of the Mitras to work with the front-line Covid-19 staff of the hospital,” said Yatharth Tyagi, director, Yatharth Super Specialty Hospital. “The robot is operated by a technician through a mobile application, and based on the appointments or need, it charts counselling sessions for Covid-19 patients with the doctor or psychiatrist concerned,” he further explained. Elaborating on the usage of robotics and innovation in the health care sector, Tyagi points out that though a robot or machine can’t replace the a health worker or doctor, it definitely eases their workload and keeps them safe by breaking the virus spread. “For the well-being of patients, we don’t allow phones in wards. That is where the Mitras come to play. If any patient wants to talk his/her family, then Mitra can make a video call for them. Also, the patient who needs counselling get a session with the psychiatrist,” Tyagi said. According to doctors, the Mitra is proving helpful with patients. “Such innovative interactions help stimulate the mind of a patient. For patients who are fighting the virus, seeing a humanoid with whom they can interact brings positivity, generates good hormones and helps with their mental well-being -- all these are things that Covid-19 patients direly need. Apart from that, Mitra also helps out the health staff,” said Dr Rahul Singh, head of the department, Covid-ICU, Yatharth Hospital. Yatharth Hospital currently has 260 active Covid-19 cases, and has successfully treated 1,120 patients so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/at-this-noida-hospital-covid-19-patients-have-a-humanoid-friend-for-company/story-3B01H8QmW7yRveCsN6L1FN.html
13-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Police trace online marketplace and e-wallet fraud source to Haryana, UP and Rajasthan||Gurugram: Following investigations into many cases of online frauds, the Gurugram police have identified at least three districts -- one each in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan -- where around 200 gangs of fraudsters are operating out of more than 20 villages. According to the police, these gangs are involved in recent spate of fraud cases on an online shopping website and also cases involving e-wallets and debit/credit card transactions. Nearly 3,000 people in Gurugram have been duped this year so far, the police said, adding that most of the fraud cases were reported in the past few months.The gangs have been traced back to Nuh, Mathura and Bharatpur, said the police. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that as the number of people being duped by conmen has risen during the Covid-19 pandemic, we have issued an advisory asking people to be cautious while buying or selling vehicles on the portal. “The gangs buy cheapest mobile phones, which hardly cost them ₹500 per phone, and SIM cards in bulk from different states. They use one mobile phone barely for three days and later bury them or damage them to escape arrest,” he said. The police said they have identified the villages but are facing challenges as the locals have not cooperated with the investigation so far. Rao said the suspects cash in on the trust of the victims on the online portals which they gain by offering vehicles and electronic gadgets at throwaway prices. On an average, three complaints of being cheated on these marketplaces are being registered at the cybercrime police stations in the city everyday. “Despite knowing the areas from where these gangs are operating, we are yet to make headways in major cases as the suspects are using latest technology and before the police can trace the location, they flee from the spot,” he said. The Cyber police teams are taking help of locals to crack these cases and teams are visiting these areas regularly to get some crucial leads. The most common modus operandi of these gangs is posting fake advertisements on the website for the sale of second hand vehicles, gadgets such as mobile phones and laptops. “These gangs upload pictures online and put up advertisements by creating an account. When a buyer shows interest in the product, they pretend to carry out the transaction and dupe the buyer after collecting money through online mode,” said Karan Goyal, assistant commissioner of police (DLF). In over 300 cases, conmen shared identity cards of defence personnel, claiming that they were posted in field areas or on borders to gain trust of the victims. A total of 61 people were arrested this year till date. Jasvir Singh Punia, station house officer of Cyber police station, said that they have arrested 38 people in the past two months for duping people. “The suspects said it was easier to dupe people during lockdown as they were busy working from home and easily shared one time password (OTP). We have been time and again asking people not to do so, but to no avail,” Punia said. Meanwhile, representatives of OLX met the police commissioner last week to discuss the measures that they have taken to combat fraud. “We have started capturing the GPS locations of the users, who have consented to the in-app permission for sharing the location. We can collect GPS locations of only such users who have provided their permission to collect their location. Most importantly by next week, we will be implementing verified user tags for the users posting ads in the cars category. For verifying the users, we will collect selfie in real-time and an image of the ID proof,” said Juhi Singh, legal counsel, OLX India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-police-trace-online-marketplace-and-e-wallet-fraud-source-to-haryana-up-and-rajasthan/story-d8CSfWDRPSMFbkVaKfl2JK.html
13-09-2020||Jaipur||With 1,669 fresh Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan’s tally goes past 1 lakh||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 1-lakh mark on Saturday as 1,669 more people tested positive for the disease, while the toll climbed to 1,221 with 14 fresh fatalities, officials said.With the new cases, the state’s virus count stands at 1,00,705, they said.Of the latest fatalities, two were reported from Jaipur, while Ajmer, Barmer, Bikaner, Bundi, Churu, Jaisalmer, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Pratapgarh, Sikar and Udaipur reported one each.Jaipur also reported the maximum number of fresh cases at 335, followed by 280 in Jodhpur, 152 in Kota, 109 in Alwar, 101 in Ajmer, 80 in Udaipur, 56 each in Bikaner and Sikar, 47 in Nagaur, 44 in Pali and 32 in Sri Ganganagar.Twenty-nine cases were reported in Bhilwara, 27 in Pratapgarh, 25 in Sirohi, 24 in Jhalawar, 23 each in Bundi and Baran, 22 each in Bharatpur and Rajsamand, 21 each in Chittorgarh and Churu, 20 in Jhunjhunu and Dungarpur, 17 each in Dholpur and Hanumangarh, 16 in Banswara, 15 in Jalore, four in Sawai Madhopur, three in Tonk, and two each in Karauli and Dausa.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 16,582, while 82,902 patients have recovered, according to the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/with-1-669-fresh-covid-19-cases-rajasthan-s-tally-goes-past-1-lakh/story-Ved6h08GKcvTzNiS47qpXJ.html
13-09-2020||City||2,566 students to take NEET at three centres in Ludhiana||As medical aspirants gear up for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) to be held on Sunday amid the pandemic, authorities at the three examination centres in the city have made elaborate arrangements to maintain social distancing and ensure safety of the students.Over 2,566 students will appear for the NEET 2020 conducted by National Testing Agency (NTA) for admission to MBBS/BDS courses and other undergraduate medical courses in approved/recognised medical/dental and other colleges/institutes in India.The three centres are SGND Convent School, Andlu (960 candidates), Amrit Indo Canadian Academy, Laddian Kalan (646 candidates), and Guru Nanak Model Senior Secondary School, Doraha (960 candidates).All centres sanitisedThe three-hour exam will begin at 2pm. Students will be seated in adherence with the social distancing norms with 12 students in one room, and entry and exit will be staggered so as to avoid crowding.The entry gates at all three centres will be opened at 11am, and no student will be allowed to enter the premises after 1.30pm. Every 40 minutes, 150 students will be allowed to enter the gate at the examination centres and there will be separate rows for boys and girls to maintain social distancing.Hand sanitisers have been kept in every room and premises of all the three centres have been sanitised. However, as per NTA instructions, a candidate will be allowed entry only with mask on face, gloves on hands, transparent water bottle, small hand sanitiser and exam related documents (admit card/lD card).Staff,candidates to be scanned at entryAs per the instructions of NTA, all staff members and candidates will be checked with thermo-guns at the entry point and those showing above normal body temperature or those with Covid-19 symptoms will be isolated in a separate room.If the candidate’s temperature becomes normal in 15 minutes, he/she will be allowed to take the exam from the earmarked seats, else they will have to attempt the test from the isolation room. A health expert will be deputed in the isolation room to provide medical help to the candidate(s) if required.Paramjit Kaur, principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, and NTA coordinator for Ludhiana, said, “The examination centres are fully prepared to conduct the exam and all arrangements have been made according to the standard operating procedures. We have already briefed the centre superintendents and invigilators through webinars to ensure social distancing and other safety measures are followed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/neet-exam-in-ludhiana-aspirants-directed-to-wear-masks-gloves-carry-sanitiser/story-5t9MPdSKKnFwEIRwL5bQQI.html
13-09-2020||Pune||PMC officer to monitor bed situation at private hospitals 24x7, update real time data||The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has deputed officers at private hospitals to oversee management and allotment of beds 24x7. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal issued the orders on Saturday and deputed the officials in the private hospitals.The officials will mainly monitor private hospitals which have a contract with the municipal corporation. These include Ruby Hall Clinic, Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, Sahyadri hospital, Ratna Memorial, KEM and other private hospitals.Agrawal said, “These deputy engineers will remain present 24 hours at the private hospitals. There are three shifts - 6am to 2pm; 2pm to 10pm and 10pm to 6am.”“In these shifts, different officers would remain present and ensure that the beds allotted for PMC are utilised by patients referred by the control room. Even if there is a direct admission of critical patients, the information should be passed to the control room,” she said.“The divisional medical officers will visit these private hospitals daily and watch whether deputy engineers are present and take rounds of beds. All the beds which are reserved for PMC should be earmarked and boards should be put on them so that these beds are occupied by patients referred by PMC,” she said.Agrawal instructed in the circular that these officers present at the hospital will ensure that there would be real-time information of beds availability and occupied beds. After patients are discharged the information should be updated on the dashboard.To monitor all these systems, PMC had appointed senior officers who are at the deputy collector level rank and allotted them one at each hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-officer-to-monitor-bed-situation-at-private-hospitals-24x7-update-real-time-data/story-pKuCRARU8llPNm9P4axYeJ.html
13-09-2020||Noida||Deliver flats in Lotus Greens in 12 months or refund buyers, consumer forum orders builder||In a big relief to homebuyers, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) has directed the Piyush IT Solutions Private Limited (Lotus Greens Group), private developer, to finish construction and give possession in 12 months or refund homebuyers’ investment.The move comes after a batch of 85 homebuyers demanded justice via a plea that had been filed in September 2019 before NCDRC in Delhi. The Commission had disposed of 16 buyers’ cases out of 85 and the remaining cases will be heard in future. Buyers had booked apartments in 2014 with an assurance of delivery by December 2019 in this housing project, located in Sector 79. Buyers, however, filed cases after they realised that the developer – Lotus Greens – has stopped construction for the past many years. It has completed only 30-50% construction of nine towers, the alleged.“The opposite party (Lotus Greens) shall complete the construction of the allotted flats in all respects, obtain the requisite occupancy certificate at its own cost and responsibility and then offer possession of the allotted flats to the concerned allottees within a maximum period of 12 months from today i.e. on or before 8.9.2021,” reads the order.The Lotus Arena project is spread over 12.5 acres along the Aqua Line metro and part of Noida’s sports city project. The developer had planned to build 1,100 units in this project but failed to finish and deliver as per the scheduled deadline, after which homebuyers moved NCDRC for relief. The NCRD’s presiding member VK Jain, in his order, further said, “If the opposite party (developer) fails to complete the construction, obtain the requisite occupancy certificate and then offer the possession of the flat, complete in all respects, it shall refund the entire amount received from the concerned allottee to him/them, within one month thereafter along-with compensation in the form of simple interest @ 9% p.a. from the date of each payment till the date of refund.”HT tried to contact the developer but the latter did not respond to call or text for a comment on the issue. HT also tried to reach the developer’s advocate representing the firm in NCDRC but the counsel did not take the call.NCDRC further said, “If the opposite party delivers the possession to the complainants in terms of direction (i) above, it shall also pay to the concerned allottee compensation in the form of simple interest @ 6% p.a. from the committed date for delivery of possession till the date on which the possession in terms of direction (i) above is offered. The balance amount, if any, payable by the concerned allottee to the opposite party shall be adjusted out the compensation payable in terms of this order and the balance amount, if any, shall be paid by the concerned allottee within four weeks of the offer of possession in terms of direction (i) above. The opposite party shall also pay the cost of litigation quantified at Rs25,000/- in each case,” said the order.V Sharma, president of Lotus Arena buyers’ association, said that they welcome NCDRC’s order.“I have invested my hard-earned savings to buy a 3BHK apartment in this project. But the developer not only failed to deliver but also stopped the construction and communication with buyers, forcing us to file a case in NCDRC for justice. Now we hope that we will get our apartments after a long wait,” Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/deliver-flats-in-lotus-greens-in-12-months-or-refund-buyers-consumer-forum-orders-builder/story-XW3B1GHBJlMQJadvg2s99M.html
13-09-2020||World||China hits out at Pentagon’s report on PLA||China’s defence ministry on Sunday blasted a critical US report on the country’s military ambitions, saying it is the US instead that poses the biggest threat to the international order and world peace.The statement follows the September 2 release of the annual US defence department report to Congress on Chinese military developments and goals that it said would have “serious implications for US national interests and the security of the international rules-based order”.Defence ministry spokesman Col Wu Qian called the report a “wanton distortion” of China’s aims and the relations between the People’s Liberation Army and China’s 1.4 billion people. UK intel official: China, Russia key adversariesIn a rare media briefing, the chief of Britain’s Defence Intelligence on Sunday said China and Russia were key adversaries challenging the existing world order without promoting direct conflict and operating in the expanding grey zone between war and peacetime.Lt Gen Jim Hockenhull said the UK’s adversaries are developing new ways of operating, backed up by cutting-edge military capabilities that leverage advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence and machine learning.Australia defends raids on Chinese journalistsAustralia’s home affairs minister Peter Dutton on Sunday defended the government’s right to intelligence raids to prevent foreign interference, after China condemned searches on the homes of its journalists working in Australia.Dutton declined to directly confirm that the Chinese journalists were questioned by Australia’s intelligence agency in June, saying an investigation was still underway, but said there was some “activity” by the country’s intelligence agency.Dutton also warned foreign journalists working in the country they might come under the scrutiny of federal agencies if they provide a “slanted view” of Australian affairs. His comments come after the evacuation from China last week of Australian journalists Bill Birtles and Mike Smith, who sheltered in Australian diplomatic compounds after being questioned by police. Australian Cheng Lei, who works as a business anchor for CGTN, China’s English-language state broadcaster, earlier was taken into custody.The US on Saturday called a decision by Beijing to impose restrictions on all American diplomats on Chinese soil an “escalation”. China had on Friday announced “reciprocal restrictions” against US diplomats in China and Hong Kong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-hits-out-at-pentagon-s-report-on-pla/story-ZJIl12ZqPoG5RSKwfLaLwM.html
13-09-2020||World||Search on for survivors as wildfires torch millions of acres in US West||Crews were to resume searching for the dead on Sunday among blackened ruins left by massive wildfires raging in three western US states, where millions of acres have burned in weeks and “mass fatality” incidents are feared in Oregon. A blitz of wildfires across Oregon, California and Washington has destroyed thousands of homes and a half dozen small towns this summer, scorching a landscape the size of New Jersey and killing more than two dozen people since early August.After four days of brutally hot, windy weather, the weekend brought calmer winds blowing inland from the Pacific Ocean, and cooler, moister conditions that helped crews make headway against blazes that had burned unchecked earlier in the week.Still, emergency officials worried that the shifting weather might not bring much relief to southern Oregon, where an apocalyptic scene of charred residential subdivisions and trailer parks stretched for miles along Highway 99 south of Medford through the neighboring communities of Phoenix and Talent.“We’re concerned that the incoming front is not going to provide a lot of rain here in the Medford region and it’s going to bring increased winds,” Bureau of Land Management spokesman Kyle Sullivan told Reuters in a telephone interview on Sunday.Oregon Governor Kate Brown called the perilous blazes a “once-in-a-generation event,” and the director of Oregon’s office of emergency management, Andrew Phelps, said authorities were bracing for the possibility of “mass fatality” incidents. At least ten people have been killed in Oregon, according to the office of emergency management. Brown has said that dozens of people remained missing across three counties. “There are going to be a number of fatalities, folks that just couldn’t get warning in time and couldn’t evacuate their homes and get to safety,” Phelps told MSNBC on Friday.There were 38 actives fires burning in Oregon as of Sunday morning, according to the state’s office of emergency management website. Trump to visit California In California, tens of thousands of firefighters were battling 28 major wildfires as of Saturday afternoon, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. Improving weather conditions had helped them gain a measure of containment over most of the blazes.The White House said Trump, a Republican, will meet with federal and California officials on Monday. The president has said that western governors bear some of the blame for intense fire seasons in recent years, accusing them of poor forest management.Trump’s Democratic opponent in the November election, Joe Biden, on Saturday linked the conflagrations to climate change, echoing comments made a day earlier by California Governor Gavin Newsom.More than 4,000 homes and other structures have been incinerated in California alone over the past three weeks. Three million acres of land have been burned in the state, according to the state’s Department of Forestry and Fire Protection.Thick smoke and ash from the fires has darkened the sky over the Pacific Northwest since Labor Day, creating some of the world’s worst air-quality levels and driving residents indoors.In Portland, where more than 100 days of political protests have turned increasingly tense in recent weeks, the Multnomah County Sheriff chastised residents for setting up their own checkpoints to stop cars after conspiracy theories spread on social media that members of Black Lives Matter or Antifa were lighting fires. Local officials have called those assertions groundless. Facebook said on Saturday it was now removing false claims that the wildfires in Oregon were started by certain groups. “This is based on confirmation from law enforcement that these rumors are forcing local fire and police agencies to divert resources from fighting the fires and protecting the public,” a Facebook spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/search-on-for-survivors-as-wildfires-torch-millions-of-acres-in-us-west/story-jhNTVuX1gt7IPjdkSyQlAL.html
13-09-2020||World||Afghan forces, Taliban continue to clash even as peace talks start||Taliban and Afghan government forces clashed across Afghanistan hours after the start of long-awaited peace talks in Doha on Saturday, officials said, underscoring the uphill challenge of settling a 19-year insurgency. Talks between the two sides were to begin shortly after a US-Taliban agreement in February, but began only over the weekend after months of delays, caused in part by continuing Taliban offensives in the war-torn country.“With the start of intra-Afghan talks we were expecting the Taliban to reduce the number of their attacks, but unfortunately their attacks are still going in high numbers,” Fawad Aman, a spokesman for the Afghan defence ministry, said.Representatives from a number of countries who spoke at the inauguration of the peace talks called on the Taliban to announce an immediate ceasefire before negotiators sat down to find a way to end decades of war in Afghanistan.The Taliban did not say anything about a possible ceasefire at the ceremony.Achieving a significant reduction in violence and how to get to a permanent ceasefire would be among the first issues the sides would discuss when they meet on Sunday, the head of Afghanistan’s peace council, Abdullah Abdullah, told Reuters on Saturday.No meeting between the two has been reported by either side in Doha on Sunday, but Qatar’s state news agency reported teams led by Taliban’s political chief Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar and Abdullah had met the Qatari Emir. Aman said that, on Friday, the eve of the inauguration of the talks, the Taliban had carried out 18 attacks against government forces and installations across the country, inflicting heavy casualties. “We don’t have exact information about Taliban attacks on Saturday, but I can say the number of attacks has increased instead of decreased”.Taliban attacks on Saturday night were confirmed by officials in the provinces of Kapsia and Kunduz.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said in a statement that the insurgent group attacked a convoy of Afghan forces that had arrived to launch an operation along a key highway in Kunduz. He added that security forces carried out air and artillery strikes on Saturday night in the provinces of Baghlan and Jowzjan. (Reporting by Abdul Qadir Sediqi in Kabul, Writing by Gibran Peshimam; editing by Emelia Sithole-Matarise)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-forces-taliban-continue-to-clash-even-as-peace-talks-start/story-lU6ngtUHXaAxviq5LjoNZK.html
13-09-2020||World||Michael Bloomberg to spend at least $100M to help Joe Biden in Florida||Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg is committing at least $100 million to help Joe Biden’s presidential campaign in the crucial battleground state of Florida.Bloomberg’s late-stage infusion of cash reflects Democrats’ concerns about the tight race in a state that is a priority for President Donald Trump. A victory for Biden in Florida, the largest of the perennial battleground states, would significantly complicate Trump’s path to reaching the 270 Electoral College votes needed to secure a second term.Republicans, however, feel confident in their chances in the state, pointing to GOP wins in 2018 and stronger-than-expected turnout in 2016 as evidence the state is trending in their direction. They’ve invested millions in Florida focused on Latino outreach and boosting their field operation, and the state’s size and diversity makes campaigns there expensive.The billionaire Bloomberg launched his own campaign for the Democratic nomination late last year amid worries about Biden’s strengths. Despite spending $1 billion on his campaign, Bloomberg struggled and dropped out in March, quickly endorsing Biden.One of the world’s wealthiest men with a net worth estimated to exceed $60 billion, Bloomberg promised throughout his campaign that he would help Democrats try to defeat Trump regardless of how his own White House bid fared.He exited the presidential race pledging to spend “whatever it takes” to defeat Trump, and has already invested millions to support Democrats up and down the ballot. Bloomberg transferred $18 million from his presidential campaign to the Democratic National Committee, and transferred its offices in six key swing states to the local Democratic parties there.The businessman has contributed $500,000 to Voto Latino to help register Latino voters, $2 million to the group Collective Future to help register African American voters, and $2 million to Swing Left, a group focused on electing Democrats in swing districts. One of the groups he has founded and funds, Everytown for Gun Safety, has committed to spending $60 million on elections this cycle, and Bloomberg himself has pledged another $60 million to support Democrats in House races.Bloomberg’s new spending is intended to boost Biden before the start of early voting in Florida, which begins on Sept. 24. A Bloomberg adviser said much of the money will go to television and digital advertising. Republicans are outspending Democrats by about $8 million in the state in future television ad reservations, according to a review of Kantar/CMAG data by The Associated Press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/michael-bloomberg-to-spend-at-least-100m-to-help-joe-biden-in-florida/story-L7UTk0xRaKdidrnS0V9iOM.html
13-09-2020||World||US committed to protect Afghan people’s interests in Doha talks: Zalmay Khalilzad||The United States is committed to ensure that personal interests do not take precedence over the national interests during the crucial negotiations between the Afghan government and Taliban in Doha, US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad said.In an interview with TOLOnews in Doha, Khalilzad said a solution should be found to end the Afghan crisis, which will lead to long-lasting peace.Asked if the intra-Afghan talks would see a breakdown, the US envoy remarked that such a development will not be acceptable for Washington.“It is not acceptable and there is a solution to every problem, and a solution must be found. We are ready to help if the country’s interests come first and personal interests do not come first. I am confident that a solution will be found and we will not allow personal interests to take precedence. This is the promise of the US to the people of Afghanistan,” Khalilzad said.He said there are some people in Afghanistan who prefer the current situation to peace with the Taliban while some are attempting to keep Washington engaged in war so that it could pay the price, according to TOLOnews.“Some prefer the current situation rather than peace with the Taliban. For instance, within Afghanistan there are some who are trying to keep the US engaged in the war,” Khalilzad said.Earlier on Friday, Khalilzad said he is hopeful that talks between the Afghan government and Taliban will pave the way for a peace process and withdrawal of foreign troops after decades of war and insurgency.The intra-Afghan talks between the Afghanistan government and the Taliban which opened in Qatar’s Doha on Saturday is aimed at establishing peace and stability in Afghanistan.The Afghan government’s 21-member negotiating team was led by Masoom Stanekzai, a former intelligence chief. On the other hand, the Taliban was led by Mawlavi Abdul Hakim, the terror group’s chief justice and a close aide of the group’s chief Haibatullah Akhunzada, Al Jazeera reported.Calling the beginning of intra-Afghan peace talks a “truly momentous occasion,” US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo urged the Taliban and the Afghan government to “seize the opportunity”, adding that Washington is ready to support the negotiations.Peace talks were expected to take place in March but were delayed repeatedly due to a prisoner exchange agreement made as part of the deal signed between the US and Taliban in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-committed-to-protect-afghan-people-s-interests-in-doha-talks-zalmay-khalilzad/story-XPrpxjlzBVGzkLQNxUHQzK.html
13-09-2020||World||Former UK leaders unite to slam Boris Johnson on Brexit plan||Two former British prime ministers who played crucial roles in bringing peace to Northern Ireland joined forces Sunday to urge lawmakers to reject government plans to override the Brexit deal with the European Union, arguing that it imperils that peace and damages the UK’s reputation.In an article in The Sunday Times, John Major and Tony Blair slammed the current British government for “shaming” the country with legislation that, in places, goes against the very deal it signed to allow for the UK’s smooth departure from the EU earlier this year.Major, a Conservative prime minister from 1990 to 1997, and Blair, his Labour successor for a decade, said Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Internal Market Bill “questions the very integrity” of the UK“This government’s action is shaming itself and embarrassing our nation,” they said.The planned legislation, which will be debated by British lawmakers this week, has led to a furious outcry within the EU as it would diminish the bloc’s previously agreed oversight of trade between mainland Britain and Northern Ireland if a UK-EU trade agreement isn’t secured.The British government has admitted that the legislation would break international law, but argues that it’s an insurance policy for that potential ‘no-deal’ scenario. Johnson has said the legislation is needed to end EU threats to impose a “blockade” in the Irish Sea that the prime minister asserted could “carve up our country.”Britain’s Justice Secretary Robert Buckland told the BBC on Sunday that the legislation was a “break the glass in emergency provision,” if needed, and that he would resign if he believed the rule of law was broken in an “unacceptable” way.“I don’t believe we’re going to get to that stage,” he said.EU leaders have furiously rejected Johnson’s charge that the bloc is planning a major disruption to normal trade between mainland Britain and Northern Ireland.Irish Foreign Minister Simon Coveney told the BBC that the “kind of inflammatory language” coming from the British government was “spin and not the truth.”Still, with the British government showing no sign of changing course, there are real concerns that the talks on a future trade deal between the UK and the EU could collapse within weeks. If that happens, tariffs and other impediments to trade will be imposed by both sides at the start of 2021.The UK left the EU on Jan. 31, but it is in a transition period that effectively sees it benefit from the bloc’s tariff-free trade until the end of the year while a future relationship is negotiated. Even before the latest standoff, discussions between the EU’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, and his UK counterpart, David Frost, had made very little progress.One major element of the Brexit withdrawal agreement is the section related to ensuring an open border on the island of Ireland to protect the peace process in Northern Ireland.The issue proved thorny during the more than two years of discussions it took to get a Brexit deal done, as the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland is the only land link between the UK and the EU.The EU wanted assurances the border would not be used as a back route for unlicensed goods arriving in Ireland from the rest of the UK — England, Scotland and Wales. As a result, the two sides agreed there would be some kind of regulatory border between mainland Britain and Northern Ireland.Major and Blair, who both vociferously opposed Brexit, said the planned legislation puts the 1998 Good Friday agreement that ended decades of violence in Northern Ireland at risk.The pair said the bill “negates the predictability, political stability and legal clarity that are integral to the delicate balance between the north and south of Ireland that is at the core of the peace process.”It’s unclear whether the planned legislation will get through the British Parliament, with a number of Johnson’s fellow Conservatives uneasy at the prospect of the government breaching international law.Tobias Ellwood is one lawmaker who has said he could not accept the legislation, arguing that the bill diminishes “our role-model status as defender of global standards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-uk-leaders-unite-to-slam-boris-johnson-on-brexit-plan/story-psXubbk7OOKVynWHyRSpXP.html
13-09-2020||World||Scientists publish images of coronavirus infected cells||Scientists have produced images of the novel coronavirus infecting lab-grown respiratory tract cells, findings that illustrate the number of virus particles that are produced and released per cell inside the lungs. The researchers, including Camille Ehre from the University of North Carolina (UNC) Children’s Research Institute, captured these images to illustrate how intense SARS-CoV-2 infection of the airways can be in very graphic and easily understood images. The generated high-powered microscopic images show a large number of the virus particles on human respiratory surfaces, ready to spread infection across tissues, and to other people.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here  In the research, the scientists inoculated the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 into human bronchial epithelial cells of the lungs, which they then examined 96 hours later using the high-powered scanning electron microscopy. The images, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, were re-colorised, and show infected hairy ciliated cells with strands of mucus attached to cilia tips. The scientists explained that the cilia are hair-like structures on the surface of airway epithelial cells that transport mucus and trapped viruses from the lungs. Using a higher power magnification, they showed the structure and density of SARS-CoV-2 produced by human airway epithelia. These virus particles, the researchers said, are the complete, infectious form of the virus released onto respiratory surfaces by infected host cells.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage They said the imaging research helps illustrate the incredibly high number of virions produced and released per cell inside the human respiratory system. According to the scientists, the large viral burden is a source for spread of infection to multiple organs of an infected individual, and likely mediates the high frequency of Covid-19 transmission to others. They said the images make a strong case for the use of masks by infected and uninfected individuals to limit SARS-CoV-2 transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-publish-images-of-coronavirus-infected-cells/story-TyvhAZt5KjyqlRVpPWZ8hN.html
13-09-2020||World||China, Russia key adversaries to world order: Top UK intel official||In a rare media interaction, the chief of Britain’s Defence Intelligence (DI) on Sunday identified China and Russia as key adversaries challenging the existing world order without promoting direct conflict, and operating in the expanding grey zone between war and peacetime.Lt Gen Jim Hockenhull said the United Kingdom’s adversaries are developing new ways of operating, backed up by cutting-edge military capabilities that leverage advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence and machine learning.In the first-ever media briefing at DI’s base in Cambridgeshire, he said the shifting global picture has changed the character of warfare in ways that will challenge the West to keep pace with adversaries who do not play by the rules.According to him, conflict is bleeding into new domains, such as cyber and space, “threatening our cohesion, our resilience and our global interests.”Hockenhull said: “Whilst conventional threats remain, we have seen our adversaries invest in Artificial Intelligence, machine learning and other ground-breaking technologies, whilst also supercharging more traditional techniques of influence and leverage”.“As we have seen in Salisbury, hostile states are willing to take incredible risks. We must make sure that we have both the intent and the capability to ensure that such wanton acts of irresponsibility will not go unpunished”.Suspected Russian agents were alleged to be behind poisoning of former Russian military officer Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia Skripal in the south-west England town of Salisbury on March 4, 2018, which sparked a diplomatic tussle between London and Moscow.Officials said DI is traditionally more comfortable in the shadows, but it has been brought to the fore by recent developments. It is tasked with watching for global instability, tracking threats to the UK and monitoring human rights violations, and shaping the UK government’s approach to emerging threats and supporting UK forces deployed across the globe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-russia-key-adversaries-to-world-order-top-uk-intel-official/story-lsQcacnlX3UyvOLxJhpynN.html
13-09-2020||World||Search on for bodies in charred path of wildfires, Donald Trump to visit California||Search and rescue crews using dogs combed through neighborhoods left in blackened ruins by massive wildfires burning across three states on Saturday, and US President Donald Trump said he would travel to California to see the devastation first-hand.Flames have destroyed thousands of homes and a half dozen small towns in the latest outbreak of wildfires that have raged across the western United States this summer, scorching a landscape the size of New Jersey and killing at least 26 people since early August.But after four days of brutally hot, windy weather, the weekend brought calmer winds blowing inland from the Pacific Ocean, and cooler, moister conditions that helped crews make headway against blazes that had burned unchecked earlier in the week.At least six people have been killed this week in Oregon, according to the state’s wildfire tracking website. Governor Kate Brown has said that dozens of people remained missing across three counties.In California, tens of thousands of firefighters were battling 28 major wildfires as of Saturday afternoon, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. Improving weather conditions had helped them gain a measure of containment over most of the blazes.The White House said Trump, a Republican, will meet with California officials on Monday. The president has said that western governors bear some of the blame for intense fire seasons in recent years, accusing them of poor forest management.Trump’s Democratic opponent in the November election, Joe Biden, on Saturday linked the conflagrations to climate change, echoing comments made a day earlier by California Governor Gavin Newsom.THICK SMOKE BLANKETS THREE STATES“The debate is over around climate change. Just come to the state of California. Observe it with your own eyes,” Newsom said in a briefing livestreamed from a charred mountainside near Oroville, California. The Pacific Northwest has since Labor Day endured a string of fierce wildfires that have darkened the sky with thick smoke and ash, creating some of the world’s worst air-quality levels and driving residents indoors.The small mountain town of Paradise, California, nearly destroyed in 2018 by the deadliest wildfire in state history, posted the world’s worst air quality index reading at 592, according to the PurpleAir monitoring site, as two of the state’s largest blazes burned on either side of it.More than 4,000 homes and other structures have been incinerated in California alone over the past three weeks.In southern Oregon, an apocalyptic scene of charred residential subdivisions and trailer parks stretched for miles along Highway 99 south of Medford through the neighboring communities of Phoenix and Talent.Molalla, a logging community 25 miles (40 km) south of downtown Portland, was an ash-covered ghost town after its more than 9,000 residents were told to evacuate, with only 30 refusing to leave, the city’s fire department said.Molalla was on the front line of an evacuation zone stretching north to within 3 miles (4.8 km) of downtown Portland. The sheriff in suburban Clackamas County set a 10 p.m. PDT (0500 on Saturday GMT) curfew to deter “possible increased criminal activity.” In Portland, the Multnomah County Sheriff chastised residents who had set up their own checkpoints to stop cars after conspiracy theories spread on social media that members of Black Lives Matter or Antifa were lighting fires. Local officials have called those assertions groundless.“We are removing false claims that the wildfires in Oregon were started by certain groups,” a Facebook spokesman said on Saturday. “This is based on confirmation from law enforcement that these rumors are forcing local fire and police agencies to divert resources from fighting the fires and protecting the public.”  (Reporting by Deborah Bloom in Portland, Ore.; Additional reporting by Carlos Barria, Adrees Latif, Andrew Hay, Steve Gorman, Mimi Dwyer, Sharon Bernstein, Dan Whitcomb, Aishwarya Nair, Jonathan Allen, Andrea Shalal and Jeff Mason; Writing by Steve Gorman and Dan Whitcomb; Editing by Frances Kerry and Daniel Wallis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/search-on-for-bodies-in-charred-path-of-wildfires-donald-trump-to-visit-california/story-LKwZO6SblZhLMa4w0scwwJ.html
13-09-2020||World||2 California deputies shot in apparent ambush in patrol car||The shooting of two Los Angeles County sheriff’s deputies in an apparent ambush prompted a manhunt for the shooter, reaction from the president and protests outside the hospital where the wounded deputies were being treated Saturday night in California.The 31-year-old female deputy and 24-year-old male deputy both underwent surgery Saturday evening, Sheriff Alex Villanueva said in a late-night news conference. Both graduated from the academy 14 months ago, he said.The deputies were shot while sitting in their patrol car at a Metro rail station and were able to radio for help, the sheriff said. Villanueva, whose department has come under fire during recent protests over racial unrest, expressed frustration over anti-police sentiment as he urged people to pray for the officers.“It pisses me off. It dismays me at the same time,” he said.The department shared video of the shooting in a Twitter post showing a person open fire through the passenger-side window of the patrol car.“The gunman walked up on the deputies and opened fire without warning or provocation,” the department stated.The video sparked thousands of reactions, including from President Donald Trump, who responded, “Animals that must be hit hard!” Protesters gathered outside the emergency room at the hospital where the injured deputies were being treated.“To the protesters blocking the entrance & exit of the HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM yelling “We hope they die” referring to 2 LA Sheriff’s ambushed today in #Compton: DO NOT BLOCK EMERGENCY ENTRIES & EXITS TO THE HOSPITAL,” the sheriff’s department tweeted. “People’s lives are at stake when ambulances can’t get through.” A radio reporter who was near the protest scene was taken into custody, KABC-TV reported. It wasn’t immediately clear why she was detained.Capt. Kent Wegener said officers were blanketing the area in search of a suspect seen on the video opening fire with a pistol.“We have a very, very generic description,” he said.The incident happened around 7 pm a short distance from the Compton sheriff’s station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-california-deputies-shot-in-apparent-ambush-in-patrol-car/story-ZLC90D9lkrv8QB0HtYPpqJ.html
13-09-2020||World||Former senior Boeing officials defend 737 max design: Report||Two top Boeing Co. executives have told US government investigators that the design process for the 737 Max was not flawed, despite the plane suffering two fatal crashes, according to the Wall Street Journal.Keith Leverkuhn and Michael Teal, who oversaw the development of the aircraft, didn’t concede any procedural mistakes, according to the article, which cited transcripts of closed-door interviews that will be part of a government report to be released this week.Leverkuhn, who served as the Max program manager from 2013 to 2018, said that the process was “correct and appropriate,” according to the newspaper. “I do challenge the suggestion that the development was a failure,” he said.The interviews with investigators mark the two men’s first public statements since the jetliner was grounded in March 2019. The plane was involved in two crashes that killed 346 people after the cockpit flight-control system, MCAS, overpowered pilots and caused fatal nosedives. Dennis Muilenburg was pushed out as chief executive officer by the firm’s board in December 2019.Leverkuhn and Teal told investigators they had signed off on the MCAS system without fully understanding how it worked, the paper said.Boeing said Leverkuhn and Teal supervised hundreds of engineers and, given their broad responsibilities, “were not, and could not have been, involved in every design decision” on the aircraft, in a comment to the Wall Street Journal. Boeing also reiterated it has taken steps to improve its internal procedures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-senior-boeing-officials-defend-737-max-design-report/story-lBtpWz9clLY2A22gEO0QvI.html
13-09-2020||World||Chinese PLA’s new expansion plans on Bhutan||After Ladakh and the South China Sea, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is poised to open another front against Bhutan, with a build-up in western and central part of Kingdom in a bid to settle the border on terms favourable to China in the forthcoming 25th round of boundary talks, people familiar with the matter said, While Thimpu has been sensitised at the highest levels about the PLA threat, the people added, Beijing will likely use PLA transgressions and encroachments in central Bhutan for a possible trade-off on already encroached areas and claims in the western part of the kingdom in the forthcoming negotiations.Bhutan is central to India’s national security as the country lies next to the Siliguri corridor and any territorial compromise made by Bhutan will have an adverse impact on Indian defences in the area. Although India helped Bhutan Hold its own against PLA during the 73-day stand off at Doklam plateau in 2017, the Chinese army has not stopped testing the armies of the two close allies in the area, the people, in India’s military, diplomatic and security establishment said, speaking on condition of anonymity.Chinese territorial claims in Bhutan include 318 sq km in the western sector and 495 sq km in the central sector. Continuing with its expansionist polices under the grab of peaceful coexistence, the PLA is continuing to construct roads, build and improve military infrastructure and intimidate the miniscule Royal Bhutan Army through aggressive patrolling and denial of access, the people explained. According to diplomats based in Thimpu and New Delhi, since the 2017 Doklam stand-off, PLA has intruded into five areas of western Bhutan and laid claim to a new boundary that extends approximately 40 km inside Bhutan, to the east of Chumbi Valley. It has methodically built up infrastructure, improved defences, constructed roads, tracks, helipads for troop movement and last mile logistics.In true Middle Kingdom style, PLA patrols on August 13 and 24 crossed the main stream of Torsa nullah (Dolong Chu) into south Doklam and asked Bhutanese herders to vacate the area near Raja Rani lake in which they were grazing their livestock. The basic idea behind the PLA move is to force both India and Bhutan to agree that China’s boundary extends to Gyemochen on Jhampheri ridge rather than on the Sinche la -Batang La axis, the true alignment of the trijunction. This is exactly what PLA was attempting to do in 2017, when it was stopped by the Indian Army. According to national security planners, PLA has increased surveillance in north Doklam by installation of surveillance cameras and continues aggressive military technical upgradation on the Chinese side of the contested plateau. Thimphu has asked the Royal Bhutanese Army to prepare for a reaction plan by deploying additional troops in order to prevent PLA from coming south of Torsa nullah or unilaterally alter the disengagement lines agreed to by Beijing in Doklam in 2017.The PLA expansionist plans are not limited to western Bhutan. In June , China raised an objection against Bhutan’s Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary (SWS) Project on the contention that it was located in a disputed border area. Spanning some 750 sq km, the sanctuary is located in the eastern Trashigang Dzongkhag of Bhutan, bordering India and China. This new claim may draw India again into The contest since the Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary abuts Arunachal Pradesh which China claims as its territory.The development came as a surprise to Bhutan. China had never before claimed the land of the Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary or, for that matter, any land in eastern Bhutan, analysts said. Even more puzzling, Beijing had not mentioned the region during 36 years of diplomatic talks that the two sides have held to resolve their boundary differences. Naturally, the Bhutanese government strongly opposed the Chinese claim questioning the sovereignty of Bhutan. While rejecting the claim of China, Thimpu has also conveyed that the Sakteng Wildlife Sanctuary is a sovereign territory of Bhutan and Not disputed. China’s Foreign Ministry, however, has a different perspective and made an official declaration that “the boundary between China and Bhutan has never been delimited. There have been disputes over the eastern, central and western sectors for a long time”.It is notable that the Chinese stand emerged in early June — at a time when Beijing was involved in a series of military standoffs along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India in Ladakh. China’s new territorial claim in eastern Bhutan indicates Beijing’s intent and its sudden territorial claim reinforces the expansionist narrative that the country has now embarked on under Xi Jinping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-pla-s-new-expansion-plans-on-bhutan/story-bqKkkq7SpHPl8xq5R7UpuN.html
13-09-2020||World||Googling for gut symptoms predicts Covid hot spots, study finds||Internet searches on gastrointestinal symptoms predicted a rise in Covid-19 cases weeks later, researchers at Massachusetts General Hospital found, demonstrating a novel early warning system for hot spots of the pandemic disease.Researchers at the top-ranked hospital in Boston compared search interest in loss of taste and appetite, and diarrhea with the reported incidence of Covid-19 in 15 US states from Jan. 20 to April 20. Using Alphabet Inc.’s Google Trends online tool, they found the volume of searches correlated most strongly with cases in New York, New Jersey, California, Massachusetts and Illinois -- states with high disease burden -- three to four weeks later.The research, published in the journal Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology, showed that the same approach used to monitor pandemic influenza trends more than a decade ago could be deployed for the coronavirus, the hospital said in a report this month. Patients with Covid-19 often report gastrointestinal symptoms, such as abdominal pain and diarrhea, sparking interest in conducting the study.“Our data underscore the importance of GI symptoms as a potential harbinger of Covid-19 infection and suggests that Google Trends may be a valuable tool for prediction of pandemics with GI manifestations,” Kyle Staller, a gastroenterologist and the director of Mass General’s gastrointestinal motility laboratory, and colleagues wrote in the study.Scientists are also testing for traces of the coronavirus in wastewater to identify places where Covid-19 is spreading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/googling-for-gut-symptoms-predicts-covid-hot-spots-study-finds/story-XGK0DAH7ROSCNBH3q8K3MP.html
13-09-2020||World||Trump cites Modi to talk up his Covid-19 record at poll rally||US President Donald Trump on Saturday talked up his administration’s response to the Covid-19 epidemic, telling supporters at an election rally that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi was impressed and complimented him on the scale of the testing in the United States.The president, who has faced criticism of his handling of the epidemic that has killed nearly 190,000 Americans, came under further scrutiny this past few days for admitting to Bob Woodward, for his upcoming book, that he had downplayed the threat from the virus though he knew exactly how lethal it was.Trump blames the high number of US infections — 6.4 million — on more testing, which he goes on to compare to lower testing numbers in India several times before, to defend his administration’s response. He also throws in the size of the population of the two countries tor effect.“We have the best testing programme in the world by far,” he told supporters at an election rally in Nevada, a battleground state. “We’ve tested more people than India, than many, many big countries put together. India’s second, we are 44 million tests ahead of India. They have 1.5 billion people.”“And Prime Minister Modi calls me (and) says what a job you’ve done with testing,” he said, recounting a conversation with the prime minister, the details of which could not be ascertained immediately. They last spoke in early June and they had discussed Covid-19 then, among a host of other issues.The United States had conducted 95.6 million tests by Saturday afternoon according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). India had done 56.2 million, according to the Indian Council Medical Research. The president, it seems, used an outdated number for India’s testing total when he claimed the US was ahead by 44 million.Trump moved on to other subjects at the rally shortly. But bringing up Modi to endorse his response to the Covid-19 epidemic was perhaps a first and, notably, at an election rally.Trump trails former Vice-President Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee, in national polls, though the gap has narrowed in recent day and will reduce further closer to November 3, the election day. He is now behind Biden by 7.5 points in the RealClearPolitics average of polls.The Trump 2020 campaign released recently a video made of clips from the “Howdy Modi” event that he attended with Modi in Houston last September and the “Namaste Trump” rally at Ahmedabad in February, in a bid to woo 1.8 million Indian Americans voters; they could count in battleground states.Biden has picked an Indian American, Senator Kamala Harris, as his running mate, and rolled out an expansive plan for the welfare of India Americans and for US-India relations if he was elected president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-cites-modi-to-talk-up-his-covid-19-record-at-poll-rally/story-lbZeamic7DmX3Gyd6HwNJM.html
13-09-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine latest developments: AstraZeneca resumes trial, China develops nasal spray||As the coronavirus disease continues to wreak havoc across the world, pharmaceutical companies are racing against time to develop a vaccine. AstraZeneca, one of the frontrunners in this endeavour, received a setback when the trial of its vaccine candidate was paused.The trials have now been resumed and the world is waiting with baited breath to how the vaccines will be delivered to them.Meanwhile, in China vaccine trials, experts are trying to develop a nasal spray where the volunteers will not receive painful injection.Here are the latest development in Covid-19 vaccine trials:*Pharma giant AstraZeneca resumed British clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine after getting the green light from the country’s safety watchdogs. An independent committee was drafted in to review safety, in what the company and the World Health Organisation (WHO) described as a routine step.*In India, Serum Institute of India (SII) said it will resume the trials in the country once the drug regulator, Drugs Controller General of India, gives it requisite permission.*Iran on Saturday said that it will soon begin human trials for anti-coronavirus vaccine after the stage of animal trials has passed. “We hope these activities will bear the desired result in order to provide better preventive services for the people,” news agency ANI cited Jalil Koohpayehzadeh, dean of Iran University of Medical Sciences and a member of Tehran anti-coronavirus committee, as saying.*Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE proposed to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to expand their Phase 3 pivotal Covid-19 vaccine trial to about 44,000 participants. The proposed expansion would allow the companies to enroll people as young as 16 and people with chronic, stable HIV, hepatitis C and hepatitis B, as per the statement.*In first so far, China began testing a nasal spray vaccine for the coronavirus as against to the injection currently in development by other pharmaceutical companies. It approved Phase 1 human testing for the nasal spray vaccine this week. It is being co-developed by researchers at Xiamen University and Hong Kong University, as well as by vaccine maker Beijing Wantai Biological Pharmacy Enterprise Co.*The governor of Brazil’s Sao Paulo state said on Wednesday that Phase 3 clinical trials of a potential Covid-19 vaccine developed by China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd have shown promising results and it may be available to Brazilians as early as December.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-latest-developments-astrazeneca-resumes-trial-china-develops-nasal-spray/story-hPA4WprfySWOocQKie2C6M.html
13-09-2020||World||Australia defends intelligence raids as spat with China escalates||Australia’s Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton on Sunday defended the government’s right to intelligence raids to prevent foreign interference, after China condemned searches on the homes of its journalists working in Australia.Dutton declined to directly confirm that the Chinese journalists were questioned by Australia’s intelligence agency in June, saying an investigation was still underway, but said there was some “activity” by the country’s intelligence agency.“Where (the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation) has sufficient grounds for the execution of a search warrant, or for activities otherwise, then they’ll undertake that activity,” Dutton said on the Australian Broadcasting Corp (ABC) television.“If people are masquerading as journalists or business leaders or whoever they might be, and there’s evidence that they are acting in a contrary nature to Australian law, then .... (the) agencies will act.”The raids were revealed by China’s foreign ministry last week in the wake of two Australian journalists departing China after questioning by Chinese police. Australia’s trade minister said on Friday the agencies acted on evidence related to a foreign interference investigation.On Saturday, China’s state media condemned the raids.Relations between Australia and its top trading partner China have been deteriorating gradually over the recent years and have soured further this year after Canberra called for an investigation into the origins of the novel coronavirus, angering Beijing. China has imposed trade restrictions on products including barley and wine, prompting Australia to tighten national security tests for foreign investment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-defends-intelligence-raids-as-spat-with-china-escalates/story-LojjeQM43ybed11knzjfpK.html
13-09-2020||World||Iran to soon start human trials for anti-coronavirus vaccine||Iranian medical scientists will soon start human trials for an anti-coronavirus vaccine after the stage of animal trials has passed, official news agency IRNA reported on Saturday.“We hope these activities will bear the desired result in order to provide better preventive services for the people,” Jalil Koohpayehzadeh, dean of Iran University of Medical Sciences and a member of Tehran anti-coronavirus committee, told IRNA.As neither a working vaccine nor a specific drug has yet been produced against the Covid-19 infection, Koohpayehzadeh urged the people to strictly follow health instructions to prevent the spread of the deadly disease.People should follow rules regarding the use of masks and social distancing and avoid gatherings and crowded places “as much as possible,” he said.Iran’s confirmed Covid-19 cases hit 399,940 on Saturday, including 23,029 fatalities.The country confirmed its first case of the virus on February 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-to-soon-start-human-trials-for-anti-coronavirus-vaccine/story-5VV8oqSOWYUI7AzDuiDXRP.html
13-09-2020||World||50th BSF-BGB high-level talks begin in Dhaka today||The biannual talks between Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) director-general Major General M Shafeenul Islam and Border Security Force (BSF) head Rakesh Asthana will begin on Sunday in BGB’s Pilkhana headquarters in Dhaka. The meeting will last for six days and end on September 18. This is the 50th such meeting between the director-general of the border forces of both nations. The discussions will deal with issues like cross-border trafficking of drugs and individuals, trans-border crimes, activities of Indian insurgent groups in Bangladesh and smuggling of fake currency notes.BSF delegation will also raise the issue of cross-border infiltration strongly with its Bangladesh counterpart. The Border Guard Bangladesh is expected to raise the issue of the rising number of deaths at the Indo-Bangla border. BGB has raised concern regarding the death of unarmed individuals and said that Bangladesh has laid high importance to violence on borders, according to news agency PTI.BGB’s operations director Lieutenant Colonel Fayzur Rahman while speaking to the Daily Star, a Dhaka-based English daily, said that Bangladesh would primarily focus on the border killings during the meeting.He further added, “The entry of waste from India through Akhaura-Agartala ICP [check post] will also get priority in the talks as we have been trying hard to stop the inflow of such waste,” while speaking to the Daily Star. BSF sector commanders, personnel from the Narcotics Control Bureau and representatives of the External Affairs Ministry will also join BSF DG Rakesh Asthana in Dhaka. The biannual meet has been held since 1975 in order to discuss the management of the 4,096 km long borders. These talks are once held in Bangladesh and once in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/50th-bsf-bgb-high-level-talks-begin-in-dhaka-today/story-HuvdR06412pOksMK3qbNqK.html
13-09-2020||World||Suspension of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine trials showed fallacy of approach: RDIF CEO||Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) CEO Kirill Dmitriev on Saturday said that temporary suspension of AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine candidate trials clearly showed the “fallacy of the approach” when countries “exclusively rely on novel and untested platforms” while choosing a vaccine for widespread use.Amid question of full indemnification by some pharma companies from any risks from their vaccines by purchasing countries, Dmitriev clarified that Russia will not follow such approach as it has demonstrated the safety and efficiency of its human adenoviral vector platform, including its Sputnik V vaccine.Extolling the benefits of the ‘Sputnik-V’ vaccine, he said that as the vaccine was based on ‘ human adenoviral vectors’, it was proven to be ‘safe and effective’.“We are delighted that AstraZeneca has resumed its trials and continues to move forward. At the same time, the suspension of trials clearly showed the fallacy of the approach, when entire countries exclusively rely on novel and untested platforms when choosing a vaccine for widespread use, including the use of a monkey adenovirus vector or mRNA technology,” he said in the statement after AstraZeneca announced that it has resumed trials of Oxford vaccine candidate which were put on halt a few days back“The postponement of the clinical trial also puts into question the request of some of the pharma companies for full indemnification from any risks from their vaccines by purchasing countries. Russia will not follow such an approach as it has demonstrated the safety and efficiency of its human adenoviral vector platform, including its Sputnik V vaccine,” he added. The trials of the third phase of AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine have resumed in the UK, days after they were halted over safety concerns.AstraZeneca, a UK-based biopharma giant, had announced on Tuesday that the phase 3 testing of its Covid-19 vaccine being developed by it with Oxford University has been put on hold due to a suspected serious adverse reaction in a participant in the United Kingdom. The company said that the “standard review process triggered a voluntary pause” to all global trials on September 6 so that independent committees and internal regulators could review the safety data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suspension-of-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-trials-showed-fallacy-of-approach-rdif-ceo/story-rw09PX3WZQAKo1onyT6WEL.html
13-09-2020||World||US signs defence cooperation deal with Maldives amidst China’s growing presence in Indian Ocean||The US has signed a framework for defence cooperation with the Maldives to deepen engagement in support of maintaining peace and security in the strategic Indian Ocean, the Pentagon has announced, as the Trump administration looks for strengthening alliances in the Indo-Pacific to counter China’s growing presence in the region.The framework for defence and security relationship was signed in Philadelphia on September 10 between Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for South and Southeast Asia Reed Werner and Maldivian Minister of Defence Mariya Didi. .“The framework sets forth both countries’ intent to deepen engagement and cooperation in support of maintaining peace and security in the Indian Ocean, and marks an important step forward in the defence partnership,” the Pentagon said.The Indo-Pacific is a biogeographic region of Earth’s seas, comprising the tropical waters of the Indian Ocean, the western and central Pacific Ocean.During discussions after signing the agreement, Mariya said the framework will strengthen defence and security cooperation between the two countries, Maldivian portal Sun Online reported.Mariya said that peace and security in the Indo-Pacific and Indian Ocean region is tied to the best interests of both countries.She stressed the importance of bilateral dialogue and engagement, against a backdrop of growing transnational threats such as piracy, violent extremism, terrorism, and illicit trade, which she said remained relevant, even amidst the coronavirus pandemic.According to a statement released by the Defence Ministry, the framework outlines a number of bilateral activities, including senior-level dialogues, discussions, engagements, and opportunities in areas such as maritime domain awareness, natural disasters, and humanitarian relief operations, the report said.Mariya said that the Maldivian government sees the framework as an “important milestone” in defence and security cooperation between the Maldives and the US.Werner and Didi also discussed US support for the island nation in its response to COVID-19 and areas for future cooperation, and agreed to work toward scheduling the first Defense and Security Dialogue, the Pentagon said.Both sides reiterated their commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific that promotes the security and prosperity of all nations in the region, the Pentagon said. The Central Indo-Pacific includes the numerous seas and straits connecting the Indian and Pacific oceans. The resource-rich Indo-Pacific region is where China has been trying to spread its influence. The US has also been pushing for a broader role by India in the strategically important region. China is eyeing to expand its influence in the Indian Ocean region. China has already taken control of Pakistan’s strategic Gwadar Port on the Arabian Sea.China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in the South China Sea, and with Japan in the East China Sea. Both the areas are said to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources. Beijing claims almost all of the South China Sea. Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan have overlapping claims in the waterway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-signs-defence-cooperation-deal-with-maldives-amidst-china-s-growing-presence-in-indian-ocean/story-reClKVzs9cXHQYpAtvLaZO.html
13-09-2020||World||Bahrain joins UAE in establishing relations with Israel||Bahrain has become the second Gulf nation to establish full diplomatic relations with Israel, joining the United Arab Emirates in normalizing ties with the Jewish state and reshaping politics in the Middle East.Bahraini officials said the agreement will help promote peace in the region, a position that is not shared by its neighbor Iran. The government in Tehran, which supports the island nation’s majority Shiite population, warned the deal will further destabilize the region.“This is a historic breakthrough to further peace in the Middle East,” said a joint statement on Friday between the US, Bahrain and Israel. “Opening direct dialogue and ties between these two dynamic societies and advanced economies will continue the positive transformation of the Middle East.”President Donald Trump praised the move by Bahrain, coming days before he was already scheduled to host leaders from Israel and the UAE in Washington for a signing ceremony at the White House. He said the nations’ leaders had shown “vision and courage” by reaching the accord and confirmed that Bahrain’s foreign minister would join the Sept. 15 event.The move will bolster Trump’s claims ahead of the November election to be helping bring peace to the Middle East and seeing success in efforts to extract US forces from the region. It will also come as a welcome development for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, whose support domestically has taken a hit over corruption charges and his response to the Covid-19 pandemic.Alarm in IranThe events have been seen with alarm by officials in Iran and the Palestinian territories. Palestinian officials quickly denounced the agreement as a betrayal of their cause and a “torpedoing” of an Arab-led peace initiative. The Palestinian government recalled their ambassador to Bahrain soon after the announcement.Iran’s foreign ministry condemned the agreement.“From now on, the rulers of Bahrain will be complicit in Israel’s murders as a source of constant threat to the region and the Islamic world,” the ministry said in a statement posted on its official Telegram channel. It warned against “any insecurity posed by Israel,” adding it will hold Bahrain responsible for all consequences.Ehud Yaari, an overseas fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said Bahrain is very sensitive to Iran and has a clear interest in its Shiite population. “So one wonders whether the Iranians will find it in their interest to respond by trying to ignite some domestic trouble in Bahrain,” he said.Since taking office, the Trump administration has sought to build a unified coalition in the region against Tehran while pushing an Israeli-Palestinian peace plan that had minimal input by Palestinian leaders, who long ago said Trump’s embrace of Israel made the US an unacceptable partner in negotiations.The announcement of the Bahrain move, on the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, follows the arrival of Secretary of State Michael Pompeo in Qatar earlier in the day to jump start talks between Afghanistan’s government and the Taliban.“The sand was loaded up with blood and now we’re going to see a lot of that sand is loaded up with peace,” Trump said, referring to the Middle East.Trump will host Netanyahu, Bahrain’s foreign minister and a representative from the UAE next week for the signing ceremony. Friday’s announcement came with praise from Netanyahu and Bahrain King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa for Trump’s “dedication to peace in the region” and the “pragmatic and unique approach he has taken to bringing the nations together.”In a statement released by his office, Netanyahu said “this is a new era of peace” that “will lead to very large investments in the Israeli economy.”In a phone interview with the Saudi-owned Al Arabiya television channel, Bahraini Foreign Minister Abdullatif Al-Zayani dismissed Iran’s criticism of the deal as “expected” and accused its neighbor across the Gulf of trying to destabilize the region.“Peace is a strategic choice for the Muslim community,” he said, adding that Bahrain had chosen to make the deal based on its own “higher security interests” and that its support for the Palestinians and a two-state solution remained “steadfast.”Speculation over whether Bahrain could be next to establish ties with Israel had been building in recent weeks, with White House officials repeatedly signaling other countries could follow the UAE.Saudi SignalWhile Bahrain is a tiny island with the smallest economy among the six Gulf Cooperation Council members, its decision to formalize relations with Israel is certain to prompt debate over whether its larger neighbor and ally Saudi Arabia -- to which it’s connected by a causeway -- may have tacitly approved the deal.Ayham Kamel, head of Middle East and North Africa at Eurasia Group, which advises clients on political risk, said Bahrain’s decision “is implicitly a signal from Riyadh that it has granted its blessing to the normalization of relations with Israel. Saudi Arabia is unable and unwilling to join normalization without concessions to the Palestinians but is at the same time seeking a new regional order.”The Trump administration has compared the agreements with Israel to the historic Camp David accords in 1978, when Egypt formally recognized Israel, and Jordan’s decision to establish ties with the Jewish state during the Clinton administration in the 1990s.In a nod to that past, Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah El-Sisi welcomed the deal, saying on Twitter that he values “this important step toward establishing stability and peace in the Middle East.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bahrain-joins-uae-in-establishing-relations-with-israel/story-7odmGYSon9HSNvEaEJqYSO.html
13-09-2020||World||Russians vote in local elections targeted by Kremlin critic Navalny||Russians vote on Sunday in dozens of local elections that will be scrutinised for signs of discontent with the ruling United Russia party following the suspected poisoning of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny.Navalny, 44, had hoped to undermine United Russia’s grip on regional power and had urged his supporters to vote against it tactically before he fell gravely ill in what Germany and his allies say was an attempt to kill him last month.United Russia, which backs President Vladimir Putin, dominates regional politics, but the elections come at a time of public frustration over years of falling wages and the government’s handling of the pandemic.Seen as a dry run for next September’s parliament elections, the regional polls will elect 18 governors and an array of local parliaments and city councils.Early voting began on Friday after authorities stretched out the elections over three days, a move criticised by independent election watchdog Golos which warned the longer period would make it harder for monitors to catch fraud at polling stations.Navalny’s allies have pressed ahead with the Kremlin critic’s “smart voting” strategy, naming more than a thousand politicians on the ballots they think can beat ruling party candidates and telling their supporters to vote for them.The strategy aims to disrupt a political system that often bars the Kremlin’s staunchest foes from running, while allowing softer candidates from the parliamentary parties to compete. Navalny has been unable to set up his own party.The anti-corruption campaigner also has dozens of allies running in elections for seats in the city councils of Novosibirsk and Tomsk in Siberia.There have been some signs of anti-Kremlin discontent in the regions.Mass rallies in the far eastern city of Khabarovsk show no sign of abating two months after they flared over the arrest of a popular local governor who defeated United Russia’s candidate in an election upset in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russians-vote-in-local-elections-targeted-by-kremlin-critic-navalny/story-pnzplvmAK4m9wYN3PaJDRM.html
13-09-2020||World||New Orleans under hurricane watch from Tropical Storm Sally||Tropical Storm Sally formed Saturday off south Florida, becoming the earliest 18th-named storm on record in an Atlantic hurricane season as it enters the Gulf of Mexico amid signs of strengthening further.In the National Hurricane Center’s 5 p.m. forecast, meteorologists said a hurricane watch is in effect for metropolitan New Orleans. The watch extends from Grand Isle Louisiana to the Alabama-Florida line, including Lake Pontchartrain and Lake Maurepas in Louisiana and greater New Orleans.Forecasters said a life-threatening storm surge is possible along parts of the Gulf Coast beginning Monday.Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards declared a state of emergency ahead of the storm, and officials in New Orleans issued a mandatory evacuation order for areas outside of levee protection, including Venetian Isles, Lake Catherine, and Irish Bayou. The evacuation order was set to go into effect at 6 p.m. Sunday.Sally emerged from a tropical depression swirling off south Florida, headed Saturday into warm Gulf waters. It was expected to become a hurricane by late Monday that could threaten a wide swath of the northern Gulf coast early in the week. It becomes the earliest 18th named storm in a busy tropical season, beating Stan, which formed on Oct. 2, 2006.On Saturday afternoon, gusty winds and heavy rain swept through South Florida due to Sally.The National Hurricane Center said Sally would dump heavy rain around the Florida Keys and the southern and western parts of the state. Maximum sustained winds were clocked at 40 mph (65 kph) with higher gusts. Additional strengthening is expected over the coming days.An Air Force Hurricane Hunter plane was scheduled to investigate the system late Saturday.“Since the system will be traversing very warm waters and through a moist air mass with moderate vertical shear for the next few days, steady strengthening is anticipated,” forecasters wrote in an earlier advisory.Sally was located 30 miles (45 kilometers) south-southeast of Naples on Saturday afternoon, according to the hurricane center. The system was moving to the west at 7 mph (11 kph). A tropical storm watch has been extended westward from the Okaloosa/Walton County Line to the Alabama/Florida Border.A Storm Surge Watch is in effect from the mouth of the Mississippi River to the Alabama/Florida Border, including Lake Pontchartrain, Lake Maurepas, Lake Borgne in Louisiana — and Mobile Bay, Alabama.The storm is expected to bring 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 centimeters) of rain to parts of Florida, with isolated totals up to 6 inches (15 centimeters). Meteorologists warn of an increasing risk of life-threatening storm surge and dangerous hurricane-force winds from southeastern Louisiana to the Alabama coast.Meanwhile, Tropical Storm Paulette had maximum sustained winds of 70 mph (110 kph) and was 460 miles (745 kilometers) southeast of Bermuda, where a hurricane watch and tropical storm warning are in effect. Forecasters said Paulette would become a hurricane later Saturday and drop up to 6 inches (15 centimeters) of rain on the territory through Monday, adding that it is expected to be a “dangerous hurricane” when it is near Bermuda on Sunday night and Monday.Tropical Storm Rene weakened in recent hours and was reclassified as a tropical depression. It had maximum sustained winds of 35 mph (55 kph) and was about 1,200 miles (1,935 kilometers) east-northeast of the Northern Leeward Islands. Forecasters said Rene wasn’t expected to strengthen and did not pose any threat to land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-orleans-under-hurricane-watch-from-tropical-storm-sally/story-NMqsbHwfLauOAcxuHUdqBJ.html
13-09-2020||World||Smoke chokes West Coast as death toll climbs to 27||Choking smoke that posed a health hazard to millions blanketed the West Coast on Saturday as firefighters battled deadly wildfires that obliterated some towns and created tens of thousands of refugees, the latest in a series of calamities this year.For people already enduring the coronavirus pandemic, the resulting economic fallout and political tensions evident in the Black Lives Matter protests and far-right counter protests, the fires added a new layer of misery.“What’s next? You have the protests, coronavirus pandemic, now the wildfires. What else can go wrong?” lamented Danielle Oliver, 40, of Happy Valley, southeast of Portland.Also read: At least nine killed as scores of wildfires scorch US West CoastThe known death toll from fires in the three states stood at 27 and was expected to rise sharply. Most of the deaths were in California and Oregon.Oregon’s emergency management director said officials were preparing for a possible “mass fatality event” if many more bodies turn up in the ash. And the state fire marshal was abruptly placed on administrative leave after the state police superintendent said the crisis demanded an urgent response that required a leadership change.Oliver has an autoimmune disorder that makes her vulnerable to wildfire smoke, so she agreed to evacuate. She was nervous about going to a shelter because of the virus, but sleeping in a car with her husband, 15-year-daughter, two dogs and a cat was not a viable option.The temperature checks and social distancing at the American Red Cross shelter help put her mind at ease. Now the family waits, hoping their house will survive. She has previously experienced homelessness.“I’m tired. I’m tired of starting all over. Getting everything, working for everything, then losing everything,” she said.Those who still had homes were not safe in them. A half-million Oregonians were under evacuation warnings or orders to leave. With air contamination levels at historic highs, people stuffed towels against door jambs to keep smoke out. Some even wore N95 masks in their own homes.Some communities resembled the bombed-out cities of Europe after World War II, with buildings reduced to charred rubble piled atop blackened earth. Residents either managed to flee as the flames closed in, or perished.Millicent Catarancuic’s body was found near a car on her 5-acre property in Berry Creek, California. The flames came so quickly she did not have time to get out.On Tuesday, she packed several of her dogs and cats in the car but later called her daughter to say she decided to stay. Firefighters had made progress battling the blaze. The wind was calm. The flames still seemed far away. Then they rushed onto the property.“I feel like, maybe when they passed, they had an army of cats and dogs with her to help her through it,” said her daughter, Holly Catarancuic.Also read: Three dead as wildfire devastates northern CaliforniaIn Oregon alone, more than 40,000 people have been evacuated and about 500,000 are in different levels of evacuation zones, Gov. Kate Brown said.Fires along Oregon’s Cascade Range grew Saturday, but at a slower rate than earlier in the week when strong easterly winds acted like a bellows, pushing two large fires — the Beachie Creek Fire and the Riverside Fire — toward each other and the state’s major population centers, including Portland’s southeastern suburbs, wildfire managers reported.Fire managers did get a spot of good news: Higher humidity slowed the flames considerably.In California, a total of 28 active major fires have burned 4,375 square miles, and 16,000 firefighters are trying to suppress the flames, Cal Fire Assistant Deputy Director Daniel Berlant said. Large wildfires continued to burn in northeastern Washington state too.President Donald Trump will visit California on Monday for a briefing on the West Coast fires, the White House announced.Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden and the governors of California, Oregon and Washington state — all Democrats — have said the fires are a consequence of global warming.“We absolutely must act now to avoid a future defined by an unending barrage of tragedies like the one American families are enduring across the West today,” Biden said.The same smoke that painted California skies orange also helped crews corral the state’s deadliest blaze of the year by blocking the sun, reducing temperatures and raising humidity, officials said.Smoke created cooler conditions in Oregon too, but it was also blamed for possibly the dirtiest air in at least 35 years in parts of the state. The air quality index reading Saturday morning in Salem, the state capital, was 512.The scale normally goes from zero to 500.“Above 500 is literally off the charts,” said Laura Gleim, a spokesperson for the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. Portland has never seen air quality this bad since the department started monitoring there in 1985.The weather conditions that led up to the fires and fed the flames were likely a once-in-a-generation event, said Greg Jones, a professor and research climatologist at Linfield University in McMinnville, Oregon.A large high-pressure area stretching from the desert Southwest to Alaska brought strong winds from the east toward the West Coast, lowering relative humidity to as low as 8% and bringing desert-like conditions, even to the coast, Jones said.Instead of the offshore flows that the Pacific Northwest normally enjoys, the strong easterly winds pushed fires down the western slopes of the Cascade Range.The smoke in Portland filled the air with an acrid metallic scent like dull pennies. It was so thick that Ashley Kreitzer could not see the road when she headed out to work as a ride-hailing driver.“I couldn’t even see five feet ahead of me,” she said. “I was panicking, I didn’t even know if I wanted to go out.”George Coble had no home to return to. He came with some of his employees Saturday to a wasteland of charred tree trunks just outside Mill City, Oregon. Coble lost everything: his fence-and-post business, five houses in a family compound and vintage cars, including a 1967 Mustang.The family – three generations that lived in the compound — evacuated with seven people, three horses, five dogs and a cat.“We’ll just keep working and keep your head up and thank God everybody got out,” Coble said. “There are other people that lost their family. Just be thankful for what you did get out with.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/smoke-chokes-west-coast-as-death-toll-climbs-to-27/story-1CXYo092LqD5Zw0Q6GLoXL.html
13-09-2020||World||Mike Pompeo urges diplomacy in standoff over Mediterranean gas||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Saturday called for a diplomatic solution to the confrontation between Greece and Turkey over energy reserves in east Mediterranean waters, saying ongoing military tensions between two NATO allies only serve the alliance’s foes.“Increased military tensions help no one but adversaries who would like to see division in transatlantic unity,” Pompeo said after talks with Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades.Pompeo said President Donald Trump has already spoken with his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis in hopes of ending the standoff.Greek and Turkish warships have been staring each other down in recent weeks as Turkish research vessels and drill ships continue searching for hydrocarbons in waters where Greece and Cyprus claim exclusive economic rights.So far, three sizable gas discoveries have been made inside Cyprus’ exclusive economic zone where energy companies including Total of France, Italy’s Eni and ExxonMobil are licensed to carry out hydrocarbons searches.EU members Greece and Cyprus have accused Turkey of violating international law and have been trying to rally fellow bloc members to impose tougher sanctions against Turkey.Turkey, which doesn’t recognize Cyprus as a state, insists it has every right to prospect in those waters and is doing so to defend its rights and those of breakaway Turkish Cypriots on ethnically divided Cyprus to a potential mineral bounty.“We remain deeply concerned by Turkey’s ongoing operations, surveying for natural resources in areas where Greece and Cyprus assert jurisdiction in the eastern Mediterranean,” said Pompeo, repeating Washington’s support for Cyprus’ right to exploit hydrocarbon deposits in its territorial sea and exclusive economic zone.Cyprus has been divided into a Greek-Cypriot south and a Turkish-occupied north since a 1974 invasion by Turkey in response to a coup seeking to unite the island with Greece. A breakaway state in the north is recognized only by Turkey.The US top diplomatic also repeated that any potential hydrocarbon wealth should be shared equitably between Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots.Anastasiades said he fully supported Washington’s position that regional disputes should be resolved through dialogue “and not by gunboat diplomacy.” The Cypriot president repeated his government’s offer to either negotiate with Turkey directly on marking maritime borders or taking the issue to the International Court of Justice.Pompeo’s lightning visit to Cyprus also aimed to affirm Washington’s active engagement in tumultuous region just four days after Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov pitched Moscow’s offer to help ease tensions during his trip to the island nation.Reminiscent of a Cold War-era rivalry, the visits by Pompeo and Lavrov to Cyprus underscored a renewed interest in a region where Moscow’s footprint has grown larger due to its military involvement in neighboring Syria.“Security cooperation matters all the more as we see nations that don’t share our values trying to obtain footholds in the region,” said Pompeo.Cyprus has tried to leverage its geographic proximity to the Middle East by striving to bolster relations with the US while at the same time maintaining strong ties with Moscow on whose support it counts on in the United Nations.Pompeo said US-Cyprus relations “have never been better,” but repeated to Anastasiades Washington’s concerns over Russian money laundering activities in Cyprus as well as ports of call Russian warships make at Cypriot ports.The centerpiece of closer Cyprus-US links was last year’s congressional approval of the Eastern Mediterranean Energy and Security Partnership Act that underscores US support for an energy-based partnership between Greece, Cyprus and Israel.Under the Act, the US is providing Cyprus with funding for military training and has partially lifted an arms embargo that was enacted 33 years ago to prevent a possible arms race harming peace talks. The lifting of the embargo was made possible after Washington waived a requirement that Cyprus cease to offer refueling and other port services to Russian warships.“We know that all the Russian military vessels that stop in Cypriot ports are not conducting humanitarian missions in Syria,” Pompeo said.The move — as well as US officials accusing Russia of playing a “very destabilizing role in the region” — angered Moscow, with Lavrov accusing Washington of using “divide and rule” tactics to drive a wedge between Russia and countries in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-urges-diplomacy-in-standoff-over-mediterranean-gas/story-Pfhz9An11PbsuQsMsGnPGI.html
13-09-2020||World||Worker falls several stories in 2nd collapse at Atlanta site||A concrete slab at a parking deck under construction in Atlanta collapsed Saturday — the second collapse at the site in as many days — sending a worker trying to shore up the structure plunging several stories below, authorities said.The man suffered leg injuries after falling eight to 10 floors, Atlanta fire spokesman Sgt. Cortez Stafford said. The worker was taken to a hospital for treatment, and was alert and conscious, authorities said.“He was on that concrete and rode it down as it collapsed,” Stafford said.Authorities have stopped all work at the site and blocked off streets around it. The two collapses have compromised the structure and created a risk of additional falls, Stafford said.The 3,000-space parking garage is being built at one of Emory University’s hospitals just north of downtown Atlanta. It was supposed to be completed next year.On Friday, a section of concrete on the prefabricated parking deck partially collapsed, injuring six workers. A column on the 11th floor gave way, causing debris to fall onto the 10th floor in that initial collapse.Stafford said Saturday that a construction problem, not a faulty design, was to blame for that first collapse.Firefighters on Friday cut out one worker trapped under debris with saws and lowered him to the street, Atlanta Fire Rescue Deputy Chief Glen Riley said. The worker had leg injuries but never lost consciousness, Riley said. Other construction workers were injured but managed to walk away from the collapse, Riley told reporters at the scene. A firefighter also was taken to a hospital, with likely heat exhaustion, Riley said.Firefighters raised concerns that more of the structure could yet collapse and fall onto Interstate 75/85, a busy freeway through the heart of the city. Parts of adjoining streets and a ramp to the freeway were closed as a precaution.The garage is part of a major construction push at the hospital, including a new $470 million location for Emory’s Winship Cancer Institute, which is going up in a 17-story tower on a parcel separate from the parking garage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/worker-falls-several-stories-in-2nd-collapse-at-atlanta-site/story-RCU8XDyMETnNM6KTnnSovN.html
13-09-2020||World||Afghan peace talks with Taliban begin||Peace talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government opened in Qatar on Saturday, marking what US secretary of state Mike Pompeo heralded as a “truly momentous” breakthrough in nearly two decades of relentless conflict. Negotiations will be arduous, delegates acknowledged at an opening ceremony in Doha, and are starting even as violence continues to grip Afghanistan.Also read: Taliban, Afghan government to restart peace talks: All you need to know“We will undoubtedly encounter many challenges in the talks over the coming days, weeks and months,” Pompeo said as he called for the warring sides to “seize this opportunity” to secure peace. “Remember you are acting not only for this generation of Afghans, but for future generations as well.”Nineteen years since the US-led invasion that toppled the Taliban, Afghanistan’s war still kills dozens of people daily and the country’s economy has been devastated, pushing millions into poverty.Abdullah Abdullah, who was previously Afghanistan’s chief executive and is heading the peace process for Kabul, said 12,000 civilians have been killed and another 15,000 wounded just since the US signed a withdrawal agreement with the Taliban on February 29.Abdullah called for a humanitarian ceasefire - but his plea went unanswered by Taliban co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, who made no mention of a truce in opening remarks.The Taliban have long worried that reducing violence could lessen their leverage. Instead, Baradar repeated the insurgents’ message that Afghanistan should be run according to Islamic law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-peace-talks-with-taliban-begin/story-ZC2GLToYzYTk5akbLxjFxI.html
13-09-2020||World||Covid-19 pandemic may last until 2021-end, cautions Anthony Fauci||The US government’s top infectious disease expert, Anthony Fauci, said on Friday he disagreed with President Donald Trump’s assessment that the country has “rounded the corner” on the pandemic, warning that the crisis may last until the end of 2021.Fauci, the outspoken director of the National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said the US was starting the flu season with a high baseline of around 40,000 new Covid-19 cases a day and deaths are averaging around 1,000 daily.“The statistics... they are disturbing,” Fauci told MSNBC. “If you’re talking about getting back to a degree of normality which resembles where we were prior to Covid, it’s going to be well into 2021, maybe even towards the end of 2021.”UN: One of the greatest challenges in historyThe UN General Assembly said in a new resolution the coronavirus pandemic represents one of the greatest challenges since the establishment of the UN. “The General Assembly recognises that the Covid-19 pandemic is one of the greatest global challenges in the history of the United Nations,” the text of the resolution adopted said.The total number of Covid-19 cases worldwide has crossed the 28 million mark, according to the Johns Hopkins University coronavirus tally, while global fatalities has surpassed 916,000. Biden slams Trump’s visit to Nevada as ‘reckless’Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden on Saturday slammed US President Donald Trump’s “reckless” decision to hold a rally in Reno, the venue for which had to be changed because the event breached local Covid-19 restrictions.The Republican incumbent will speak on Saturday evening in the city in Nevada, a crucial swing state ahead of the November 3 election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-pandemic-may-last-until-2021-end-cautions-anthony-fauci/story-hcf7wOnIYBKJ9RywknpPYP.html
13-09-2020||World||Banned ULFA had sought Britain’s help in Dhaka||Days before the Prafulla Kumar Mahanta government was dismissed in 1990 and the Indian Army launched Operation Bajrang against the secessionist United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA), three of its senior functionaries met a British diplomat in Dhaka and sought the UK’s help to further its cause.Newly declassified documents released by National Archives show that while the banned outfit was attacking British commercial interests in the tea gardens in Assam, it was seeking the UK’s help at the political level and offering the British diplomat a tour of its camps in Assam.In 1990 - when Assam was gripped by tension and fear - the then Mahanta-led Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) was a constituent of the National Front (NF) government led by V P Singh. But the AGP government was dismissed on November 27 after the NF government fell and Chandra Shekhar formed his minority government.On October 2, the three functionaries - general secretary Anup Chetia (real name Golap Barua), publicity secretary Sidhartha Phukan (real name Sunil Nath) and Iqbal - met the diplomat, David Austin, who reported the meeting to London in a note described as “fascinating”. Chetia and Phukan have been part of the top leadership of the outfit.Austin wrote in the note to the London headquarters on October 4 that the ULFA’s “inspiration is the State of Israel. If Israel can survive surrounded by the hostile Arab world, then why not Assam surrounded by hostile Indian forces?”He was shown photographs, including those of a training camp in the Lakhimpur district of Assam, and some of the outfit’s leaflets. The photographs included one of its commanders-in-chief, Paresh Barua, standing at the China border with a Chinese army liaison officer.“The three men asked for help/advice in four separate areas: UK support in publicising the ULFA’s activities and aims; advice on whether the ULFA would be able to set up an office in the UK; an introduction to other Western diplomatic missions in Dhaka; and how to get in contact with authorities in Israel who may be able to help them,” Austin wrote.He added that the ULFA’s propaganda effort was a “new one” and that they were able to “approach foreign diplomatic missions in Bangladesh without the possibility of RAW intervening - something it is unable to do in New Delhi”. Austin, however, declined the offer to visit the camps.On November 5, diplomat D D W Martin at the British high commission in New Delhi described Austin’s note as “fascinating”, and wrote to the foreign office, “They have obviously now decided to target western diplomats.” “That they should do so tends to corroborate the periodic press allegations that the ULFA can operate with impunity in Bangladesh, perhaps even with the tacit complicity of the authorities,” he added.According to Martin, the China link mentioned in Austin’s note was “new and interesting”.He wrote, “I have only heard it mentioned before by a Congress-I MLA in Assam, who alleged that the Indian Intelligence Services knew all about the Chinese involvement, but were keeping quiet for fear of damaging the process of rapprochement between India and China.”“During their meeting with David Austin, the ULFA were understandably silent about their activities against the tea companies in Assam. But it seems extraordinary that the organisation should make an approach to us on the political level, while at the same time, threatening our commercial interests in Assam,” Martin added.The diplomatic letters were sent to London at a time when the ULFA’s activities had spread much fear in Assam, dominating public discourse. On Austin, seeking advice on whether he should hold further meetings with the ULFA functionaries, Martin wrote that no such meetings should be held.Martin wrote, “The ULFA is a militant organisation pursuing violent means to subvert the established order in Assam. By pressurising tea companies, it also threatens British interests. Contacts with the ULFA would therefore be hard to explain to the Government of India.”In the late 1980s and 1990, as the publicity secretary, Phukan had set up what Martin called a “sophisticated PR machine”, which was then focused on the Indian press, with journalists granted exclusive interviews with ULFA leaders.The journalists, he added, were “taken to spectacular press conferences in the bush and exposed to a variety of more or less impressive stunts designed to show off ULFA as a formidable fighting unit”.Since 1990, there have been several ULFA-related developments, including the army’s Operation Rhino, surrender by several of its leaders and functionaries, suspension of operations, and talks with New Delhi by a section of the outfit that has come over-ground.Since another section continues with the ULFA’s secessionist aims and subversive activities, the ministry of home affairs in November 2019 extended until 2024 the ban first imposed on the outfit in 1990 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/banned-ulfa-had-sought-britain-s-help-in-dhaka/story-vgh4JmK941wsHuu0KcWUJL.html
13-09-2020||World||Pfizer, BioNTech propose expanding Covid-19 vaccine trial to 44,000 volunteers||Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE on Saturday proposed to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to expand their Phase 3 pivotal Covid-19 vaccine trial to about 44,000 participants while increasing the diversity of the trial population.The initial target figure for the trial was up to 30,000 participants, which the companies said they expect to reach by next week.The proposed expansion would also allow the companies to enroll people as young as 16 and people with chronic, stable HIV, hepatitis C and hepatitis B, they added.Drugmakers racing to develop a safe and effective coronavirus vaccine pledged in July to ensure their larger clinical trials would include diverse sets of volunteers.“Diversity in clinical trials is a priority for Pfizer and is critical given that Covid-19 disproportionately impacts communities of color in the U.S.,” Pfizer’s Chief Business Officer John Young said in a U.S. congressional hearing in July.If the study is successful, the companies could submit the vaccine for regulatory approval as early as October, putting them on track to supply up to 100 million doses by the end of 2020 and 1.3 billion by the end of 2021.“As stated previously, based on current infection rates, the companies continue to expect that a conclusive readout on efficacy is likely by the end of October,” the companies added in the joint statement on Saturday.The vaccine candidate utilizes chemical messenger RNA to mimic the surface of the coronavirus and teach the immune system to recognize and neutralize it. Although the technology has been around for years, there has never been an approved messenger RNA (mRNA)vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-biontech-propose-expanding-covid-19-vaccine-trial-to-44-000-volunteers/story-jq73wOnakP1TR3jUOH1f7K.html
13-09-2020||India||Modi backs Nitish, says CM transformed state||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, saying the state had shown in the past 15 years that inclusive economic development is possible with the right government in place, taking the right decisions and following the right policies.Modi, who dedicated to the nation three petroleum sector projects in Bihar worth more than ₹900 crore through video conferencing, said his central government was working for the growth of all sectors in Bihar. The PM praised the young people of Bihar, which he termed a “powerhouse” of talent. He said there was a time when some people would question what one could do in Bihar other than work on farms. He said the absence of big educational institutes used to force the young to step out of the state in search of opportunities. “Institutes of higher learning — agriculture, medical and engineering colleges, including an IIT {Indian Institute of Technology), IIM {Indian Institute of Management}, NIFT {National Institute of Fashion Technology} and a national law institute each — have come up fast under Nitish Kumar in Bihar,” he said. Modi’s speech came ahead of assembly elections due in Bihar, where his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is part of a coalition government headed by Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD(U). Chief minister Kumar thanked the PM for the projects launched on Sunday. Modi said Startup India, Mudra Yojana and such schemes had provided a boost to entrepreneurship and opened up self-employment opportunities to the young people of Bihar. He also referred to a significant improvement in the state’s power situation over the last six years, where villages earlier used to get electricity for 2-3 hours and cities for 8-10 hours a day. Modi said Bihar was earlier plagued by a mindset that saw people sneer at road projects on the grounds that these were of no use to people without vehicles. Modi said there was no dearth of capability or resources in the state. Yet, Bihar and other eastern India states always lagged behind in development because of political and financial reasons as well as apathy. He also spoke about the shift in the state government’s work culture from the days when one generation would witness the foundation laying ceremonies of projects and the next generation would witness their completion. The PM said a special package announced for Bihar a few years ago focused much on the state’s infrastructure. He said the special package given for Bihar had 10 big projects related to petroleum and gas worth ₹21,000 crore. The projects dedicated on Sunday include the Durgapur-Banka section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur pipeline augmentation project and two liquified petroleum gas bottling plants — one at Banka of Indian Oil Corporation and another of Hindustan Power Corporation Limited at Harsidhi in East Champaran. He said the effort to connect eastern India with Paradip on the eastern seaboard and Kandla on the western seaboard began under the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga Yojana and seven states would be connected through this pipeline, which is about 3,000km long; The line from Paradip - Haldia will now be extended to Patna and Muzaffarpur and the pipeline from Kandla, which has reached Gorakhpur, will also be connected to it. When the entire project is ready, it will become one of the longest pipelines in the world. The PM said due to these gas pipelines, big bottling plants were being installed in Bihar. The two pipelines launched on Sunday have a capacity to fill more than 125 million cylinders every year. These plants will meet the LPG requirement of Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Sahibganj and Pakur districts and some areas of Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. Reminding people that the good work done in the last 15 years must continue, he said, “We must ensure ‘sushasan’ (good governance)”. “The PM’s comments, praising chief minister Nitish Kumar, smacks of political opportunism,” said political analyst DM Diwakar, a former director of the AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Patna.“It was Modi who completely ignored Kumar’s fervent request with folded hands to declare Patna University a central varsity during its centenary function in 2018. Kumar, on the other hand, had raised a brouhaha {in 2015} over the PM’s DNA comment and vowed to never ever come together with the BJP again. However, with elections around the corner, the situation is much different today and both the leaders are singing paeans to each other,” he said. It was a reference to a comment by Modi that there seemed to be something wrong with Nitish Kumar’s DNA, recalling a dinner invitation by the latter which he cancelled. “There have been improvement in infrastructure, roads, power sector and literacy, but employment has not increased, migration and poverty have not reduced and income transfer has not taken place, as a result of which it is debatable whether Bihar’s story is one of inclusive growth,” Diwakar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-backs-nitish-says-cm-transformed-state/story-Z2UsToDl2qna8rVWkMmGHO.html
13-09-2020||India||Surat bizman launches Manikarnika’ styled saree to express support for Kangana Ranaut||In order to express his support to actor Kangana Ranaut, a Surat-based textile businessman has manufactured a ‘Manikarnika’ styled saree with the actor’s portrait imprinted on it.Rajat Dawar who owns shops in the Universal textile market in Gujarat’s Surat has come up with this saree and said that what happened with the actor is something that cannot be accepted.Speaking to ANI, he said, “She wanted to raise her voice to support something but her voice was suppressed and her office was demolished. So we wanted to support her and came up with this idea to manufacture the saree with ‘I support Kangana’ written on it.”He further said, “We launched this saree yesterday and have already received multiple orders. The price range starts from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 depending upon the fabric on which it has been made.”On being asked about the permission to imprint Kangana’s portrait on the fabric, Rajat added, “We have not made this saree to promote our brand in any way, but only with the motive to support her in her fight.”Ranaut has been involved in a bitter war of words with Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut after her remarks that she feels unsafe in Mumbai and has no trust in the Mumbai Police after the death of the actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Besides this, Kangana’s office in Pali Hill, Bandra was partially demolished on Wednesday by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Moreover, the actor allegedly received threats following which she was provided Y plus security. On September 9, she arrived in Mumbai amid tight security. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surat-bizman-launches-manikarnika-styled-saree-to-express-support-for-kangana-ranaut/story-fW4W8fyjzFFjXGNsvK77vK.html
13-09-2020||India||Kangana meets Maha guv, says injustice done to her||MumbaiActor Kangana Ranaut on Sunday met Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and complained to him about the treatment given to her by the state government. She was accompanied by her sister Rangoli and met the governor for around 20 minutes.“A short while ago I met His Excellency the Governor of Maharashtra Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari Ji. I explained my point of view to him and also requested that justice be given to me it will restore faith of common citizen and particularly daughters in the system,” tweeted Ranaut after the meeting.Ranaut has been locked in a war of words with the Shiv Sena over the Sushant Singh Rajput case -- especially after she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation demolished her Bandra office, citing violation of building norms.Talking to reporters after the meeting at Raj Bhavan, the actor said, “I met the governor. He heard me as a daughter. I came to meet him as a citizen. I have nothing to do with politics. I told him about the injustice meted out to me and what happened was improper. It was indecent behaviour,” she said.Commenting on the meeting, Sena MP Sanjay Raut said “Anyone can meet the governor.” He further said the party would not speak about her but all her statements would be noted. “We will just listen to what she says but will not react to her. We will however take note of all her statements,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-meets-maha-guv-says-injustice-done-to-her/story-di5SYX1wh1g65saF1MeUWN.html
13-09-2020||India||Vaccine may be ready by 1st quarter of 2021: Harshvardhan||India is likely to reach a consensus soon on emergency authorization for a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and fontline health-care workers, senior citizens and people with comorbidities shall be receive the vaccine on a priority basis whenever one is ready, Union health minister Dr. Harshvardhan said on Sunday.To calm any fears over the safety of the vaccine, he said he will be happy to take the first dosage.“I shall be the first to offer myself for receiving Covid vaccine, if people have a trust deficit,” he told his social media followers in an interaction on Twitter.He also said that while no date has been set for the launch of a potential vaccine, it may be ready by the first quarter of 2021.“Government is taking full precautions in conducting the human trials of the vaccine and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 under the chairmanship of Dr. V K Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, is drawing up a detailed strategy on how to immunize a majority of the population. Issues like vaccine security, cost, equity, cold-chain requirements, production timelines etc., are also been discussed intensely,” he said.Elaborating on the vaccine candidates and their development in India, he also said that Department of Biotechnology (DBT) as well as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have been proactive in responding to the emerging situation to support the advancement of vaccine candidates.Adverse events were not seen in animals immunized with a two-dose vaccination regimen of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, the company’s vaccine candidate to protect people from the coronavirus disease, shows the animal study data published by one of India’s two Covid-19 vaccine candidates currently in human trials. The other indigenous vaccine in human trials is being developed by Zydus Cadila.The vaccine, being developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with the ICMR is in phase 1/2 of human clinical trials. The other indigenous vaccine in human trials is being developed by Zydus Cadila.India is actively partnering with the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and trials are underway in different phases in Indian laboratories (private or public) and hospitals.“It is hoped that a consensus will emerge in next few months over the desired level of protective herd immunity in any community,” he added.The minister covered a multitude of queries concerning not only the Covid-19 vaccine landscape, but also the government’s approach to it, and the likely changes expected in a post-Covid-19 world.He highlighted how the pandemic became a turning point for Indian manufacturing. From the time when there were no indigenous manufacturers of personal protection equipment (PPEs) with requisite standards, nearly 110 indigenous manufacturers of PPEs have lauched operations and meeting quality standards.“The country is in a position to not only meet its own demands but also export to help out fellow nations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-may-be-ready-by-1st-quarter-of-2021-harshvardhan/story-BCix3tNysgHwcMksSUcubL.html
13-09-2020||India||Covid-19 no deterrent for medical aspirants||New DelhiOf the over 1.5 million candidates who registered for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), 85-90% appeared for the exam on Sunday that’s the basis for determining admissions to undergraduate medical and dental courses.Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, while disclosing the turnout, also thanked state governments, many of which had even arranged transport for the candidates, given the difficulties they faced amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“NTA{National Testing Agency} informed me that around 85-90% students appeared in #NEET exam today. I sincerely thank all Chief Ministers and @DG_NTA for proper arrangements made to facilitate student participation. #NEET participation reflects the tenacity and grit of young, ” Pokhriyal said in a tweet.The NEET turnout was higher than the attendance at the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) figure of around 74 %. NTA officials have attributed this to the fact that JEE (Main) is held twice every year.Many students who had already taken the exam in Januaray may have decided to skip the test in September because of Covid-19-related concerns.Reports from across states suggested that students did face inconvenience, but still made it to the examination centres for the career-defining test. Thousands of medical and dental course aspirants travelled to Patna to write NEET, held across 178 centres. In Bihar, altogether 78,960 students had registered to write the exam.Most students said precautionary measures adopted at exam centres were satisfactory. Many said they faced inconvenience because exam centres were in two districts (Patna and Gaya), which forced them to travel 100 to 200 km.A NEET aspirant, Anup Kumar of Saran district, said: “I left my home at 7 am to reach exam centre at 11 am. Travelling for long hours and a three-hour waiting period before commencement of the exam exhausted me. For the first time, I wore a mask for six straight hours. It caused suffocation.”Candidates seemed relieved after taking the exam, which they said ranged from moderate to difficult.Jyoti Kumari, who took the exam at A N College, said: “I found physics more difficult than biology. Few questions of botany section were tough. Physics questions were time-consuming .”In Jharkhand, the exam was held in 36 centres in Ranchi, Bokaro and Jamshedpur. The attendance was around 85%. In Ranchi, the examination was conducted in 25 centres where around 12,600 students were supposed to appear.The city coordinator for NEET, Ram Singh, who is also the principal of Delhi Public School (DPS), Ranchi, said: “The examinations passed off peacefully without any trouble. Around 85% students wrote the papers in Ranchi.”NEET aspirants took the test at over 269 examination centres in six cities of Rajasthan. Although the examination was held from 2 pm to 5 pm, aspirants started arriving at examination centres from 11 am onwards in line with the reporting specified by NTA to ensure Covid-19 social distancing.The candidates were frisked by hand-held metal detectors and allowed into examination centre after hand sanitization and thermal scanning at the entry points. A maximum of 12 aspirants were seated in every examination hall.The Rajasthan government made special arrangements for NEET aspirants to reach the testing centres by providing free bus service.The Centre’s decision to conduct NEET and the JEE had drawn criticism from several opposition leaders who questioned the wisdom of the move when the pandemic continues to rage. The education ministry emphasized that not holding the test could lead to a zero year, which would not be in students’ interest. (With state inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-no-deterrent-for-medical-aspirants/story-988D1veO2yB36bHdjgcAWJ.html
13-09-2020||India||No ban on taking photos on-board, clarifies DGCA||New Delhi: Passengers on board commercial panes will be allowed to take photographs in flight, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) clarified on Sunday, adding that a ban by the regulator only applied to recording equipment and behaviour which compromises air safety, creates chaos and violates norms.“It is clarified that a bonafide passenger travelling in an aircraft engaged in scheduled air transport services may do still and video photography from inside such an aircraft when in flight; takeoff and landing... however, this permission does not include use of recording equipment which imperils or compromises air safety; violates prevalent norms; creates chaos or disruption during operation of flight or expressly prohibited by crew,” the DGCA said in a statement.The clarification came a day after the aviation regulator issued an order for commercial flights, stating that an airline’s service on a particular route can be suspended for two weeks if it fails to act against crew or passengers who violate in-flight norms such as a ban on mid-air photography. The suspension would stay in place until the airline takes action for violation of norms.“In case of any violation of Rule 13 of Aircraft Rules 1937 on any passenger aircraft, the schedule of flight for that particular route shall be suspended for two weeks from the next day,” the DGCA statement read. The rule cited by DGCA, deals with conditions of photography and videography on board commercial passenger flights.The aviation regulator added on Saturday that despite these regulations, airlines had often failed to follow the rules primarily due to lack of diligence on their part. “Needless to say that such deviations result in compromise in maintaining the highest standard of safety and therefore is not to be allowed,” it said.The order came in the aftermath of an incident involving media personnel filming on board an IndiGo flight in which actor Kangana Ranaut was travelling from Chandigarh to Mumbai on Wednesday. A video of media personnel recording inside the flight and creating a ruckus went viral on social media.The DGCA had on Friday asked IndiGo to take “appropriate action” after the regulator found alleged violation of safety and social distancing protocols by the media on the airline’s Chandigarh-Mumbai flight.“We have seen some videos wherein mediapersons are standing too close to each other on board the 6E264 flight on Wednesday. It seems to be a violation of safety and social distancing protocols,” a DGCA official said.The aviation regulator cited multiple issues with the incident, prominent among which was photography on board a flight in violation of Aircraft rule 13, visible violation of Covid-19 protocols and alleged unruly behaviour by a few passengers.The aviation regulator is also planning to take action against the media personnel on board the IndiGo flight for violating in-flight norms following a probe on the incident, officials aware of the development said.“Action may be initiated against those persons found in violation of the guidelines,” the DGCA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ban-on-taking-photos-on-board-clarifies-dgca/story-FAQVTmSGIk2DVTTWmmdlZN.html
13-09-2020||India||Farooq confirms House attendance||Srinagar: National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, the member of Parliament from Srinagar, will attend the monsoon session of Parliament starting on Monday.This will be the first session he will be attending since Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) was divested of its special status with the effective nullification of Article 370 on August 5, 2019 and the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two Union territories — J&K and Ladakh. The former CM and his son Omar Abdullah were detained in a crackdown that accompanied the constitutional changes. “Yes, I am going to attend Parliament. Though they have kept no provisions to ask question, we will have to sit four hours daily,” Abdullah told HT. “Nevertheless, I will raise our issues there, “ he said. During the debate in Parliament last year when the erstwhile state’s special status was revoked and his absence was felt in the House, Abdullah told the media in an interview in Srinagar that he had to break open his door to come out from detention within his house and denied the home minister’s remarks that he was free.The monsoon session will be held between September 14 and October 1 amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and will have a shorter daily duration. The last parliamentary session was cut short on March 25 following the viral outbreak. The government has decided to do away with the Question Hour; the government will only provide written replies.Nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders were detained hours before the central government effectively nullified Article 370 of the Constitution.Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released on March 13 and March 24, 2020, respectively.In an interview with HT last month, Farooq and Omar Abdullah, another former CM of J&K, said that they will contest the constitutional changes related to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) pushed through by the Centre last year both politically and legally. Another former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti is still under detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-confirms-house-attendance/story-dnOB1o2HcFrFlOr9HhAWiJ.html
13-09-2020||India||In Odisha, three leopard skins seized, 4 held over illegal wildlife trade||Odisha wildlife department officials have seized three leopard skins and arrested four young men in Nabarangpur district for allegedly being involved in smuggling.Chief wildlife warden HS Upadhyay said a team of wildlife officials of Nabarangpur district intercepted two vehicles at different places on Saturday and recovered 3 leopard hides. While one team intercepted a motorcycle in a bordering area of Kalahandi and Nabarangpur districts at around 11.30 am and recovered one leopard skin from them, another team seized two leopard hides from another two-wheeler in Nandahandi block of the district at around 3:30 pm.“We disguised as regular customers and caught the accused red-handed. We will produce photographic evidence in court,” said Nabarangpur DFO Magar Dhanaji Raoso.The arrested persons are Surendra Naik and Trinath Naik from Thuamul Rampur area in Kalahandi district and Gupta Prasad Traki and Prahallad Nayak of Nabarangpur district. The accused have been booked under multiple sections of the IPC and Wildlife Protection Act. Efforts are on to ascertain the possible involvement of other people in the racket, said officials.Earlier this month, forest officials in Mayurbhanj district had seized a leopard skin and arrested one person over his alleged involvement in illegal wildlife trade.In June this year, the Special Task Force of the Odisha Crime Branch had arrested two persons including a teacher and recovered two leopard skins and bones from them in Nayagarh district. Leopards are protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Over the last 10 years, at least 155 leopards have been poached across Odisha. Leopards are routinely poached for their skins and body parts. At least 27 leopard skins were seized in Odisha in the last two years and as many as 35 men arrested most of them in operations carried out by the Crime Branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-three-leopard-skins-seized-4-held-over-illegal-wildlife-trade/story-PkK2PBmnLO5gSpBfoYQ5KM.html
13-09-2020||India||‘I lost a year’: Bihar boy travels 700 kms, misses NEET by 10 minutes||Santosh Kumar Yadav, a resident of Darbhanga in Bihar, travelled for more than 24 hours and changed two buses to cover a 700-odd kilometre distance to reach Kolkata for his National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). Unfortunately, he was late by 10 minutes. Yadav was not allowed to enter the examination centre at a school in Salt Lake, a township located to the east of Kolkata. “I pleaded the authorities but they said I was late. The examination started at 2 pm. I reached the centre around 1.40 pm. The last deadline for entering the centre was 1.30 pm,” Yadav told a local television channel. “I lost a year,” he added. Also read: Covid-19 vaccine possible by 2021 first quarter, says Harsh VardhanIncidentally, NEET examinees were asked to report at least three hours in advance in view of the time taken for security and health checks amid the Covid-19 crisis. Describing his ordeal, the student said, “I boarded a bus at Darbhanga at 8 am on Saturday to reach Muzaffarpur. From there I took a bus to Patna but there was a traffic jam on the route and I got delayed by almost six hours.”“I took another bus from Patna at 9 pm. The bus dropped me near Sealdah station (in Kolkata) at 1.06 pm. A taxi brought me to the examination centre,” said Yadav.The school authorities could not be contacted but inconvenience faced by NEET examinees became a subject of political debate as many had to shell out huge amount of money to travel from one part of the state to another in hired cars. Also read: NEET 2020 - 85-90% of over 15 lakh students take exam amid Covid-19 concerns“The Supreme Court (while dismissing a petition for delaying NEET and JEE) said that students should get all help to travel and get accommodation. During the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), examinees in West Bengal had to face a lot of difficulty and the chief minister had said 70 percent of them could not take the test. This government is not at all sympathetic towards students,” said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Dilip Ghosh. The state government did not deny that examinees had to face an uphill task on Sunday. “We knew that students would face trouble. The metro railway can carry them within Kolkata but what about those from other districts? Chief minister Mamata Banerjee cancelled the state-wide lockdown on Saturday only to help students travel. But they still faced problems because of the pandemic situation,” said state education minister and Trinamool Congress secretary general Partha Chatterjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-lost-a-year-bihar-boy-travels-700-kms-misses-neet-by-10-minutes/story-tI0utqgzXNd771drTQdQaK.html
13-09-2020||India||Ahead of MP bypolls, BJP and Congress spar at public meetings||Ahead of bypolls in Madhya Pradesh, the ruling party BJP and the opposition Congress accused each other on Sunday at public meetings held in two different regions of the state of, what they said, betraying people after making promises for their welfare. The bypolls are due for 27 assembly constituencies dates of which are yet to be announced by the Election Commission. While laying the foundation stones for several projects in Bhander assembly constituency in Datia district and Gohad assembly constituency in Bhind district, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “Congress sought votes of people by projecting the face of Jyotiraditya Scindia in the run-up to 2018 assembly elections but when it formed its government Kamal Nath was appointed the chief minister. He hardly moved out of the secretariat to meet people and redress their grievances. Also, he dumped several welfare schemes launched during the BJP regime earlier for farmers, students, youths, women and other sections of society.”Chouhan asked people, “Was this act of Congress not like stabbing people in the back?”Also read: India may see 7 million Covid-19 cases by October, says studySenior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, home minister Narottam Mishra, cooperative minister Arvind Bhadoria and women and child development minister Imrati Devi also addressed the gatherings.Scindia said, “It was for the first time when Gwalior-Chambal region gave tremendous support to the Congress in 2018 assembly elections by giving 26 seats out of total 34 in the region to the party. People thought the Congress government would draw a bigger line of development than that in the BJP government in the previous years. But the Congress chief minister didn’t come out of Vallabh Bhavan (state secretariat). Instead of setting the record of development, the Congress government set a record in corruption. Sand mafia, liquor mafia and transfer industry had their say in the government.”Scindia asked, “Digvijaya Singh projected himself as well-wisher of Dalits. I want to ask him if he is really a well-wisher of Dalits then why didn’t the Congress send Phoolsingh Baraiya to Rajya Sabha from Madhya Pradesh?”Scindia said, “The ensuing bypolls are not for certain constituencies but concerns the entire state. The entire country is looking forward to this election. We have to ensure victory of the BJP on all the 27 seats and give a befitting reply to corrupt Congress.”While BJP leaders attacked the Congress in Gwalior-Chambal region, state Congress president Kamal Nath took a dig at the BJP in Malwa region.Addressing a public meeting in Sanver assembly constituency in Indore in support of the party candidate Premchand Guddu, the former chief minister said, “The BJP in its 15 years of rule from 2003 to 2018 only produced labourers in Madhya Pradesh while in its present regime it is only making false promises to people.”Nath asked people, “Have you ever seen labourers from Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Kerala? However, if you have seen labourers on TV screens, they must be labourers from Madhya Pradesh (returning home during the Covid-19 crisis). This is what the BJP government gave to Madhya Pradesh in all these years. People can see how the BJP has brought the state to such a sorry pass.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-mp-bypolls-bjp-and-congress-spar-at-public-meetings/story-7fsanCT2hbthtxcAAs5bQP.html
13-09-2020||India||In Meghalaya, 30 Raj Bhavan staff test positive for Covid-19||The Meghalaya Raj Bhavan on Sunday witnessed a chaotic day with as many as thirty employees, including the secretary to Governor Satya Pal Malik, testing positive for Covid-19Governor Malik, however, tested negative while his wife is out of station.This was confirmed by the state Director of Health Services (DHS) Dr. Aman War to HT over telephone “Its true that 30 employees of Raj Bhavan have tested positive for the virus and we are making sure that no one is left out of the tests,” the DHS said, adding, “Measures are being taken to ensure that all protocols are put in place.”Besides the Secretary to the Governor, other senior officials include the Deputy Secretary, House Controller, Superintendent, Accountant, Hindi Stenographer and the attendant to Lady Governor.Others who work in the main building include 3 room bearers, 2 table bearers, 2 room sweepers and a nurse. These people work in the main building and often come into contact with the Governor or visitors. The others are Grade 3 and 4 staff of the Raj Bhavan Secretariat which is located in the premises but away from the main building and some police personnel.Speaking to HT over phone, Commissioner and Secretary of Health Sampath Kumar said the origin of the virus infiltrating Raj Bhavan is being ascertained while admitting candidly that it was quite a challenge.“Many people visit Raj Bhavan and especially since the present Governor has just assumed office many come to greet him. In the process tea and snacks are served and in order to consume them one has to remove the mask which is potentially dangerous,” Kumar said adding, “In such cases social distancing does not apply, it is merely physical distancing.The Commissioner revealed, “The government is contemplating issuing necessary directions to not allow consumption of any eatables or beverages during meetings.” He said if someone wishes to have tea or snacks or both, one can do so on their own separately.When asked if the premises would be declared a containment zone considering the large number of positive cases, Kumar said, “The area is fully gated anyway but as far as the quarters are, we leave it to the wisdom and discretion of the Deputy Commissioner (DC).HT contacted East Khasi Hills DC Isawanda Laloo, who has just assumed office on September 8 and she informed that all protocols have been put in place. “We have sealed off the main premises as well as the staff quarters on the rear side of Raj Bhavan across the road, Laloo said over phone adding, “Essential commodities will be delivered to all at their doorstep so they don’t have to venture out. A police team overseen by the Superintendent of Police and a magistrate will ensure strict adherence to the administration’s directions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-meghalaya-30-raj-bhavan-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-t91lxZodF8o3FO3nQau1pM.html
13-09-2020||India||India may see 7 million Covid-19 cases by October, says study||India may witness over seven million Covid-19 cases by the first week of October, surpassing the US and emerging as the country with highest number of infections, a team of researchers from BITS Pilani, Hyderabad said on Friday.The Union health ministry data on Friday said the number of coronavirus cases in India breached the 45 lakh mark while a data released by a national public health institute in the US said the number of infections in the North American country crossed six million as of September 8.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The team has been engaged in forecasting Covid-19 pandemic in India using advanced statistical learning techniques, lead researcher Dr TSL Radhika of the Department of Applied Mathematics, BITS Pilani, Hyderabad Campus said.The team has recently communicated its findings to the ‘International Journal of Infectious Diseases’ published by the well known publisher Elsevier.“Our results, obtained using a model based on statistical learning techniques applied to the existing data, indicate that India is likely to become the top COVID-19 country in the world, surpassing the United States by about the first week of October, that is in about a month’s time.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The total number of cases is also likely to cross the 70 -lakh mark by this time.The figure however is contingent on the number of tests being carried out,” Dr Radhika said in an email communication to PTI.The researchers are now working on refining their model based on advanced machine learning techniques to make predictions for the longer term, the researcher added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-see-7-million-covid-19-cases-by-october-says-study/story-lReVJ9aYTKkhUTYtm23IjL.html
13-09-2020||India||Parliament Monsoon session to begin tomorrow amid Covid-19 pandemic: All you need to know||Compulsory mask-wearing, entry to only those who test negative and carrying out country’s parliamentary proceedings in two shifts will be among the focal points of this year’s Monsoon session which begins on Monday. This is the first time a parliamentary session is taking place amid a viral disease outbreak. Monsoon session in Parliament is usually conducted around mid-July. This year’s monsoon session got deferred after Covid-19 cases in India showed an upward trend since March, forcing authorities to strictly observe safety norms such as social distancing and avoidance of large public gathering. Just a day before the parliamentary session is expected to begin, India’s Covid-19 tally on Sunday breached 47 lakh mark after 94,372 people across the country tested positive for the viral contagion in the last 24 hours. Here is all you need to know about this year’s Parliament monsoon session:• The session will start from Monday, September 14 and is expected to conclude on Thursday, October 1. All the days, including weekend days – Saturdays and Sundays – will be working days for member of parliaments. • A total of 18 sittings spread over a period of 18 days will mark this monsoon session.• Total of 47 items – including 45 bills and two financial items – have been identified for being taken up during the monsoon session.• This will be first-of-its-kind monsoon session will see Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha sitting in two different shifts. Keeping Covid-19 safety protocols in consideration, special seating arrangements have been made for MPs in adherence to social distancing guidelines.• This year’s session will be marked by unprecedented logistics and infrastructure arrangements, including ultraviolet germicidal irradiation in air-conditioning systems to kill or inactivate microorganisms, 10 display screens for live proceedings, earmarked seats for top leaders and special communication cables linking both Houses.• For marking MPs’ attendance, a mobile app will be in place for registering presence. The seats in both the houses will be separated with poly-carbon sheets. • Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will be adjourned for an hour after obituary references to former president Pranab Mukherjee and other members of the parliament who have passed away during the interregnum. • Senior Opposition leaders like Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh will be giving this monsoon session a miss due to medical reasons. While Gandhi has left for abroad for a routine medical check up, 87 year old Manmohan Singh has been strictly advised by his doctors to not leave his house. • The Opposition will push for debate on economy, the India-China border conflict and Covid-19 management, to corner the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-to-begin-amid-covid-19-pandemic-all-you-need-to-know/story-PVEdYE5YSGroz7tNSUxC2M.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Threats won’t deter cadres from defeating nefarious designs of terrorists’: Congress||Congress has strongly condemned the threat to several political leaders including Congress party and termed it a cowardly act of frustrated cadres of Pakistan-sponsored terrorists. Reacting to Hizbul’s letter, Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said that such cowardly acts would not deter the Congress cadres committed to defeating the designs of terrorists and their mentors in Pakistan.However, Sharma said that the top leadership of the Congress party and party cadres are carrying on the political activities against militants at a great risk to their lives. He said the present dispensation under the command of ruling BJP has either withdrawn or downgraded the security cover of most of the party leaders.Sharma hoped the security agencies would take due cognizance of the situation and do the needful required in such matters to ensure proper security cover to all those who are vulnerable to terrorist threats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/threats-won-t-deter-cadres-from-defeating-nefarious-designs-of-terrorists-congress/story-vPjw3gda9nVRnLbfDHMrwO.html
13-09-2020||India||Pak using underground tunnels to push terrorists, drones to drop arms: J&K DGP||Pakistan is using cross-border underground tunnels to push terrorists into India and drones to drop weapons for them, the chief of Jammu and Kashmir police said Sunday.Director general of police Dilbag Singh, however, said the anti-infiltration grid is active and anti-tunnelling operations are underway to scuttle “nefarious designs”.“Digging of tunnels beneath the IB is part of the nefarious designs of Pakistan to facilitate infiltration of terrorists into this side to step up terrorism,” Singh told reporters in Samba district after inspecting the recently discovered 170-metre tunnel at Galar village along the IB.The tunnel with a depth of 20-25 feet and originating from Pakistan was found by a BSF team near the border-fencing on August 28.“I saw this huge tunnel which is almost similar to the one detected in Chanyari in 2013-14. After the Nagrota encounter, we had received specific inputs that infiltration had taken place through a tunnel and was searching for it,” the DGP said.Three Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists were killed in the encounter in Nagrota in January this year.“The investigation is on but the ground indicators suggest that the tunnel was used by Pakistan in the past to push infiltrators,” he said but did not rule out the possibility of more such tunnels.He said BSF and police personnel are searching the area for any other tunnel.On the recent recovery of sophisticated weapons, including an M-16 rifle, from a Kashmir-bound truck near Qazigund, he said the investigation is going on and it is believed that the arms were airdropped using drones in Samba sector.Two overground workers of JeM, who were transporting the weapons in a truck, have identified the place in Samba from where they picked up the consignment for delivery to terrorists active in south Kashmir, officials said.Asked about the possibility of presence of overground workers of terrorists in Jammu, Singh said the region has always been on the radar of Pakistan and it is evident from suicide attacks on military installations in Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts over the years.“We have made adequate deployment and are taking all necessary precautions to frustrate the designs of Pakistan both along the border and in the hinterland,” he said.Officials said the DGP reviewed the overall security situation, especially along the IB, in the district during his visit and was also briefed by senior police and BSF officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-using-underground-tunnels-to-push-terrorists-drones-to-drop-arms-j-k-dgp/story-Nb1FgwRQUtGsLtkLYtZ1SN.html
13-09-2020||India||After over 40 years, Odisha plans another repeal of 700 obsolete and redundant laws||Over 40 years after Odisha repealed more than a hundred obsolete and redundant Acts through Odisha Repealing Act 1976, the state government is planning to undertake a similar exercise to repeal of about 700 Acts and laws.A proposal moved by the law department to various departments of Odisha government early this week has proposed whether 699 laws that were passed between 1973 and 2016 need to be repealed as many of them may have become obsolete and redundant.Principal secretary of law department Shashikant Mishra, in his proposal to various departments, asked them to draw up a schedule of discussion for the repealing of unnecessary legislation from the statute book.“We have asked the departments to give their suggestions on whether the 699 Acts and laws that we have sent them need to be repealed. Once we get their reply then we would move the state law commission to examine them for further action. This would take a considerable time as lots of discussion needs to take place,” he said.Also read: Search on for survivors as wildfires torch millions of acres in US WestThe law department has asked 33 departments whether the Acts (amendment acts and validation acts) have become redundant and obsolete over the passage of time and whether any provisions of the Act is currently under challenge by any court. It has also asked whether any provisions of the Acts that can be repealed are yet to be brought into force and if any provisions of the Act are independent of the principal Acts and are necessary.The departments that have been sent the list of Acts that can be repealed are finance, housing and urban development, parliamentary affairs, Panchayati raj and drinking water, revenue and disaster management, public works, home, steel and mines, water resources, general administration and public grievances, rural development, among others.The last time Odisha had repealed over 100 old and obsolete Acts was in 1978 when the Janata Party government, headed by the then chief minister Nilamani Routray, was in power in the state. In Centre, the Narendra Modi government has repealed more than 1,400 obsolete Acts after it came to power in 2014. The move came after the Law Commission found that a large number of Appropriation Acts passed earlier still continued.Also read: PM Modi’s ‘nudges’ had critical effect on Covid battle - StudyAmong the 699 Acts and laws that the Odisha Repealing Bill 2020 wants to scrap is the Odisha Lokpal and Lokayuktas (Amendment)Act, 1983 that has become redundant after Odisha Lokayukta Act 2015 came into existence. Similarly, Acts like the Orissa Police Amendment Act, 1976 - which regulates black-marketing in cinema halls - and Orissa Police Amendment Act, 1975 - which made it liable for people of an area to pay penalty if they failed to provide timely help in case of destruction of property - have also gone redundant.Likewise, Acts such as Orissa Eyes (Authorities for use for therapeutic purposes) Act, 1985, is no longer valid after Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act was passed by the Parliament in 1994. Other Acts, like Orissa Fireworks and Loudspeakers Amendment Act 1979 that empowered the district collectors to stop display of fireworks and use of loudspeaker in an area for six months, is being seen as archaic and redundant. Similarly, at least eight Acts under Bihar Odisha Excise Amendment Act between 1974 and 1998 have become obsolete after the Odisha Excise Act 2005 was passed.However, among the Acts that the law department has proposed to repeal were passed as late as 2016. Former parliamentary affairs minister Panchanan Kanungo said repealing old and obsolete Acts was fine but good laws that were enacted to ensure political accountability should not be repealed in the name of cleansing the statute books. “If a law could not be enforced it does not mean it was unworkable. It simply means the executive could not implement it,” said Kanungo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-over-40-years-odisha-plans-another-repeal-of-700-obsolete-and-redundant-laws/story-X5A9tAj27tAI0Iiu3EMpOP.html
13-09-2020||India||When mother said to Vikas: ‘You can’t give up on your country…’||Past few months have introduced the inspiring humanitarian side of Michelin-star chef Vikas Khanna to the world, hugely. During the ongoing pandemic, the known restaurateur, author and filmmaker turned his focus to his motherland that made him provide millions of meals to the needy and less fortunate. “My team has been working for various causes for long but when this pandemic happened and lockdown brought of the world’s largest country on standstill, we thought of doing something for those who suffered greatly under the Covid 19 lockdown. And that’s how things got on a roll. Today, we have achieved the threshold of providing over 31 million meals across India,” said Vikas over the phone. Vikas remembers how once he gave the idea of the entire mission, he said, “It was in March when I, along with my team, send out mailers asking people to understand the project and join in as we were in New York and required more hands working on the ground level. Soon there was tremendous support that inspired us to take the pledge. A guy in Bangalore who joined us from there was to take the meals to an old age home. After all transactions were through that guy just vanished from the face of the earth. Our contact numbers were blocked and we knew that we have been duped. I lost all hope and gave up the idea.” Disheartened he called up his mother. “I narrated her everything and it was she who made me stand again. ‘You belong to family of freedom fighters how can you give up on the country and its people just because of one such incident. Remember it’s because of India’s vast culinary heritage that you are one of best chef in the world…Its time to give back betaji…’ she said. And hence, FeedIndia took off with a bang. Being the real multitasker, Vikas has come up with a restaurant in Dubai and work on his next film. “I love doing multiple things at a same time. The idea behind the new restaurant was to provide jobs to young jobless. Making cinema and writing books makes me reach to so many people in just a go. My film ‘The Last Color’ that was based in Vrindavan and Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh. My next directorial will see the legendary actor Shabana Azmi as the central character based in NY. It is slated for next year,” he shared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/when-mother-said-to-vikas-you-can-t-give-up-on-your-country/story-xFDED0WQyUOOU4uvuzECQL.html
13-09-2020||India||In Bengal, neighbour kidnaps minor boy for ransom, kills him||A 12-year-old boy was kidnapped and hacked to death by his neighbour in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district on Friday, the police said on Sunday afternoon. The incident happened at Uttarpara village in Baruipur. Munirul Sheikh, the accused, allegedly lured Tushar Chakraborty, a class 6 student, saying he would get the boy a parrot from the trees near his house. Since the boy knew Sheikh, he went out with him without telling his parents. He was never seen again. On Saturday, Tushar’s father received a call from an unknown mobile phone and the caller demanded Rs 5 lakh as ransom for releasing the boy. “After the boy went missing his father had lodged a complaint. We started tracking the number and it led to Munirul’s arrest. He confessed that he killed the boy after kidnapping him and called his father the next day,” said Rashid Munir Khan, superintendent of police, Baruipur. Police found that Sheikh had taken a loan of Rs 50,000 from someone and had no substantial income to pay it off. “When we asked him why he killed the boy, Munirul said he got scared. The body was found near Munirul’s house,” said the SP. Sheikh was produced before the local court on Sunday afternoon and remanded to police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-neighbour-kidnaps-minor-boy-for-ransom-kills-him/story-vCXv4M6wn4MqP6j5zwSS7O.html
13-09-2020||India||Is Covid-19 less fatal in India’s villages?||The Covid-19 pandemic started as an urban phenomenon in India. But it is now spreading at a faster rate in rural areas. An HT analysis on August 26 had shown that 55% of new Covid-19 cases reported in August were in districts where the rural population had a share of more than 60%. These districts had reported only about 23% of new cases in April.With the pandemic spreading to rural areas, fatality should have gone up. India’s rural population is poorer compared to their counterparts. According to the 2011-12 consumption expenditure survey (latest available estimates) average monthly per capita expenditure was ₹1,430 in rural areas compared to ₹2,630 in urban areas. This has a direct bearing on ability to access health services. India has among the higher share of out of pocket expenditure (62.4%) in total health spending in the world (average 18.2%). Health infrastructure in rural areas is also significantly worse compared to urban areas. According to the National Health Profile 2019, there were 1.2 government hospital beds per 1000 people in urban areas compared to just 0.3 in rural areas.An HT analysis based on data compiled by How India Lives throws a counter-intuitive result. Rural areas seem to be doing better in terms of case fatality rate (CFR). CFR is defined as the cumulative number of deaths as a share of the cumulative number of cases.The analysis classifies districts into five categories based on the proportion of the rural population – entirely urban (under 20% of the rural population), mostly urban (20%-40% rural), mixed (40%-60% rural), mostly rural (60% to 80% rural) and entirely rural (over 80% rural population). The proportion of the rural population is based on the 2011 census (the latest data available). The proportion of rural population in 94 districts created after 2011 has been assumed to be the same as the districts they were carved out of. The analysis shows that CFR drops sharply from urban to rural districts. It is 2.66% in the 16 ‘entirely urban’ districts to as low as 0.98% in the 357 ‘entirely rural’ districts. As a result of this variance, urban areas account for a disproportionate share of Covid-19 deaths. Forty-nine ‘entirely urban’ and ‘mostly urban’ districts have reported 39% of India’s Covid-19 cases but a majority 54% of the country’s Covid-19 deaths. Similarly, districts with higher rural population have a higher share of confirmed cases and a lower share of deaths. What explains the fall in CFR from urban to rural areas? Experts are divided on the issue. Some believe this to be a result of poor data collection on cause of death in rural areas, while others think lower co-morbidities and a relatively younger population in rural areas could be the reason. The truth, as is often the case, could be somewhere in the middle.Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said poor data reporting could be one possible reason. “In the best of times as well, India’s health management system does not monitor deaths. Also, the quality of data will be much better in urban areas than in rural areas,” he said. Data from the ministry of home affairs support this line of argument. While 86% of deaths are registered in India, the cause of death is medically certified in only 21% of registered deaths. A state-wise analysis shows that the share of medically certified deaths to total registered deaths was lower in states which have a higher share of ‘mostly rural’ and ‘entirely rural’ districts. Of the 584 ‘mostly rural’ and ‘entirely rural’ districts in India, 211 are in five states – Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. These states are among the laggards in terms of the share of deaths that have a medically certified cause. “A large number of non-Covid deaths in rural India go unreported, do we know that it is not true for Covid-19 as well?” asked Satyajit Rath of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune. “We may be undercounting deaths... It is quite possible that confirmed Covid-19 patients staying at home might die there and not be reported,” he said. Experts also cited lower share of population with co-morbidities in rural India as a possible reason for lower fatality rate there. “People in villages are relatively healthier and prevalence of diseases such as diabetes and high blood pressure is lower in rural areas,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director at Delhi’s Maulana Azad Medical College. “People in rural areas generally have a healthier lifestyle, they breathe cleaner air, have good food and also do a lot of physical activities,” he said. People with diseases such as diabetes are at a higher risk of developing serious consequences and dying due to Covid-19. According to the fourth National Family Health Survey, conducted in 2015-16, diabetes and hypertension was more prevalent among both men and women in urban areas. For example, in urban areas, 2.6% women and 2.1% men reported diabetes compared to 1.2% women and 1.5% men in rural areas. To be sure, even as the prevalence of diseases such as diabetes is lower in rural areas, life expectancy at birth – the number of years a new-born can expect to live – is higher in urban areas (72.4 years) than in rural areas (67.7 years). The government does not release data on the age-structure of patients at the district-level. However, the Census 2011 data shows that rural areas in India have a slightly higher proportion of younger population than urban areas. For example, nearly 52% of people in rural areas were under 24 years of age while this figure was 46% in urban areas. But the proportion of persons above 50 years old was similar in both urban and rural areas, about 16%. Another piece of evidence suggests that data coming from rural districts might not be as good as its urban counterpart. The ‘entirely rural’ districts have not caught up with the trend of dropping fatality rates in India. In three months between June 1 and September 1, the fatality rates dropped in all groups of districts except in the 357 ‘entirely rural’ districts where it hovered around 1%. It dropped by nearly one percentage point elsewhere. Here, only the period after June 1 has been compared as all groups of districts had at least 15,000 confirmed Covid-19 cases by then. Even if rural India is less vulnerable to Covid-19, at least in terms of deaths, there is merit in pushing for better data collection and monitoring to fight the pandemic better.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-covid-19-less-fatal-in-india-s-villages/story-j5rE5enrzPBOTVkS716KYO.html
13-09-2020||India||Maharashtra reports one-day jump of 22,543 Covid-19 cases, recoveries near 7.5 lakh||Maharashtra’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surged past the one million mark with 22,543 new infections and 416 deaths in a single day, the state health department said on Sunday.The western state continues to be the worst-affected region in the country with 1,060,308 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease while its death toll has climbed to 29,531.Amid the rising Covid-19 cases, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned on Sunday that the situation is likely to become more severe in the coming days. He advised people to take precautions and follow social distancing norms as the coronavirus pandemic, he pointed out, could take a “monstrous form”.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “The scenario that I was afraid of is before us now. The cases of coronavirus are rising and will continue to rise. The cases have again started increasing in Mumbai and other areas. They are spreading in rural areas as well. There is a concern that it can take a disastrous form. The World Health Organization (WHO) too has stated that this can be an indication for another major crisis,” Thackeray said.“Like other countries, the state will have to start penalising people for violating social distancing. For instance, people will be fined for not wearing a mask at a public place; action against people for crowding a public place etc. We will have to take such steps as people are not following the norms seriously,” the chief minister added.Data showed Covid-19 cases in Mumbai have reached 169,741 with 2,085 fresh infections and the city’s toll has gone up to 8,150.Even with new Covid-19 cases on the rise, Maharashtra has its hopes up as the state also has the highest number of people who have recovered from the viral infection. As of Sunday, as many as 740,061 people had been discharged from the hospitals or had recovered in home isolation with 11,549 recoveries reported in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department.Maharashtra has reported 17.2% of the total recovered cases in the country, the Union health ministry had said earlier on Sunday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage To tackle the pandemic, the state government launched a state-wide campaign, ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ on Sunday. The campaign will aim at achieving effective health care education for the control of Covid-19 outbreak, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner IS Chahal. Under the campaign, authorities will survey 22.5 million families twice a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-one-day-jump-of-22-543-covid-19-cases-recoveries-near-7-5-lakh/story-VWpChebr2SQdmB3fakdfHL.html
13-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi records over 4,000 Covid-19 cases for fifth day in a row and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi records over 4,000 Covid-19 cases for fifth day in a row: Explained in 10 pointsDelhi on Sunday recorded 4,235 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the cumulative tally past 218,000. The death toll in the national capital due to the viral disease climbed to 4,744 after 29 new fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours.Read more. NEET 2020: 85-90 % of over 15 lakh students take exam amid virus concernsOf the over 15 lakh candidates who had registered for the NEET examination, around 85 to 90% of students appeared in the exam on Sunday. The Union Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank while disclosing the figures also sought to thanks states, many of them had even arranged transport keeping in view the difficulties faced by the candidates due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Read more. Covid-19 vaccine possible by 2021 first quarter, says Harsh VardhanUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan said no date for launching the Covid-19 vaccine has been fixed yet. “It may be ready by the first quarter of next year,” the minister said as he addressed the first episode of his Sunday Samvaad — a social media interaction programme.Read more. ‘Nudges’ from PM Modi were critical in India’s Covid battle: Cambridge studyUsing nudge theory that involves subtly leading people to desired directions, a study of India’s public policy response to Covid-19 has concluded that nudges from Prime Minister Narendra Modi were critical in creating herd effect on lockdown and social distancing norms across the country.Read more. Indians must now get their priorities right | OpinionWe are going through a variety of crises. China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has encroached into Indian territory. Indian soldiers fought back and 20 were killed. A virus that originated in China has devastated the world, and India is among the top two nations when it comes to the number of infections, and the number is only rising. Not since the Spanish Flu have we seen such a destructive epidemic.Read more. Paytm KYC scams are on a rise: How you can safeguard yourselfPaytm is arguably one of the most popular payment apps in the country. With over 100 million downloads on the Google Play Store, it wouldn’t be a stretch to say that the payments platform is used by people from all walks of life.Read more. ‘I’ll get that one ball which gets him out’: Kesrick Williams confident of dismissing Virat KohliWest Indies fast bowler Kesrick Williams has had a couple of interesting encounters with India captain Virat Kohli. In 2017, Williams dismissed Kohli and followed it with his trademark ‘notebook celebration’.Read more. Chris Evans’ fans ask for his privacy after accidental nudes leakHollywood star Chris Evans’ very wholesome fandom is standing by the actor, asking everyone to respect his privacy after a nude photo mishap. Chris, by mistake, shared a picture of himself in the nude on Instagram Stories.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-records-over-4-000-covid-19-cases-for-fifth-day-in-a-row-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lIM78zRLlpRTkVVg0mN4AM.html
13-09-2020||India||Maharashtra’s coastal districts to have marine animal rescue centres before next monsoon||Maharashtra’s coastal districts will have their own marine animal rescue centre before next monsoon and the state through the Mangrove Foundation has allocated a budget of Rs 65.5 lakh to develop new centres and upgrade existing ones. While two new centres have been proposed at Rs 20 lakh each at Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri, an existing structure at Alibag will be revamped with various facilities at a cost of Rs 4 lakh. Additionally, Rs 10 lakh will be used to upgrade an existing centre in Dahanu while remaining funds have been allocated for the maintenance of existing centres.These marine animal transit-and-treatment units cater to cases of cetaceans and sea turtle strandings, injuries, post-mortems, and rescues.“Final execution of our projects is expected by May before the monsoon when maximum cases are reported,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell). “We are in consultation with experts to further enhance our infrastructure at each centre by including better equipment, a variety of tanks, medical apparatus and providing artificial sea salt (suitable for sea turtles to stay in).”Also read: Delhi records over 4,000 Covid-19 cases for fifth day in a row - 10 pointsAccording to data from the mangrove cell, a total of 110 sea turtles (100 alive and 10 dead) washed ashore or got trapped in fishing nets between November 2019 and September 2020. Of these, 101 were Olive Ridley, seven Green sea turtles, and two were Hawksbill turtles. During the same period, 23 cetaceans - nine Indian Ocean humpback dolphins, five Baleen whales, five finless porpoise, and two striped dolphins - washed ashore along the state coastline. Equipped with two 1,000 litre and five 500 litre tanks, an operation table, medicines, equipment and visiting veterinarians, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) got its first marine animal treatment centre on July 26 at the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre at Airoli, Navi Mumbai. In 2018, the forest department with various non-profit groups began a marine respondent network to coordinate fast response to marine treatment cases but a designated centre was not present. Only one treatment centre had been functional in Maharashtra in Dahanu, Palghar, over 10 years. This year, 38 turtles were brought to Dahanu while three were taken to Airoli for treatment.According to a forest officer, who spoke to HT requesting anonymity, the 38 sea turtles were in critical health that washed ashore at Dahanu. “While 20 succumbed to death, seven were successfully released after treatment and 11 remain critical under our care,” the officer said.Dr Dinesh Vinherkar, appointed in-charge of the Dahanu rescue centre by the Maharashtra forest department, confirmed the details. “This year, the annual mortality and injury rate of turtles has been much higher. Cases involving accidents with boats, propellers or getting caught in fishnets has led to complete blood loss (anaemia), damage to lungs, decapitated flippers or harm to their digestive tract due to plastic, ropes, rubber and foreign bodies in their stool due to coastal pollution - all leading to floating syndrome (wherein a turtle is unable to swim into deep waters and is brought to shore during high tide). Thus, we could only release those that are fit to find food,” he said.Marine biologist with the Mangrove Foundation Harshal Karve said, “Developing district-wise centres will help provide treatment on time and boost further research. Data collected will help understand the causes of stranding and aid future conservation practices.”Veterinarian Dr Rina Dev, consultant with the mangrove cell at the Airoli centre said, “If every district becomes self-sufficient by providing immediate treatment to marine animals rather than putting pressure on one centre, the entire rehabilitation and conservation process becomes a successful model. The mangrove cell has already begun workshops with all coastal stakeholders explaining specifics about rescues and resolving stranding-related issues.”Dr Vinherkar added, “There is a need for providing treatment to these species within a short period to save their lives. It will also help form a network for better results.”Such centres would need equipment including x-ray machines, isolation tanks, dry-docking tanks, thermoregulation equipment, filtration units, artificial sea salt apart from basic apparatus, added Dr Vinherkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-coastal-districts-to-have-marine-animal-rescue-centres-before-next-monsoon/story-vZORWymQpkdrQJ27rDZ0LJ.html
13-09-2020||India||In Uttarakhand, 51 prisoners in Nainital Jail test Covid-19 positive||Nearly 51 jail inmates and one jail staffer of the Nainital district jail have tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Sunday. The 52 people were found asymptomatic patients of the virus after the jail administration sent samples of a total of 71 people including jail inmates and staffers for a test in Haldwani’s Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital on September 10, said officials. Saturday’s test results have now taken the total number of Covid-19 positive inmates in the state to about 85. Manoj Arya, superintendent Nainital district jail said, “The jail administration had sent samples of 71 people for testing. Their results came on Saturday in which 51 inmates and one jail staffer tested positive.” “However, all are asymptomatic and none of them are serious. While the jail staffer has been put in home isolation, the inmates have been isolated inside the jail only as per Covid-19 guidelines,” Arya said. He also informed that the jail administration has asked the jail staff to take all necessary precautions including wearing a mask and washing hands while on duty to avoid getting infected. On May 31, for the first time amid lockdown, five prisoners had tested positive for Covid-19 in Sitarganj jail in US Nagar, ringing alarm bells among the jail authorities there. After the first coronavirus positive case was detected in the state on March 15, the jail authorities had started taking measures to ensure inmates didn’t get infected with Covid-19. Jail authorities said all people entering jails were being screened to detect the symptoms of the virus in them. Also, jail premises were being cleaned regularly to ensure cleanliness with staffers working with masks and gloves on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uttarakhand-51-prisoners-in-nainital-jail-test-covid-19-positive/story-3mBeXJV0k4SySjkPrPQTVM.html
13-09-2020||India||144 new cases take Manipur’s Covid-19 tally to 7,857, death toll rises to 46||Manipur reported a total of 144 fresh cases of Covid-19, including 11 Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) personnel to take the state’s tally to 7,875, Dr Khoirom Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of the health department said in a statement on Sunday.The death toll in the Covid-19 pandemic in Manipur rose to 46 with an 86-year-old man succumbing in a hospital in Imphal .Sixteen of those who tested positive, had returned from other states and the rest 117 are local residents without any significant travel history, the statement said. “In the last 24 hours, one male aged 86 years from Churachandpur expired at RIMS,” it stated. “The cumulative number of deaths is 46.”In the past 24 hours, 89 people were also discharged from six Covid care facilities in the state.Out of the tally of 7,875, there are 1,812 CAPF personnel. A total of 6,191 people have been discharged so far while the number of active cases is 1,638 including 300 CAPF personnel. The recovery rate in the State is 78.61 per cent, the statement said.The statement also asked the general public to consult government doctors online from home (10 am to 3 pm) every day except Sunday by downloading eSanjeevaniOPD app at Google Play Store or go to website www.esanjeevaniopd.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/133-new-cases-take-manipur-s-covid-19-tally-to-7-857-death-toll-rises-to-46/story-HkMKRNYIZ2STK865HZwcIN.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Could spin political game,’ say experts as Harish Rawat takes charge of Cong in Punjab||The All India Congress Committee (AICC), in its recent reshuffle of leadership roles, appointed former chief minister of Uttarakhand and party national general secretary Harish Rawat as in-charge of its Punjab unit. However, political experts believe the move is not just a mere elevation but a sign of the party high command’s trust in him which could lead to new political arithmetic in the Uttarakhand unit before the 2022 Assembly elections. Rawat, who was earlier in-charge of the Assam unit, was given the charge of Punjab a few days ago. Since then, state political experts are of the view that the new role is the result of his ‘active presence in Uttarakhand as well as the mark he has left in Assam as its in-charge’. They also claim that he could soon land a major role during the upcoming 2022 state assembly polls which are going to be crucial for the state unit. “Rawat’s new role definitely says a lot about his stature in the party and his terms with the party high command which includes Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. This would surely lead to new political calculations in the Uttarakhand unit also,” said MM Semwal, political expert and professor of political science at Garhwal Central University, Pauri Garhwal. Also read: Former Union minister and Bihar leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh diesSemwal said, “Though he has been elevated in the national politics but his presence is still in the state. No leader in the state’s leadership is close to his stature and he had to work hard to reach where he is today. Both state president Pritam Singh and leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh seem to be confined to their respective constituencies only unlike Rawat who holds sway across the Himalayan state.” He also said that given Rawat’s active presence in Uttarakhand, it would not be surprising if he is assigned a vital role in the 2022 elections. “The only face which Congress could project before the public in the state is Rawat only. No other leader has a pan-state presence like him. He would definitely be utilised in the 2022 elections,” he said. SMA Kazmi, another political expert who has been keeping an eye on state’s politics for nearly two decades, said Rawat has been rewarded for his loyalty to the Gandhi family which was evident in the recent letter episode in the party national leadership.” “Rawat has played his cards very well both at the Central and well as state level. At the national level, he has been a loyalist to Sonia and Rahul Gandhi and at state level, he played the intra-state politics in a very calculative way. This has paid him dividends in the form of Punjab in-charge,” said Kazmi. On his role in the 2022 Uttarakhand Assembly polls, he said ‘his plate is full.’ “His stakes are high in both Punjab as well as Uttarakhand with the Assembly polls due in both the states more or less the same year. In Punjab, he would like to retain the power for the party while in Uttarakhand he would like the party to win and become the CM himself. Hence his role in Uttarakhand polls has now become more important,” he said. Given Rawat’s stature in the party, state Congress unit head Pritam Singh and leader of Opposition Hridayesh, who are considered to be in the opposite factions of Rawat, took to social media to congratulate Rawat for the new role. On the new responsibility and his possible role in Uttarakhand considering the 2022 elections, Rawat said that “he is always ready for any responsibility in Uttarakhand to help the party.’ “I am very grateful to Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi for giving me this opportunity to serve Punjab. This role will also help me in working in Uttarakhand also as per the requirements of the party. I work in Chandigarh in the morning and work in Dehradun in the evening on the same day. No issues for me,” said Rawat. Rawat also said that his new role will ‘actually help the party in Uttarakhand too.’ “Punjab is a very significant state for Uttarakhand in terms of culture, economic and agriculture. The Uttarakhand unit could surely take advantage of my work in Punjab. I am able to dance to the same tune in Punjab as well as in Uttarakhand,” he said. “At present, I have been working as a catalyst for the Uttarakhand unit leadership and will continue to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-spin-political-game-say-experts-as-harish-rawat-takes-charge-of-cong-in-punjab/story-bboBbdTZqz3LHnzMgMC6aM.html
13-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut vs Shiv Sena in Mumbai: Latest developments||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Sunday apprised Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari of the “unjust treatment” she received following her criticism of Mumbai Police in connection with the force’s probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.A war of words broke out between the actor and the ruling Shiv Sena after Ranaut compared Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir and saying she does not feel safe in the city.Ranaut, who was in her hometown of Manali in Himachal Pradesh for the past few months, reached Mumbai on September 9, the day the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) razed the ‘illegally’ built portions of her office.Here are the latest developments on the row:* Kangana Ranaut meets Maharashtra GovernorKangana Ranaut and sister Rangoli Chandel met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan. “I told him about the unjust treatment I have received. I hope justice will be given to me so that the faith of all citizens, including young girls, is restored in the system. I am fortunate that the governor listened to me like his own daughter,” Ranaut was quoted as saying by news agency ANI after the meeting.* I am no politician: Kangana Ranaut“I am no politician. I have no connection with politics. I presented my thoughts as a commoner,” Ranaut said. Her comments come amid speculations that she might join politics.* Will face all political storms: Uddhav ThackerayIn an apparent reference to political criticism over the Shiv Sena’s tussle with Ranaut, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said he was ready to face all political storms. “I will have to remove the mask of the chief minister to respond to politics. I don’t speak, it doesn’t mean I don’t have answers,” he said without naming anyone.* ‘Conspiracy’ to defame Mumbai: Sanjay RautIn his column ‘Rokhthok’ in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Sena leader Raut wrote that other Bollywood stars should have come forward to dismiss Ranaut’s remarks against Mumbai. He termed the entire row a ‘conspiracy’ to defame Mumbai. Raut named actor Akshay Kumar in the column, questioned the silence of the Bollywood fraternity as he compared the film industry to the Pandavas who remained silent when Draupadi was being disrobed.*Sena accuses BJP leaders in Maharashtra of helping ‘outsiders’ vilify Mumbai’s image“Once again the efforts to vilify the image of Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai have begun. These attempts are made by the ‘outsiders’. But, as per tradition, the moles inside our own house are to make them stronger. In the intervening period, Mumbai was called Pakistan. BMC was referred to as ‘Babar’ after the municipal corporation took action on the illegal construction of an actress (Kangana Ranaut) who insulted Mumbai,” Raut wrote in his article in Saamana.* Y-plus security cover for Ranaut on her father’s request: Union ministerRanaut, who will be returning to Manali on September 14, has been provided with Y-plus security cover following her father’s request to the Himachal Pradesh government, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy has said.Ranaut’s father also met Jai Ram Thakur and submitted a memorandum that his daughter was being subjected to harassment and based on his request, the Himachal chief minister informed the Centre about the situation, according to Reddy.* Bombay HC stays BMC demolition drive at Ranaut’s propertyFollowing a plea filed by the actor against the razing of alleged “illegal alteration” at her office in Mumbai, the Bombay High Court stayed the demolition drive for now and has adjourned the hearing till September 22. BMC has filed its response in the matter saying the actor’s allegations of harassment and mala fide action by BMC were false and unwarranted. Ranaut’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui has sought time to respond to the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-vs-shiv-sena-in-mumbai-latest-developments/story-dQkA4SldMQlNoY6y5oG4AJ.html
13-09-2020||India||J-K’s Covid-19 recovery rate plunges further after 1,686 new cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 14 deaths and a spike of 1,686 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to 54,096.The union territory has been recording more than 1,500 fresh Covid-19 cases on a daily basis for the past five days with the highest single day spike of 1,698 cases on Saturday. On Friday, the total cases crossed the 50,000 mark more than six months after first cases were reported on March 9.As many as 875 people tested positive in Jammu division, including 79 travellers, while 811 cases were reported from Kashmir, of which 37 were travellers. This month, Jammu has often witnessed more daily infections than Kashmir which in the last five months has contributed the major percentage of cases in the union territory. Some 452 more people have been cured and discharged, taking the overall recoveries to 35,737 which accounts for a recovery rate of 66%. There has been a consistent decrease in the rate of recovered patients from a high of 77.3% on September 2.Active cases have steadily increased to 17,481 on Sunday from 7,980 on August 31. A total of 12.31 lakh tests have been conducted in the UT so far.A government spokesperson said 146 people were discharged in Jammu division and 306 in Kashmir. A total of 27,798 people have been cured in Kashmir and 7,939 in Jammu division.The spokesperson said 14 more people succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday - eight in Jammu division and six in Kashmir. The death toll has now gone up to 878 out of which 727 were in Kashmir and 151 in Jammu.In Jammu division, the highest jump of fresh cases was witnessed in Jammu district with 405 cases while 94 people tested positive in Doda district. In Kashmir, the highest number of fresh cases was recorded in Srinagar where 185 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 158.Srinagar is the worst affected district in the pandemic with a tally of 11,678 including 251 deaths. Jammu district has recorded 8,352 cases and 88 deaths. Jammu district has the highest active cases at 5,570 as against 1,959 in Srinagar. Till date, 5.23 lakh people have been put under observation. A total of 41,945 are in home quarantine, 17,481 in isolation and 54,279 under home surveillance. Besides these, 4.08 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-plunges-further-after-1-686-new-cases/story-Z7HGMwOr1LhOI1ua1R1G5N.html
13-09-2020||India||ECI’s indifference to hold Bihar council polls raises eyebrows||The Election commission of India’s (ECI) silence on conducting the biennial elections for nine legislative council seats in Bihar has baffled leaders cutting across the party lines.The eight seats have been lying vacant in the upper house since May 24 even though the state legislative council has completed all formalities for elections and intimated vacancies to the ECI in advance, officials said. Another seat fell vacant after the demise of a BJP legislator in May.“Why is the ECI deferring the elections for the legislative council, which is conducted with a limited number of electors, even as it has given its go-ahead for the assembly polls to be conducted on a large scale during coronavirus pandemic?” asked a former JD(U) legislator, seeking his re-election to the council.The elections are due in four graduate constituencies of Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Kosi and four teachers’ constituencies of Patna, Tirhut, Saran and Darbhanga after the elected representatives completed their six-year tenure on May 24. The local bodies constituency of Darbhanga fell vacant after the death of BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh in May due to Covid-19.Also read: PM Modi pats Bihar CM, inaugurates petroleum projectsConstitutional expert Subhash Kashyap said that any seat to be filled up through election in the legislative council should not be left vacant for more than six months. “I hope the ECI must have kept the constitutional obligations on the issue in mind and fill up the vacancies on election-based seats within the set time frame,” said Kashyap.State Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha said, “The legislative council polls could be the testing ground for the ECI to assess the state’s preparedness for assembly elections as the latter required the mobilisation of resources on a large scale.” He added that fewer electors cast their votes in the legislative council constituencies as compared to at least 3 to 3.50 lakh voters of any assembly seat.BJP leader Nawal Kishore Yadav, who is looking to contest from Patna’s teachers’ constituency, also expressed dismay over the deferment of the polls in the name of Covid-19 pandemic. Acting chairman of the legislative council Awadhesh Narayan Singh said that the council had notified the vacancies and urged the ECI to elect the leaders before the expiry of tenures of elected leaders. Currently, as many as 21 seats in the legislative council are lying vacant in the house of 75 members. Apart from the elected representatives, the state government is yet to nominate leaders on 12 seats.Building construction minister Ashok Choudhary, information and public relations department minister Neeraj Kumar, Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha, Dilip Kumar Chaudhary (of JDU), NK Yadav, among others have ceased to be the members of legislative council on the expiry of their tenure and are seeking re-election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eci-s-indifference-to-hold-bihar-council-polls-raises-eyebrows/story-rFvGE1eN90lAdoHa2x0NCJ.html
13-09-2020||India||Landslides block 62 roads in Uttarakhand, MeT predicts more rain||Heavy overnight rainfall triggered landslides in many places across Uttarakhand on Sunday affecting Char Dham yatra and blocking over 62 roads in the state, officials said. Officials from the State Emergency Operations Centre said that till Sunday evening, 62 roads were blocked across the state including national and state highways and other motorable roads. Most of the roads blocked were link roads connecting villages. On Saturday, a stretch of a link road leading to Yamunotri shrine washed away due to heavy rain after which around 30 pilgrims were safely rescued by district administrations. Officials from the district control room said that yatra is likely to remain affected over the next ten days. The India Meteorological Department has predicted that light to moderate rainfall or thundershowers are likely to occur at many places in Dehradun, Pauri and Nainital districts and at few places in Tehri, Udham Singh Nagar, Almora and Pithoragarh districts on Monday. It further predicted that lightning is likely to occur at isolated places in Uttarakhand. According to the MeT department, Uttarakhand has already received 907.2 mm of rainfall from June to September 9 compared to 1063.3 mm (the normal range) for these months. Bageshwar district has received the maximum rainfall with a 157% departure from normal rainfall limit and Champawat has received the least rainfall with a negative 50% departure. The state is in an overall 15% rainfall deficit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslides-block-62-roads-in-uttarakhand-met-predicts-more-rain/story-lDydBiyw7ySoSQ41n27i4H.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Northeast can become economic, political superpower’: Meghalaya CM||Meghalaya chief minister and national president of National People’s Party (NPP) Conrad K Sangma on Sunday said the northeast can become ‘economic and political superpower’ if the people and states in the region can come together and the NPP provides the platform.CM Conrad who arrived in Imphal from New Delhi on Saturday was addressing the party workers at Wangoi assembly constituency in Manipur’s Imphal West district in connection with proposed upcoming by-elections in the state.Requesting the party workers to work hard to push every voter to vote for the party, he said, “Time is coming for the NPP to lead, that is why the 2022 election is very important. We all must work together because that is what the people of Manipur want and they are all looking towards the NPP to provide the leadership.”Also read: Meghalaya minister, CM Conrad Sangma’s brother tests positive for Covid-19“Not only the state of Manipur but also throughout the Northeast today because of the kind of value and kind of vision that we stand for which is to bring Northeast people together and to show that if the northeast people and states can come together and the NPP can provide the platform, our region can be an economic and political superpower,” he added.The NPP national chief, who arrived to inaugurate a new NPP state unit office in Imphal on Saturday, is also confident that the intending candidate Khuraijam Loken Singh of the party, who lost Wangoi assembly constituency seat to Congress candidate O Lukhoi by a margin of just 36 votes in assembly elections in 2017, will win this time considering the ongoing political dynamics in the constituency.Manipur deputy chief minister Yumnam Joykumar Singh-led NPP leaders also spoke during the day’s meeting at Wangoi which was attended by ministers L Jayantakumar (health & family welfare), N Kayisii (tribal and hill areas development, fisheries) who is the interim president of the NPP state unit, and others.In the 2017 election, the NPP, which became a national party in June 2019, won four assembly seats out of the state’s 60. All four NPP legislators are ministers in the BJP-led government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northeast-can-become-economic-political-superpower-meghalaya-cm/story-zJF5OMSQ85ilUyGEBgMSLL.html
13-09-2020||India||Ganga erosion destroys homes, temples in Bengal’s Murshidabad, displaces hundreds||Fresh erosion along the banks of the Ganga has washed away more than 50 houses, two temples and acres of agricultural land in the Shamsergang area of Bengal’s Murshidabad district since Friday night. Most people of the affected Dhusuripara village have left home with their belongings to settle down elsewhere. The erosion in the Shamserganj area started with the destruction at Dhanghara village around a month ago. With the river in spate because of heavy rainfall in north India, the second village to face nature’s wrath was Natun Shibpur. Large tracts of agricultural land, bamboo groves and mango orchards were also washed away. Fresh erosion at Dhusuripara has become a cause for concern for the administration and local people. Kalu Singha, a resident of the village, said, “The river started eroding its banks on Friday afternoon but the real devastation started after 8 pm. Two temples and more than 50 houses were washed away within hours.” Sumati Das, another resident, said, “The erosion started so suddenly that many villagers did not even get the time to salvage essential items from their homes. We have taken shelter in a local school. We don’t know who will provide us food and where we will go from here.” Since Saturday, residents of many houses that are likely to be destroyed by the river have started demolishing their own homes. They are ferrying the doors, window frames, furniture and bricks to safer areas. Amirul Islam, Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator from Shamserganj, said, “We cannot understand why the erosion started again in new areas. Irrigation department officials are working on war footing.” The local TMC unit has provided tarpaulin and food to the homeless people, he added. Sujit Das, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Murshidabad (North) organisational district, said, “The state government has failed to tackle the erosion in Murshidabad. It can be done only if the state works in coordination with the Centre.” Joydeep Chakraborty, the block development officer of Shamsarganj, said, “The irrigation department is trying to save the banks in some areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganga-erosion-destroys-homes-temples-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-displaces-hundreds/story-3UGn03LkNm2cGeHyisCRVL.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Law always respected in Maharashtra’: Sanjay Raut on assault on ex-navy officer by Shiv Sena workers||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Sunday law will take precedence over political affiliations after his party’s workers were arrested for assaulting a retired officer of the Indian Navy, who forwarded a cartoon mocking Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Madan Sharma, the former Indian Navy officer, was assaulted on Friday in the Kandivali area of Mumbai allegedly by a group of workers of the ruling Shiv Sena.“The law is always respected in Maharashtra. The accused were arrested immediately, irrespective of the party they were associated with,” Raut was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read: Why rest of Bollywood is silent, Shiv Sena trains gun on Akshay KumarRaut said that the incident of assault could have happened to anyone. He pointed to the call made by defence minister Rajnath Singh and the number of attacks on ex-servicemen in Uttar Pradesh – a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state – as well.“Maharashtra is a big state. Something like this can happen to anyone. Do you know how many ex-servicemen have been attacked in UP? But the defence minister didn’t call them. Our government believes that no innocent person should be attacked,” Raut told ANI.The Sena leader was referring to Singh’s call to the retired naval officer on Saturday.Also read | ‘If that girl apologises...’: Sanjay Raut on Kangana Ranaut’s ‘Mumbai-PoK’ comment“Spoke to retired naval officer, Shri Madan Sharma who was attacked by hooligans in Mumbai and enquired about his health. Such attacks on Ex-Servicemen is completely unacceptable and deplorable. I wish Madanji a speedy recovery,” Singh tweeted.Sharma had forwarded Thackeray’s cartoon on a group on WhatsApp. The six Sena workers asked Sharma to meet them at his housing society’s gate in Thakur Complex. The six men, including shakha pramukh Kamlesh Kadam, then assaulted the ex-serviceman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-always-respected-in-maharashtra-sanjay-raut-on-assault-on-ex-navy-officer-by-shiv-sena/story-fQyNDIqK348BecteVqjWNJ.html
13-09-2020||India||Nation condoles Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s demise, PM asks Nitish to fulfil veteran’s last wishes||Days after creating ripples in Bihar politics by deciding to quit his parent party, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh passed away at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, on Sunday morning following breathing complications for last one day during treatment post Covid-19. He was 74 and is survived by his two sons and a daughter. Incidentally, the demise of the mathematics professor-turned-politician, fondly known as ‘Brahma Baba’ for his off the straight talk and simple lifestyle, was more dramatic coming just three days after he stirred the political poll plot in Bihar quitting the RJD. Apparently, his RJD exit came over his marginalisation in the party. He wrote an emotional letter to jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad to “forgive him after standing behind him for 32 years after death of Jannayak Karpoor Thakur( former chief minister of Bihar)”. Singh was a prominent Rajput face in the RJD and had opposed the induction of his rival and strongman Rama Singh, a former Vaisali MP, in the RJD.There were speculations the five term Vaisali MP could join the ruling Janata Dal ( united) after his recovery. But that was not to be. The last rites of the departed leader will take place on the banks of Ganga in Vaisali on Monday with full state honours after his body is flown in from New Delhi and taken to his native village, Panapur Shahpur in Mahnar, Vaisali today, according to close aides. Also read: The importance of Raghuvansh Prasad SinghPoliticians and leaders across the country condoled Singh demise. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during a video conferencing event on Sunday, paid rich tributes to the veteran socialist stating that his death had created a void in national and Bihar politics and called him a leader who understood poverty and dedicated his life to stand for his ideals and principles. President Ram Nath Kovind too condoled Singh’s death along with Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan. PM Modi also made an oblique reference to Singh’s resignation from the RJD three days back, saying the leader was going though “Manthan ( introspection)” about how he couldn’t continue with those he had stayed long and worked. “Raghuvansh ji had expressed his sentiments in a letter 3-4 days back. But he was equally concerned about the development of Vaisali and expressed it in series of letters. I will urge chief minister Nitish Kumar that we try to fulfill his sentiments in his last letter,” PM Modi said. The PM also recalled his long association with Singh referring to his interaction with the latter in TV debates and also as Gujarat CM when the veteran socialist was serving as Union rural development minister in UPA-1 government. The CM Nitish Kumar also extended regret on Singh’s death. “Singh was a grassroots leader, a prominent socialist. His death is a personal loss to me and an irreparable loss for political, education and social fields,” Kumar said. In series of letters written by Singh from his hospital bed in his last few days, he demanded from the Bihar CM that work under the job scheme should be allowed on the land of general farmers so that farmers get more work by making necessary changes through an ordinance. In his political career spanning over four decades, the Singh’s socialist high point was his stint as rural development minister in UPA-1 government when he had piloted the implementation of MGNREGA under the then PM Manmohan Singh. He had also demanded that alms bowl of Lord Buddha should be brought to Vaisali from Kabul Museum and national flag should be hoisted at Vaisaligarh on Independence Day and Republic Day to mark the importance of his native district as the world’s first republic. On the other hand, Lalu Yadav chose to make a guarded response over Singh’s death. Jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad expressed grief and bewilderment over Singh’s death, saying “Raghuvansh Babu. What did you do! Only two days back, I told you that you aren’t going anywhere. But now you have gone so far. I am speechless, saddened. You will always be remembered,” he tweeted. Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also called Singh’s death a personal loss recalling how the departed leader stood by him at his time of crisis and always guided him like a guardian. The RJD, as a mark of respect, has cancelled all party functions for next seven days to mourn the Singh’s death. Professor Nawal Kishore Choudhary, a political observer, said during his last days, Singh had raised pertinent questions on dynastic politics and there are chances the NDA may try to cash in on his legacy to corner the RJD. “But Singh was a leader who had a pan India image and never assertive of his caste identity. There could be some politics in his name but it would have marginal effect,” he said.But many in the RJD felt Raghuvansh’s demise has put the party in trouble ahead of the Bihar assembly polls as the former’s bid to denounce dynastic politics in an oblique attack on RJD chief’s bid to promote his son and other family members in series of letters in last few days has given enough ammunition to the ruling JD(U) and BJP to berate the opposition party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-condoles-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-s-demise-pm-asks-nitish-to-fulfil-veteran-s-last-wishes/story-zvwpg84K9RiUTVLXYI7EZN.html
13-09-2020||India||Maharashtra loses 13th tiger this year, sub-adult male killed in infighting in UPK sanctuary||The Maharashtra forest department found the decomposed carcass of a male sub-adult tiger at the Umred Paoni Karhandla (UPK) Sanctuary on Saturday evening, officials said Sunday.This is the 13th tiger death in the state this year. Last year, the state recorded 18 deaths, 19 in 2018, and 21 in 2017.Forest officials said they spotted the carcass at Wanoda beat of Kuhi wildlife range of the sanctuary around 8.30 pm during daily patrol. They suspect the tiger was killed three to four days ago.Since it was already dark, the post-mortem was carried out on Sunday.According to the post mortem report, the tiger died during an infighting (internecine fight) incident with another tiger.“The tiger was approximately two years old and was one of three sub-adult cubs of dominant tigress T17 in UPK. Based on the bodily injuries and circumstantial evidence, we believe the tiger may have come in conflict with an 11-year-old adult tiger T22, whose movements we have documented in this area,” said Ravikiran Govekar, field director, Pench Tiger Reserve. UKP is located across Bhandara and Nagpur district, 60 km from Nagpur city. “T22 was born in the UKP but dispersed to Bramhapuri, and may have now returned to this area in search of territory,” Govekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-loses-13th-tiger-this-year-sub-adult-male-killed-in-infighting-in-upk-sanctuary/story-dferVgKJMO8RXU1puHTYoO.html
13-09-2020||India||In-flight photography allowed, prohibition on recording that leads to chaos, clarifies DGCA||Passengers on board commercial flights will be allowed to do photography inside the flight, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) clarified on Sunday adding that the prohibition is only for recording equipment which compromises air safety, creates chaos and violates norms.“It is clarified that a bonafide passenger travelling in an aircraft engaged in scheduled air transport services may do still and video photography from inside such an aircraft while in flight, take off and landing... however, this permission does not include use of recording equipment which imperils or compromises air safety; violates prevalent norms; creates chaos or disruption during operation of flight or expressly prohibited by crew,” the clarification said.The clarification comes a day after the aviation regulator issued an order for commercial flights stating that violations of in-flight norms, including photography, will invite a suspension of that scheduled route for two weeks.ALSO READ | DGCA warns airlines over violations of in-flight norms after Kangana rowThe suspension would stay in place till the airline completes taking action against those violating these norms.“In case of any violation of Rule 13 of Aircraft Rules 1937 on any passenger aircraft, the schedule of flight for that particular route shall be suspended for two weeks from the next day,” the DGCA statement read. The rule cited by DGCA, deals with conditions of photography and videography on board commercial passenger flights.The aviation regulator added that despite these regulations, airlines have often failed to follow rules primarily due to lack of diligence on their part. “Needless to say that such deviations result in compromise in maintaining the highest standard of safety and therefore is not to be allowed,” the statement said.The order came in the aftermath of an incident involving mediapersons filming on board an Indigo flight in which actor Kangana Ranaut was travelling from Chandigarh to Mumbai on Wednesday. A video of mediapersons recording inside the flight and creating a ruckus went viral on social media.The DGCA had on Friday asked IndiGo to take “appropriate action” after the regulator found alleged violation of safety and social distancing protocols by the media on the airline’s Chandigarh-Mumbai flight.“We have seen some videos wherein mediapersons are standing too close to each other on board the 6E264 flight on Wednesday. It seems to be a violation of safety and social distancing protocols,” a DGCA official said.The aviation regulator cited multiple issues with the incident, prominent among them were related to photography on board in violation of Aircraft rules 13, visible violation of Covid-19 protocols and alleged unruly behaviour by a few passengers on board the flight.The aviation regulator is also planning to take action against the media persons on board the IndiGo for violating in-flight norms following a probe on the incident, officials aware of the development said.“Action may be initiated against those persons found in violation of the guidelines,” DGCA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-flight-photography-allowed-prohibition-on-recording-that-leads-to-chaos-clarifies-dgca/story-l13Newjyib4ygwEpfZJOZN.html
13-09-2020||India||Am not a politician, says Kangana: What transpired in her meeting with governor||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut met Maharashtra Governor BS Koshyari on Sunday amid the ongoing tussle between her and the Shiv Sena, which went a notch higher after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) razed the allegedly illegal portion of her Mumbai office on September 9.BMC’s demolition drive was later stayed by Bombay High Court.  A short while ago I met His Excellency the Governor of Maharashtra Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari Ji. I explained my point of view to him and also requested that justice be given to me it will restore faith of common citizen and particularly daughters in the system. pic.twitter.com/oCNByhvNOTAlso Read | Kangana Ranaut meets Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, says he listened to her like his own daughterHere is what transpired in the 45-minute meeting* Kangana said she apprised the Governor about the situation — how she has been subjected to ‘injustice’ by the government* Kangana said to the governor that she is being harassed for raising her voice. She doesn’t feel safe.* “I am no politician. I have no connection with politics. I presented my thoughts as a commoner,” Kangana said after the meeting. Her comments come amid speculations that the actor might join politics.* “I hope justice will be given to me. That will restore the faith in system,” Kangana said.* “I started from scratch in this city. The city has given me so much. Suddenly, I am being subjected to such treatment,” the actor said.* Kangana also thanked the Governor for listening to her as “a daughter”, the actor said.Kangana was accompanied by her sister Rangoli Chandel as she went to meet the governor. Before meeting the governor, the actor met Karni Sena leaders who visited her residence on Sunday. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday addressed a press conference where he said the Maharashtra government will brave all political storms, without naming Kangana or mentioning the issue. Earlier, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government distanced itself from BMC’s action regarding Kangana’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/am-not-a-politician-says-kangana-what-transpired-in-kangana-koshyari-meeting/story-jNFEHVcXpuwOVjqWVmQ7QI.html
13-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Listened to me like his own daughter’, says Kangana Ranaut after meeting Maharashtra guv and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Listened to me like his own daughter: Kangana Ranaut meets Maharashtra guvBollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Sunday reached Raj Bhavan in Mumbai to meet Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari amid a row over the demolition of her office in the city by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Read more Culture ministry goes digital, plans web series, virtual toursThe Ministry of Culture is planning a massive overhaul into its usual functioning and will introduce a host of digital initiatives including a web-series on India’s struggle for independence and virtual tours of important monuments. Read moreChina, Russia key adversaries to world order: Top UK intel officialIn a rare media interaction, the chief of Britain’s Defence Intelligence (DI) on Sunday identified China and Russia as key adversaries challenging the existing world order without promoting direct conflict, and operating in the expanding grey zone between war and peacetime. Read more ‘Nudges’ from PM Modi were critical in India’s Covid battle: Cambridge studyUsing nudge theory that involves subtly leading people to desired directions, a study of India’s public policy response to Covid-19 has concluded that nudges from Prime Minister Narendra Modi were critical in creating herd effect on lockdown and social distancing norms. Read more Twinkle Khanna writes on Rhea Chakraborty’s media trial: ‘They took a young woman and cut her in half’Twinkle Khanna has written about the media trial faced by Rhea Chakraborty ever since the death of her boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput. The author drew the allegory of a magician’s act to get her point across. Read more Royal Enfield Himalayan BS 6 road test review: India’s own ADVover the years, Royal Enfield introduced several updates on the bike and recently we got to ride the most recent BS 6-version of the Himalayan. Read moreCIA shares ‘spot the difference’ post. Can you find them all?The foreign intelligence service of the federal government of the United States, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) shared a post on Twitter testing people’s observations skills. “Put your observation skills to the test. Can you spot the 10 differences in the photo below?” they wrote and shared two images. Read more ‘Raghuvansh’s death has left a void in political sphere of Bihar, nation: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his condolences at the demise of former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh. “Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is no more with us. I pay tributes to him. His demise has left a void in the political sphere of Bihar as well as the country,” said PM Modi. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-listened-to-me-like-his-own-daughter-says-kangana-ranaut-after-meeting-maharashtra-guv-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7SjUUeSmjMdTq9qIQ2IcnN.html
13-09-2020||India||Two inmates including rape accused escape from jail in Madhya Pradesh||Two inmates including a rape accused allegedly escaped from a jail in Dewas district, 153 kilometres south east of Bhopal on Saturday night, police said on Sunday. According to police, the two jail inmates, both undertrials- Chhote Lal and Mukesh, both residents of Uday Nagar, scaled the wall of the jail with the help of a rope made of pieces of blankets, said police. Additional superintendent of police, Dewas Suryakant Sharma said, “The rape accused Chhotelal was lodged in the jail since August 26 while Mukesh was brought to the jail on August 21. Both cut blankets into several pieces to make a rope with the same and scale the wall of the sub-jail.” The police officer said, “An FIR was lodged on the complaint of the jail authorities. Several teams of police have been formed to nab the accused. However, no arrest has been made so far.” Earlier, in the second week of August four undertrials escaped another sub-jail in Indore, the neighbouring district of Dewas by scaling the 17-foot wall. However, all the four were captured by jail staffers with the help of villagers who raised an alarm on seeing them outside the jail. All the four accused were allegedly involved in kidnapping and murder of a businessman, according to police. As per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB)’s prison statistics of India, 2018 report as many as 673 prisoners including 14 from Madhya Pradesh escaped during 2018 of whom 113 escapees had escaped from the police custody and 560 escaped from judicial custody. Of those who escaped from judicial custody 52 escaped from inside jail during the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-inmates-including-rape-accused-escape-from-jail-in-madhya-pradesh/story-jdzJ6yQxQIdNCqmchaEBjM.html
13-09-2020||India||Can weather political storms, coronavirus, says Thackeray||In his address to the state through social media platforms, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday focused on the worsening Covid-19 scenario even as he alleged that attempts were being made to defame the state and that he could weather both, political storms and the coronavirus. Thackeray asked people to take precautions and follow social distancing norms the as coronavirus, he pointed out, could take a “monstrous form”. He also warned them that the state will have to start penalising those violating social distancing norms to curb its spread. While he did not make a political speech, the chief minister said that attempts were being made to defame Maharashtra and his silence should not be taken as a weakness or failure to respond. “Right now, I won’t talk about politics but attempts are on to defame Maharashtra. I don’t talk, that doesn’t mean, I don’t have answers. I am sitting on the chair of the chief minister and have to act accordingly,” he said.He made no mention of actor Kangana Ranaut and the political controversy that unfolded in the city last week over the Mumbai civic body demolishing parts of an office owned by the 33-year-old celebrity. Senior Shiv Sena leaders said the chief minister had decided not to give any importance to the actor and had asked all leaders to follow suit by ignoring her. Recently, Ranaut had likened Mumbai to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), triggering a sharp reaction from Sena leaders who accused her of insulting the city and its police.On coronavirus, Thackeray said: “The scenario that I was afraid of is before us now. The cases of coronavirus are rising and will continue to rise. The cases have again started increasing in Mumbai and other areas. They are spreading in rural areas as well. There is a concern that it can take a disastrous form. The World Health Organisation (WHO) too has stated that this can be an indication for another major crisis.”“Like other countries, the state will have to start penalising people for violating social distancing. For instance, people will be fined for not wearing a mask at a public place; action against people for crowding a public place etc. We will have to take such steps as people are not following the norms seriously,” the chief minister added.He said that the state government doesn’t want to re-impose lockdown restrictions but this can be avoided only when people start taking all the precautions, he warned.Thackeray also challenged the Opposition’s charge that he was missing in action on the ground. He said, “They make allegations that I don’t go on field but with the help of video-conference technology, I have already reached the remotest areas where they have yet to reach.” He also asked people to share responsibility while mentioning that the government’s new initiative of house-to-house survey will begin from September 15. The survey called ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ aims to identify each and every citizen for Influenza Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and citizens with co-morbidities. A team of health workers will inspect every person of a family and suggest available services for the diseases. Those with Covid symptoms will also be recommended for swab test etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-weather-political-storms-coronavirus-says-thackeray/story-xTmGfJy8v4uRxKLtFRwAqO.html
13-09-2020||India||PM Modi pats Bihar CM, inaugurates petroleum projects||In a pat to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that in the last 15 years, Bihar has shown that development happens with the right government, decisions and policies. PM Modi, who launched three petroleum sector projects in Bihar worth more than Rs 900 crore through video conferencing, said his government was working for the growth of all sectors in Bihar. The prime minister praised the youth of Bihar and termed the state a ‘powerhouse’ of the country’s talent. He said there was a time when people would ask what could possibly be done in Bihar other than work in the fields? He said the youth had to suffer gross injustice as no big institutes developed there which forced them to step out of the state in search of opportunities. “Institutes of higher learning — agriculture, medical and engineering colleges, including an IIT, IIM, NIFT and a national law institute each — have come up under Nitish Kumar’s governance in Bihar,” the PM said. Also read: At petroleum project inauguration, PM says Bihar intrinsic to India’s riseHe said Start-up India, Mudra Yojana and many such schemes have provided the necessary amount of self-employment to the youth of Bihar. He also referred to the significant improvement in the state’s power condition over the last six years. Earlier, villages used to get electricity for 2-3 hours and cities used to get power for 8-10 hours in a day. He said Bihar was earlier plagued by the mindset where road projects were sneered at with many asking what was it worth for those without vehicles. The prime minister said there was no dearth of capability or resources in the state. Yet, Bihar and other eastern India states always lagged in development projects because of political and financial reasons as well as indifferent priorities. He also spoke about the shift in work culture from the days when one generation would witness the foundation laying ceremony of projects and the next generation would witness their completion. The PM said the special package announced for Bihar a few years ago focused much on the state’s infrastructure. He said the special package given for Bihar had 10 big projects related to petroleum and gas worth Rs 21,000 crore. Among these, today it is the seventh project which is being dedicated to the people of Bihar. He also listed the other six projects which had been completed in Bihar earlier. The projects unveiled on Sunday include the Durgapur-Banka section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur pipeline augmentation project and two LPG bottling plants — one at Banka of the IOCL and another of the HPCL at Harsidhi in East Champaran district. PM Modi said, when CNG and PNG were reaching many cities in Bihar and eastern India, people here should also get these facilities easily. He said the Bhagiratha effort to connect eastern India with Paradip on the eastern seaboard and Kandla on the western seaboard began under the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga Yojana and seven states would be connected through this pipeline which is about 3,000 kilometre-long of which Bihar also has a prominent role. The line from Paradip-Haldia will now be further extended to Patna, Muzaffarpur and the pipeline coming from Kandla, which has reached Gorakhpur, will also be connected to it. He said when the entire project is ready, it will become one of the longest pipeline projects in the world. The PM said due to these gas pipelines, big bottling plants were being installed in Bihar of which two new plants had been launched today in Banka and Champaran. Both these plants can fill more than 125 million cylinders every year. These plants will meet the LPG requirements of East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Siwan, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi, Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui, Araria, Kishanganj and Katihar in Bihar; Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Sahibganj, and Pakur districts in Jharkhand and some areas of Uttar Pradesh.The prime minister said the fertiliser factory of Barauni, which was closed in the past, would also commence working soon after the construction of this gas pipeline. Reminding people that the good work done in the last 15 years must continue, he said, “We must ensure ‘sushasan’ (good governance)”. Earlier, expressing his condolence at the death of former Central minister and long-standing RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh at AIIMS-Delhi on Sunday, the PM said his demise had left a void in Bihar and national politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pats-bihar-cm-inaugurates-petroleum-projects/story-l46OcbOfiRIoSpiNydMAPP.html
13-09-2020||India||Culture ministry goes digital, plans web series, virtual tours||The ministry of culture is planning a massive overhaul into its usual functioning and plans to introduce a host of digital initiatives including a web-series on India’s struggle for independence and virtual tours of important monuments, officials told Hindustan Times. “We are trying to ensure that all information can be made available online,” Union minister for culture Prahlad Patel told Hindustan Times. “We are working on many initiatives and hope they will help the people,” he added. The Ministry reached out to the National Film Development Corporation of India (NFDC), the government’s body that looks after film financing, production and distribution, three weeks ago about the web-series. It is likely to be 20 episodes long and may even air on platforms such as SonyLIV, Netflix and Amazon Prime. “The NDFC has to tell us the framework within which the web series can be done, what kind of budget is needed, how many directors etc,” said an official on condition of anonymity. “We have reminded them again.” A second official said that the ministry may reach out to platforms such as SonyLIV and Zee5, and perhaps even Netflix and Amazon Prime, to stream the series online so that it can gain as wide an audience as possible. The series is likely to go on air before August 15 next year. The ministry is also planning virtual tours of monuments that will require a 360-degree videography of the monuments and compile these online. “We are assessing the costs of the same,” said the first official. “But it will be a major change as more people who are unable to travel will be able to learn about monuments that are far away while experiencing the feel of being in them.” The move becomes especially crucial in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis as limits on travel and the fear of contracting the virus continue to curtail Tourism. “We are working on the project and will launch a pilot soon, but this is time intensive work,” said the first official. The virtual tour will allow viewers to see monuments at different times of the day, including at night, to experience the feel of being in a place. The virtual tour may also be followed by a quiz for students viewing the tours, to help augment learning. With the help of the states and officials in the districts, the ministry has also begun a cultural mapping of districts. The cultural mapping includes a detailed knowledge of the dance forms, paintings, food and festivals of the districts. This, say officials, will help create a compendium of knowledge at the national level and is a continuous process that has been going on for some time now. “It will capture the tangible and the intangible heritage of any given place and help create a complete documentation of India’s heritage,” said the second official. The information will simultaneously be uploaded on ‘e-heritagepedia’, a Wikipedia-like website, where information about any and all aspects of Indian culture will be made available. “From the Paranthewali Gali, to the food habits of Hampi, it will have all the information,” said the first official. Simultaneously, the ministry is also developing e-artistpedia, which will contain information of all Indian artists and an e-market place, where indigenous art and goods can be purchased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-move-to-revamp-operations-culture-ministry-to-launch-web-series-virtual-tours/story-fSXb1YRdHVZzBR8jkAznXM.html
13-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut meets Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, says he listened to her like his own daughter||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut said on Sunday she told Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari about the “unjust treatment” she has received during their meeting amid her war of words with the state’s ruling Shiv Sena.Ranaut, who was wearing a beige sari, met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan along with her sister, Rangoli Chandel.“I told him about the unjust treatment I have received. I hope justice will be given to me so that the faith of all citizens, including young girls, is restored in the system. I am fortunate that the governor listened to me like his own daughter,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Ranaut’s meeting comes in the backdrop of her tiff with the Shiv Sena over her comments on Mumbai’s tackling of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.The 33-year-old actor has alleged that she received threats from Shiv Sena leaders after she compared Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir in one her tweets regarding Rajput’s death probe, following which she was provided Y plus security.Ranaut arrived in Mumbai on September 9, the day the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) razed the ‘illegally’ built portions of her office in the city.She will leave for her hometown of Manali in Himachal Pradesh on September 14.Earlier in the day, in an apparent reference to political criticism over his party’s tussle with Ranaut, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said he was ready to face all political storms.“I will have to remove the mask of the chief minister to respond to politics. I don’t speak, it doesn’t mean I don’t have answers,” he said without naming anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-at-raj-bhavan-to-meet-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari/story-jShSFUL5oZ2bV6BPnvhMrK.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Nudges’ from PM Modi were critical in India’s Covid battle: Cambridge study||Using nudge theory that involves subtly leading people to desired directions, a study of India’s public policy response to Covid-19 has concluded that nudges from Prime Minister Narendra Modi were critical in creating herd effect on lockdown and social distancing norms across the country.Published in science journal PLOS One, the study at the University of Cambridge used machine learning and AI-based algorithms to identify key nudges in policy responses across various government departments to deal with the pandemic, including the lockdown.“India is a vast and diverse country, what was easier for the western world where digitalisation has penetrated to last-mile homes, India is yet in the nascent stages,” said Ronita Bardhan, assistant professor and co-author of the study.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Hence these prompt nudges were required while simultaneously generating the digital backup infrastructure. It was a mammoth task given the transition state of India, where poverty and affluence co-exists.”The study noted that the prime minister’s nudges drove preparedness, action and mitigation strategies in the country, adding that his frequent public appearance was “the most significant factor that created nudges” in keeping a country of 1.3 billion people under strict lockdown and social distancing measures.Also read: Covid-19: 70k recoveries on average every day over past month, says govt dataRigorous media campaigns and Modi’s public assurances nudged in creating the herd effect across pharma, economic, health and public safety sectors that enabled strict national lockdown, the study by Bardhan and Gates Cambridge Scholar Ramit Debnath said.“Most of the interventions were targeted to generate internal motivation by using triggers that potentially produces lasting desired behaviour in repeat settings (i.e, repeated broadcasting of information through multi-media channel and engaging Bollywood to use songs, poems and dramatisation); also, the use of nostalgia in the form of Ramayana and Mahabharata telecast to encourage people to stay at home”, the authors said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The study also noted that successful application of behavioural control measures such as nudging in the public health sector (e.g: compulsory wearing of masks in public spaces; Yoga and Ayurveda for boosting immunity), transport sector (e.g: old railway coaches converted to isolation wards), micro, small and medium enterprises (e.g: rapid production of personal protective equipment and masks for frontline workers), science and technology sector (e.g: the rapid development of indigenous diagnostic kits, use of robots and nano-technology to fight infections), home affairs (e.g: people adhering to strict lockdown rules even at high economic distress), urban (e.g: drones, GIS-mapping, crowdsourcing) and education (e.g: work from home and online learning).Primary data for the study was collected from the Press Information Bureau in the form press releases of government plans, policies, programme initiatives and achievements. A text corpus of 260,852 words was created from 396 documents. Also read: India’s Covid-19 recovery rate up at 77.87%, Maharashtra among 5 states with most recoveriesAn unsupervised machine-based topic modelling using Latent Dirichlet Allocation algorithm was performed on the text corpus by the authors to extract high probability topics in the policy sectors. The topics were then interpreted through a nudge theoretic lens to derive critical policy heuristics of the government, with the results showing that most interventions were targeted to generate endogenous nudge by using external triggers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nudges-from-pm-modi-were-critical-in-india-s-covid-battle-cambridge-study/story-9Xgy7rYQErV5EtHn3tuGmM.html
13-09-2020||India||Rescuers fish out body of 22–yr-old Kashmiri man from Yamuna in Dehradun||The body of a 22-year-old man from Jammu and Kashmir was fished out of the Yamuna river in Vikas Nagar area of Dehradun on Sunday after he was reported missing on Thursday, the state disaster response force (SDRF) said. He had been missing since September 10 when he slipped into the river while bathing there with his friends, Praveen Alok, SDRF spokesperson said, The deceased was identified as one Khalid, a resident of Jammu and Kashmir who was living in Dehradun where he was pursuing his studies, said officials. “The youth was missing since September 10 when he had gone to Yamuna river with his three friends to celebrate his birthday. While bathing in the river, he slipped and was washed away in the waters.” Alok said.“An SDRF team had rushed there, after receiving the information from local police and initiated a search operation to find him. After efforts of about two days, the SDRF fished out his body from the river with the help of its divers,” said Alok. The body was then handed over to the police in Vikas Nagar.Rajiv Rauthan, station house officer, Vikas Nagar police station said, “The youth’s family members reached Dehradun on Saturday after being informed by police. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination after which it will be handed over to them.” Meanwhile, another youth on Saturday went missing in Yamuna river in Vikas Nagar area only. He too had gone there to bathe in the river with three of his friends. “Search efforts are on, but so far the SDRF team hasn’t been successful,” said Alok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescuers-fish-out-body-of-22-yr-old-kashmiri-man-from-yamuna-in-dehradun/story-JwhouG6eTDJopZVBF1cO9J.html
13-09-2020||India||Bengal college teacher accused of asking for Rs10k to ‘help’ student pass||A political science teacher of Siliguri College in north Bengal has been accused of demanding Rs 10,000 from a final-year undergraduate student to help her pass the examination by using his influence with the North Bengal University (NBU) authorities. The NBU authorities filed a complaint at Matigara police station in Siliguri on Saturday after audio clips, in which the teacher was purportedly heard demanding money from the student to help her pass the undergraduate examination, went viral on social media two days ago. Siliguri College is affiliated to the NBU.Also read: Thief returns stolen phone to man in West Bengal after he fails to operate it“We received a complaint from Siliguri College. The student alleged that Amitava Kanjilal, the teacher, had demanded money from her. He had said he knew staff members of the university very well,” said Dilip Sarkar, registrar, NBU. Sarkar said he has urged the police to question Kanjilal and ascertain his alleged contacts in the university. On Friday, the student lodged a complaint with Sujit Ghosh, the principal of her college. Kanjilal denied the allegation. “I am being targeted by some people who have vested interests,” he said. The college authorities have barred Kanjilal from all examination-related work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-college-teacher-accused-of-asking-for-rs10k-to-help-student-pass/story-HK4Q1j9xrewvmW9TRQqiFO.html
13-09-2020||India||Jharkhand’s 75% Covid deaths among patients aged 50 and above||The Covid-19 pandemic is proving deadly for people above 50 years of age in Jharkhand, as about 75% of the deaths among coronavirus patients in the state were recorded among this category.Out of the total 536 Covid deaths in the state, 399 were patients aged 50 years and above. While 267 of these 399 people were in the age group of 51-70 years, the rest were over 70 years of age.According to the state Covid-19 bulletin, the maximum number of deaths (267) occurred in the age group of 51-70 years, accounting for around 50% of the state’s total Covid toll.The bulletin, which categorises five age groups, disclosed that only three deaths occurred among children under 10 years of age and 132 casualties took place among people above the age of 70. Besides, 21, 113 and 267 deaths took place among people in the age group of 11-30 years, 31-50 years and 51-70 years, respectively.Jharkhand has so far reported 59,040 Covid-19 cases, including 15,176 active cases, 43,328 recoveries and 536 deaths.The pandemic’s seven days’ growth rate stood at 3.48% and the doubling period of the disease was 18.11 days. The recovery rate was 73.38% and mortality rate was 0.90%.Among the four aforementioned parameters, Jharkhand, however, fared well to keep the fatality rate under check. In comparison to the national average of 1.72%, the state’s mortality rate is 0.90%.“A large number of Covid cases found in urban areas provide a fertile ground for the virus to spread. The high prevalence of co-morbidities in people living in urban areas is also responsible for the higher number of deaths. Out of 536 deaths, 501 occurred due to co-morbid conditions,” said Dr Praveen Karn, state epidemiologist.He added, “Some reasons for higher mortality rate in cities could be late detection of cases, lack of timely access to health care or larger spread of the virus in the community. It has been seen that Covid patients in home isolation opt for hospitalization at a belated stage, which proves to be fatal sometimes.”“Our main focus is to check the mortality rate. Real time tracking of patients in home isolation is being strictly done,” he said.Also Read: PLFI ultras gun down Jharkhand man on suspicion of girl traffickingBarring few exceptions, it has been noticed that districts with a large number of cases also reported a high number of deaths.Ranchi, which has so far reported maximum 12,562 cases, recorded 88 deaths, whereas East Singhbhum, with its headquarters in Jamshedpur, reported 238 deaths out of its 10,275 positive cases.Also Read: Jharkhand CM meets Lalu Yadav, says ‘will contest Bihar polls together’Among all 24 districts, East Singhbhum reported the maximum mortality rate of 2.31%.In decreasing order of number of Covid deaths, the state’s top 10 districts are Jamshedpur (238), Ranchi (88), Dhanbad (43), Hazaribag (21), Koderma and Bokaro (17 each), West Singhbhum (16), Deoghar (14), Ramgarh (13), Giridih and Sahebgunj (9 each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-s-75-covid-deaths-among-patients-aged-50-and-above/story-f1wL7AovO1RPucaDnDmJ6J.html
13-09-2020||India||What Uddhav Thackeray says on Maratha quota row||After the BJP blamed the Maha Vikas Aghadi government for failing to defend Maratha reservation before the Supreme Court, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the state government will move the Supreme Court again on the issue of reservation. Urging Marathis to not take to the streets, the CM said the government and the opposition, too, are fighting for the cause.Also Read | State failed in defending Maratha quota in Supreme Court: FadnavisAll recent developments on Maratha quota issue* On September 9, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the 2018 Maratha quota law of the state and referred the petitions challenging the law to a larger constitution bench.* The Supreme Court in its order said Marathis do not need reservation. The state government has not shown any “extraordinary situation” which warrants the reservation.* In the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018, Maratha community was declared as a socially and educational backward class. * Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis blamed the state government for failing to present the case in front of the Apex Court. “Tamil Nadu and our situation is the same. Despite that, while referring to the constitutional bench, the apex court didn’t stay the reservation declared by them but in our case, it was stayed. We need to see where we lacked in explaining the case effectively before the apex court,” Fadnavis said. * The Supreme Court verdict is a major set back for the MVA government, which presently has around 64-65% reservation, including 12-13% Maratha quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-uddhav-thackeray-says-on-maratha-quota-row/story-vNqkVhmANEckvX8lAlgHPM.html
13-09-2020||India||‘A good parliamentarian and a grassroot level leader’: Political leaders condole Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s death||Leaders across the political spectrum condoled the death of former Union minister and senior Bihar politician Raghuvansh Prasad Singh on Sunday and remembered his role in strengthening rural India with the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).Singh, the former Union minister for rural development in the first term of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Sunday. He was 74.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Singh’s demise has left a void in Bihar. “Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is no more among us. His demise has left a void in the political sphere of Bihar as well as the country,” PM Modi said.President Ram Nath Kovind also condoled the death of the “outstanding leader” known as the architect of MGNREGA. “The passing away of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is tragic. An outstanding leader rooted to ground, Raghuvansh Babu was a true stalwart with phenomenal understanding of rural India. With his Spartan and sagely lifestyle, he enriched public life. Condolences to his family and followers,” Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in his condolence message Singh’s struggle for social justice will always be remembered. “With the demise of Shri Raghuvansh Prasad Singh ji, a strong voice of the village and the farmer is lost forever. His service and dedication for the upliftment of villages and farmers and his struggle for social justice will always be remembered. My heartfelt tribute,” Gandhi said in a tweet.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu said he will always be remembered for his role in implementing the rural employment guarantee scheme.“Saddened to learn about the sudden demise of former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh. A good parliamentarian and a grassroot level leader, he strove for the upliftment of the poor and rural masses,” Naidu tweeted.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav tweeted an emotional message soon after Singh’s death. “Dear Raghuvansh Babu! What did you do? I told you the day before yesterday, you are not going anywhere. But you went so far. I am speechless. I am sad. Will miss you very much,” he tweeted in Hindi.Singh had resigned from the RJD on Thursday as he was miffed over his marginalisation in the party in the last few years.The condition of Singh, who had been undergoing treatment at AIIMS, Delhi for more than a week after testing positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in June, had deteriorated late on Friday. He was put on ventilator after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-good-parliamentarian-and-a-grassroot-level-leader-political-leaders-condole-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-s-death/story-FVBeuiL9RqqPUwgPrswtYK.html
13-09-2020||India||DGCA to take part in Boeing’s pilot training plan for new 737 Max||Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), the country’s civil aviation regulator, has decided to take part in Boeing’s proposal for training pilots to fly the revamped 737 Max that is expected to start in London from Monday. DGCA will join aviation regulators and pilots from several countries, including the United States of America (USA), Brazil, Canada and the European Union (EU), who have also agreed to review Boeing’s proposal. “We are in discussions with Boeing and other stakeholders. We will participate in the training exercise,” said Arun Kumar, director-general (D-G), DGCA .Also read: DGCA seeks report from IndiGo for violating social distancing norms on a flight with Kangana Ranaut aboardEarlier, DGCA had announced the grounding of all Boeing 737 Max planes on March 12, 2019, following the decision of aviation bodies in the USA and European countries to remove the accident-prone aircraft model from service. Boeing’s 737 Max was involved in the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines flight on March 10, 2019, killing over 180 passengers and crew members.A flight of Lion Air, an Indonesian low-cost carrier, had also crashed in October, 2018, leading to suspicion over design faults in the aircraft model.A statement issued by DGCA in March last year had stated that no 737 Max would be allowed to enter or transit Indian airspace. Two Indian airlines, SpiceJet Ltd and the now defunct Jet Airways, are the only airlines to possess 737 Max aircraft. All 17 of SpiceJet’s 737 Max have been grounded since March, 2019. The US regulator, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), had proposed a wide range of changes that included updating flight control software, revising crew procedures and rerouting internal wiring. FAA is set to review Boeing’s proposal for training pilots to fly the refurbished 737 Max aircraft. The review exercise is likely to begin from Monday at London’s Gatwick Airport in a bid to ensure that the changes carried by the American aircraft manufacturer comply with FAA’s safety regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-to-take-part-in-boeing-s-pilot-training-plan-for-new-737-max/story-J34dJJFpX6FePiK6WXqLhN.html
13-09-2020||India||Will face all political storms, says Maharashtra CM Thackeray amid Kangana Ranaut row||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday that a conspiracy has been hatched to malign the state by several people amid criticism over the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the row involving Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut.“Some people may feel that now coronavirus disease is over and they should start their politics again. I will not talk about politics but there is a conspiracy to discredit Maharashtra,” Thackeray said in a televised public address.He, however, did not name anyone.Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state in the country, has seen more than a million cases of the coronavirus disease. There has also been a controversy recently over Ranaut after her office was demolished by the state government-controlled civic body Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The chief minister assured people that he is ready to face any “storm” be it a political one or that of the coronavirus disease. “Whatever political storms come, I will face them... I will fight the coronavirus pandemic too,” Thackeray said.“My silence doesn’t mean that I don’t have answers,” he added.In his latest address, which came a day after Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 1 million mark, Thackeray also said that his government has done effective work to tackle the pandemic.Speaking on Covid-19 situation in the state, Thackeray said that it is likely to become more severe in the coming days. He also urged people to follow all social distancing norms to control the virus spread.Ranaut and Thackeray-led Shiv Sena have been engaged in a bitter war of words after the critically acclaimed actor said she feels unsafe in Mumbai and has no trust in Mumbai Police after the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.On Wednesday, Ranaut’s office in Bandra was partially demolished by BMC, triggering criticism from several political leaders and her Bollywood colleagues. Flanked by security guards provided by the Union home ministry, Ranaut had reached Mumbai hours after the BMC carried out the demolition.Maharashtra is among the worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic. On Sunday, the state reported 22,084 new cases, pushing its tally to 10,37,765 including 7,28,512 recoveries and 279,768 active cases, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-face-all-political-storms-says-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-amid-kangana-ranaut-row/story-TwKRrosVDLPNzgFB27uOQP.html
13-09-2020||India||Taj Mahal’s reopening to give Agra’s marble trade a new lease of life||The decision to reopen the Taj Mahal for tourists from September 21 has given a ray of hope to Agra’s marble traders after the Covid-9 pandemic had all but flattened their business.Adding to that hope is the optimism after the decision to lift weekend market curbs in the city. “The Rs 2,000 crore marble work business in Agra had suffered a setback even before the lockdown. There used to be Chinese tourists in large numbers in February but visas were disallowed to Chinese tourists as corona was at its peak in China during that phase,” said Prahlad Agarwal, a prominent marble trader of Agra and Agra Tourist Welfare Chamber president. “Besides, there used to be many tourists from Iran where the New Year is celebrated in the first quarter of the year but they too were in the grip of coronavirus and could not come to Agra this year and thus, the marble trade in Agra suffered,” Agarwal stated. However, despite markets opening now, marble emporium owners say business is still tepid as there are few tourists in the city. “Road and rail transport is not at its optimum. With the end of weekend closures we expect domestic visitors from the city and in and around Delhi on weekend trips to Agra,” Agarwal opined.“Still it is a tough track to revival as international flights are still not functioning. We need foreign tourists for handicraft trade, especially marble. Out of total of Rs 2,000 crore marble trade, Rs 700 crore is by way of export internationally and Rs 1,300 crore trade comes through emporiums which are still to open in Agra,” said Agarwal. “The US government has issued an advisory against visiting India due to Covid-19 pandemic. The European nations pay heed to such advisories thus we have to work around this advisory if we hope to revive tourism,” he said. “The business through emporiums is still to pick up although exports are picking up at a steady pace with shipments moving. Things have improved in European nations and Christmas is only a few months away. Thus we can see improvement in exports but a major component of trade through emporiums is dependent upon the Taj opening and staying open,” he said. There are about 30,000 to 35,000 families relying on marble work in Agra. The skill of working on marble is mostly hereditary with the son following the footsteps of the father.“However, this corona pandemic has caused erosion in this hereditary trend, and unable to find suitable returns, many artisans are deviating from their traditional source of income,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-s-reopening-to-give-agra-s-marble-trade-a-new-lease-of-life/story-NQciCBpCoBLwEuITGIjhoN.html
13-09-2020||India||Vande Bharat and other special trains back on track | All you need to know||As Indian Railways has been calibrating its services post-lockdown, several trains, including India’s first semi-high speed Vande Bharat Express, is now back on track. Indian Railways resumed its services in May through Shramik Specials which were to ferry migrant workers to their home states. Following Shramik Specials, Indian Railways introduced several special trains, the latest being Vande Bharat.Here are the latest updates on the resumption of railway services:1. New Delhi-Varanasi Vande Bharat Express train is back on track from Saturday after a gap of 170 days. This train will run five days a week, except Mondays and Thursdays.2. The occupancy of the Vande Bharat Express on day one was low, with only 2 per cent booking. 3. This is the first time the railways resumed Express services on an existing route. All 310 trains plying at present are special trains. Among these 310, there are 30 Rajdhani-type trains. 4. Another existing Vande Bharat route is between Delhi and Katra. Services on this route has not resumed yet.5. 80 special trains started from September 12.6. The railways said out of the 230 trains resumed earlier, the occupancy in 12 is very less. The railways will reduce the number of coaches in those trains.7. In general, the occupancy in all these special trains is around 80 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-latest-updates-vande-bharat-and-other-special-trains-back-on-track-all-you-need-to-know/story-nZUpVGJdAUjpjm01r0ZOCK.html
13-09-2020||India||Covid-19 situation likely to become more severe in Maharashtra, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is likely to become more severe in the coming days, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned on Sunday as the state continued to record high number of infection.“The state government can take some harsh decisions to ensure social distancing norms are being followed,” he said. He added that the state government may impose fine on people violating the Covid-19 rules.“Now, people will have to share the responsibility by strictly following all the social distancing norms,” said Thackeray.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe chief minister also asked people to actively participate in a statewide house to house survey from September 15 in which details of senior citizens, people with co-morbidities, etc will be collected. The survey is going to be conducted twice a month.Also read: What Kangana Ranaut has said so far on joining politicsDuring the address, Thackeray also urged the Maratha community to not organise any demonstration in the state, in view of the pandemic.“I request the Maratha community not to organise any protest as the state government is with them and making all the efforts to provide them reservation. Protests are justified only when government is not listening to your demands,” said the chief minister.A day after Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 10-lakh mark, Thackeray also said that his government has done effective work to tackle the pandemic.Maharashtra which is the most affected by the pandemic reported 22,084 new cases, 13,489 discharged cases and 391 deaths today. The total number of cases in the state rose to 10,37,765 including 7,28,512 recoveries and 2,79,768 active cases, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-situation-likely-to-become-more-severe-says-maharashtra-cm/story-Jf6SIrCAapuEcryQhmKJIP.html
13-09-2020||India||Congress says ordinances will hurt farmers, affect food procurement system||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Sunday said that Congress fully supports the agitating farmers who are protesting against the three ordinances passed by Centre while addressing a virtual press conference. The senior Congress leader said that these ordinances will break the agrarian foundations of this nation which has been built over the last 50 years. Ramesh while speaking to media persons in a virtual press conference said, “The ordinances will pave way for contract farming as well as private farming. Public procurement of foodgrains which is done by the Food Department of India (FDI) will be adversely affected and there are apprehensions that foodgrains will be sold at lesser minimum selling price (MSPs).”He further added, “I request the government to not break the pillar of food security and protection.”Farmers in Haryana and Punjab started agitating against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, three ordinances that the Centre had passed during the lockdown period.Cong says PM Modi should discuss LAC issue in monsoon sessionFarmers under the leadership of Gurnam Singh, Haryana unit chief of Bharatiya Kisan Union, blocked the NH 24 near Pipli, Kurukshetra on Thursday when they organised a rally. Farmers were lathicharged by the police for breaking Covid-19 prohibitory rules and were charged for destruction to public property. On Saturday, a BJP delegation consisting of BJP’s Haryana unit chief Om Prakash Dhankar, Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh met the farmers and assured them that procurement based on MSPs will not be affected.BJP has accused the opposition political parties of creating panic among the farmers. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said that Congress MPs will speak to other opposition members from other parties and raise this issue in the monsoon session. He asked the government to consider taking back the ordinances which hurt the Indian farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-ordinances-will-hurt-farmers-hurt-food-procurement-system/story-Lc3gMvoPyhLU2YwgmLmR1L.html
13-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate up at 77.87%, Maharashtra among 5 states with most recoveries||Five states, including worst-hit Maharashtra, account for 58% of the recovered cases of the coronavirus disease in the country as 3.7 million people have been cured of Covid-19 so far, the government said on Sunday.India’s Covid-19 tally mounted to 4,754,356, with 94,372 new infections and 1,114 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard at 8am. The death toll has climbed to 78,586, data showed.The country’s recovery rate now stands at 77.87% after 78,399 patients were cured of Covid-19 between Saturday and Sunday morning, according to the Union health ministry.The government said Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh are among the states that have contributed to the 3,702,595 recoveries. Maharashtra has reported 17.2% recovered cases, Tamil Nadu 13.1%, Andhra Pradesh 12.2%, Karnataka 7.9% and Uttar Pradesh 7.8%, the Union health ministry said.Maharashtra continues to lead with more than 13,000 recoveries while Andhra Pradesh has contributed over 10,000 to the single-day recoveries, it said.Also read | Rise in Mumbai cases prompts rethink, BMC mulls roping in more private hospitalsThe same five states also account for 60% of the 973,175 active Covid-19 cases in the country. Of the 94,372 new infections that have been reported in the past 24 hours, Maharashtra alone has contributed to more than 22,000 cases. It is followed by Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka with more than 9,000 cases each, the ministry said.“Nearly 57% of the new cases are reported from five states. These are also contributing 58% of the new recovered cases,” it said.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine latest developments: AstraZeneca resumes trial, China develops nasal sprayThe health ministry’s data showed there are 973,175 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, which comprises 20.47% of the total caseload. Maharashtra has more than 280,000 cases followed by Karnataka with more than 97,000 cases, the ministry said.Maharashtra (28.79%), Karnataka (10.05%), Andhra Pradesh (9.84%), Uttar Pradesh (6.98%) and Tamil Nadu (4.84%) account for 60% of the active Covid-19 cases in the country. Out of the 1,114 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the western state has reported the maximum of 391 deaths followed by Karnataka with 94 deaths, whereas Tamil Nadu has seen 76 deaths.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-up-at-77-87-maharashtra-among-5-states-with-most-recoveries/story-vSknC4YvhJOvD1NYkPkA0N.html
13-09-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra positivity rate over 20%||The positivity rate for Maharashtra continues to rise with the spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state.Positivity test is an indicator of the prevalence of Covid-19 infection in the community. Positivity rate reflects the proportion of people who test positive among those who are tested. On Saturday, the positivity rate stood at 20.09% till now; 1,037,765 people tested positive of the 5,164,840 tested so far. On Friday, it stood at 20% with 1,015,681 people testing positive of the 5,072,521 tested. On Thursday, the positivity rate was 19.9 % as the number of positive stood at 990,795 of the total 4,974,558. On Wednesday, the positivity rate was 19.81 % as there were 937,349 positive cases of the total 4,883,006 tested. Also read: For fourth consecutive day, India’s daily Covid-19 numbers hover around 95,000According to health expert Dr Ameet Mandot, this points at fatigue setting in. “People are becoming casual and are not taking adequate precautions, like wearing masks or observing social distance. It has been over five months of lockdown and people are tired,” said Mandot. “The government needs to spread awareness and start campaigns to drive home the point that Covid-19 is still present and adequate care needs to be taken,” he added.The number of daily positive cases in the state has also seen a spike with 22,084 cases reported on Saturday. On Friday, Thursday and Wednesday, the figure stood at 24,886, 23,446 and 23,816 positive cases respectively. Ever since the state government started the unlock process, ‘Mission Begin Again’, from June 3, there has been a surge of Covid-19 cases. The government has been cautious in opening and till now has not allowed some places, like religious places and restaurants, to open. Even the local trains services have been restricted for the government and health sector employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-positivity-rate-rises-to-20/story-1ZmfIjiEqt6X4ISWxPt1wN.html
13-09-2020||India||Flight operation from Darbhanga under regional connectivity scheme to begin in November||Flight operations under regional connectivity scheme (RCS) will begin from Bihar’s Darbhanga airport in the first week of November, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday. The minister who reviewed ongoing work at Darbhanga, Deoghar (Jharkhand) and Patna airports on Saturday said booking for daily flights from Darbhanga to Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru will begin before September 30. “Flight operation will begin in the first week of November, before the auspicious festival of Chhath Puja. This will be a boon for 22 districts of north Bihar,” said Puri. Spicejet will operate flights from Darbhanga to Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai under RCS. Meanwhile, the number of daily flights from Patna airport will increase from next week. The government was likely to increase the cap on restricting flight operations from existing 60% to 75% of the flights approved in the summer schedule (effective Mar 29) from Patna airport. The state had pitched for completely removing the restriction on the number of flights being operated from Patna, to which Puri did not agree at this point in time. Airline sources say most of the 32 daily scheduled flights were operating with full passenger load as of now. The Patna airport, which used to handle an average 54 daily departures during the pre-Covid period, currently handles 32. Raising the cap on flights would mean an increase of five flights, airport officials said. The flights from Patna were expected to increase on the Delhi and Bengaluru sectors. The work on construction of a new terminal building at the Patna airport, at a cost of Rs 1216.90 crore was now likely to be complete by March 2023, said senior officials. The earlier deadline was October 2022. Once complete, the terminal building will be able to handle 8 million passengers per annum, with peak hour passenger handling capacity of 3,000 passengers and apron capacity to park 11 aircraft at a time, besides cargo handling capacity of 10,000 metric tonnes annually, said airport director BCH Negi. The existing domestic terminal building capacity was 0.7 million passengers per annum (MPPA) prior to the extension and modification. In 2019-2020, the airport handled about 4.8 million passengers. Talking about the Darbhanga airport, Puri said that this would be one more step under the ambitious UDAN (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) scheme to provide air connectivity to the interior regions of the country under the motto ‘Sab Uden, Sab Juden.’ Meanwhile, the state government has told the Centre about the operational shortcomings at Darbhanga airport. “We have apprised the civil aviation secretary that with the navigational aid currently available at the Darbhanga airport, and the foggy conditions during winters, operation of flights may not be possible between, December and March due to low visibility. The secretary has assured us to look into it,” said Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary, cabinet coordination department, Bihar, who also holds the charge of the civil aviation department in the state. Kumar said the state government had spent Rs 120 crore on acquiring 31 acres of land for the civil enclave at Darbhanga, which will be given to the IAF. The latter will transfer equitable land in lieu of it to the Airports Authority of India (AAI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-operation-from-darbhanga-under-regional-connectivity-scheme-to-begin-in-november/story-vrNODO9vlhLiZo8BB3DGRL.html
13-09-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah to step into Parliament for 1st time after Article 370 abrogation||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah will attend the monsoon session of Parliament starting Monday, more than a year after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was abrogated on August 5, 2019, and local leaders were put into pre-emptive detention. “Yes, I am going to attend Parliament. Though they have kept no provisions to ask questions but we will have to sit four hours daily,” Abdullah told HT. “Nevertheless, I will raise our issues there,” he added. Abdullah is likely to command considerable attention this session in the backdrop of allegations that some leaders in Jammu and Kashmir were kept under illegal detention after J&K’s status was changed.During the debate on revocation of Article 370 last year, several opposition leaders had demanded that Abdullah, a seasoned parliamentarian, be allowed to attend Parliament. Abdullah had told the media in an emotional interview in Srinagar that he had to break the door of his house to come out of detention and had rejected Union home minister Amit Shah’s claim that he was free to move. Also Read: Congress says PM should discuss LAC issue in monsoon sessionThe monsoon session will be held between September 14 and October 1 amid the coronavirus pandemic. The last parliamentary session was cut short on March 25 following the viral outbreak. The government has decided to do away with the Question Hour and instead only written replies will be given. Also Read: Govt decides against holding all-party meet ahead of sessionAbdullah’s presence is also likely to bring focus back to Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti’s continued detention. While most of the mainstream political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir have been released, including Farooq and his son Omar Abdullah, on March 13 and March 24, 2020, Mufti continues to be held under the Public Safety Act (PSA).In an interview with HT last month, Farooq and Omar Abdullah said that they will contest the constitutional changes related to J&K, pushed through by the Centre last year, both politically and legally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-to-step-into-parliament-for-1st-time-after-article-370-abrogation/story-tq9gulCZTffb5fVD135BVK.html
13-09-2020||India||Odisha: BJD MP, state minister take ill; admitted to Covid hospital||A Biju Janata Dal (BJD) member of Parliament (MP) and a minister in the Odisha government have been admitted to a dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospital in Bhubaneswar after they complained of difficulties in breathing days after they were infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes the disease. Padmini Dian, minister for textiles, handlooms and handicrafts; and Nabarangpur MP Ramesh Chandra Majhi, both of whom belong to the BJD, were shifted to a Covid-19 hospital in Bhubaneswar. Also read: 70k recoveries on average every day over past month, says govt dataThey had tested Covid-19 positive around nine days ago and were quarantined at home. Dian’s husband Sadashib Dian, a police officer, who had also tested Covid-19 positive, was also shifted to the same hospital, where his wife is undergoing treatment. Her son and nephew are quarantined at home after they, too, contracted the viral infection.So far, 20 members of the Odisha legislative assembly (MLAs), six ministers and four MPs from the state have tested Covid-19 positive. Minister for women and child development and Mission Shakti Tukuni Sahu; minister for rural development Susant Singh; minister for higher education Arun Kumar Sahoo, minister for food supplies and consumer welfare Ranendra Pratap Swain; and minister for tourism Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi have tested Covid-19 positive. Manjulata Mandal (BJD), Suresh Pujari (Bharatiya Janata Party) and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan (BJD) are the other three MPs, who have been afflicted with the contagion.The MLAs who tested Covid-19 positive are Sadasiva Pradhani (Nabarangpur), Prabhu Jani (Laxmipur), Bhagirathi Sethy (Anandpur), Soumya Ranjan Patnaik (Khandapada), Bishnubrata Routray (Basudevpur ), Susant Rout (Bhubaneswar North), Ananta Narayan Jena (Ananta Narayan Jena), Bikram Panda (Berhampur), Byomakesh Ray (Chandbali), Debi Prasad Mishra (Badamba), Pritam Padhi (Pottangi), Sanjib Mallick (Bhadrak), Sunanda Das (Bari), Srikant Sahu (Polasara), Sudhanshu Shekhar Parida (Remuna), Prasanta Muduli (Jagatsinghpur), Sashi Bhushan Behera (Kendrapara), Saroj Meher 9Patnagarh), Prasant Behera (Salipur) and Sukant Nayak (Nilagiri).Odisha has reported over 150,000 Covid-19 cases to date. Dr Jayant Panda, a consultant to the state health department, estimated that Odisha could report over 200,000 Covid-19 cases by end-September.“The viral infection cases are likely to come down after September,” he said. The pandemic has cast a shadow over the upcoming monsoon session of the Odisha assembly, which is scheduled to be held in end-September. Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro announced last week that all ministers, MLAs and staff of the assembly would have to compulsorily undergo Covid-19 test two days before the assembly starts. A counter will be set up in the assembly for the real-time reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test and only those, whose test results show Covid-19 negative, will be allowed to take part in the assembly proceedings. The Question Hour session will not be held during the monsoon session.Rapid antigen detection (RAD) test will be conducted for all the officers, who will attend the assembly session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bjd-mp-state-minister-take-ill-admitted-to-covid-hospital/story-1zYI2S1gu6UD5QXklozBMO.html
13-09-2020||India||PM Modi inaugurates 3 key petroleum projects in Bihar, says the state has been exemplary in taking Centre’s scheme to people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Bihar’s administration has been exemplary in making sure that government schemes reach the common people.He said, “In the last 15 years Bihar has shown that if the right government is elected in a state, benefits of government’s schemes can reach its people.” PM Narendra Modi inaugurated the three petroleum sector projects in Bihar which cost more than Rs 900 crores. The projects include the Durgapur-Banka section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur Pipeline Augmentation Project and two Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) Bottling Plants in Banka and Champaran, according to news agency PTI. These two LPG plants will be able to fill gas cylinders for several districts not only from Bihar but also for Jharkhand and few districts of Uttar Pradesh as well, Narendra Modi said. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Bihar deputy CM Sushil K Modi were among those who were present in the virtual inauguration ceremony. PM said that the Centre has worked extensively in developing all energy related projects in the state. He said, “We do not live in the age where one generation saw the inauguration of a project and another generation saw its completion. New India and new Bihar believes in fast-paced development.” He further added that the age when someone owned a gas connection was considered a bigwig is now a thing of the past. He also highlighted that Centre’s schemes like Ujjwala has also empowered women and made sure that they do not spend hours collecting firewood which would later when burnt to cook would also cause respiratory ailments. PM said eastern India and Bihar’s infrastructure was never prioritised. He further said that earlier people never imagined that they could get access to developed infrastructure because there were economic and political issues to which no one paid attention to despite the fact that the region is teeming with natural as well as human resources.PM Modi specially thanked people who delivered gas cylinders to common people’s homes amid the Covid-19 pandemic while inaugurating the scheme. PM Modi lauded Nitish Kumar, Bihar chief minister, for pushing Bihar’s youth and ensuring that the state’s education system nurtures talents. He said, “You can look at any sector in India - education, income tax, labour or healthcare. The contribution of Bihar in every sector is clearly visible. Bihar has assisted India in its growth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-3-key-petroleum-projects-in-bihar-says-the-state-has-been-exemplary-in-taking-centre-s-scheme-to-people/story-hPZ7e10hDuqMGNAa6AufkM.html
13-09-2020||India||Has left a void: PM Modi condoles ex-Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday mourned the loss of former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi. He was 74. “Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is no more among us. His demise has left a void in the political sphere of Bihar as well as the country,” PM Modi tweeted.Singh, who had resigned from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Thursday, was undergoing treatment at AIIMS for more than a week after developing post-Covid-10 complications. He was critically ill and was put on a ventilator late on Friday.The former Union minister for rural development had resigned from the RJD, apparently peeved over his marginalisation in the party in the last few years.President Ram Nath Kovind also extended his condolences to the late leader’s family and followers.“The passing away of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is tragic. An outstanding leader rooted to the ground, he was a true stalwart with a phenomenal understanding of rural India. Condolences to his family & followers, said the President.Former chief minister of Bihar Lalu Prasad Yadav also reacted to the tragedy. “Dear Raghuvansh Babu! What did you do? I told you the day before yesterday, you are not going anywhere. But you went so far. I am speechless. I am sad. Will miss you very much,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-left-a-void-pm-modi-condoles-ex-union-minister-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-s-death/story-tvjptPDGOoqslULgxTMK5H.html
13-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM should discuss LAC issue in monsoon session, says Congress and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress says PM should discuss LAC issue in monsoon sessionCongress leader Jairam Ramesh on Sunday addressed a virtual press conference where he said that India cannot tolerate the encroachment of its territory by China in Ladakh. Read moreFormer Union minister and Bihar leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh diesFormer Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Sunday, a day after he was put on a ventilator. He was 74. Read more‘You will come to know his impact’: Gautam Gambhir names most underrated player in T20 cricketWith so much franchise cricket being played all around the world, team managements are on a constant look-out for talent for their sides. Even in the Indian Premier League, all the franchises scout different talents to discover the next superstar in cricket. Read moreCuriosity rover spots ‘dust devil’ on Mars, NASA shares animated videoMagnificent and mysterious, those are just two among many adjectives which people often use to describe Mars. Read morePrakash Raj takes a dig at Kangana Ranaut: ‘If one film makes Kangana think that she is Rani Laxmi Bai, then...’Actor Prakash Raj took potshots at Kangana Ranaut and joked about her frequent references to playing Rani Laxmi Bai of Jhansi in her film, Manikarnika: The Queen of Jhansi. Read moreAssaulted ex-Navy officer’s message for Uddhav Thackeray: ‘If you can’t...’Ex-Naval officer slammed Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray after being physically attacked. Madan Sharma was attacked allegedly by Shiv Sena workers. Read moreWhatsApp’s latest beta update reveals new ‘wallpaper dimming’ featureWhatsApp has rolled out a new update for its beta app on Android. The latest update brings bug fixes and shows a glimpse of a new wallpaper feature. Read more‘I married my best friend’: YouTube’s interabled influencers break another stigma with their fairytale weddingOur faith in love and ever lasting relationships that beat the odds got re-instilled as YouTube’s influencer couple, Shane Burcaw and Hannah Aylward, broke another stigma with their interabled marriage last week. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-should-discuss-lac-issue-in-monsoon-session-says-congress-and-all-the-latest-news/story-v09RPZgvQV4NRmxUd1ETFN.html
13-09-2020||India||US West Coast chokes as wildfire continues to displace thousands||Wildfire smoke that posed a health hazard to millions choked the West Coast on Saturday as firefighters battled deadly blazes that obliterated some towns and displaced tens of thousands of people, the latest in a series of calamities this year.For people already enduring the coronavirus pandemic, the resulting economic fallout and political tensions evident in the Black Lives Matter protests and far-right counter protests, the fires added a new layer of misery.“What’s next? You have the protests, coronavirus pandemic, now the wildfires. What else can go wrong?” lamented Danielle Oliver, 40, of Happy Valley, southeast of Portland.The death toll from the fires in California, Oregon and Washington stood at 31 and was expected to rise sharply. Most of the fatalities were in California and Oregon.Oregon’s emergency management director said officials were preparing for a possible “mass fatality event” if many more bodies turn up in the ash. And the state fire marshal resigned after abruptly being placed on administrative leave. The state police superintendent said the crisis demanded an urgent response that required a leadership change.Oliver has an autoimmune disorder that makes her vulnerable to wildfire smoke, so she agreed to evacuate. She was nervous about going to a shelter because of the virus, but sleeping in a car with her husband, 15-year-daughter, two dogs and a cat was not a viable option.The temperature checks and social distancing at the American Red Cross shelter helped put her mind at ease. Now the family waits, hoping their house will survive. She has previously experienced homelessness.“I’m tired. I’m tired of starting all over. Getting everything, working for everything, then losing everything,” she said.Those who still had homes were not safe in them. A half-million Oregonians were under evacuation warnings or orders to leave. With air contamination levels at historic highs, people stuffed towels under door jambs to keep smoke out. Some even wore N95 masks in their own homes.Some communities resembled the bombed-out cities of Europe after World War II, with buildings reduced to charred rubble piled atop blackened earth. Residents either managed to flee as the flames closed in, or perished.Millicent Catarancuic’s body was found near a car on her 5-acre property in Berry Creek, California. The flames came so quickly she did not have time to get out.On Tuesday, she packed several of her dogs and cats in the car but later called her daughter to say she decided to stay. Firefighters had made progress battling the blaze. The wind was calm. The flames still seemed far away. Then they rushed onto the property.“I feel like, maybe when they passed, they had an army of cats and dogs with her to help her through it,” said her daughter, Holly Catarancuic.In Oregon alone, more than 40,000 people have been evacuated and about 500,000 are in different levels of evacuation zones, Gov. Kate Brown said.Fires along Oregon’s Cascade Range grew Saturday, but at a slower rate than earlier in the week, when strong easterly winds acted like a bellows, pushing two large fires — the Beachie Creek Fire and the Riverside Fire — toward each other and the state’s major population centers, including Portland’s southeastern suburbs.Fire managers did get a spot of good news: Higher humidity slowed the flames considerably.In California, a total of 28 active major fires have burned 4,375 square miles, and 16,000 firefighters are trying to suppress the flames, Cal Fire Assistant Deputy Director Daniel Berlant said. Large wildfires continued to burn in northeastern Washington state too. In all, 22 people have died in California since wildfires began breaking out across the state in mid-August.President Donald Trump will visit California on Monday for a briefing on the West Coast fires, the White House announced. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden and the governors of California, Oregon and Washington state — all Democrats — have said the fires are a consequence of global warming.“We absolutely must act now to avoid a future defined by an unending barrage of tragedies like the one American families are enduring across the West today,” Biden said.The same smoke that painted California skies orange also helped crews corral the state’s deadliest blaze of the year by blocking the sun, reducing temperatures and raising humidity, officials said.Smoke created cooler conditions in Oregon too, but it was also blamed for making the dirtiest air in at least 35 years in some places. The air quality index reading Saturday morning in Salem, the state capital, was 512.The scale normally goes from zero to 500.“Above 500 is literally off the charts,” said Laura Gleim, a spokesperson for the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.Because past air quality was rarely so poor, the government’s yardstick for measuring it capped out at 500, Gleim said. The department started monitoring in 1985.The weather conditions that led up to the fires and fed the flames were likely a once-in-a-generation event, said Greg Jones, a professor and research climatologist at Linfield University in McMinnville, Oregon.A large high-pressure area stretching from the desert Southwest to Alaska brought strong winds from the east toward the West Coast, reducing relative humidity to as low as 8 per cent and bringing desert-like conditions, even to the coast, Jones said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-west-coast-chokes-as-wildfire-continues-to-displace-thousands/story-ju64wbYGmM8IcaUOXMJLMO.html
13-09-2020||India||Meghalaya power minister injured in accident in Assam, stable||Meghalaya power minister James K Sangma sustained minor injuries in a road accident in Assam’s Nagaon district on the early hours of Sunday while on his way to Shillong from Imphal in Manipur. Four persons in the pilot car leading the minister’s vehicle also suffered injuries in the accident.Earlier, James, the elder brother of Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma had tested positive for Covid-19 when he and Conrad, who had reached there on Saturday from Delhi, underwent a rapid antigen test at the Imphal airport.While James decided to return to Shillong after the positive result, Conrad and his OSD-cum-press secretary, Saidul Khan, who tested negative, decided to stay back and return on Monday. “The pilot car of the Meghalaya minister hit a stationary truck at Nonoi on the early hours of Sunday. The pilot vehicle overturned and four persons in the vehicle sustained injuries. The minister’s car, which was following the pilot car, hit it moments after. None of the injured persons were critical and they continued their journey to Shillong,” Nagaon superintendent of police, Gaurav Abhijit Dilip, said. CM Sangma’s press secretary Saidul Khan told HT from Imphal that the minister sustained minor injuries as a result of his car hitting the pilot car. His condition is stated to be stable. The brothers had gone to Imphal to inaugurate the new building of the Manipur state unit of the National People’s Party (NPP) headed by Conrad as its National President, followed by intense discussions with local leaders on strengthening the state unit in Manipur.(With inputs from Utpal Parashar in Guwahati)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-power-minister-injured-in-accident-in-assam-stable/story-dZqElCFbTXQPzneDgn2XwJ.html
13-09-2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu undergoes Covid-19 test ahead of monsoon session||Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has undergone a Covid-19 test ahead of the monsoon session in Parliament, informed the Vice President’s Secretariat on Sunday.The secretariat further informed that it is mandatory for all members of the Upper House to undergo a Covid-19 test before attending the session.“Preparing himself to preside over the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament beginning on September 14, 2020, Chairman, Rajya Sabha, M Venkaiah Naidu underwent Covid-19 test today. It is mandatory for each member to undergo Covid-19 test (RT-PCR) before attending the upcoming session, according to an advisory issued to all Rajya Sabha members,” the Vice President Secretariat said in a statement.As per the secretariat’s statement, the members have been asked to get their test done within 72 hours before the commencement of the session at any hospital/laboratory authorised by the government or at Parliament House Complex.The secretariat further said that in order to ensure social distancing norms, the Rajya Sabha chamber, galleries, and the Lok Sabha chamber will be used to seat members--57 of whom will be accommodated in the chamber and 51 in galleries of Rajya Sabha. The remaining 136 will be seated in the chamber of Lok Sabha. In all, there are 244 members and one seat is vacant.“Four large display screens in the chamber will show the members speaking and there will be seamless live telecast of the proceedings on Rajya Sabha TV. In addition, six smaller display screens and audio consoles have been installed in the four galleries,” the statement read.Various Parliamentary papers including List of Business, Bulletins, Bills/ and ordinances would be sent to members only through an electronic mechanism. Members can access their portal accounts. “Accordingly, the circulation of hard copies of these papers is being discontinued. Members may bring their e-Reader devices to the House to refer to the Parliamentary papers or carry print-outs of the same for their use,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-undergoes-covid-19-test-ahead-of-monsoon-session/story-xdRrGKb3pRTIs1nKZH4L4J.html
13-09-2020||India||No nationwide lockdown from September 25, Centre calls viral order fake||In the backdrop of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, a purported copy of an order from the National Disaster Management Authority urging the Centre to reimpose nationwide lockdown from September 25 in doing the rounds. The Press Information Bureau has clarified that the order is fake and no nationwide lockdown is being imposed again. Claim: An order purportedly issued by National Disaster Management Authority claims that it has directed the government to re-impose a nationwide #Lockdown from 25th September. #PIBFactCheck: This order is #Fake. @ndmaindia has not issued any such order to re-impose lockdown. pic.twitter.com/J72eeA62zl“In order to contain the spread of Covid-19 and decrease the mortality rate in the country, the National Disaster Management Authority, along with the Planning commission, hereby urges the government of India and directs the Prime Minister office, ministry of home affairs to re-impose a strict nationwide lockdown of 46 days starting from midnight September 25, 2020. Maintaining the supply chain of essential commodities in the country, therefore hereby NDMA is issuing a prior notice to the ministry to plan accordingly,” the fake order, bearing the date of September 10, says.Also Read | Bengal observes September’s 2nd Covid lockdown, it will probably be the lastA nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus in India. From June, Centre started unlocking process, which entered the fourth stage in September. Activities which were prohibited during the two-month lockdown have resumed in a graded manner. In between, rumours of fresh lockdown spread several times, but the Centre maintained there will be no nationwide lockdown — apart from the restrictions already imposed in containment zones.India on Sunday registered 94,372 new Covid-19 new cases, which pushed the overall tally to above 4.75 million. This is the fourth consecutive day when the new Covid-19 cases in the country have hovered around 95,000.According to Union health ministry update on Sunday, the number of active cases has reached 9,73,175 and 37,02,595 patients have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-nationwide-lockdown-from-september-25-centre-calls-viral-order-fake/story-VW35lonW88LaLYqsCREUNM.html
13-09-2020||India||Cong says PM Modi should discuss LAC issue in monsoon session||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Sunday addressed a virtual press conference where he said that India cannot tolerate the encroachment of its territory by China in Ladakh.Ramesh also sought transparency into how the PM-CARES fund is being regulated. He claimed that several Chinese companies have donated to the relief fund, there is alleged oversight and it needs to come under the purview of the Right to Information (RTI) Act. “How can Chinese companies donate to the PM-CARES fund when they are encroaching territories in Ladakh and altering status quo at the LAC?” asked Ramesh.The Congress leader said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has weakened the country by his statement where he said that there has been no encroachment at the LAC. He also demanded that there should be a debate on the issue of standoff at the China border. Ramesh referred to the 1962 war between India and China and said at that point of time Parliament was in session and then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru had attended those sessions.He said, “During the 1962 war, the parliament was in session and then PM was in the Lok Sabha and listened to the criticisms of his policies made by senior parliamentarians including those made by former PM Atal Behari Vajpayee.”Ramesh’s press conference focussed on the new ordinances brought in the farming sector, banking sector and the LAC issue. He demanded that the PM address these issues in the monsoon session of the parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-pm-should-discuss-lac-issue-in-monsoon-session/story-d1FJLBxp8jEJbbfDWngikK.html
13-09-2020||India||Former Union minister and Bihar leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh dies||Former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who had resigned from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) days ago, died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Sunday after he was put on a ventilator. He was 74.The condition of the former Union minister for rural development in the first term of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government had deteriorated late on Friday. Singh had been undergoing treatment at AIIMS, Delhi for more than a week after testing positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in June.Also Read| The importance of Raghuvansh Prasad SinghKnown as the architect of India’s biggest welfare programme, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), Singh represented Bihar’s Vaishali constituency in the Lok Sabha. He was also a long-time associate of former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav.Also Read | RJD leader quits, Lalu says ‘you aren’t leaving’The senior leader had resigned from the RJD on Thursday, apparently peeved over his marginalisation in the party in the last few years. He had stepped down as the RJD’s national vice president more than two months ago.Yadav tweeted an emotional message soon after Singh’s death was confirmed. “Dear Raghuvansh Babu! What did you do? I told you the day before yesterday, you are not going anywhere. But you went so far. I am speechless. I am sad. Will miss you very much,” he tweeted in Hindi.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also tweeted his condolence after Singh’s death. “Raghuvansh Prasad Singh is no more among us. His demise has left a void in the political sphere of Bihar as well as the country,” PM Modi said.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury also extended their condolence.“I have received the sad news on the death of former MP Shri Raghuvansh Prasad Singh. I pay my respects at his feet. May god help his soul rest in peace and support his family and supporters in this difficult time. Om Shanti,” Chouhan tweeted in Hindi.“I am shocked at the news of Raghuvansh Babu’s death. Very sad news. We have been together in many struggles for decades. His absence will be felt a lot in today’s time. Memories of his work and behaviour will inspire us. Heartfelt condolences to his family and friends,” Yechury also posted on Twitter.Singh had sent a handwritten resignation letter addressed to RJD chief. On the same day, Lalu Prasad sent a letter to Singh from Ranchi, making an emotional appeal to not to leave the party.He had also written a series of letters with one addressed to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, in which he had demanded changes in MGNREGA job scheme and development of Vaishali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-minister-and-bihar-leader-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-dies/story-Nz0RkjolEOogED06Ngc9GO.html
13-09-2020||India||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS for complete check up before Parliament session||Union home minister Amit Shah has been admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi again on Sunday after undergoing treatment for coronavirus disease for a complete medical check-up before the upcoming Parliament session, hospital authorities said.The monsoon session of Parliament begins on Monday.“Union Home Minister Amit Shah was discharged from AIIMS after post-Covid care on August 30. As per advice given at discharge, he has now been admitted for a complete medical checkup before the parliament session for 1-2 days,” the hospital’s media and protocol division said in a statement.Shah, 55, was admitted to the hospital at 11 pm on Saturday. He was earlier admitted to AIIMS on August 18 for post-coronavirus care. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2.Shah had announced his health status on Twitter after testing positive for the virus, and urged those who came in contact with him in recent days to isolate themselves and get tested.The home minister tested negative for the disease on August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-admitted-to-aiims-for-complete-check-up-before-parliament-session/story-f8ziYpZJ4AEGm85Td7fZnI.html
13-09-2020||India||Why rest of Bollywood is silent, Shiv Sena trains gun on Akshay Kumar||Other Bollywood stars should have come forward and dismissed Kangana Ranaut’s slander against Mumbai, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has written in his column ‘Rokhthok’ in party mouthpiece Saamana, terming the entire episode a ‘conspiracy’ to defame Mumbai.Taking Akshay Kumar’s name, in particular, the editorial questioned why other Bollywood actors who have earned name and fame in Mumbai are silent. “Is Mumbai only for making money?” Raut asked mincing no words.Questioning the silence of the Bollywood fraternity, Sanjay Raut compared Bollywood with the Pandavas who maintained silence while Draupadi was disrobed.Also Read | What Kangana Ranaut has said so far on joining politicsCommenting on the ongoing probe into the SSR death case by Mumbai Police, Kangana Ranaut had compared Mumbai/Bollywood with Pak-occupied-Kashmir, which triggered a long-drawn battle between Kangana and Shiv Sena. Kangana alleged that she had received threats from Sena leaders after her comments on Mumbai, following which she was provided Y-plus security by the Centre. The day she reached Mumbai from her hometown Manali, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation razed an allegedly illegal portion of her Mumbai office. The matter has reached the Bombay High Court, which stayed the demolition drive. Kangana is scheduled to meet Maharashtra Governor BS Koshyari on Sunday before she leaves the city.While the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra has distanced itself from the ongoing controversy, Shiv Sena is carrying forward the battle riding on Maratha pride. “Those who come to Mumbai to try their luck in this industry first stay on the footpath and then shift to Juju, Pali Hill and Malabar Hill to build their bungalows. All these people have always been grateful to the city and the state which allowed them to chase their dreams and make it big. They have never betrayed Mumbai but have also contributed to the growth of the city,” Saamana’s Saturday editorial noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-rest-of-bollywood-is-silent-shiv-sena-trains-gun-on-akshay-kumar/story-xMfXt5kgLinEM5Q2fSww8O.html
13-09-2020||India||Covid-19: 70k recoveries on average every day over past month, says govt data||India’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) recoveries have witnessed a steep rise -- from about 50,000 in May to nearly 3.6 million patients recovering till September so far, Union health ministry data shows.At least 70,000 recoveries on average have been reported every day over the past one month, making the number nearly 3.8 times the active cases (under 1/4th the total cases), according to the data.Also read: For fourth consecutive day, India’s daily Covid-19 numbers hover around 95,000The Covid-19 death rate in the country is also improving steadily and is currently at 1.67%. The government aims to bring the death rate down to 1% or below.In a high-level review meeting on Saturday, PK Mishra, the principal secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, directed all concerned stakeholders to further strengthen Covid-19 management measures. He emphasised the need for continuous caution and prevention by maintaining social distancing, use of mask and hand wash.“The care of elderly and the need to strictly follow the norms of physical distance and preventive measures was re-emphasised. The concerted behaviour change campaign will again be taken up to re-emphasise that unlocking does not mean lowering our guard against infection. The need to unlock, work and still follow the non-pharmacological preventive measures was strongly recommended,” he had said.The Centre is also looking at ensuring no essential supplies related to Covid-19 management are hit.As some states have been trying to curb free movement of medical oxygen supplies to other states, the Union health ministry recently sent out a letter asking states to make certain seamless movement of the supplies between states to ensure there was no shortage anywhere in the country in the wake of increased demand during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-70k-recoveries-on-average-every-day-over-past-month-says-govt-data/story-f2PGX1I4OF3LSDutIEPtwL.html
13-09-2020||India||For fourth consecutive day, India’s daily Covid-19 numbers hover around 95,000||India registered another huge spike of 94,372 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, which pushed the overall tally to above 4.75 million. This is the fourth consecutive day when the new Covid-19 cases in the country have hovered around 95,000.According to Union health ministry update on Sunday, the number of active cases has reached 9,73,175 and 37,02,595 patients have been discharged.Another 1,114 people died due to the disease which pushed the death toll to 78,586, the health ministry update showed.Amid a record surge in coronavirus infections in the country, PK Mishra, the principal secretary to the Prime Minister, reviewed the Covid-19 response in the country on Saturday.He directed all concerned to develop an evidence-based preparedness on all aspects of the disease with the active participation of districts and states for effectiveness.The various stages of vaccine development and plans for its distribution were also discussed at the meeting, which was attended by Cabinet Secretary, Member NITI Aayog Dr Vinod Paul, Principal Scientific Adviser K Vijay Raghavan, all empowered action group convenors concerned as well as secretaries of departments concerned.Integration of AYUSH for prophylaxis and mitigation of syndrome was also discussed, as well as the need for District Health Action Plans for long-term management of various aspects of coronavirus infection.Mishra emphasised on the need for caution and prevention by maintaining a two-metre distance, use of mask and washing hands. Care for the elderly, the need to strictly follow the norms of physical distancing and preventive measures was re-emphasized at the meeting.The health ministry, meanwhile, said on Sunday that the number of recoveries in India has seen an exponential rise in the past few months. From 50,000 in May, the number of recovered patients has crossed 36 lakh-mark, it said.The ministry credited aggressive testing and prompt surveillance for this milestone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-fourth-consecutive-day-india-s-daily-covid-19-numbers-hover-around-95-000/story-np0F1CBlgvd07dYwN1A3EN.html
13-09-2020||India||Indigenous cycle to help railway staff maintain tracks better||An indigenous and cost-effective unique track-cycle will help inspecting railway staff and trackmen in maintaining the rail tracks throughout the day. Designed and built by a team of experts, led by assistant divisional engineer (line), Bhupesh Pandey and senior section engineer (PA) Abhay Kumar of engineering department of Prayagraj division, North Central Railway (NCR), the invention promises to drastically reduce the labour and stress faced by railway trackmen in the country.Also read: Indian Railways to start 80 new special trainsCosting just Rs 3,000, this innovative rail-bicycle will help trackmen quickly travel on rail tracks for inspection, monitoring, and urgent repairs. It is convenient and can ferry two people at a time. It will also help in reducing response time to mitigate track issues, said officials. The prototype of this special cycle was recently tested by the divisional regional manager (DRM) Amitabh and senior divisional engineer (coordination), Santosh Gupta, officials added. PRO, Prayagraj division, Keshev Tripathi said that the track-cycle was made out of scrap. Experts joined two cycles side by side while modifying the ordinary cycle. “Both the rear wheels of this cycle are similar to an ordinary cycle while the front frame is longer than the usual frame. The front wheel, made of Teflon, is made in such a way that it fits into the railway track and when the user pedals, it works like any other cycle,” explained the PRO. The cycle weighs just about 25 kilograms. The PRO said the cycle will be a great help to trackmen who have to undertake urgent repairs/ inspections of tracks during inclement weather too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigenous-cycle-to-help-railway-staff-maintain-tracks-better/story-pDccZ8IQNJPcpzYUhzpRhM.html
13-09-2020||India||Man in Gaya carves out 3-km-long canal to irrigate parched fields||A man has carved out a three-kilometre-long canal to take rainwater coming down from nearby hills to fields of his village, Kothilawa in Lahthua area of Gaya.“It took me 30 years to dig this canal which takes the water to a pond in the village,” said Laungi Bhuiyan who has dug out the canal single-handedly in Gaya.“For the last 30 years, I would go to the nearby jungle to tend my cattle and dig out the canal. No one joined me in this endeavour... Villagers are going to cities to earn a livelihood but I decided to stay back,” he added. Kothilwa village is surrounded by dense forest and mountains, about 80 km away from Gaya district headquarters. This village is marked as a refuge for Maoists.The main means of livelihood for the people here are farming and animal husbandry. During the rainy season, the water falling from the mountains used to flow into the river which used to bother Bhuiyan following which he thought of carving out a canal. He worked hard in order to save water coming from the mountains and utilise it. “He has been carving out the canal for the last 30 years that too single-handedly. This will benefit a large number of animals and to irrigate the fields as well. He is not doing it for his own benefit but for the entire area,” said Patti Manjhi, a local. Ram Vilas Singh, a teacher who resides here praised Bhuiyan for benefiting the villagers and their fields. “A lot of people will benefit here. People are now getting to know him because of his work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-in-gaya-carves-out-3-km-long-canal-to-irrigate-parched-fields/story-BXOPNHtq7vSt1B6AGXdxKI.html
13-09-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav says UP police means injustice, cites cases to back up claim||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav has attacked the Uttar Pradesh chief minister and the state’s police chief over the law and order situation and alleged that the police force has become synonymous with ‘injustice’ under the BJP government.“Under the BJP government, the police, instead of becoming people-friendly, had become synonymous with injustice and atrocities,” he alleged.In a press statement, the party chief added that some police officers were hand in glove with the criminals. “Why wouldn’t the criminals become fearless when one police officer or the other is found hand-in-glove with criminals in some part of the state?”Irrespective of “lecturing”, the police’s work-culture in the state would not change, Akhilesh said.The former chief minister cited a robbery incident in Aligarh to claim people and their properties were no longer safe in the state.“Only yesterday (Friday), criminals looted Rs 35 lakh worth jewellery and Rs 40,000 from a jeweller in Aligarh at gunpoint and the incident is an example of the collapsed law and order in the state,” he said.“People are all the more insecure because officers are patronising criminals and protecting them… Imagine, in Bijnor, a woman police officer felt unsafe from an ASP (assistant superintendent of police) rank officer. A woman cop is not feeling safe in this system!” he added.Also Read: NSA to be imposed against men suspected of murdering Dalit man The SP chief cited a couple more cases of alleged complicity or laxity of policemen in the state.“One Ramu Kushwaha in Lalitpur, died by suicide when he could not get justice in connection with his complaint that police had snatched his cell phone and Rs 20,000 cash. In Gorakhpur, a woman died by suicide when the Pipganj police station personnel did not act on her complaint. In Kannauj, a youth died due to torture in police custody,” Akhilesh said, adding that the incidents of custodial death, loot and murder were affecting UP’s image in the country and worldwide, he said.Also Read: UP don Mukhtar Ansari’s wife, her two brothers booked under gangsters actAkhilesh’s assault on the law and order situation comes amid criticism that UP police was using extra-judicial methods to deal with gangsters and history sheeters. The state administration has also been slapped on the wrist for the alleged ‘misuse’ of the National Security Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-says-up-police-means-injustice-cites-cases-to-back-up-claim/story-nGnBYjpxChhR2xLBbeZobJ.html
13-09-2020||India||More exam centres, strict Covid-19 protocols: Here are the precautions taken by govt for NEET||The crucial National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) is being held across the country on Sunday amid stringent checks in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The National Testing Agency (NTA), which is organising the exam, has taken a slew of measures like increasing the number of exam centres and reducing number of students in a room to ensure the coronavirus disease doesn’t create any problem.The NEET comes days after another prestigious exam - the JEE (Main) - was held across the country. Here are the things to know about how the NTA is conducting these exams:• The number of exam centres have been increased from originally-planned 2,546 to 3,843. The number of candidates per room has been halved - from earlier 24 to 12. Also Watch | NEET 2020: Preparation at exam centres amid Covid; minister wishes luck• A total of 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for the exam.• According to the NTA, the exam centres will ensure staggered entry of students. The candidates have also been given a set of instructions (or guidelines) on dos and don’ts for proper social distancing.• All the candidates have been asked to come to the exam centres with masks and sanitisers, but once they enter, the students will have to use the masks provided by the examination authority. “Each candidate will be offered a three-ply mask at the time of entry and are expected to wear the same during the examination in order to avoid any form of unfair means at the time of examination,” an official of the NTA was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.• Making hand sanitisers available at the entrance of the examination centre and inside the exam hall at all times, replacing the process of checking the admit cards of candidates with barcode readers, increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plans, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit are among the other steps the NTA has taken.• The NEET, a pen and paper based test unlike engineering entrance exam JEE, has already been deferred twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The exam was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26, and then to September 13.• A number of students had protested seeking the postponement of the exam further due to the pandemic, but the government opposed the move. The students had approached the Supreme Court too with their demand, but the apex court dismissed their plea, saying a “precious year” of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on.• Several Opposition leaders, including Congress’ Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, her Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik, DMK president MK Stalin and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had also demanded that this, as well as the JEE, be postponed. However, their petitions were dismissed by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-exam-centres-strict-covid-19-protocols-here-are-the-precautions-taken-by-govt-for-neet/story-bR1IwItLh0VQJW09Hk8PeM.html
13-09-2020||India||Low pressure area off Andhra coast to bring heavy rain in peninsular India||A low-pressure area has formed over west central Bay of Bengal off the Andhra Pradesh coast on Sunday, which is likely to result in increased intensity and distribution of rains in Odisha, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yaman, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin released on Sunday morning.The monsoon trough (line of low pressure) lies south of its normal position (Ganganagar to Bay of Bengal). The eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift further southwards due to formation of a low-pressure area over west central Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh coast by around tomorrow.Heavy to very heavy rains are likely over Odisha, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam on Sunday; Telangana on September 13 and 14 and Gujarat on September 16.A cyclonic circulation is also lying over east central Arabian Sea off Maharashtra coast. The east-west shear zone-- area of change in wind direction and velocity-- is running across peninsular India and is likely to persist during the next 3-4 days.An off-shore trough at mean sea level is also running from north Maharashtra coast to north Kerala coast. Under the influence of these favourable conditions, widespread rain with isolated heavy rain, thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over west peninsular India during the next 4-5 days.Heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places is very likely over Konkan, Goa, Kerala and Mahe on Sunday and also over south interior Karnataka, parts of Saurashtra and Kutch.Also Read: Pune registers 31mm rainfall on Friday, Khadakwasla discharge beginsMonsoon rain since June 1 is in 6% excess with 0% excess recorded over east and northeast India, 12% deficient rains over northwest India, 15% excess over central India and 23% excess over south peninsula.In September, there is 23.5% deficiency over the country with 41.5% deficiency over northwest India, 22.5% deficiency over east and northeast India, 41.4% deficiency over central India and 50.7% excess over south peninsula.Also Read: 71 per cent less rains in Delhi in September so farRainfall is likely to be deficient at least until September 13 in most parts of the country, including northwest and central India, before intensifying after September 17, according to the IMD’s extended range forecast. Normally, withdrawal of monsoon is supposed to begin from September 17 when rain begins reducing across the country until completely withdrawing on October 15.But this year IMD’s extended range forecast shows extensive and heavy rains along the west coast between September 11 and 24 and then until October 1 over several parts of central India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-area-off-andhra-coast-to-bring-heavy-rain-in-peninsular-india/story-zWwBbdhT7S3e7ZKuDxHkaJ.html
13-09-2020||India||Chyawanprash, yoga among suggestions in health ministry’s post-Covid care management guidelines||The Centre on Sunday issued guidelines for patients recovering from the deadly coronavirus disease.“After acute Covid-19 illness, recovered patients may continue to report wide variety of signs and symptoms including fatigue, body ache, cough, sore throat, difficulty in breathing, etc,” the health ministry said in an advisory where it listed chyawanprash, yoga, pranayama and walks among the suggestions.“A holistic approach is required for follow up care and well-being of all post-Covid recovering patients,” it said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAt an individual level, the government advised patients to continue following the Covid-19 appropriate behavior like wearing a face mask, washing hands, maintaining social distance, and other respiratory hygiene.It also suggested carrying out regular household work “if health permits”. “Professional work should be resumed in a graded manner,” the ministry stated in the advisory.Stressing on the need to self-monitor the health at home, the ministry advised those recovering from Covid-19 to take the temperature and check blood pressure on a regular basis. It also asked them to take oxygen readings on pulse oximeter on the advice of doctors.Diabetic patients have been advised to check the levels of their blood sugar regularly.At the community level, the government advised individuals who recovered from the Covid-19 to share their experiences with their friends and relatives and spread awareness regarding the virus.“The sharing of these experiences on social media,” said the ministry, “will help create awareness, dispel myths and stigma.”“Take support of community-based self-help groups, civil society organizations, and qualified professionals for recovery and rehabilitation process (medical, social, occupational, livelihood),” it also said.The ministry further advised patients to seek mental health support if there is a need.The issue of post-Covid management protocol comes as the country is recording the highest number of daily cases. In the last seven days, India has been registering more than 90,000 cases daily, which has pushed the tally to above 46 lakh-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chayawanprash-yoga-among-suggestions-in-health-ministry-s-post-covid-care-management-guidelines/story-nW8hMvlW6mb4wmzlaO3Z7K.html
13-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: 50th biannual BSF-BGB high-level talks to begin in Dhaka today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.50th BSF-BGB high-level talks begin in Dhaka todayThe biannual talks between Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) director-general Major General M Shafeenul Islam and Border Security Force (BSF) head Rakesh Asthana will begin on Sunday in BGB’s Pilkhana headquarters in Dhaka. The meeting will last for six days and end on September 18. Read moreDelhi to have partly cloudy, humid Sunday: IMDDelhi is likely to have a partly cloudy sky with high moisture levels on Sunday. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, though there will be clouds, no rainfall activity is expected in the national capital until early next week. Read moreAkshay Kumar thanks fans for celebrating his birthday: ‘I exist because of you’, watchActor Akshay Kumar, who turned 53 earlier this month on September 9, took to Twitter to thank fans for celebrating his birthday. He released a video to express his gratitude. Read moreWatch him, see how he plays, observe his technique: Zaheer Abbas asks Pakistan players to learn from Indian batsmanLegendary Pakistan batsman Zaheer Abbas named an Indian batsman he ‘really likes’. Abbas heaped praise on India’s limited-overs vice-captain Rohit Sharma and termed him a ‘classical player.’ Read moreNew Google Groups interface rolling out to all G Suite users on Sept 15The new version Google Groups came out of beta and officially launched earlier this year in May. But the new interface of Google Groups could be turned off by group admins. Google is now changing that and making the new Groups default for all G Suite users. Read moreChemistry problem gets a Nicki Minaj rap inspired twist, leaves tweeple in fitsTwitter is often a goldmine for odd content that excites and educates netizens, often all at once. Case in point is this post by a Twitter user named Elise Morgan which showcases a chemistry problem. And while usually, numbers mixed with elements from the periodic table often make people cry, this post is doing the exact opposite by making many people chuckle. Read moreNew York: Anti-China protest by Tibetans; Indian Army martyr eulogizedThe Tibetan community in USA reportedly held a protest against China. The protest was reportedly held in New York’s Jackson Heights. Demonstrators also paid their respects to an Indian army martyr. The protestors eulogised Nyima Tenzin, a soldier of special frontier force. Tenzin died at LAC in ladakh amid tension with china. He was killed in a landmine blast near Pangong Tso. Tenzin is probably the first S.F.F. soldier to have been given a public funeral. The S.F.F. is a secretive unit of Indian Army with Tibetan and Gurkha soldiers. The Indian tricolour and the Tibetan flag were also hoisted at the protest. India has been a haven for Tibetans fleeing Chinese persecution. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-50th-biannual-bsf-bgb-high-level-talks-to-begin-in-dhaka-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZNrv7n1OmqToqMNi6CnUrK.html
13-09-2020||India||‘From 50,000 in May to over 36 lakh in September, India’s Covid-19 recoveries rise exponentially’: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Sunday said that India’s Covid-19 recovery has witnessed a steep exponential rise and attributed it to aggressive testing and prompt surveillance. The country’s recovery rate stands at 77.77 per cent.“India’s Covid-19 recoveries have witnessed a steep exponential rise - from 50,000 in May to over 36 lakh in September. A high level of more than 70,000 recoveries reported every day. Recoveries are nearly 3.8 times the active cases (under 1/4 total cases),” the ministry said in a statement.“Focussed, collaborative, responsive and effective measures of early identification through high and aggressive testing, prompt surveillance and tracking coupled with standardised high-quality clinical care have in tandem led to these encouraging outcomes,” it further said in the statement.The ministry had said on Saturday that India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate further dropped to 1.66 per cent.Sixty per cent of the total recovered cases are being reported from five states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, the ministry said.The country recorded highest ever single-day recoveries of 81,533 on Saturday, according to the ministry.India’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 46,59,984 on Saturday with a record 97,570 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 77,472 with 1,201 people succumbing to the infection in a span of 24 hours.Sixty nine per cent of the fatalities are concentrated in five states and union territories of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-50-000-in-may-to-over-36-lakh-in-september-india-s-covid-19-recoveries-rise-exponentially-health-ministry/story-flob7QwOcaNcSN5rC9zYZL.html
13-09-2020||India||Hospitalised with no heartbeat after electricity shock, boy regains consciousness after 36 hours||A 16-year-old boy who was rushed to a city hospital with no heartbeat following a severe electric shock from a high-voltage live wire, regained consciousness after 36 hours, thanks to quick response by doctors.The boy came in contact with the live wire that had fallen on an iron railing at his shop in the old quarters of Delhi on August 1 following heavy rains. He was found stuck motionless to the railing with electricity still running through his body, doctors said.He could be rescued after 10 minutes when the electricity supply was cut from the powerhouse of that area. The boy was rushed to Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals and admitted to the emergency department, they said.Dr Priyadarshini Pal, Emergency Head, Emergency and Critical Care, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals said the patient had no heartbeat, an absent pulse rate and progressively falling blood pressure owing to the damage caused by a continuous flow of electricity through his body.“Upon evaluation, it was discovered that due to the severe and prolonged electric shock he suffered a cardiac arrest. He had exceptionally low chances of survival. But doctors at the Emergency and Critical Care unit quickly responded to his critical condition.“We immediately gave him CPR. The process was extremely critical because any delay in CPR after a cardiac arrest could have led to possible irreversible brain damage. We were able to revive the patient after CPR that lasted for an unusual time of almost 45 minutes,” Dr Pal said. The doctor said with timely treatment, the boy regained consciousness after 36 hours and was discharged on August 5.Dr Sudheer Tyagi, senior consultant, Neurology, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, said that such cases are very critical and any slight delay can cause irreparable damage to the patient’s brain.“Had this patient not given CPR immediately it could have led to a condition of decrease in the flow of oxygen to the brain. That could have manifested brain damage in the form of severe neurological deficit-delayed or complete inability of the patient to regain consciousness and weakness/numbness in different parts of the body” he said.Even if the patient had regained consciousness, there was a possibility that his cognitive brain functions like memory, responsiveness and recognition would be adversely affected, Dr Tyagi said.“Timely treatment and quick response to his deteriorating condition are what saved the patient’s life.” Expressing his gratitude to the doctors the patient’s brother said, “We had lost hope when initially the doctors informed us that chances of my brother’s survival were slim. But Dr Pal and her team put in all their efforts and brought him back from the jaws of death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hospitalised-with-no-heartbeat-after-electricity-shock-boy-regains-consciousness-after-36-hours/story-95sxZgLET14DRlhGh2RjQL.html
13-09-2020||India||Covid-19 patients must not be denied beds, provided prompt treatment: Health Ministry to hospitals||Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday affirmed the government’s resolve to ensure that patient of Covid-19 must not be denied beds and must be provided prompt treatment.He said the collective goal must be to have a health system that is available, affordable and accessible to all and the aim of the Centre along with the states was to achieve a mortality rate of less than one per cent.Bhushan inaugurated a virtual conclave for private hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment in the country organised by the ministry in collaboration with FICCI and AIIMS New Delhi.“He reiterated the resolve of the Government to ensure that patient of Covid-19 must not be denied beds and must be provided prompt treatment. The collective goal must be to have a health system that available, affordable and accessible to all. He highlighted that the aim of the Centre along with the state/UT governments is to achieve a mortality rate of less than one per cent,” the release said. During the meeting, the importance of timely treatment of co-morbid patients to reduce fatality was stressed.An official release said hospitals were asked to ensure seamless admission of patients.They were also encouraged to protect healthcare workers by adopting all practices on infection prevention and control and keep the staff motivated.The importance of evidence-based treatment protocols and reducing heterogeneity in treatment to Covid-19 patients was also underscored.Senior doctors from private sector hospitals also shared their experiences and challenges about their battle against Covid-19.Several best practices were shared by private hospitals. Concerns around delayed referral of patients from smaller facilities and financial stress owing to lack of health insurance were also discussed. The conclave was attended by more than 150 hospital representatives, senior doctors and clinicians from across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patients-must-not-be-denied-beds-provided-prompt-treatment-health-ministry-to-hospitals/story-5XoPLlAhjBeQpD3xVQPncP.html
13-09-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate three petroleum projects in Bihar on Sunday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate an LPG pipeline project and bottling plants in Bihar on Sunday. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will also be present on the occasion.The projects include the Durgapur-Banka section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur pipeline project and two LPG bottling plants, an official statement said.The 193-km long Durgapur-Banka pipeline section, built by state-owned Indian Oil Corp (IOC), is a part of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur Pipeline Augmentation Project, for which the foundation stone was laid by PM Modi on February 17, 2019.Durgapur-Banka section is the extension of the existing 679-km long Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur LPG pipeline to the new LPG bottling plant at Banka in Bihar.The pipeline of 14-inch diameter passes through West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar.While LPG is presently injected into the pipeline at IOC’s Paradip and Haldia refineries, the completion of the whole project would enable the facility to be also available from the Paradip import terminal and Barauni refinery.The bottling plant has been built at an investment of around Rs 131.75 crore to serve the districts of Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui, Araria, Kishanganj and Katihar in Bihar, along with the districts of Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Sahibganj, and Pakur in Jharkhand, the statement said.With the LPG storage capacity of 1,800 tonnes and bottling capacity of 40,000 cylinders per day, this plant would generate direct and indirect employment opportunities in Bihar.Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd’s (HPCL) 1,20,000 tonnes per annum LPG bottling plant at Harsidhi in East Champaran district has been built at a cost of Rs 136.4 crore.This plant has been constructed on 29 acres of land and its foundation stone was laid by PM Modi on April 10, 2018.The bottling plant will cater to the LPG requirement of East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Siwan, Gopalganj and Sitamarhi districts in Bihar, it added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-three-petroleum-projects-in-bihar-on-sunday/story-1brnnz7vundaiFzPtWzETP.html
13-09-2020||India||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS for post-Covid care ahead of Parliament session||Union Home Minister Amit Shah was admitted to AIIMS last night for post Covid-19 care. “As per advise given at discharge, he has now been admitted for complete medical checkup before parliament session for 1-2 days,” said the hospital in a statement.He was also admitted to the hospital on August 18 for post-coronavirus care.Shah, 55, had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2.He had announced his health status on Twitter after testing positive for the virus, and urged those who came in contact with him in recent days to isolate themselves and get tested.The home minister tested negative for the disease on August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-admitted-in-aiims-for-round-2-of-post-covid-care/story-FODxA34DBeFiv7PhtQtdyM.html
13-09-2020||India||Obesity, diabetes raise Covid-19 death risk||Young adults with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) usually get mild symptoms, but risks of complications and death rise significantly for people under 35 with obesity, hypertension and diabetes, according to a new research. An analysis of clinical profiles of 3,222 young adults (aged 18-34 years; mean age of 28.3 years) hospitalised for Covid-19 between April 1 and June 30 in 419 hospitals in the US revealed that 21% of them needed intensive care, 10% required mechanical ventilation, and 2.7% died. Morbid obesity, diabetes and hypertension were the most common risk factors in young adults, with those having more than one of these conditions facing risks comparable to older adults having no pre-existing illnesses, reported a study published in JAMA Internal Medicine, which is the journal of the American Medical Association. The study found that 36.8% of hospitalised young adults were obese, 24.5% were morbidly obese, 18.2% had diabetes, and 16.1% had hypertension (morbid obesity, hypertension and being male are associated with greater risk of mechanical ventilation and death). In India too, men with Covid-19 are twice more likely to die than women, with men accounting for 69% of all deaths, reveals health ministry data. People under 40 with Covid-19 account for fewer than 10% of total Covid-19 deaths in India, with deaths being the highest in the 61-70 years age group in both genders. “People under 40 usually have mild disease and most cases can be managed at home or in Covid Care Homes. Those who are hospitalised almost always have co-morbidities like obesity, diabetes and hypertension, and less than 5% need ICU admission. But if they do and are put on ventilator, their vascular risk increases and their chances of getting a heart attack or stroke becomes the same as older adults,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman Institute of Critical Care and Anaesthesiology, Medanta The Medicity, Gurugram. Covid-19 has also been called a vascular disease as it leads to the formation of blood clots in arteries and veins, which can block blood supply to the heart, brain and lungs and lead to stroke, heart attack and respiratory failure. “If you are obese, you are likely to be diabetic or have hypertension, and vice versa, so the risk is compounded,” said Dr Mehta. The progression of Covid-19-induced thrombosis is very rapid in young adults, with deaths often occurring within 24 hours of hospitalisation. “Older adults die of pneumonia and other Covid-19-related complications, but sudden, unexpected death is more common in young adults in their 20s and 30s, whose condition dips very rapidly. In such cases, the cause of death is usually cardiovascular, with abnormal clotting in brain, lungs and heart leading to cardiac arrest,” said Dr Shiv K Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi. At Max SuperSpecialty in New Delhi’s Saket, people under 40 account for less than 4.5% deaths, with 29% deaths occurring in those between 40 and 59 years old, and 47% deaths in the 60-74 age group. Those over 75 years account for 18% deaths at the hospital. “Young people have mild disease and rarely need hospitalsiation, but they need to be isolated to break the chain of infection, which makes testing, tracking and treating important, as does social distancing and wearing masks,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, clinical director, Max Healthcare. “We should not look at the absolute number of cases and deaths; those will always be high, given India’s large population. What we must look at is deaths per million, and India has 56 deaths per million compared to 596 for the US and 61 for Brazil, which remain far lower than other countries even if you factor in some amount of under-reporting...,” said Dr Budhiraja. Four young adults, the takeaway is that those with obesity, diabetes, and hypertension share the same risks as older adults. So they must seek Covid-19 treatment under supervision from the moment they get their test results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obesity-diabetes-raise-covid-19-death-risk/story-PdyqYSpjyAwF070marzeMK.html
13-09-2020||India||After 5 months, Odisha migrant workers leave for workplace in Gujarat via special trains||Months after lakhs of Odia migrant workers returned home by Shramik Special trains in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown, over 1,800 of them today started their journey back to their workplaces in Gujarat and Chhatisgarh after Indian Railway decided to run five special trains for them.In Berhampur town of Ganjam district, a Covid-19 hotspot till last month, over 1,400 migrant workers queued up to board the Khurda Road-Ahmedabad express. Wearing masks and maintaining social distance, the migrant workers with their families were screened before they could board the train. Of the 1,800-odd people who boarded the trains, at least 1,651 were headed for Gujarat as they boarded the 02843 Khurda Road-Ahmedabad express that will run four days a week. Similarly, over 150 boarded the Bhubaneswar-Durg express today from different stations across Odisha.“I have not been able to get any work after I returned to Ganjam four months ago. As Covid-19 cases have come down in Ganjam, I have decided to travel back to Surat. At least I can earn something as the textile mills have started running,” said Jagdish Nayak from Ganjam. Also read: Jharkhand CM meets Lalu Yadav, says ‘will contest Bihar polls together’Another migrant worker Shiva Sahu of Kukudakhandi block in Ganjam district too boarded the train to Surat that would reach Gujarat on Monday. “I would never have come back had the mills not closed down. I faced a lot of difficulty after coming back home. I have almost no money left and was waiting to go back. I did not want to take the bus ride as there have been several road accidents,” he said.“While Puri-Ahmedabad, Puri-Okha and Puri-Gandhidham Express will run from Khordha Road station, the Bhubaneswar-Durg trains will run from Bhubaneswar. The trains will be fully reserved ones. Stoppages of the train will be restricted in view of the suggestions of the state governments,” said Kaushalendra Khadanga, chief PRO, East Coast Railway. The stations from where the passengers would board have been thoroughly sanitised to keep them free from infection.Railways officials said the rush for the seats in these special trains is so much that there are no seats available till September 20. In Khurda Road-Okha weekly special, no tickets are available till September 20 while Bhubaneswar-Ahmedabad weekly express is packed till September 23.Also read: Serum Institute to resume Covid-19 vaccine trial after DGCI gives nodThe special trains started running a couple of days after Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan wrote to Union railways minister Piyush Goyal urging him to resume the Shramik Special Train services from Odisha to other states to facilitate the return of migrant workers to their workplaces.Pradhan, on September 7, had written to Goyal requesting him to start Shramik special trains from Odisha to states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra so that the migrant workers could go back to their respective workplaces.“There was a mass exodus of migrant workers from states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra to Odisha in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown. These workers have highlighted their plights due to the unavailability of livelihood options and difficulty in travelling back to their workplace for re-joining work. Even though some employers are willing to offer bus transport service from Odisha, a long and arduous journey via road is neither feasible nor safe for such long distances due to prevailing monsoon conditions,” Pradhan wrote after 8 migrant workers of Ganjam district were killed on their way to Surat in a bus accident. The bus was carrying about 60 migrant workers from Aska in Ganjam district to Surat.Since lockdown, more than 9.26 lakh migrant workers of Odisha had returned home after losing their livelihood at their workplaces in Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bengal, Delhi and Haryana. Of these, 3.58 lakh workers came by 256 Shramik Special trains while the rest came by buses, cars, taxis and cycles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-5-months-odisha-migrant-workers-leave-for-workplace-in-gujarat-via-special-trains/story-1zRYtvgD3lnDYir6pJc0IN.html
13-09-2020||India||SC judges speak out over ‘gossip, slander’||Judges have become targets for criticism, especially on social media, and their freedom to defend themselves is limited, the two senior most judges in the Supreme Court said at an event on Saturday -- comments that become significant in light of criticism of recent orders of the apex court, and its own dealing of such criticism. Judges have become soft targets on social media and are subject to relentless criticism and juicy gossip, justice NV Ramana said on Saturday at an event, adding that they restrain themselves from speaking in their own defence.Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, speaking at the same event, concurred with justice Ramana’s views, saying “freedom of speech of judges is curtailed by the same laws and machinery that uphold the freedom for others who use it to criticise the judiciary and judges”. The chief justice’s reference is to the convention that judges do not speak of their judgments, or defend themselves from criticism of the same. Justice Ramana, next in line to become the Chief Justice of India, said judges have to be very circumspect when it comes to their social life as they have no platform to respond to criticism and can speak only through their judgments and judicial work.“Judges are restrained from speaking out in their own defence. Today, judges have become soft target of criticism and especially with the advent of social media , they have become subject to juicy gossip. There seems to be a misunderstanding that judges lead a life of luxury in their ivory towers. That is not true. Judges have to balance their social lives in order to be independent,” he said in his speech at the launch of a book authored by recently retired Supreme Court judge, justice R Banumathi.The remarks come in the backdrop of a case involving activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan. On August 31, the apex court imposed a “nominal fine” of Re 1 on Bhushan after he was convicted for criminal contempt for two tweets that it deemed were against the judiciary, saying he has attempted to “denigrate the reputation of the institution of administration of justice”.Justice Banumathi’s book titled ‘Judiciary, Judges and the Administration of Justice’ was released by CJI Bobde, who handed over the first copy to justice Ramana.Justice Ramana said that from his own experience, he can say that the life of a judge is not better than that of others and that even their family members have to make sacrifices in the interests of duty. Judges do not speak about cases before them or respond to any criticism as a matter of propriety and convention. Besides, “Restatement of values of Judicial Life”, which was a charter adopted by a full court of the Supreme Court in 1997, broadly governs conduct of Supreme Court and high court judges. It says that judges should not enter into public debate or express their views in public on political matters or on matters that are pending or are likely to arise for judicial determination. It also says that judges should not give interviews to media and a judge is expected to let his or her judgments speak for themselves.Justice Ramana will take over as CJI from justice Bobde on April 24, 2021 and will serve for almost a year-and-half before he retires in August 2022.“Judges are becoming victims of juicy gossip and slanderous social media posting,” he said.Last week, another Supreme Court judge, justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, said that courts are increasingly being asked to decide on policy issues that are brought before it under the guise of public interest litigations and that as a result, they face a lot of criticism.The courts, he maintained, have their limitations and have not been tasked with the responsibility of running the country and cannot perform the role of the government.Separately, at the same event, CJI Bobde warned of the surge in pendency in cases on account of the pandemic and suggested mediation as a way to resolve the logjam.“There will be huge pendency of cases due to the pandemic. I don’t think there is a way out of it but only a way through it. I think it can be resolved through mediation. I am not suggesting that we should go for mediation in every case but I don’t think we can go about it in the usual way. We will have to put our minds together (to find a solution),” he said.The CJI also highlighted the significance of mental health during the pandemic, saying the Supreme Court has come up with an initiative to provide mental health support and the secretary general will be making an announcement in this regard soon.The CJI said the judiciary belongs to the nation and its achievements are the result of “unflinching dedication” and commitment of numerous individuals on and off the bench.He said that for judges and consequently for the judiciary, the biggest challenge is to ensure that the nation inches towards the goal set in the Constitution.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judges-speak-out-over-gossip-slander/story-h0Foih4IkTxODujmy1o33O.html
13-09-2020||India||Govt takes stock as Covid-19 cases still high||India reported 94,392 infections and 1,108 deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, according to data from states that show the country continues to report some of the grimmest numbers in the world, which has prompted officials and experts of late to make repeated appeals to people to not become complacent. The country is now recording the highest numbers of new cases. The average number of daily infections is well over the 90,000-mark in the last seven days. This number was around 24,000 two months ago and 58,000 a month ago. India’s new case counts are more than double of the United States’s and Brazil’s – the other two countries with the largest outbreaks.The latest appeals for caution come from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Jab tak dawai nahi, tab tak dhilai nahi. Do gaj ki doori, mask hai jaroori (No complacency till a medicine is found. Face mask and maintainting distance of two yards is necessary),” PM Modi said at an event to mark the handover of 175,000 houses built in rural pockets of Madhya Pradesh under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY).According to a statement from the government, the PM’s principal secretary PK Mishra chaired a high-level meeting to “comprehensively review the Covid-19 preparedness and response”, where the case management, vaccine development and distribution, and long-term strategies were discussed. “Based on the many projections scenarios, the principal secretary directed all concerned to build on the knowledge and analysis that has been developed over the last few months to work out a detailed action plan for the coming months. The need for continuously upgrading and augmenting human resources, getting the right mix of testing for effective case management, contact tracing and isolation, uninterrupted oxygen supply and other medical equipments, were all discussed at length,” said the statement. On Thursday, India recorded its highest number of single day cases yet, 99,181, according to HT’s dashboard of Covid-19 statistics. In all, the country now has had 4,751,763 cases and 78,614 due to the viral disease. Across the country, there are 976,555 active cases.Delhi -- which has seen a spike in daily new cases in recent weeks, largely owing to the increase in testing -- on Saturday added 4,321 infections that took the city’s total tally to 214,069, and 28 more fatalities that pushed cumulative fatalities to 4,715. It also conducted 60,076 tests in 24 hours, the city’s highest so far, according to the official state health bulletin. The central government on Saturday said around 60% of the total cases have been from five states – Maharashtra (21.8%), Andhra Pradesh (11.8%), Tamil Nadu (10.6%), Karnataka (9.5%), and Uttar Pradesh (6.4%), according to the Union health ministry data. Experts reiterated that taking precautions such as wearing a mask in public and maintaining social distance is the only way to slow down the spread of the infection. The way forward for India would be to, “prevent crowded super-spreader events, reduce urban to rural transmission, micro-containment in urban areas, syndromic surveillance of households through primary health care teams with early identification for testing, isolation and local contact tracing, promote greater adherence to masks and physical distance through local community and NGO networks,” said Dr Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). Dr Shobha Broor, former head of microbiology department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said, “Masks and social distancing are the only vaccines available to us at the moment and the only thing that we can do to prevent further spread of the infection. I think people are fatigued of following these measures and have relaxed slowly... People need to understand the importance of wearing mask and how to wear it properly.” There has been an increase in the number of cases along with India scaling up testing to over 1 million a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-takes-stock-as-cases-still-high/story-n8oocKO8V0bimpMlXMccxJ.html
13-09-2020||India||EC sets up panel to look into technologies that enable remote voting||New DelhiThe Election Commission of India (ECI) has set up a four-member panel to assess technologies to enable remote voting, people familiar with the matter said. The panel, which has members from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bhilai, IIT-Bombay, IIT-Madras and the National Informatics Centre, will soon present a concept to the ECI to enable a two-way transfer of vote and ballot. The panel was set up four months ago, said Rajat Moona, director IIT-Bhilai. “The tech advisory group is exploring a spectrum of options, including blockchain technology, to enable remote voting,” said Moona. “We are hoping to demonstrate a prototype in the next two months, then the commission will take a call,” he added. However, there are many concerns yet to be addressed, one of the people cited above said. “The remote voting exercise is not only for academic purposes. The machines will have to have flexibility and will have to ensure privacy and security of the vote,” the person added. The panel is advising the ECI’s IT division on various aspects such as electoral rolls and storing data, as the dependence on technology in the conduct of elections increases, the person said. Currently, postal ballots are meant only for service voters such as army personnel who cannot return to vote. The panel will also consult parties, as and when a concept enabling remote voting is found.“The question of remote voting came up when we talked about whether postal ballots can have a two-way transfer system,” said Moona.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-sets-up-panel-to-look-into-technologies-that-enable-remote-voting/story-Rys47ymNbrUaxdVtiPboUK.html
13-09-2020||India||Congress dissenters chart next step||A day after Congress president Sonia Gandhi carried out a major organisational reshuffle, some of the 23 party leaders who earlier called for sweeping reforms appeared “unhappy and disappointed” and met on Saturday to discuss their next course of action, people familiar with the developments said.A leader present in the meeting, who did not want to be named, said they were not satisfied with the changes as these “do not in any way” address the concerns raised by them in their August 7 letter to Sonia Gandhi that triggered a flutter. “The reshuffle is disappointing. We are displeased and unhappy. It does not reflect any attempt on the part of the leadership to take the party on the revival path...,” he added. In their letter, the 23 signatories called for full-time and active leadership and introspection behind the “steady decline” of the 135-year-old organisation while outlining an 11-point action plan. Those who signed the letter included Kapil Sibal, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik, Jitin Prasada, Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari. Saturday’s meeting, the leader quoted above said, was attended by 18 of the 23 letter-writers. “The fallout of this futile exercise of reshuffle has been such that there were many new participants in the meeting today. We will reveal their names at the appropriate time,” he added.HT couldn’t independently confirm the names of the attendees or the number. The letter-writers, who drew flak from the party, also demanded an election process for members of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, and not nomination, as announced on Friday. Soon after, on Friday, Kapil Sibal said: “The wisdom of great minds has prevailed. Nomination seems to be the rule and election is not even an exception.” The rejig bore a clear imprint of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi as many leaders (including Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken and Jitendra Singh) considered close to him were appointed general secretaries. The reconstituted CWC, too, is dominated by those close to Rahul Gandhi. The party removed some key faces, including senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Mallikarjun Kharge, as general secretaries. Both of them were, however, retained in CWC.Of the letter-writers, apart from Azad, three others (Mukul Wasnik, Anand Sharma and Jitin Prasada) who were already part of CWC, have been retained in the body — an indication, according to some functionaries, that the party leadership was trying to strike a conciliatory note. The letter-writers have decided, for the time being, that they will focus on the monsoon session of Parliament beginning Monday, and try to corner Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government over several issues. “Once the monsoon session is over and the Congress president returns after undergoing health check-up, we will once again raise our issues,” the person cited in the first instance said. Sonia Gandhi, accompanied by Rahul Gandhi, left for the US on Saturday for a routine health check-up. Surjewala, who has been a gainer in Friday’s reshuffle, separately said Sonia Gandhi formed a five-member Central Election Authority (CEA) and set in motion the process of elections to the party president’s post. At an online press conference, he also commented on the organisational changes, saying they were part of a continuous process. “A lot of new people have got a chance, many old people of the party have got a chance, a lot of colleagues who were already there have got more strength to continue serving the organisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissenters-chart-next-step/story-ljqD2Sb0bA9PCJhJ7TfDDN.html
13-09-2020||India||Afghan-led peace talks key: India||New Delhi on Saturday made it clear that any new dispensation that emerges from the intra-Afghan dialogue process must ensure that the soil of Afghanistan is never used for anti-India activities. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, who joined the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha, Qatar, via video conference, reiterated India’s support for an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process and sought an immediate ceasefire in the war-torn country. Teams comprising representatives of the Afghan government and the Taliban will come face-to-face for the first time on Monday for peace talks in Qatar’s capital for a negotiated settlement after nearly two decades of war. The talks were to have begun in March but were delayed by differences over the release of prisoners. Jaishankar, who joined the event at the invitation of Qatar’s deputy prime minister and foreign minister Mohammad bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani, said: “Our friendship with Afghanistan is strong and unshaken, we have always been good neighbours and will always be so. Our expectation is that the soil of Afghanistan should never be used for any anti-India activities.” The peace process, he said, has to address the violence in Afghanistan and the neighbourhood and also protect the interests of minorities and women. Jaishankar said, “It [the peace process] has to respect national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. It should promote the values of human rights and democracy that can foster development. The interests of the minorities, women and vulnerable must be ensured. “And most important, the issue of violence across the country and its neighbourhood has to be effectively addressed. The rising levels of violence cannot be allowed to continue and, like others, we support an immediate, comprehensive ceasefire.” India, which is the region’s largest provider of development aid to Afghanistan, has watched a recent spike in violence and attacks on minorities such as Sikhs with growing concern. Since 2001, India has undertaken projects worth $3 billion in Afghanistan, including $1 billion pledged in 2016 under the “new development partnership” scheme for a period of five years. Jaishankar referred to India’s role in development aid and talked about the infrastructure created by the Indian partnership that spreads across all 34 provinces, “be it the Parliament house for the nation, transmission lines and hospitals in Kabul, the friendship dam in Herat, the Afghanistan national agricultural science and technology university in Kandahar”. “Equally impactful have been capacity building projects, scholarships and training of youth,” he said, adding that India has supplied more than a million tonnes of food grains in recent years. To address the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, India provided more than 15 tonnes of life-saving drugs and medical equipment and facilitated the travel of Afghan citizens to India for medical treatment. He added, “These are but examples of our deep commitment to the welfare, prosperity and stability of the Afghan nation, and today, these are the very objectives that bring us here to discuss peace and reconciliation. Our approach in that regard has always remained consistent – any peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.” A senior official delegation led by JP Singh, joint secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran) in the external affairs ministry, also participated in the inaugural ceremony in Doha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-led-peace-talks-key-india/story-VhLoHRFDlnkwluHIQHR91O.html
13-09-2020||India||Govt decides against holding all-party meet ahead of session||The government has decided not to hold an all-party meeting ahead of the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, people familiar with the matter. Generally, an all-party meet is conferred before a session of Parliament to set targets. According to a person aware of the details, the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of both Houses of Parliament is scheduled to meet on Sunday to take decisions on allocation of time for businesses that will be taken up during the monsoon session, which is scheduled to take place from September 14 To October 1. According to a person familiar with the details, the BAC will be attended by representatives from all parties that have more than three members of Parliament (MPs) and all vice-chairpersons in addition to MPs who are part of the BAC. “Since there will be representatives from nearly all parties except those that have fewer than three MPs it will nearly be an all- party meeting,” said the person quoted above. The government is expected to face questions on the border standoff with China and the handling of the pandemic during the meeting.“The government will have to make a statement on the Chinese aggression and India’s response. The government has kept the opposition informed. PM Modi met all opposition leaders in June to inform them about the developments along the LAC and most of the parties barring the Congress supported the Indian government’s response,” said a Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) functionary on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-decides-against-holding-all-party-meet-ahead-of-session/story-z9rxfOhACSCrFyPbYATscN.html
13-09-2020||India||BJP MPs meet farmers protesting in Haryana||A three-member panel of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday met farmers who have been protesting in Haryana, seeking a roll back of three ordinances promulgated by the Centre. The panel, constituted by BJP’s Haryana unit chief Om Prakash Dhankar, comprises Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh. The meeting came two days after the protesting farmers blocked a national highway in Kurukshetra’s Pipli and clashed with Haryana police. Farmer’s bodies have called the ordinances -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance --- ‘anti-farmer’, and sought their rollback. Following the meeting, Dharambir said, “A few people are misleading the farmers over the ordinances. But we have briefed the farmers about the benefit of these ordinances. We are taking suggestions from farmers and will discuss the same with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.” Brijendra Singh said introducing structural reforms in agriculture was the main objective behind brining in the ordinances. “There are efforts being made to spread confusion regarding the three ordinances. The reality is that these ordinances will neither abolish the existing Mandi system nor abolish the minimum support price,” he said. All India Kisan Sabha vice-president Inderjit Singh said that the ordinances under contention were against farmers and the MPs should raise the issue in the Parliament. “The Haryana government should pass a resolution to withdraw these ordinances, otherwise farmers will be destroyed. We have submitted our grievances in the written to the three members MPs committee,” he said. Targetting the BJP government, farmers’ leader, Preet Singh, said, “The committee formed by Dhankar is an eyewash. The BJP government has become arrogant and we are surprised how a state president of the ruling party can form a such committee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mps-meet-farmers-protesting-in-haryana/story-BbEPOgeuXGNaSMLhIzp7jN.html
13-09-2020||India||Paneer thali to chicken biryani likely to be on menu this monsoon session||A paneer thali with chapati, sweets, dal, pickles and jeera rice for Rs 105, a south Indian thali of idli, vada, mini dosa and utthapam with sambhar and chutney for Rs 110, both prepared by a Bengali Market-based private restaurant are among the food boxes lawmakers and others in Parliament can choose from during the upcoming monsoon session that starts Monday with stringent health protocols. Parliament staff and media will have to place orders and pay a day in advance, officials familiar with the matter said. The officials added that they really don’t know how many people will avail the food box option, given that most people are wary of eating out during the pandemic. Non-veg food boxes will also be available -- Rs 150 for a chicken cutlet, croissant, boiled vegetables and a dab of butter, or Rs 100 for chicken biriyani and raita will be available. With the northern railway-run parliament canteen closed due to the coronavirus disease and no cooking allowed in the Parliament complex for this session, the food served will be sourced from outside. Railways will distribute and serve the food inside the House complex, and manage the payments. These, officials insisted, are temporary measures during the extraordinary circumstances and the best option after considering various factors. In the next session, the government’s tourism arm ITDC will take over the House canteen. As the Bengali Market-based restaurant only specializes in vegetarian food, the non-vegetarian items will be prepared at an MPs’ canteen in North Avenue, close to the Parliament estate. “This canteen was closed for the past few months. But it will be opened if the non-vegetarian menu is approved. Meanwhile, two cooks from parliament canteen have been deployed there to help the staff,” one of the officials said. The breakfast menu— cheese rolls, sandwiches, veg patties, samosas, and kachories —will be brought to the parliament complex before 7.30 AM. Sweets will also be served. The early morning deadline will be strictly followed as visitors’ movement will be restricted once the House will start functioning at 9 am for the morning shift. Barring the inaugural day, Rajya Sabha will sit from 9 AM and the Lok Sabha will start its session from 3 PM. There will be no weekend breaks during the 18-day long session that ends on October 1. The lunch will be brought in hot cases by 1 PM, said officials. The Rajya Sabha secretariat has already issued a circular to its officials saying those “desirous of availing the food items may place the order and make payment to northern railway one day in advance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paneer-thali-to-chicken-biryani-likely-to-be-on-menu-this-monsoon-session/story-3y9VtNX75aLGLZEzAuMRMN.html
13-09-2020||India||Indian vaccine candidate passes animal trials test||Adverse events were not seen in animals immunized with a two-dose vaccination regimen of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, the company’s vaccine candidate to protect people from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), shows the animal study data published by one of India’s two Covid-19 vaccine candidates currently in human trials. The vaccine, being developed in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research is in phase 1/2 of human clinical trials, but the results of the animal study had not been released. The study also substantiated the immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate -- showing that it offered extensive safety and generated effective immune responses against the target virus.“…we have developed and assessed the protective efficacy and immunogenicity of an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine (BBV152) in rhesus macaques (Macaca mulata). Twenty macaques were divided into four groups of five animals each. One group was administered a placebo while three groups were immunized with three different vaccine candidates at 0 and 14 days…” a pre-print paper on the study, published on Research Square said. All the macaques were exposed to SARS-CoV-2 14 days after the second dose was administered. According to the data, the protective response was observed with increasing SARS-CoV-2 specific IgG and neutralizing antibody titers from the third week post-immunization. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) is a long-lasting antibody that develops at least a week after exposure to a virus.“Viral clearance was observed from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, nasal swab, throat swab, and lung tissues at seven days post-infection in the vaccinated groups. No evidence of pneumonia was observed by histopathological examination in vaccinated groups, unlike the placebo group which showed features of interstitial pneumonia and localization of viral antigen in the alveolar epithelium and macrophages by immunohistochemistry. Data from this study substantiate the immunogenicity of the vaccine candidates…” the paper added. Bharat Biotech initiated phase-1 clinical trials of Covaxin across the country on July 15, in the form of a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in 375 volunteers in India. Companies can launch such studies only after presenting drug regulators with pre-clinical studies (usually on animals) that show safety and efficacy. The company is developing the vaccine in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) that isolated the virus strain at its National Institute of Virology in Pune, and transferred it to the company on May 9.The indigenous, vaccine candidate, based on an inactived virus, is being developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech’s BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) High Containment facility located in Genome Valley, Hyderabad, India.Covaxin got the Drug Controller General of India’s approval for Phase I/II clinical trials on June 29.“Only after department’s subject experts studied the animal trials data and were satisfied with the results that the permission for human trials was granted. The process is being closely followed as everyone is waiting for a vaccine against Covid-19, and we have to ensure that what comes out is safe and effective after going through robust regulatory processes,” said a senior official in the drug regulator who asked not to be named.The other indigenous vaccine in human trials is being developed by Zydus Cadila.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-vaccine-candidate-passes-animal-trials-test/story-3MSbEW0kBJ9K9vig2OiFvI.html
13-09-2020||India||Delhi riots hate speech: Key FB executive summoned before Delhi House panel||The Delhi Assembly’s peace and harmony committee has summoned Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan in connection with complaints about the social media company’s “deliberate and intentional inaction “ in controlling hateful content on its platform. -- the second time in weeks that the Facebook executive will be appearing before a government panel to justify the company’s behaviour. The panel, headed by Aam Aadmi Party legislator from Rajendra Nagar, Raghav Chadha, has issued a notice, asking Mohan to appear before it on September 15 at the Delhi Vidhan Sabha premises. “The summons were issued on the basis of scathing depositions of key witnesses as well as incriminating material submitted by them on record,” the committee said in an official statement Saturday. The notice came weeks after the committee, in its second hearing on August 31, said that prima facie, it has found that Facebook was allegedly complicit in aggravating the February riots in north-east Delhi that left 53 dead and at least 400 injured. These primarily have to do with posts on its platform ahead of and during the rites. The committee is investigating the matter after it took cognisance of “several complaints” received from people based on an article published in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14. The article alleged that the social media company ignored its own hate speech guidelines and decided not to act against comments posted by a lawmaker from the Bharatiya Janata Party at the instance of its (Facebook’s) top lobbyist in India. The report titled ‘Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics’ stated that Facebook officials, especially its top public policy executive in India, Ankhi Das, cited business imperatives while choosing not to apply hate-speech rules to at least four individuals and groups linked with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in India. BJP leaders have since complained that the social media company is actually biased against it -- and law and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has shot off a letter to the effect to the company. Facebook did not respond to e-mails, text messages and calls seeking comment . HT has seen a copy of the notice that the Delhi assembly’s deputy secretary sent to Mohan on September 10. It reads, “We hereby summon you (Ajit Mohan) to appear before the committee on September 15, 2020 at 12 Noon at MLA Lounge- 1, Delhi Vidhan Sabha, for the purpose of recording your deposition on oath and participating in the proceedings carried out by the committee,” In the last hearing, the committee said there should be an independent investigation, leading to the filing of a supplementary charge sheet, in the ongoing cases related to the Delhi riots on the basis of supportive and corroborative material during the course of the purported investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-hate-speech-key-fb-executive-summoned-before-delhi-house-panel/story-rxPlT2eRuVJOuVijeWIkyN.html
13-09-2020||India||North-East Delhi riots accused names leaders in statement||A charge sheet related to the north-east Delhi riots case, filed last month by Delhi police, created a stir on social media on Saturday, after it emerged that one attachment to it has a statement by an accused, claiming that general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Sitaram Yechury, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, Delhi University professor Apoorvanand, former MLA Chaudhary Mateen and advocate Mahmood Pracha had instigated the protestors. To be sure, their names do not appear in the charge sheet itself. Delhi Police moved immediately to clarify that none of these people have been charged. The unit’s spokesperson, Anil Mittal said, “Nobody has been charged. We have not even made any recommendation to the court because they are not an accused. The names are part of the disclosure statement of one of the accused in connection with organising and addressing anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. The disclosure statement has been truthfully recorded as narrated by the accused person. A person is not arraigned as an accused only on the basis of disclosure statement. However, it is only on the existence of sufficient corroborative evidence does further legal action is taken. The matter is currently sub judice.” HT has reviewed a copy of the charge sheet. The statement in question was from a person called Gulfisha Khatoon, in which she names people who “fuelled the feeling of discontent among protesters by calling CAA and NRC anti-Muslim...” Khatoon, a student activist and alleged member of Pinjra Tod, was arrested on July 28 . Police have claimed that members of the women’s collective Pinjra Tod, including Devanga Kalita and Natasha Narwal, orchestrated the riots by mobilising people through their speeches during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. Responding to Saturday’s online furore, Mahmood Pracha, said: “Political masters in the Home Ministry are misusing police to remove me from the scene either by physically eliminating me or falsely implicating me in these cases. I have thoroughly exposed them by the process of law.” Pracha is also Khatoon’s counsel in the case. Yechury too criticised Delhi Police. He tweeted, “56 people died in the riots. There are videos of people delivering inflammatory speeches but police are not taking any action against them. They have clear orders to suppress the oppression. There will be protests against this.” DU professor Apoorvanand said the whole thing is “disappointing because the actual violence is not a concern for the Delhi police”. “Delhi had suffered violence in February and we want to know the truth. Instead, Delhi police is deploying its energy, talent and time in weaving a fiction of a crime they know does not exist. To criminalise a legitimate act of protest against an act of the government is an ideological exercise and professional body like the Delhi police is not expected to be a part of it .” Yadav and former MLA Chaudhary were not immediately available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attachment-in-n-e-riots-charge-sheet-names-yechury-yadav-police-say-they-are-not-charged/story-DiXhJdAIfodgA0ONCAIPiI.html
13-09-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi to miss monsoon session of Parliament, to travel outside India for medical check-up||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will be travelling outside the country for a routine medical check-up which could not take place earlier due to the ongoing pandemic situation, party officials said on Saturday.The Congress president will be accompanied by her son and party leader Rahul Gandhi.Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi is travelling today onwards for a routine follow up & medical check up, which was deferred due to the pandemic.She is accompanied by Sh. Rahul Gandhi.We take this opportunity to thank everyone for their concern & good wishes.Both Opposition leaders will give the upcoming monsoon session in Parliament a miss which starts on Monday next week.HT had reported that many senior lawmakers are likely to give the much-awaited monsoon session of Parliament a miss, on account of fears of exposing themselves to the coronavirus disease despite efforts from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha authorities to ensure a safe session.Also read: Several senior leaders may skip monsoon session due to Covid-19The list includes senior political leaders who have been advised to exercise caution during the ongoing Covid-19 disease outbreak. Former prime minister and senior Congress leader Manmohan Singh is likely to attend Parliament’s inaugural session but is expected to skip rest of the session on advise from his doctors. The 87-year-old political leader has been strictly asked to not leave home by his doctors.Another Congress leader and former defence minister AK Antony, 79, may not attend the House daily but be there on some days, HT had reported. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also said some of her senior party leaders who are old or suffering from an ailment will skip the upcoming parliament session. The ongoing pandemic has raised concerns among leaders across party lines who have decided to skip the parliament. Two days before the session is expected to begin, India reported globally the highest ever recorded cases of Covid-19 — 97,570 —in a span of 24 hours. India reported another 1,201 deaths Saturday, bringing total deaths to 77,472, the third highest in the world.Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu have been personally overseeing all preparations to implement Covid-19 safety protocols . On Thursday, Birla spent a few minutes in the gallery of the Lok Sabha to supervise how MPs will participate in the proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-to-miss-monsoon-session-of-parliament-to-travel-outside-india-for-medical-check-up/story-RBM4Dn2VWFXu0spYNMU7ZP.html
13-09-2020||India||Serum Institute to resume Covid-19 vaccine trial after DGCI gives nod||After pharma company AstraZeneca announced the resumption of its Covid-19 vaccine trial in the UK, its India partner Serum Institute said it will also restart the trials once the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) gives the nod.DGCI has earlier sent a show-cause notice to the Pune-based firm, questioning why it has not stopped trials while trials have been stopped in four other countries after a UK volunteer reportedly showed symptoms of neurological disorder which affects the spinal cord. Following this, Serum Institute of India paused the phase 3 trial in India, which was scheduled to begin next week.Also Read | Oxford’s coronavirus vaccine AstraZeneca trial resumes after UK green light“Clinical trials for the AstraZeneca Oxford coronavirus vaccine, AZD1222, have resumed in the UK following confirmation by the Medicines Health Regulatory Authority (MHRA) that it was safe to do so,” AstraZeneca said in a statement on Saturday. As I’d mentioned earlier, we should not jump to conclusions until the trials are fully concluded. The recent chain of events are a clear example why we should not bias the process and should respect the process till the end. Good news, @UniofOxford. https://t.co/ThIU2ELkO3“As I’d mentioned earlier, we should not jump to conclusions until the trials are fully concluded. The recent chain of events are a clear example why we should not bias the process and should respect the process till the end. Good news, @UniofOxford,” Serum Institute of India’s CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted after AstraZeneca announced it is resuming the trials.The World Health Organization’s (WHO) chief scientist on Thursday said AstraZeneca’s pause of an experimental vaccine for the coronavirus after the illness of a participant is a “wake-up call”. “This is a wake-up call to recognise that there are ups and downs in clinical development and that we have to be prepared,” Soumya Swaminathan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-to-resume-covid-19-vaccine-trial-after-dgci-gives-nod/story-1pT8EeMSdwYmUyOJBnz29I.html
13-09-2020||India||‘Greater cooperation’: India, ASEAN adopt plan of action for 2021-25||India and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) on Saturday adopted the plan of action for 2021-25 that envisages greater cooperation in areas ranging from trade to maritime security and counter-terrorism.The plan of action will help the two sides to work towards the ASEAN 2025 vision for an economically integrated and rules-based grouping that narrows the development gap and enhances connectivity. Both sides will also cooperate on common challenges and enhance coordination at international forums. The virtual ASEAN-India ministerial meeting, co-chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Thai counterpart Don Pramudwinai, adopted the plan of action. The meeting, which was joined by the foreign ministers of the 10 ASEAN states, also discussed ways to strengthen cooperation to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and witnessed an exchange of views on regional and international developments.Also read: Afghanistan’s soil shouldn’t be used for anti-India activities - JaishankarThe meeting reviewed the ASEAN-India strategic partnership in several areas, including maritime cooperation, connectivity and people-to-people contacts. It reviewed preparations for the upcoming ASEAN-India Summit and progress in implementing key decisions made at the last summit in Bangkok in November 2019.Under the new plan of action, the two sides will further strengthen the East Asia Summit “as a premier leaders-led forum for dialogue and cooperation on broad strategic, political and economic issues... with the aim of promoting peace, stability and economic prosperity in the region”.The plan envisages India’s active participation and co-chairing of joint exercises and activities, and strengthening of practical defence cooperation to address challenges in maritime security, counter-terrorism, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, peacekeeping operations, and cyber-security.Also read: India needs a refined toolkit to manage ChinaThe two sides will also promote maritime security and safety, freedom of navigation and overflight, unimpeded commerce, the non-use of force, and the resolution of disputes by peaceful means, in accordance with international law, including the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).In the field of economic cooperation, the two sides will continue efforts to make the ASEAN-India Free Trade Area (AIFTA) more user-friendly and trade facilitative by initiating a review of the ASEAN-India Trade in Goods Agreement and work towards ratification of the ASEAN-India Investment Agreement to facilitate further economic integration.In the realm of connectivity, the two sides will work closely to promote physical connectivity by “completing the missing links between South and Southeast Asia, including, but not limited to, expediting the completion of relevant sections of the India-Myanmar-Thailand trilateral highway and supporting steps to build an economic corridor along it and its extension to Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Vietnam”. They will also encourage private sector participation in developing roads and railways and logistics networks.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan also participated in a virtual meeting of the foreign ministers of the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) on Saturday under the chairmanship of Vietnam. The ministers exchanged views on international and regional issues. Muraleedharan presented India’s perspectives on the Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative, threat of terrorism, and cooperation for a collective response to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/greater-cooperation-india-asean-adopt-plan-of-action-for-2021-25/story-NPLjEa3Mcj8JPxtC671CQI.html
13-09-2020||India||DGCA warns of ban for photography||An airline’s service on a particular route can be banned for two weeks if it fails to act against crew or passengers in case someone violates rules such as the ban on photography mid-air, the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) said on Saturday as it took note of an incident on an IndiGo Airlines flight where members of the media began video recording mid air.The flight on which the violations occurred took off on September 9 and had among its passengers actor Kangana Ranaut, who has recently been in the middle of a public spat with the Maharashtra government. Crews of several TV channels followed the actor on the Chandigarh-Mumbai flight and were seen jostling for her attention while still in the cabin once the aircraft landed at its destination.Shortly after the incident, the DGCA sought a report from the airline, which on Friday said the passengers did not obey their cabin and cockpit crew who repeatedly requested them to maintain social distancing and switch off video recordings.“As per rule 13 of the Aircraft Rules 1937, no person shall take, or cause or permit to be taken, at a government aerodrome of from an aircraft in flight, any photograph except in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of a permission... This permission is, however, not applicable when such aircraft is landing, taking off or on ground at a defence aerodrome. In spite of these regulations, it has been noted that at times, airlines have failed to follow these stipulations primarily because of lack of diligence on their part. Needless to say that such deviations result in compromise in maintaining the highest standards of safety and therefore, is not to be allowed,” said the DGCA order following the airline’s report. The order added that they have decided that in such violations on a scheduled passenger aircraft, the schedule of the flight for that particular route will be suspended for a period of two weeks from the next day and will be restored only after the airline has taken all the punitive action against those responsible for the violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-more-fotos-near-planes-dgca/story-vflt9lgrqOaGGlAkRHwa7N.html
13-09-2020||India||GoAir yet to upgrade 20 engines in A320neo aircraft despite three-month extension||Despite receiving a three-month extension to replace all its aircraft engines powered by Pratt & Whitney (P&W), GoAir is yet to replace around 20 of them in its A320neo planes. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) continues to ground the aircraft whose P&W engines are yet to be modified.Top sources from the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) also confirmed to HT that GoAir was yet to replace all its P&W engines. “Currently, around 20 of their engines have to be replaced,” the ministry official said. Also Read: Air passengers entitled to refunds due to lockdown, Centre tells SCThe regulator had asked all P&W engines to be replaced with modified/ upgraded engines till January 2020, failing which the fleet would be grounded. The deadline was however extended again to May 31 and then to August 31. DGCA had granted the extension to the low-cost carrier, along with the country’s largest airline IndiGo, to refurbish engines in their A320neo fleet after supply chains and production lines were hit due to the nationwide lockdown. Unlike GoAir, IndiGo has met the extended deadline. “The replacement of P&W engines has been completed for Indigo. Some GoAir engines are yet to be replaced. However, we have stopped them from flying aircraft without both modified engines. If an aircraft has to fly, it has to have both modified engines. Effectively, those without both modifications remain grounded,” Arun Kumar, director general of DGCA, told HT.Also Read: Only 19% Indians willing to travel this festive season due to Covid-19, finds surveyThe P&W engine-powered A320neo planes in IndiGo and GoAir fleets have been facing glitches both mid-air and on the ground since April 2017, following which DGCA, at the end of 2019, directed that the two low-cost airlines replace them with the modified version by January this year. “GoAir, along with Pratt & Whitney, have upgraded the third stage of the low-pressure turbine (LPT) on all PW1100G-JM engines in service. The upgraded turbine has been performing flawlessly to date. In line with the GoAir policy of “safety first” and as mandated by Directorate General of Civil Aviation, all the aircraft are operating as per the safety standards. This progress was made during the pause in air travel and subsequent early recovery period with the support of Pratt & Whitney,” said the airline spokesperson. However, Pratt & Whitney said some GoAir engines were yet to be replaced. A P&W spokesperson said, “The vast majority of engines in GoAir’s fleet have been upgraded, and we are working with GoAir to schedule the remaining few. All aircraft operating in India today fly with upgraded GTF engines. The upgraded turbines in engines have performed flawlessly to date.” According to DGCA, IndiGo has 106 P&W powered A320neo aircraft in its fleet while GoAir has 43. Each A320neo plane is powered by a twin engine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goair-yet-to-upgrade-20-engines-in-a320neo-aircraft-despite-three-month-extension/story-hPDcY7IkF9e535TXEn0M7H.html
13-09-2020||Editorials||On the climate crisis, a grave warning | HT Editorial||According to a new climate change assessment that was launched by the United Nations (UN) secretary-general Antonio Guterres on September 9, the Covid-19 lockdowns have made a dent on global greenhouse gas emissions — but this is not nearly enough. Following a sharp fall in early April of 17% from 2019 levels, by June, as economies started opening up, daily emissions rose to within 5% of last year’s record levels. The United In Science report has been compiled by the World Meteorological Organization based on its findings, along with the findings of five other global science bodies. The report said that the final levels of emissions for 2020 would be 4-7% less than in 2019. However, on a larger scale, the world hasn’t moved forward on combating the climate crisis.To limit global heating to less than a 2 degree Celsius rise above pre-industrial levels by 2100, emissions need to fall by 5% every year. This year, the pandemic took care of this but there is no doubt that governments must do much more. Between 2020 and 2024, global temperatures are likely to breach the 1.5 degrees Celsius threshold in multiple months. The world is now 1.1 degrees warmer than pre-industrial times, and 2016-2020 is set to be the hottest period ever since records began to be kept. This, and the fact that global sea levels are rising, shows that the climate crisis is intensifying. It is clear that countries must reduce carbon emissions over the next 10 years. The shift away from fossil fuels to renewable energy needs to be scaled up if catastrophic levels of temperature rise are to be averted. As countries seek to reboot their Covid-ravaged economies, the assessment comes as a grave warning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-the-climate-crisis-a-grave-warning-ht-editorial/story-ZsrgYdtKLFV2Tfw2AX57QO.html
