28-09-2020||News||UN must go back to its original mandate||The United Nations (UN) is observing the 75th anniversary of its founding amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Heads of States/governments marked the occasion with speeches delivered through the digital medium. They applauded the UN and the role it has played in the maintenance of international peace and security and in addressing major social and economic challenges. The reality is that the original and uplifting vision, which underlay the establishment of the UN, has lost its focus. The UN faces a crisis of credibility at the root of which is the enfeeblement of the spirit of internationalism and related to that, the diminishing role of multilateral processes in addressing cross-cutting and global challenges. This is evident in the marginal role that the UN is playing in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic and the doubts expressed over the credibility and effectiveness of the World Health Organization (WHO) in mobilising the international community in the fight against the virus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of the concerns of countries like India and the need for reform in his address to the UN.Despite the pandemic being a global crisis, it is being tackled as a public health emergency mostly at the national level. The results are suboptimal as is to be expected. The pandemic has spawned a major economic crisis, but countries are held in thrall by the growing confrontation between the largest and the second-largest economies of the world: The United States (US) and China. Without a minimal agreement between them on supporting the recovery of the global economy and trade, it is impossible to recreate the G-20 collaboration which dealt successfully with the global financial and economic crisis of 2007-08. The World Trade Organization has been rendered irrelevant by the growing salience of large multi-nation regional trade and investment arrangements such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) and the increasing recourse to bilateral deals. Both global economy and trade flows are becoming fragmented and the international economic environment is less conducive to the development of countries like India. Multilateralism is more important to emerging countries whose bargaining clout is still limited. But India, too, appears to have adopted the current preference among major countries to deal with issues through a narrower and more self-centred nationalism prism. The UN today is a depleted version of its founding ideals and there are several reasons for this. Its original democratic impulse, limited though it was by the institution of the UN Security Council with five permanent members with veto power, is now weak. Resolutions of the UN General Assembly are rarely taken seriously. Its agenda is limited by the narrow sensitivities of its most powerful members. A major problem relates to finance. The assessed contributions to the UN, based on the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of its members, is barely enough to support the UN establishment leaving virtually nothing for its wide range of activities, including peace-keeping. The UN and its specialised agencies are able to engage in their mandated activities only through project funding from major donor countries. They determine where and how these funds will be spent. It should come as no surprise, therefore, that the activities of the UN are heavily oriented towards the preferences of the donors and not the priorities of its larger membership. Developing countries who are in the category of middle powers, such as India, Indonesia, Brazil, South Africa and Mexico, for example, could prevent the capture of the UN by a small cluster of richer countries, China now among them, through larger contributions to the general budget. However, even among these countries the tendency is to mimic the behaviour of the affluent countries. They, too, would rather seek to influence the activities of the UN to pursue their own foreign policy aims rather than serve the larger purpose of a relatively more autonomous UN.It is now apparent that in key areas of technology and public health, large multinational corporations are playing an increasingly influential role. The turnover of five big tech companies, Amazon, Google, Apple, Microsoft and Facebook together exceeds the GDP of some of the largest economies of the world at over $5 trillion. They run large philanthropic foundations and agencies but it would be naïve to think that their activities are de-linked from their business interests. When the UN becomes a partner of these foundations and receives funds from them, then it is unlikely to encourage any questioning of their activities. The credibility of the UN is further undermined through these associations.The major powers and more affluent nations have no interest in leading the UN back to its original vision and mandate. They are comfortable with its current role as their handmaiden and its collaboration with big business. It is the large constituency of developing countries, including middle powers like India, whose interests would be served by a UN which in its role and activities, truly reflects the interests of its larger membership. I recall my experience as India’s Alternate Representative to the Committee on Disarmament (CD) in the early 1980s. The Disarmament Secretariat led by Ambassador Rikhi Jaipal, played the role of adviser and counsellor to the Non-aligned and Neutral Countries in the CD, helping them set the agenda, marshall their arguments and acquaint them with procedural issues. If such secretarial positions are financed by project funds, independence of action by UN functionaries is impossible. It is these fundamental issues which need to be addressed by the UN at 75 if it is to regain its credibility and effectiveness. Shyam Saran is a former foreign secretary and senior fellow, CPR The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/un-must-go-back-to-its-original-mandate/story-xICJGY0B40huYjYtTOuLlL.html
28-09-2020||News||Pakistan’s opposition, public increasingly irked by the military’s role in politics||Former Pakistan prime minister (PM), Nawaz Sharif’s, defiant roar summarises both his biography and Pakistan’s history over the past three decades. The occasion was an opposition conference on video on September 20. Quite apart from what the former PM said, the occasion was significant. The conference was hosted by the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP). It brought together all the major opposition parties and leaders. The Pakistan Muslim League (N) — Nawaz Sharif’s party — coordinating action with the PPP has not been seen for some time. These two together make up a large chunk of the political spectrum and both are now increasingly led by charismatic next generation leaders — Nawaz Sharif’s daughter Maryam Nawaz and Benazir Bhutto’s son Bilawal Bhutto Zardari. What is common to both is that they attach to their names that of a parent who was the political face of Pakistan for long periods of its history — Nawaz Sharif and Benazir Bhutto. This is dynastic politics, of course, but it is also real politics. What made the news most was Nawaz Sharif’s broadside against Prime Minister Imran Khan and his government, of course, but more against those “who installed Imran Khan and who manipulated elections to bring an incapable man like him into power and thus, destroyed the country”. Khan’s failures of economic and foreign policy, on Kashmir, Pakistan’s international isolation, alienation from Saudi Arabia and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the stagnation of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), thus formed one aspect of the speech. The real firepower was in the references to the erosion and throttling of democracy, that “every child knows that no prime minister has been allowed to complete five years in power”, of a “state above the state”. All this refers to the role of the military — euphemistically called the establishment — in politics. What has been less reported than his references to the military and the generals were the comments about the judiciary and how it acts in concert with the military.Nawaz Sharif has been PM longer than anyone else — in all over nine years but spread over three terms in which the first (November 1990-July 1993) and the third (June 2013-July 2017) are separated by a quarter of a century. While the military, or at least certain generals, had much to do with his meteoric rise through the 1980s, once PM, Nawaz Sharif acted as if he was in charge. His first tenure ended, therefore, with a bitter feud with the president; the second with a coup after General Pervez Musharraf’s Kargil misadventure; the third with what amounted to a judicial coup – or so at least many in Pakistan felt. In each of the three terms, his party had a majority but this was no defence against the forces arrayed against him.The third term was marked by near constant friction with the military on a whole range of issues. A close political associate and astute observer, former foreign minister Sartaj Aziz, has recently written: “Nawaz Sharif’s transition away from the military establishment grew incrementally when his core political interests or stakes were threatened by the absence of real democracy”. Nawaz Sharif’s second and third terms stand out for his willingness to walk Pakistan’s most dangerous minefield — relations with India. That story is well known. The point, however, is that Nawaz Sharif understood intuitively that his authority as PM could be cemented only by limiting the role of the military and for this to happen some improvement of relations, if not normalisation with India, was essential. Sartaj Aziz also notes, “Fundamentally, Nawaz Sharif did not fully comprehend the depth and strength of de facto forces and also ignored the importance of a broader coalition of political forces for establishing the supremacy of democratic institutions.” Whether this present front of opposition unity and better atmospherics between the leaders of the PML-(N) and the PPP, therefore, heralds something new happening in Pakistan is too early to say. Nawaz Sharif stands disqualified from politics for life and effectively in exile. Most Pakistani politicians in the opposition are fearful of the skeletons in their cupboards and the risk of jail or worse is real. Yet for all this both the PML-(N) and the PPP have remained largely intact with no major desertions or breakaways in the past two years. Khan’s problems, on the other hand, are mounting — not the least of which is managing the growing clamour in public discourse that the military is too involved in national affairs. Nawaz Sharif’s speech is designed clearly at advancing this discourse. Certainly he knows that what displeases the military more than anything else is an open discussion of its political role. Possibly he believes that agitation on this front will increase pressure — both on Khan and the military — and mistakes happen under pressure. The September speech may well mark Nawaz Sharif’s fourth foray into Pakistan’s murky terrain of curbing the military. If that is so, then describing Nawaz Sharif as epitomising a man with his future behind him may well sum up his biography as also Pakistan’s political history. T C A Raghavan is a former high commissioner to Pakistan. He is currently director-general, Indian Council of World Affairs The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/pakistan-s-opposition-public-increasingly-irked-by-the-military-s-role-in-politics/story-M46BvE5zUDfqBfIg426xgM.html
28-09-2020||News||To beat the pandemic, begin mass campaign on safety protocols||As the Covid-19 cases keep increasing, people across the world are desperate for a solution. While many vaccine trials are ongoing, should we treat the vaccine as a silver bullet, an exclusive solution to the pandemic? Perhaps not. Developing vaccines takes time. Historically, the world’s fastest vaccine to be developed – for mumps – took five years. A vaccine receives regulatory approvals after rigorous tests for efficacy and patient safety. And then, there is the challenge of inoculating billions of people in diverse countries. The little that we know about what curbs the spread of the virus forms the basis of Covid-19 safety advisories: Wearing masks, social distancing, and handwashing give us a reasonable degree of protection. Yet, as soaring case numbers indicate, there is a gap between the mass communication of Covid-19 prevention information and its uptake.We, in India, can perhaps find lessons in how we faced another challenge not so long ago. Accounting for 60% of global cases, India was once the world’s polio epicentre. We had the vaccine; however, what was lacking was mass understanding of the need to immunise children well in time. Such was the distrust among many people that in many cases, vaccinators were regularly turned away. In the face of this resistance, India’s polio vaccine campaign at the time leveraged opinion leaders and deployed a mass communication outreach to support behaviour change. The campaign’s compelling appeal gave frontline health workers the social licence to go door-to-door to ensure coverage. The campaign won the trust of communities at the grassroots level, making the two polio drops for infants socially acceptable. While India was familiar with vaccines (for smallpox, cholera, typhoid, and TB, among others) early on, the polio campaign was a unique one. Along with ending polio, the campaign provided the proof that vaccinations work; and, the collective journey to a polio-free India built a trust of vaccines among citizens. This month, a special Covid-19 edition of the Edelman Trust Barometer, which covered 3,400 respondents from seven countries (India, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, South Korea, and Singapore), found that at 83%, India has the highest receptivity rate for a government-approved, no-cost vaccine among the countries surveyed. In comparison, only 65% of all respondents in the seven countries surveyed were willing to take such a vaccine.India’s successful polio communication, exemplified by the vaccination efforts, can give us some learnings we can apply now. Considering that Covid-19 outbreaks take place at the community level, fighting the disease will also need concerted local action. According to Dr David Nabarro, World Health Organization Special Envoy for Covid-19, prioritising three universal essentials can help keep people safe: Wearing masks, hand hygiene and physical distancing. From rural hubs to urban wards, we require a mass campaign to communicate these fundamentals to every citizen through constant reiteration. The prevention campaign needs to engage large audiences. Places of congregation, like markets, offices, public transport, slums, and residential areas, must be specially targeted. Just as non-compliance with road safety rules leads to traffic fines and more, there must also be strict emphasis on compliance for the Covid-19 safety protocols. The campaign against the virus must also fight misinformation, a major risk amid an ‘infodemic’ of Covid-related content. As the economy reopens, it is imperative that there is sustained dissemination of Covid-19 prevention messages using every channel of mass communication, from posters, billboards and wall-writings to radio, TV, and social media. In addition to the three essentials, communication also needs to provide clarity on how the virus spreads. The vaccine will come in due course. Until then, stringent caution, robust communication of Covid-19 safety protocols, and compliance to trusted actions are the vaccine.Rakesh Thukral is managing director, Edelman India The views expressed are personal***||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-beat-the-pandemic-begin-mass-campaign-on-safety-protocols/story-Yme5vukLrGbmDPR4XdzIYP.html
28-09-2020||News||India’s old-age homes have been successful in staving off Covid-19||Globally, the Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on older people. In some Western countries, the average age at death due to Covid-19 is about 80 years. Covid-19 related mortality rates are high among the aged and in people with co-morbidities such as diabetes and high blood pressure. The virus affects the young, but does not cause severe disease and high death rates. In developed countries with good health care and social welfare systems such as Sweden, the United Kingdom (UK) and Canada, a large proportion of deaths were in old-age homes, usually referred to as care homes. In the West, care homes for the elderly are part of a well-developed social arrangement in which people voluntarily admit themselves into care homes when they cannot manage a home on their own, and need to be looked after since children do not usually take care of their parents. So, it is surprising how and why developed countries failed to protect the elderly against the virus.In India, however, most of the elderly either live with their children, alone with house help or with relatives. But in the last few years, there has been a surge in numbers of old-age care homes in big cities since children are increasingly moving to places, often far away from their parents. During the pandemic, on hearing that the elderly are at most risk and high mortality rates were seen in care homes, we dug a little deeper. The data published shows that at higher age groups especially after 50, the mortality from Covid-19 is much higher. The case fatality rate among people above 70 in India is upwards of 15%, while for those below 30 years it is 0.5% or lower. But surprisingly, there are no reports of deaths in India’s care homes. This is inexplicable, especially because outside of the elderly care homes, there is a high proportion of deaths among the elderly due to Covid-19. So, it would appear that in the West, care homes, which are well-funded, have good infrastructure, and are professionally managed could not protect the residents from the pandemic leading to a high number of deaths, whereas Indian old age homes have been able to protect the elderly against the Covid-19 pandemic despite lacking the resources and professional management. Our systematic study gives us a few insights: Informal inquires tell us that old-age care homes in India took several steps to protect their residents. The home administrators first stopped all contact with the outside world to the extent possible; decongested the old-age homes by sending some residents to stay with relatives; and stopped the infection from spreading by ensuring that care workers were given temporary accommodation in the homes themselves. Proper sanitisation of all the items from the outside including vegetables was being done on an everyday basis. They also sanitised the premises frequently. While it is difficult to believe, it was these simple steps taken by Indian old-age homes that seemed to have been able to ward off the deadly virus to a large extent. Are there any other explanations for this? A more thorough study on a larger sample of old-age care homes and sero-surveillance in the old age homes may tell us if the residents were not affected at all or had contracted a very mild form of the disease and were cured without treatment. Unfortunately, none of the research agencies or other individual researchers has been able to identify the course of developments in Indian old-age homes during the Covid-19 epidemic. So far, no one has taken the pains to study it in a scientific manner. If we embark on a serious study of the old-age care homes in India, it may open a new chapter in the ongoing process of understanding the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on the elderly. This could prove interesting and educational and shed light on an aspect of the disease which has not been fully understood yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-s-old-age-homes-have-been-successful-in-staving-off-covid-19/story-X5NNnjgKIE9pEDdhmR9ZJK.html
28-09-2020||News||The monsoon session was a farce, writes Kapil Sibal||Proceedings in the recently-concluded sessions of Parliament have demonstrated that Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s concept of atmanirbharta (self-reliance) is not limited to the economic realm. These proceedings have also shown that in conducting the business of the House, the government is completely self-reliant: It does not need the Opposition, holds the views of other political parties in contempt, interprets procedures to suit itself and has no regard for the traditions of the House. This level of self-reliance saw parliamentary proceedings being converted into a farce.The quintessence of democratic functioning in the context of parliamentary proceedings is that members sit in one chamber. This allows for feisty debates, thoughtful interventions and an open exchange of views as millions watch. However, during this monsoon session, members of both Houses were divided between the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha, social distancing norms being the rationale. This resulted in many of us belonging to the Rajya Sabha being accommodated in the Lok Sabha, connected by a large TV screen, looking at the Chairman presiding over the Rajya Sabha chamber. Fifteen members of the Rajya Sabha from the Congress were in the Upper House, 10 in the chamber and five in the galleries, while the remaining 26 were accommodated in the Lok Sabha. At the best of times, while sitting in one chamber, it is tough to catch the Chairman’s eye to make a contribution or to raise a point of order.The majority of Congress members found it impossible to catch the Chairman’s attention. In effect, only 10 Congress members in the Rajya Sabha chamber were actively involved in the functioning of the House, while the majority was too far away to count. This logic was also true for other parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The essential element of parliamentary functioning is the significance of Question Hour. That is when ministers are made accountable. In this session, Question Hour was done away with. The only possible reason, albeit irrational, was that the sittings of each House were limited to four hours and, therefore, the accountability of the government was not as important as passing key legislations. The only chance the Opposition has to expose the ineptitude of Treasury Benches was thus excised. Without Question Hour, the public watching these proceedings had no opportunity to assess responses of the government on key national concerns.The other problem that made this session futile except for government diktats was its limited duration. Here the Rajya Sabha was at a disadvantage. The time allotted to it was from 9 am to 1 pm. The time allotted to the Lok Sabha was from 3 pm to 7 pm giving it the advantage of extension of its session by ascertaining the sense of the House. That advantage was not available to the Rajya Sabha since it had to end the session before 3 pm. This represented yet another form of discrimination.One wonders why this session became necessary at all. The Ordinances relating to one, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020; two, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and three, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, could well have continued without calling this session, especially since there was no desire, considering the truncated nature of the proceedings, to either listen to the Opposition or for that matter allowing for reference of the bills either to the Standing Committee or Select Committee for a more thoughtful consideration. For amending other laws requiring urgent attention, that too could have been done through the ordinance route since the BJP has shown time and again that debate and discussion are not the preferred mode of transacting legislative business. As expected, the government was in no mood to refer any of these matters for further consideration. In light of the amendments moved, Opposition members demanded a division in the belief that 18 political parties in the Rajya Sabha, including those who otherwise support the BJP barring the Janata Dal (United), were opposed to the legislation in its present form. Had the division been allowed, that would have demonstrated widespread opposition to the ordinances. The deputy chairman, allegedly, refused to order a division thereby preventing political parties from making their stand clear by recording their votes of dissent something perhaps not palatable to government. What followed was pandemonium with marshals being deployed to bring order in the House. The Chair then suspended eight members of the House. All this acrimony is symptomatic of a mindset that brooks no opposition. The suspended members sat all night in protest under the gaze of the Mahatma in the Parliament house complex. The attempt by the deputy chairman to assuage their feelings by sharing a cup of tea with them in the morning was hardly a gesture that could have evoked a positive response. The session ended with the Opposition boycotting the remainder of the session with the leader of the Opposition registering his anguish at the manner in which the Chair treated him by curtailing his interventions.In fact, this government takes pleasure in silencing the Opposition. Any form of protest is regarded as an affront to the Chair and any dissonance from the Opposition benches is silenced by shutting off the microphone.To top it all, our self-reliant PM has never answered a question in either House since 2014. His preferred mode of communication is through monologues. A healthy dialogue is alien to his persona. He relies more on numerical rather than moral strength. It is time to say goodbye to the procedures which made Parliament the institution it was. Today, it is a pale reflection of its glorious past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-monsoon-session-was-a-farce-writes-kapil-sibal/story-YOax9g2WJh3bZwHttC96zJ.html
28-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Health department to assess storage infrastructure for possible Covid-19 vaccine||In anticipation of a possible vaccine for Covid-19, the district health department will be conducting a thorough assessment of the available ‘cold chain’ infrastructure in the coming weeks, officials confirmed on Monday. The exercise will take stock of available cold chain equipment (CCE), such as walk-in freezers, walk-in coolers, ice-lined refrigerators and temperature-monitoring devices, which are used in the storage and transportation of vaccines. The assessment will also identify potential sites for bulk storage of vaccines, known as cold chain points (CCP).Dr Naresh Garg, district immunisation officer and nodal officer for cold chain management in Gurugram, said, “We have not received an official intimation about the same, but are aware that Central orders have been issued earlier this month. As soon as we get the order from the state National Health Mission, we shall begin the task.” Prabjot Singh, mission director, NHM, Haryana, did not respond to requests for comment on Monday.A senior doctor working with the NHM’s Universal Immunisation Program (UIP) in Haryana, seeking anonymity, confirmed that as per a central NHM order issued earlier this month, all states and union territories in India will be expected to create district-level plans for storage and delivery of Covid-19 vaccines within the next month. Task forces to oversee this preparation are expected to be constituted at the district- and block-levels. “The main challenge in the delivery of this vaccine will be the immunisation coverage. The target population for our routine immunisation drives is confined to infants, children and mothers. With Covid-19, we have to vaccinate the population at large, which has not been done before,” the official said, adding that the vaccine would likely be administered in phases, beginning with health workers and high-risk groups. Health department officials in the district added that in addition to assessing the availability of cold chain infrastructure, they will also be making plans to train an adequate number of qualified technicians in cold chain management. “Retaining the integrity of the vaccine requires its storage at a certain temperature. Otherwise, it will lose its efficiency. We will need to identify and train qualified cold chain managers, cold chain handlers and cold chain technicians for this purpose,” said Garg. Gurugram district, which currently has 39 existing CCPs for storage and delivery of vaccines, also serves as the regional storage point for immunisation programs in four other districts, namely Faridabad, Rewari, Palwal and Jhajjar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-health-department-to-assess-storage-infrastructure-for-possible-covid-19-vaccine/story-KlM1YKxaWr0L0xDOy2vimM.html
28-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Retired army official beaten up by relatives over property dispute succumbs to injuries||Two days after being allegedly attacked by several persons over a property dispute in IMT Manesar area, a man died during treatment at a private hospital on Sunday. The police have added the murder charge to the FIR registered earlier at IMT Manesar police station. Five persons, including the victim’s brother, have been arrested in the case. The deceased has been identified by first name as Gangasharan, a retired army official. According to the police, the incident took place on Friday when the victim and his family were at their house in Bas Kusla village. The police said several men, including the victim’s relatives, barged into their house and attacked him and his family. In the police complaint, the victim’s son, Amneesh, said, “There had been a dispute in the family over a plot for several years. The matter had been sub-judice. There had been enmity over the issue.” The police said the victim’s uncle and his several aides had beaten up the victim with sticks and at least other three members of their family. The victim had sustained serious injuries and was admitted to a private hospital in Sector 37, where he died on Sunday. After the autopsy, the police added Section 302 (murder) under the Indian Penal Code(IPC) to the FIR against the accused persons. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, “The dispute was over a plot. A probe has found that two months ago also, the accused had attacked the victim’s family. Five people have been arrested in the case including the victim’s brother.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-retired-army-official-beaten-up-by-relatives-over-property-dispute-succumbs-to-injuries/story-0iWexrkha1zVDx65sAOyTM.html
28-09-2020||Gurugram||40-year-old man killed in a hit-and-run mishap on Khandsa Road||A 40-year-old man, who ran a photo studio, was killed after a car allegedly hit his scooter on Khandsa Road late on Saturday night. The police said the accused driver was arrested on Sunday evening and released on bail. The deceased has been identified as Devendra Kumar, a resident of Pratap Nagar, who ran a photo studio shop on Khandsa Road. According to the police, the incident took place around 11.30pm when Kumar was on his way to his house and had reached near Raj Nagar crossing. The police said a speeding car arrived at the crossing from an approach lane and hit his scooter from the side, as a result of which he fell on the road. According to footage from a CCTV, the police said he was thrown from his scooter upon impact and collided with a pole and suffered serious injuries. The incident was reported after the victim’s wife called on his phone to check on him and the phone was answered by a commuter, who informed her of the incident. The victim’s brother, Manish Kumar, said, in the complaint, “A commuter informed us that passersby had taken him to a hospital on Basai Road. His scooter was completely damaged in the collision. We reached the hospital and decided to shift him to another private hospital since his injuries were serious. He was declared dead on arrival by doctors.” The police said they found the number plate of the accused man’s car from the spot and traced the driver on Sunday evening. “The number plate of the car fell off after the collision and with the help of regional transport authority officials, the accused man was traced and arrested. During preliminary questioning, he said that he had just gotten off a phone call and was running late. As such, he got confused between some lanes. He did not notice the victim coming from the side. He was released on bail on Sunday,” said a police official, requesting anonymity. A case was registered against the accused man under sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Shivaji Nagar police station on Sunday, said the police. Last week, a three-year-old boy died after a SUV had crashed into a rickshaw he was travelling in near Sector 37D and a 35-year-old carpenter died while his friend suffered minor injuries after a car had brushed against their motorcycle on Golf Course Road (GCR) in DLF Cyber City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/40-year-old-man-killed-in-a-hit-and-run-mishap-on-khandsa-road/story-AQoDgxLg6uteJ1M1Bgt7WK.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government forms committee to probe illegal abortion cases||The Maharashtra government on Monday formed a four-member committee to investigate cases of illegal abortions at hospitals across the state. The committee, which will be headed by retired IPS officer Ajit Parasnis, has been mandated to submit its report within a month after an incident and also make recommendations to stop them. Parasnis is the former director general of police (DGP) and retired from the position in 2011. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director health services; an expert professor in gynaecology and an assistant director of health services will be the other three members of the committee. Under the existing laws, abortions can’t be conducted after the 20-week limit. Despite that, Dr Varsha Lahade, a gynaecologist at Nashik civil hospital, was accused of having carried out an abortion on a 24-week-old foetus in March 2017. The gynaecologist and another resident doctor were booked by the Nashik police under sections of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act and the Indian Penal Code. The same year, the police had found 19 female foetuses from a sewer in a village in Sangli district of western Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-forms-committee-to-probe-illegal-abortion-cases/story-yjbEDj37mTilVnJoPuyWZN.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Woman promised role in TV soap, raped by 2 men in Zirakpur hotel||A woman lured to a Zirakpur hotel on the promise of being offered roles in television soaps was raped by two men on the intervening night of September 25 and 26.The woman said in her police complaint that she had been taken to the hotel at Lohgarh Road on September 25 by a friend who claimed the two men were from Mumbai, had edited reality shows and were looking for a new face for TV soaps. After meeting them, the woman said she was offered a cold drink and told that she had been shortlisted for the role. The two men then raped her after the friend left the room.A case was registered against Dinesh and Sunil Ram of Nasik under Sections 376D of the Indian Penal Code. The men are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-promised-role-in-tv-soap-raped-by-2-men-in-zirakpur-hotel/story-ZEDhGtjBdL90acvCfihCbN.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Dialysis for Covid patients in Chandigarh now a call away||In the Covid-19 review meeting here on Monday, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore said the system of dialysis for outdoor Covid positive patients had been streamlined.City residents could now ring up the mobile number 70870-07434 and book a slot for maintenance dialysis. The patients will be picked and dropped in dedicated ambulances.Happy about the declining number of positive cases in the city, Badnore said Chandigarh was proud that PGIMER had been selected for trial of Covid vaccine, for which eligible residents could register their names on PGIMER’s website.The administrator also stressed on the importance of monitoring the health of Covid patients in home quarantine. “They should contact the control rooms in their areas for medical consultation, or in case of deterioration in their health conditions, or for the requirement of an ambulance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dialysis-for-covid-patients-in-chandigarh-now-a-call-away/story-gC3dnVZ7cbLEvOd4apXGSN.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Carjacking at knifepoint in Zirakpur||Mohali Around seven men on motorcycles carjacked a Maruti Swift at knifepoint near Decathlon on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway in Zirakpur on Saturday night. In his police complaint, Ramandeep Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib said he was asked by a woman friend to meet her “uncle,” who would help him get a work permit for the United Kingdom (UK).The friend had recommended her uncle, Lovepreet Singh, claiming he was based in the UK and could arrange for the permit. Lovepreet had then contacted Ramandeep, assuring him that he would get him the permit for Rs 16 lakh, after which the victim deposited Rs 2 lakh in his account.Then Lovepreet arranged for a meeting at 8pm near Decathlon, saying he would be travelling from Delhi and that Ramandeep should hand over Rs 10,000 and other travel documents to himRamandeep, however, waited at the spot till 11 pm when Lovepreet called and asked him to come near Maya Garden Society on the Ambala -Chandigarh highway. After driving around and not locating anyone, Ramandeep was waiting near Decathlon when three young men he had seen waiting there earlier came over to him and demanded his passport and money. Soon, four other men joined them and after threatening him with a knife, drove off in his car with his mobile phone and cash.Police registered a case at the Zirakpur police station and after questioning the female friend located Lovepreet’s Sangrur address.Investigations revealed that two to three other persons were involved in the carjacking with Lovepreet.No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/carjacking-at-knifepoint-in-zirakpur/story-nN2GGsduzq4zwf5LKdeGwI.html
28-09-2020||City||Gurugram: New cycle tracks between HUDA City Centre and Bakhtawar Chowk from October 2||Gurugram: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has decided to ramp up cycling infrastructure in the city. To start with, new cycle tracks between HUDA City Centre (HCC) and Bakhtawar Chowk, along Netaji Subhash Marg, will be opened for use on October 2, said GMDA officials on Monday.  The officials said that they plan to establish around 650 kilometres of dedicated cycle lanes across the city as part of the authority’s strategy to promote non-motorised transport.VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA, said that the city roads are currently built not keeping the right of way (ROW) of cyclists and pedestrians in mind, and hence, with basic engineering changes, steps needed to be undertaken to ensure they are given an adequate share of the road space.“We are starting with the setting up cycle tracks along both sides of Netaji Subhash Marg as a pilot project. We will be examining its day-to-day progress carefully to understand both the positives and negatives of the project, and accordingly undertake corrective measures before setting up cycle tracks in other parts of the city,” said Kundu. The public body is aiming at setting up cycle tracks at 17 junctions across the city in the coming months. “HCC is both the terminating and starting point of Delhi Metro’s Yellow Line and hence, has one of the highest concentration of people anywhere in the city. Initially, the cycle track project would all originate from HCC towards other major road networks such as MG Road, Signature Towers, and Golf Course Road. Subsequently, we will cover other parts of the city,” said Kundu.As per Kundu, it was easy to select Netaji Subhash Marg for the pilot project, as service lanes already existed on both sides of the five-kilometre stretch. “The stretch already has service lanes on either carriageway that are separated by medians. In patches, the service lanes are not there primarily due to illegal encroachments, which have been removed by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). To protect cyclists from fast-moving traffic, concrete bollards will be placed at these patches,” said Kundu.The officials said work on the Netaji Subhash Marg project is further divided into two phases. “In the first phase, cycle tracks are being set up, while in the second phase, the three junctions along the stretch would be re-engineered to become both pedestrian- and cycle-friendly,” said an official privy to the matter.Kundu said that with the construction of an underpass and flyover at HCC, the cycle tracks would initially be covered 200-300 metres short of the junction, and would be later extended once both the projects are completed. He further said that GMDA and MCG, in consultation with Raahgiri Foundation, are working together on setting up cycle lanes across the city.All master roads and stretches which carry traffic from one city to the other, such as Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road, Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, Golf Course Road, and Golf Course Extension Road fall under GMDA’s jurisdiction. Arterial roads are stretches that carry traffic between one or two sectors/villages and they fall within the MCG’s jurisdiction. MCG on Sunday had asked Gurugram residents on its official Twitter handle to share over social media the challenges and concerns they face while cycling in the city, so that the civic body can undertake steps to improve the existing infrastructure. “We have asked residents for their feedback on the problems they face while cycling in the city so that we can use their inputs, and accordingly execute changes on ground and improve cycle mobility across the city. We are working on multiple aspects to enhance cycling infrastructure,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.There have been two attempts at creating cycle tracks across the city in the past. In October 2017, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had built cycle tracks on service lanes around Signature Towers, Rajiv Chowk, and Iffco Chowk, inexplicably, without any fencing or barricading. The entire cycle lanes are left completely in the open. Only a white line, along with a few cycle symbols, had been painted on the road to demarcate the space meant for cyclists on the carriageway. As part of its Raahgiri initiative, MCG had also built cycle tracks along Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg and Saint Thomas Marg in February 2016. Along both the stretches, MCG had placed concrete bollards to protect cyclists from fast-moving traffic. However, within a month, the bollards had been broken or removed at several points altogether and made way for illegal auto-rickshaw stands and small shanties.“The biggest deterrent to cycling is unsafe infrastructure. The under-construction segregated cycle track is a step in the right direction. A network of cycle tracks, along with bicycle parking facilities, can usher in a revolution of sorts on promoting cycling not only in Gurugram but also the rest of the state,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, co-founder of Raahgiri Foundation.Meanwhile, cyclist enthusiasts have welcomed the GMDA’s move. “My father was in the Army. I used to cycle every day within the army cantonment area. It was my favourite workout. However, when I moved to Gurugram, I tried cycling a few times and found it to be extremely unsafe. If there are dedicated cycle tracks, then I can resume my favourite activity once again,” said Sandeep Kumar, a cyclist enthusiast who resides in Sector 49.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-new-cycle-tracks-between-huda-city-centre-and-bakhtawar-chowk-from-october-2/story-yJqMUzeMPVUMMJvypOeV2K.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||On their canvas of life, artists explore with themes of struggle, hard work||For artists in the city, the Covid-19 period has been a time of reflection, when demand for art has ebbed at a dismal low, but left many with the steely determination to survive. Experiences of seniors, therefore, definitely act as balm to younger artists who have yet to find their moorings. Walk into the studio of senior painter Madan Lal, whose works have won recognition nationally and internationally, and one finds hundreds of paintings and sketches lining the shelves and cupboards and an easel never without a work in progress. A 1987 graduate from the Government College of Art, Lal says: “Life is never free of struggle, but survival is the key word. The prices that I am being offered of late by national galleries after the Covid outbreak are 50% less than what I was getting earlier. I do accept this and sometimes when I work for architects I am asked to match the colour of the art piece with the sofa upholstery and I go with it for I have to continue working as a freelancer now.”Once out of college, Lal started freelancing with advertising agencies and it was only in 1990 that he got a job as the director of the Design Centre. Ups and downs continued as he left soon after to pursue painting full time, moonlighting in between at an institute of fashion and design to make ends meet. Reminiscing, he adds: “When I was a student the college faculty was supportive and told us about the ways to survive, which is not the case now and students with masters of fine arts degrees find themselves at a loose end.”Photographer Diwan Manna, who is also chairperson of the Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi and has worked for years as a freelancer, says: “I did all kinds of things to survive, including wedding photography, which meant walking on the roads of the city with wedding processions and clicking pictures or taking up a small assignment as a programme manager. Even now I sustain myself by doing industrial photography. Such is the condition of artists not just in India but all over the world. Only a handful manage to sell big and very often after their lifetime.”Sidharth, a 1981 graduate from the College of Art, says he often got into trouble at the institute for his outspokenness. Essentially self-made and now recognised for his work in art circles for his unique style and play of colours, Sidharth says: “I did get a degree from the college but I was given just the pass marks of 35%. With marks so low I could not even get a schoolteacher’s job. So I moved to Delhi with a bus fare of just Rs 10 in my pocket and did odd jobs till I became a housekeeper of sorts for a business family and also tutored their children. However, I have no regrets because I did find my recognition as a painter past the age of 42. In fact, I am also grateful to the college for the treatment meted out to me for otherwise I would have been an art teacher in a village school all my life.”All three artists who have made a name for themselves in their field have this message for the younger artists who find themselves without work or any means of sustenance: The road may be long but they will be able to realise their dreams with hard work and, above all, passion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/on-their-canvas-of-life-artists-explore-with-themes-of-struggle-hard-work/story-9GPLgSb8SWS28QjnihevmM.html
28-09-2020||City||Two students move Supreme Court against crop residue burning||New DelhiPollution caused by stubble burning in Delhi’s neighbouring states can exponentially increase the mortality rate due to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, claimed a petition filed in the Supreme Court seeking total ban on stubble burning.The plea has been moved by two young environmental activists – a Class 12 student who under his own initiative of “Plant A Million Trees” has planted 1.5 lakh trees in Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR) and a third year law student who is an active campaigner against use of Single Use Plastic.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde has listed the petition for hearing on October 6 along with the batch of M.C Mehta matters pertaining to Delhi pollution. The petition was mentioned by senior advocate Harish Salve who is assisting the Court as amicus curiae (friend of Court).“The consequence of allowing any stubble burning to take place in the times of this pandemic will be catastrophic,” the petition by the two young environmentalists said. Citing international medical studies, the plea stated that medical studies have found that persons with weak respiratory system or living in polluted areas are at serious risk of contracting COVID-19 leading to death in some cases.“Any increase in air pollution levels in Delhi-NCR this year while the COVID-19 pandemic is spiraling out of control, will exponentially increase the mortality rate due to COVID-19 by compromising the respiratory system of the citizens, particularly in the case of senior citizens and children,” the petition stated. Further, it stated that enhanced pollution level can offer “direct pathway for airborne transmission” of COVID-19 virus.Salve told the Court that the petition raised an important issue and requires to be heard. Delhi witnesses exponential rise in air pollution levels around this time of the year due to stubble burning by farmers in Punjab, Haryana Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Last year, the air quality index (AQI) crossed the 1000 mark as stubble burning releases suspended particulate matter in the air and emits harmful gases such as carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide and methane.Farmers have to prepare the fields for sowing of the rabi crop after harvesting the kharif crop. As the period between the two events is short, the remains of the kharif crop cannot be manually plucked out and to remove it, they are set on fire. As a way out, the petition suggested that stubble removing machines should be either provided at affordable rents by state governments to small and marginal farmers. It recommended daily wage workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MNREGA) scheme. The petition has even recommended putting strict curbs on construction activities and polluting industries in Delhi-NCR if AQI crosses 150.In the M.C Mehta case, the Supreme Court has been monitoring the stubble burning issue by asking respective state governments to inform progress made on setting up biomass plants and providing stubble removal machines to small farmers. Alternatively, the Court has directed setting up of a smog tower in Delhi on an experimental basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-students-move-supreme-court-against-crop-residue-burning/story-QyP96q7LPhgXBlINob2R4H.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Bhagat Singh’s statue unveiled in Ambala||On his 113th birth anniversary, a statue of Bhagat Singh with those of his revolutionary companions Sukhdev and Rajguru were unveiled near Ambala Central Jail in Sector 1.Unveiling the statues, Ambala City MLA Aseem Goyal said Bhagat Singh had united the country. It was only because of these martyrs that Indians today could enjoy freedom, he said. “The youth should learn from the lives of great revolutionaries and move forward in the right direction. Bhagat Singh is a source of inspiration for the youth from many generations. The statues of the three great revolutionaries will inspire the youth and a sense of patriotism will arise,” Goyal said, in the presence of Haryana Youth Commission chairman Yadvinder Singh Sandhu, MC commissioner Partha Gupta and other officials.Sandhu said that the youth should be made aware of the sacrifices made by the martyrs for the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bhagat-singh-s-statue-unveiled-in-ambala/story-Zyil6J46kD98uuwaZU4KcO.html
28-09-2020||Dehradun||‘Negative Covid-19 report not mandatory for visiting Char Dham shrines’: Uttarakhand govt||Months after allowing pilgrims from Uttarakhand and outside the state to visit Char Dham shrines, the state government has now said that a negative Covid-19 report will not be needed for pilgrims to visit the shrines.The Uttarakhand government released new guidelines for visiting Char Dham shrines on late Monday evening.According to the new guidelines released by Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, pilgrims are strictly required to register on the official website of the Board and take an e-pass for visiting the shrines.Pilgrims will undergo thermal scanning at the entrance of the shrines and if their temperatures are found to be higher than normal, then a Covid-19 test will be conducted. Pilgrims will have to bear the cost of the test. Such pilgrims will be allowed entry into the shrine only after they test negative.Also read: After nearly 400 priests of Jagannath temple test Covid-19+, Odisha says no to opening religious placesThe guidelines further mention that if any pilgrim develops symptoms similar to Covid-19 they should avoid visiting the shrine or applying for an e-pass.Meanwhile, pilgrims travelling to the shrines through heli services will not need an e-pass as their details will be taken by the heli company and shared with the Board and district administration on a daily basis.The new guidelines state that pregnant ladies, infants, pilgrims above the age of 65 or below 10 years of age are advised to avoid the yatra.The state government has not allowed pilgrims to touch the idols during their visit to the shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/negative-covid-19-report-not-mandatory-for-visiting-char-dham-shrines-uttarakhand-govt/story-CbHa1PvurSpxWUHcFKhnLL.html
28-09-2020||City||Over 50% JNU research scholars may drop out if ‘roadblocks’ not removed: Survey||New Delhi: A survey conducted by Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) students to understand the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on research scholars says a substantial percentage of them will drop out of their research programmes during or in the aftermath of the pandemic in case the “roadblocks” they face are not mitigated. The survey, conducted by three JNU scholars -- Alamu R, Yangchen Roy, and Somashree Das -- covered as many as 530 research scholars, including both MPhil and PhD programmers, in the university. The survey was conducted online between June 27 and July 6. According to the findings, 53.9% scholars say they would drop out if they are unable to access resources required for research work (primary material/secondary material/lab facility). “More than 40% of the respondents said they would drop out in case of financial distress... if they needed to look for a job to support their families,” it stated.The university has been physically shut since March in view of the pandemic. The JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) has been demanding a phased return of research scholars to the campus since the last two months. “Nearly 4 out of 5 (78.1%) research scholars could not carry adequate research-related resources (books, photocopies, readings, notes) from their hostels, library lockers and laboratories back home,” the report stated.“For research scholars to access the work they have already done, but which is locked up in their hostel rooms and in library carrels, and to access the secondary resources in libraries and archives, universities need to reopen in a staggered or phased manner,” it added.JNUSU general secretary Satish Yadav said the union has been demanding return of the research scholars to the campus. “We have written to the administration multiple times since July but there is no response. We will hold a press conference on Tuesday to share the issues of students due to the delay in their return,” he said.JNU teachers’ association (JNUTA) president DK Lobiyal said the administration should allow students to return to the campus in a phased manner, taking all precautions. “Many students are having lots of difficulties in accessing learning material online and attending online classes. There are many students who have to submit to submit their PhD thesis in December. They could not do anything in the last six months. They can come back to the campus and resume their work.They can also attend online classes using their hostel WiFi.”A senior official at the university, requesting anonymity, said, “The university is yet to take any decision on the return of students at the campus.”The survey highlighted the digital divide among students and concluded that only 35.8% scholars have access to 4G data speed. “Another 14.9% only have 3G or 2G speed. Those who do not have access to internet services on an everyday basis constitute 8.1% of the sample,” it stated. The survey reveals prevalence of anxiety among scholars amid the pandemic. “As many as 87.5% of the scholars from the survey reported being anxious since the pandemic began...future prospects and problems pertaining to research work, including stalled fieldwork, were the most prevalent reasons for their anxiety,” it stated.At least 85.4 % of the scholars said they need a research period extension. “Close to three- fourth (71.9 %) of the scholars said without a research period extension they will not be able to submit their thesis on time,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-50-jnu-research-scholars-may-drop-out-if-roadblocks-not-removed-survey/story-ixugBsnedVRtfWglpLk9oL.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Teachers raise concerns over weekly report mandate by Maharashtra education department||A few days after the Maharashtra education department issued a government resolution (GR) asking teachers to submit a weekly report on online education, teachers have raised concerns over the process.Uday Nare, a teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public school in Andheri, said, “Teachers are doing their best to ensure that students do not miss out on their studies amid all challenges. Many teachers as well as students do not have access to internet and often struggle to get network. At such a point, such mandates add to the stress of teachers.” Some teachers also reported issues with submitting their details on the portal.As per the September 25 GR, teachers now have to upload details of the students attending classes online, those who are contacted offline via phone or other means, and those who cannot be reached despite all attempts. Teachers have also been asked to share data with respect to learning outcomes. The data has to be uploaded on a portal created by the state education department.A principal from a Ghatkopar school said the government first needs to give clear guidelines to schools with respect to the academic calendar and conducting exams. “We have not got any guidelines about the format the exams need to be conducted in. The government should first focus on these fundamental issues rather than asking us to share only figures on attendance,” said the principal.An official from the education department said the data needs to be compiled for identifying the reach of online learning across the state. “It will help identify issues with respect to access, on the basis of which further policy can be devised,” said the official.Teachers from several junior colleges across the state have decided to boycott the process. The State Junior College Teachers Mahasangh said in a statement, “Teachers are already overburdened with a lot of responsibilities related to teaching, conducting exams etc. They will not take up additional pressure of this excercise.”Teachers from several junior colleges across the state have decided to boycott the process. The State Junior College Teachers Mahasangh in a statement said, “Teachers are already overburdened with a lot of responsibilities related to teaching, conducting exams etc. They will not take up additional pressure of this exercise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-raise-concerns-over-weekly-report-mandate-by-maharashtra-education-department/story-J6UkDtTlwkZpmxuAqQObFJ.html
28-09-2020||City||Palghar cop dies in road mishap||Vijay Bhoir, a 33-year-old police personnel attached to the office of the superintendent of police (SP), Palghar, died in a road mishap near Somta on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway after an unidentified vehicle collided with his bike from behind. Bhoir died on the spot due to severe head injuries.Bhoir, a resident of Amboli in Dahanu, was heading towards his office on Monday morning when the incident took place. The driver of the unidentified vehicle that rammed into his bike fled from the spot. Kasa police registered a case under section 304(a) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against the unknown accused and are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-cop-dies-in-road-mishap/story-ZW87vn4DKCp4NLoRDVzc8N.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Three arrested from Rajasthan for duping forex firm in Mumbai||Malad police on Monday arrested three men from Rajasthan for allegedly cheating a foreign exchange company to the tune of ₹24 lakh. The accused — Hanumat Singh Rajput, 27; Ganga Singh Rajput, 30; and Guru Singh Rajput, 28 — posed as renowned industrialists and duped the company. According to the police, the incident took place on September 8 when a Malad-based foreign exchange company received a call from a man who introduced himself as an industrialist. An officer from Malad police station said, “The unidentified man inquired about exchanging Indian currency worth ₹25 lakh in Euros. An official from the company asked him to visit their office to exchange the money.” “After sometime, a man came to the office but he wasn’t carrying any Indian currency to exchange. The company officials told him they cannot hand over the Euros till he gives the Indian currency,” the officer said. The complainant in his statement said that, “The man then dialled his boss who claimed that he was a known industrialist and assured the company officials that another of his employee was on his way with the Indian currency, and requested them to give the euros as he had to catch a flight urgently. One of the officials trusted him as he knew the industrialist personally and handed over 27,500 Euros. As no one came with the Indian currency after the man left the office with the Euros, the official then dialled the industrialist’s number but it was switched off, following this they realised they had been duped.” The police managed to get images of the accused from CCTV footage and tracked him to Silore district in Rajasthan. A team of police officers camped in Rajasthan for eight days to arrest them, and recovered 11,300 Euros from them. Pramod Toradmal, an inspector from Malad police station, said, “We have arrested all three accused from Rajasthan and are investigating the case. On Monday, they were produced before court and have been remanded in police custody till October 1.” The accused were booked under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-arrested-from-rajasthan-for-duping-forex-firm-in-mumbai/story-f9oSwTQXYI2MaXN4eGvERI.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police arrests 33-year-old from Haryana for posting abusive videos on social media||Mumbai Police’s cyber unit on Monday arrested a 33-year-old man from Haryana for allegedly posting abusive videos on social media. The accused, a model by profession and the son of a police sub-inspector in Haryana, allegedly used to abuse women in his videos.According to the police, they received a complaint on August 22 from a female advocate after which a case was registered under section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 505(2) (statements conducing to public mischief), 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act.An officer from Cyber police station said, “The accused used to upload videos on his social media profile containing abuses. The accused also posed as a journalist working with a national news channel. During investigation, police identified the accused as Sahil alias Pradeep Mohinder Chaudhary, following which a police team was dispatched to Faridabad, Haryana to arrest him.”Dr Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (cyber), said, “We have arrested the accused and are investigating the case.”The accused, during questioning, accepted that he has uploaded such videos to attract followers. Police have blocked all his social media accounts and deleted the videos. He was produced before metropolitan magistrate court on Monday and has been remanded in police custody till October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-arrests-33-year-old-from-haryana-for-posting-abusive-videos-on-social-media/story-v1ODnQo9wNa9qYKWjiWvDI.html
28-09-2020||City||Thane corporator’s son killed: Step-brother arrested||Thane Police arrested Sachin Patil, 40, for allegedly killing his step-brother Rakesh Patil, 35, the son of Thane-based Sena Corporator Manik Patil, on Sunday. Patil had shot Rakesh with a revolver and dumped his body in Vashi Creek over property dispute last week. Kasarvadavli police, while investigating the missing person’s complaint filed by Rakesh’s wife, have also recovered the revolver and the 3.7 gram gold jewellery stolen by the accused. The body has not been found yet. The police arrested Gaurav Singh, Patil’s driver on September 24 while Patil was absconding since September 23. Patil had staged a robbery at his father’s house to establish that Rakesh has eloped with jewellery. Singh, however, confessed to helping Patil kill and dispose Rakesh’s body in exchange for ₹2 lakh. The police then formed several teams to look for Patil in Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli and Ambernath. Senior police inspector K Khairnar said, “The accused was not using cell phone, therefore tracking him became difficult. Our teams have been keeping an eye on his friends and family. Through informers, we come to know that he would be coming to Ulwe in Navi Mumbai on the night of September 26. We laid a trap and arrested him. Later, we recovered the gold jewellery which he had stolen as well as Rakesh’s scooter and a revolver.” Patil confessed to the crime after being arrested, said Khairnar. “The accused said he called Rakesh for a party in his father’s home when no one was around and gave him alcohol. After he fell asleep, the accused shot him on his head. Later with Singh’s help he rolled the body in cloth and threw it in Vashi Creek early on September 20. They kept Rakesh’s scooter in Azadnagar where Singh stays. Singh was given ₹2 lakh for helping Patil,” Khairnar said/ Patil has been remanded in police custody till October 4. Rakesh is the son of Manik Patil’s first wife, while the accused is his son from the third marriage. According to police, Patil shot Rakesh and stole his mother’s jewellery to show that Rakesh fled with valuables. Manik Patil and his wife came back on September 20 and filed a complaint regarding the theft with Kasarvadavli police. On September 20, Rakesh’s wife filed a missing person complaint with Kasarvadavli police station. Rakesh had recently agreed to move in his father’s new bungalow in Waghbil, which led to insecurity in Patil. He allegedly killed Rakesh fearing his closeness to their father, which he though would lead him to lose a major share in the property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-corporator-s-son-killed-step-brother-arrested/story-JCSzIRagDClcydIQVRU6cN.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||HC asks state prisons if they have enough Covid isolation wards||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought to know from prison authorities whether they have sufficient number of isolation wards to accommodate all prisoners who would surrender if the bail extension orders issued by it are recalled. The query by the court came after a plea was moved before it seeking clarification on interim bail granted to a prisoner in wake of Covid-19. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel, Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Talwant Singh also posed a query to the jail authorities on details regarding the number of Covid cases in the three jails in the national capital, the number of prisoners who were out on bail but needed to surrender next month and the number of isolation wards in each of the three jails.The high court also issued notice to the director general of prisons, who is in charge of the all three jails — Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli — in the national capital and sought his stand before the next date of hearing on October 16.The bench also sought the presence of DG Prisons, via video conference, on the next date, but was informed that he was suffering from Covid-19. Thereafter, the court directed that he may appear if he was well or someone can represent him.The court’s directions comes while hearing a plea seeking modification of two orders — passed on July 13 and July 24 — by which it had clarified that interim bails/parole extensions granted will be applicable to all prisoners who got the relief before or after March 16.The plea had contended that the two orders were being misused by prisoners by seeking bail on grounds of family illness or some such other such reasons, instead of regular bail, and then getting the same extended on the basis of the high court’s direction.The plea was filed after additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav had sought a clarification from the HC and the state after he saw that several accused in riots cases had opted for interim bail on humanitarian grounds and later extended it citing guidelines of the high powered committee for decongestion of jail.The high court said it will not permit misuse of its orders and would recall its extension order if it was being misused. While expressing concern in the surge of cases of Covid-19 in the national capita, the court also asked the prison authorities if they have sufficient number of isolation wards to accommodate the large number of prisoners who would surrender if the extension orders are recalled.The high court on August 24 had extended till October 31 all the interim orders, which were to expire on or after August 31 in cases that are before it as also the district courts in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-asks-state-prisons-if-they-have-enough-covid-isolation-wards/story-Qy39mj2xfHPaWOelX8prZK.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks Kangana Ranaut to submit her tweets, video of Sanjay Raut; BMC refutes her claims about demolition||The Bombay high court (HC), while hearing the petition of actor Kangana Ranaut, asked her to substantiate the claim that she had been abused by Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut. Senior counsel Dr Birendra Saraf, appearing for the actor, played a video clip in which Raut is heard saying “Woh haramkhor ladki”. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) responding to the court’s query during an earlier hearing on whether there was ongoing work at the time of inspection of Ranaut’s bungalow in Pali Hill, said that finishing work was being carried out on the unauthorised alterations and additions made in past.Regarding Ranaut’s claim that Raut abused her on the social media platform, Dr Saraf said Raut used the abusive word to refer to Ranaut, and that it was the politician’s malice towards the actor which prompted the demolition of her bungalow on September 9. However, when the bench questioned Raut’s lawyer advocate Pradeep Thorat, he clarified that as his client had not mentioned the actor’s name when he spoke, it could not be construed that he had abused her.Dr Saraf informed the court that the abusive stance of Raut had been prompted by a tweet by Ranaut on September 5.Senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, who appeared for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “I believe the tweet which is referred by Dr Saraf was made around 5pm. If Dr Saraf is referring to any other tweet prior to that, it will have some relevance.” In light of this, Chinoy sought a clarification on the timing of the tweet which allegedly led to the altercation between Ranaut and Raut. After hearing the submissions, the court asked Dr Saraf to submit all of Ranaut’s tweets and the entire video interview of Raut. Meanwhile, responding to the HC’s query regarding Ranaut’s petition filed through advocate Rizwan Siddiquee on September 9, seeking a stay on the ongoing demolition of her bungalow by BMC. The civic body submitted that while the petitioner in her response to the stop-work notice issued on September 7 had claimed that there was no work going on, the work was ongoing, and added that the civic authority was justified in considering the finishing work to be in continuation with the previously made alterations and invoking section 354A of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act. In view of this, BMC submitted that Ranaut’s claims were not maintainable as she had an alternate remedy available by filing a suit for claims and hence sought dismissal of the petition. While hearing the BMC’s arguments and submissions in support of the demolition, the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla was informed by Chinoy along with advocate Joel Carlos that the actor was trying cover up her illegal actions and get immunity by approaching the court. “This case actually is on the other side of the coin. It is like claiming immunity by relying on your public utterances and saying that if action is taken against unlawful construction, it is harassment,” Chinoy said. He further submitted that the actor had not shown any exceptional circumstance to move the petition. “It cannot be that a political controversy that has been created by the petitioner in media is an exceptional circumstance,” said Chinoy. The civic body then countered the actor’s claim that she was not in Mumbai when the notice was served and that she was not allowed time to respond. Chinoy said, “In this day if you can tweet while on your way from Mohali to Mumbai, you can also answer your advocate on the phone.” While justifying the application of section 354A of the MMC Act, Chinoy submitted that in her response to the stop-work notice, the actor had said that there was no ongoing work even though the inspecting personnel had seen five workmen and a supervisor. “Had she replied that water-proofing work was going on, BMC would have given her seven days’ time, but as she refused [that any work was going on], the officers assumed that it was work in continuum to the unauthorised alterations and additions done in the past, and hence resorted to demolition within 24-hours of serving the notice,” he said. Chinoy also pointed that in the petition or other documents filed by the actor during the course of the hearing she had not explicitly denied carrying out the unauthorised alterations and additions that were demolished, and hence BMC was justified in carrying out the demolition. He also said that the actor’s claim for ₹2-crore compensation could not be dealt with in the writ petition and hence the petition should be dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-kangana-ranaut-to-submit-her-tweets-video-by-sanjay-raut-bmc-refutes-her-claims-about-demolition/story-cAJzg52UL9gHIVOowkCUrM.html
28-09-2020||City||My doors are open, don’t air grievances in public: Rawat to Punjab Cong leaders||Chandigarh All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat on Monday advised the party MLAs not to air their grievances in public, saying his doors are open for everyone. Rawat, who is on his first visit to the state after being given the charge of party affairs in Punjab, gave the advice in the meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) here. Rawat told MLAs that he does not want to be caught by surprise, and they should call or SMS him if they have some grievance or views on any particular issue instead of going public. “I am accessible to everyone even at midnight. And, solutions can be found on the party platform,” he said. The state in-charge’s statement holds significance as the rumblings of discontent within the state unit have grown in recent months, with two Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, both former state unit chiefs, publicly criticising the chief minister and his decisions. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar were also present. Rawat, a former CM of Uttarakhand and five-time MP, also asked Amarinder to tell the ministers to go to party offices to meet the people and party workers and solve their problems instead of just interacting with them at their residences. “This will help strengthen the party. It is the party that contests the elections,” he said. The ministers and MLAs were also told to reach out to people on the farm laws, “destruction of federal structure” and refusal and non-release of GST compensation. When Jalandhar Cantonment legislator Pargat Singh urged Rawat to give time to MLAs, Rawat said he has come to meet them. The AICC general secretary met 16-17 party legislators who called on him individually or with delegations from their constituencies on Monday. The MLAs told Rawat that there was need for unity in the party, according to sources. When contacted, Jakhar said his meetings are being lined up with party MLAs on Tuesday as well and he will also be a part of the chief minister’s meeting with representatives of farmer unions on the three contentious farm laws in the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/my-doors-are-open-don-t-air-grievances-in-public-rawat-to-punjab-cong-leaders/story-4Io9ibE9Ib6wEyt1j5pPXI.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||CR set to introduce food vending machines at 19 suburban railway stations in Mumbai||Food vending machines will soon be introduced on suburban railway stations on Central Railway (CR). The machines will be placed on 19 suburban railway stations including Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Parel, Kurla, Thane, Ghatkopar, Kalyan, Vidyavihar, Mulund, Chinchpokli, Currey Road railway stations. The machines, which are likely to be operational by December, will have ready-to-eat snacks, chips, juices, chocolates, water and other eatables.“Food vending machines will be available at all major stations. The stations and platforms where the space for a food stall is small, vending machines can easily be available,” said Robin Kalia, senior divisional commercial manager, CR.The machines are being introduced at railway stations as food stalls are shut due to the spread of Covid-19. Railway authorities have stated that the stalls are likely to remain closed for some time.“Even after train services resume, food stalls are likely to remain shut. That will be done in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Food vending machines will be of help for suburban passengers,” said a senior CR official. The zonal railway plans to introduce food vending machines on other railway stations in the city later.CR has also introduced face mask, hand sanitiser and hand gloves vending machines as well as health kiosks for passengers travelling by local trains. The kiosks are available at Kalyan, Thane and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) railway stations. Passengers can to check their blood pressure, body mass index (BMI), blood sugar, weight, oxygen saturation and body hydration level at these health kiosks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cr-set-to-introduce-food-vending-machines-at-19-suburban-railway-stations-in-mumbai/story-bLq13J8M6hzAA5PO9cu7tO.html
28-09-2020||City||Principals set up funds, manage donations to help students pay board exam fee||New Delhi: With the deadline to submit the fees for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) board exams nearing, principals of various Delhi government schools have expedited their efforts to help poor students arrange money to pay the fee. The students have to submit the fee before October 15, the deadline for the schools to upload the complete list of candidates appearing for class 10 and 12 board exams.“Several parents are concerned over paying the fee. Loss of jobs and businesses due to the Covid-19 pandemic has made it difficult for many of them to arrange the money. We have set up a fund of Rs 15,000 to help students who won’t be able to pay the examination fee this time. The amount may increase or decrease based on the needs of the students,” said Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector-8. Jha said he has been holding digital parent-teacher meetings to discuss the issue with parents.Last year, after the CBSE hiked the board examination fee, the Delhi government announced that it would pay the fee for over 3.14 lakh Class 10 and 12 students in government schools. However, this year, the education department asked its heads of schools to follow the “2018-19 status”, meaning the fee had to be paid by the students.A senior official in Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia’s office said, “We have written to the CBSE, requesting them to waive off the exam fee for the current academic year due to the economic slowdown arising out of the pandemic. The government also lacks funds because of the major shortfall in revenue collection.”CBSE controller of examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said the board had not received any letter from the Delhi government so far. “We are a self-financing board. The expenditure over conducting exams is likely to increase this time. It is anyway a challenge to conduct the exams using the current exam fee,” he said when asked if the board was contemplating a fee waiver.On Monday, the Delhi government also told the Delhi high court that it had written to CBSE asking for an exam fee waiver due to the pandemic. The court was hearing a petition filed by advocate Ashok Aggarwal of NGO Social Jurist seeking a waiver of the exam fee. The court has asked the state government and CBSE to treat the petition as representation and take a decision within three weeks.Last year, the examination fee of class 10 and 12 students belonging to the general category in Delhi government schools was increased from ₹375 and ₹600, respectively, to ₹1,500 for five subjects. For SC/ST candidates in class 10, the examination fee was increased from ₹375 to ₹1,200 and for class 12, from ₹600 to ₹1200 in Delhi government and government-aided schools. If practical and additional or optional subjects are to be taken into account, the fee comes to around Rs 2,750 for class 12 students and to Rs 1500 for class 10 students.Bijesh Kumar Sharma, principal of Shaheed Hemu Kalani Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Lajpat Nagar, said, “Based on the number of requests we receive from students and parents, we will rope in school management committee members and alumni to look for donors who may help these students.”Several principals HT spoke to said they were planning to use the school’s People Welfare Fund (PWF) to help needy students. Mary Jyotsna Minj, principal of the Government Girls Senior Secondary School in New Kondli, is worried since her school has over 700 students in class 10 and more than 650 in class 12. “Many parents are worried about how they will pay the examination fee. If a parent has two children in class 12, they have to pay around ₹5,000 which is extremely difficult for many. We are planning to use PWF to help these students. We are screening their applications to ensure that only genuine cases receive help,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/principals-set-up-funds-manage-donations-to-help-students-pay-board-exam-fee/story-siMWwF1TQ1PaNB8naUQeBN.html
28-09-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Congress on road to revival or destined to suffer?||The 2015 assembly elections in Bihar saw the Congress regaining a reasonable space in the state legislature. After a gap of fifteen years, the party’s tally rose to double-digit, as twenty-seven out of forty-one candidates in the fray won their seats.“It was indeed a massive jump for the party, from just four seats in 2010 to twenty-seven in 2015. The Congress’s success, however, was mainly attributed to the invincible coalition that the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Janata Dal (United) had stitched to defeat the BJP-led combine,” said Nawal Kishore Chaudhary, former Patna University teacher and political analyst.Many believe the Congress was unable to seize the opportunity to bring the party back on revival course, as it continued to rely heavily on the RJD to keep its political relevance in the state. “Bihar has never been in the focus of the party’s leadership. A virtual ad-hocism prevailed in the state Congress after removal of Ashok Choudhary as the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief. Madan Mohan Jha replaced Choudhary in 2018, but his cry to reconstitute the BPCC was hardly heeded to,” said a senior Congress leader.The apathy led to desertions by many senior leaders, including former presidents like Choudhary, Chaudhary Mahboob Ali Kaiser and Ram Jatan Sinha. “The party hardly made any serious attempt to reach out to the masses and associate itself with their issues. Chaudhary, currently elevated as executive president of state JD(U), was the last BPCC chief who carried out a padayatra across the state to rake up the issues of farmers and labourers,” said a former general secretary of the BPCC, adding that the party lost its aggressive gesture over the years after many senior leaders got sidelined under the current set-up.The Congress had lost power in Bihar in 1990 assembly elections when it won only seventy-one seats. Still, it remained the main opposition party in the assembly. The worse came in 1995 when it could win only twenty-nine seats, less than the BJP which became the main opposition. The slide continued and it won only twenty-three seats in 2000 assembly polls. However, it joined the government led by Rabri Devi. The Congress contested the February 2005 elections in alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), but could only win nine seats.Also read: ‘Mahagathbandhan’ seat sharing talks hit roadblock in BiharIn October 2005 assembly polls, the Congress contested on fifty-four seats in alliance with the RJD and won only ten seats while the NDA, comprising the JD(U) and the BJP, formed the government. In 2010 assembly polls, the party fared badly and managed to win only four seats. The last Lok Sabha poll dealt a massive blow to the Congress as it could win only one out of nine seats it had contested. The rest thirty-nine seats were won by the NDA.Political observers say that the Congress began to lose its support base as it failed to read the signs and address backward caste aspirations between 1988 and 1990 when four of its chief ministers –Bindeshwari Dubey, Bhagwat Jha Azad, SN Sinha and Jagannath Mishra - were nominated to the top post only to be pulled down swiftly, giving in to the intra-party caste divides.The Congress’s support base in Bihar suffered massive erosion following the desertion by Muslims after the Bhagalpur riots in 1989 and Babri Masjid demolition in 1992. “We erred in not rebuilding the party since 1990. Have you ever seen the party on the roads, agitating, gheraoing the assembly, taking up a cause or even with some gumption to stand a lathi-charge, except at the time of polls? No. How do you expect us to survive?” a party legislator asked, adding that it allowed a leader like Lalu Prasad to fill in and ride to power in 1990 at the expense of the Congress.Former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, DM Diwakar, however, sees good electoral prospects for the party, particularly for the role it had played to mitigate sufferings of the migrants and students during the lockdown and its active support to the farmers’ protest against the enactment of three new laws. “Anti-incumbency is slowly creeping in the state. Joblessness is at its highest level. Industries and other sectors are in deep distress due to the Covid-19-induced pandemic. Farmers in Bihar have now begun to realize the dangers of the new acts that intend to take away their right to challenge any dispute in the court of law,” says Diwakar.He also sees a new realignment of electors shaping up in Bihar. “Apart from a section of upper castes, who are mainly into farming, Dalits and Muslims are now mobilizing in favour of the Congress and its allies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-congress-on-road-to-revival-or-destined-to-suffer/story-kAvXwhAaOCDvC6bMhtoXfI.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: PU waives tuition fee of 30 students||Despite grappling with financial woes this year, a special panel of the Panjab University (PU) on Monday decided to waive the tuition fee of around 30 students who had sought relief from the university. The tuition fee of these students will be waived off for both the semesters of the 2020-21 academic session. PU’s Dean Students Welfare (DSW) SK Tomar, a member of the panel, said, “We have given the relief to the students according to the direction of the vice-chancellor. He had directed us to extend all possible help to students who are unable to pay the fee.” Around 30 students had written to PU seeking a special concession in fee this year. However, few students, who had not explained the reasons, will be asked to state them. Another member of the panel said that most of the students had stated that their families’ income had been affected severely due to the pandemic. “We will provide help if any other student requests us to,” the member said. PU has already given a 5% concession in semester fee to all its students. The 7.5% fee hike for self-financed courses and 5% for traditional courses for the 2020-21 academic session was also put on hold by the syndicate in May. After the students had held multiple protests on the varsity campus in August demanding a complete semester fee waiver, the varsity committee had suggested awarding concessions to individuals who had been affected by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-pu-waives-tuition-fee-of-30-students/story-s45zWrYY76RoAElChSyUUK.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA elections: DC seeks details from returning officer||Deputy commissioner (DC) Mandip Singh Brar has sought details from the returning officer for Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections 2020 regarding the fresh dates and venues for polling.In a letter issued to Vijay Nagpal, the returning officer, on Monday, the DC sought details regarding the revised dates, time, venues, gathering limit, and mode of election.The DC also sought details related to the SOPs in compliance with the guidelines issued by the Chandigarh administration and ministry of home affairs, government of India.Nagpal had earlier sought the DC’s sanction to conduct the polls on September 25 and 26. The polling was postponed a day before the scheduled date after a few teachers of the varsity raised concern over the conduct of polls amid the pandemic and wrote to PU administration seeking their interference in the matter. After the elections were postponed, PUTA had also written to the DC requesting him to expedite the process of granting permission.Over 600 teachers of the university are eligible to cast votes during the elections. Nagpal had earlier said that the revised dates will be announced after the DC grants permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/puta-elections-dc-seeks-details-from-returning-officer/story-kyuIlYMwz1ia1krpUdE3ZI.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Farm bills: Maharashtra Congress leaders to intensify protest, leaders meet Governor||Maharashtra Congress has decided to up its ante against the three farm bills passed by the Parliament last week by intensifying protests against them. Senior party leaders met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and urged him to withdraw the bills, terming them anti-farmers.The party has announced to observe Save Farmer-Labourers Day on October 2, hold a virtual farmer rally next week and gather signatures of over one crore farmers on the petition to oppose the newly passed law.In the memorandum handed over to the Governor, the party has demanded the bills to be scrapped as they are anti-farmer and were passed without any discussion.“The bills will lead farmers to the slavery and safeguard the interests of a bunch of industrialists, who are close to the BJP leaders in power. There was no discussion held within the cabinet, among the NDA partners or in the Parliament. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi had announced to double the income of farmers by 2022, but the farmers are deprived of even the minimum support price. The Central government is ‘suit-boot ki sarkar’ and do not represent poor farmers,” said party leader and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan after meeting the Governor. Chavan said that the governor has assured them that the matter would be discussed with the Centre.The party in its memorandum has termed the claims made by the PM about the bills a sham. “PM has said that the farmers were free to sell their produce anywhere in the country. 86% of the farmers are marginal farmers with little holding and are not in a capacity to sell their produce outside the APMCs. The new system will deprive the farmers of the minimum support price and leave the direct and indirect employees of the AMPCs jobless. The bills are against the federal system of governance and lead to the revenue losses to the state governments. The bills will give a boost to contract farming, resulting in farmers turning into labourers in their own fields. Removal of the cap from the holding of the essential services will further compel farmers to sell their produce cheaper,” the 10-point memorandum reads.Party will stage protests at district collectorates and in Assembly constituencies on October 2 to oppose the bills. It has resolved to gather 1 crore signatures from the farmers between October 2 and 31 to protest the bills.Meanwhile, Congress leaders including state unit chief Balasaheb Thorat, public works minister Ashok Chavan could not be part of the delegation to Raj Bhavan as precautionary measures. The leaders distanced themselves as they had come in contact with Maharashtra unit in-charge HK Patil, who has been tested positive for Covid-19. Patil held a meeting with the leaders in Mumbai last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farm-bills-maharashtra-congress-leaders-to-intensify-protest-leaders-meet-governor/story-lwGt0TdryRO4Ww4UzzyMkO.html
28-09-2020||City||Palghar sand mafia raids: 13 Virar cops transferred||An assistant police inspector(API) along with 12 constables were transferred on Monday with immediate effect to the office of the additional superintendent of police(ASP), Vasai for allegedly turning a blind eye to the illegal sand dredging in Virar and Vasai. Furthermore, a preliminary inquiry has also been initiated against senior inspector Suresh Warade of the Virar police station.Palghar police on Saturday had conducted two raids at a sand depot at Khanivade in Virar and at Khardi in Vasai near Vaitarna river. the police seized 152 suction pumps, 1,650 brass sand, an excavator and 230 boats worth ₹7.90 crore from the two spots. The state revenue department evaluated the seized materials.On Monday, Shinde ordered an internal inquiry against the Virar police station in-charge Suresh Varade and assistant inspector Pandit Mhaske, who was in charge of the Mandvi police station which falls under Virar police. “A total of 13 cops including Mhaske and 12 constables have been transferred to the ASP office, Vasai with immediate effect,” said sub-inspector Sachin Navadkar, who is the public relations officer of Palghar police. Though no arrests were made in the Saturday’s raid, police booked unknown men under Section 395 ( theft) of the Indian Penal Code. The transferred 13 policemen are accused of not acting against the rampant illegal sand mining mafia. The SP, Palghar did not inform the Virar police and were taken by surprise when a special team of the SP raided the two spots where the dredging was in full swing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-sand-mafia-raids-13-virar-cops-transferred/story-T3AYnGBLZyzkd2bCX1paHP.html
28-09-2020||City||52-year-old arrested for opening fire outside dairy shop in Navi Mumbai||The Nhava Sheva police arrested a 52-year-old man after he allegedly opened fire outside a dairy shop in Ulwe on Sunday evening. The accused, identified as Ashish Chaudhary, runs a news channel on a video-sharing platform and claims to be a film director. He is booked under charges of extortion and firing. According to the police, Chaudhary came across a dairy shop at Sector 18 around 7.30pm where some customers were having tea and snacks. Chaudhary approached the owner and argued with him over the lack of social distancing at the shop, said the police. “Chaudhary then introduced himself as a media person and told the shop owner that if he failed to ensure social distancing norms in his shop, the accused would record a video and put it up on his news channel. This led to an argument between the duo, during which Chaudhary pulled out a gun and fired in the direction of the shop,” said an officer from Nhava Sheva police station. The customers immediately fled the shop and the owner alerted the police about the incident. “No one was injured in the incident. We have seized the firearm from the accused’s possession and will send it to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for a ballistics test to establish if it is a real gun,” said Abhijit More, assistant inspector, Nhava Sheva police station. The FSL report will also make it clear if the gun can fire real bullets, said the police. Chaudhary was booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Indian Arms Act. A magistrate court remanded him in police custody till October 1. The police said they will interrogate Chaudhary to find out where he procured the gun from and to verify if he has any previous complaints of extortions against him. Officers said that apart from running his news channel from the past two years, Chaudhary has also claimed to be a director and that he worked in reality crime shows and is the founder of a social organisation. Police are verifying his claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/52-year-old-arrested-for-opening-fire-outside-dairy-shop-in-navi-mumbai/story-4g0aTtGiOpT9F9nw3MGs7K.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai varsity staff, employees launch strike, demand implementation of 7th pay commission||Around 1,400 non-teaching staff members and employees of the University of Mumbai launched an indefinite strike on Monday demanding the implementation of the seventh pay commission. A ‘pen-down’ protest, where employees refused to do any official work, was launched as part of a state-wide protest called by employees of all 14 non-agricultural universities of Maharashtra. The employees have demanded revision of their pay based on the recommendations of the seventh pay commission, five-day week, assured career progression plan as well as pension for all employees. The strike has been called by the Maharashtra State College Universities Employees Action Committee—a collective of eight employees associations in the state. “We have launched the pen-down strike that will continue till September 30. If our demands are not met by then, we will call for a complete strike,” said an employee participating in the strike. The strike comes at a time when the university is conducting online examinations for its students amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A senior official of the university said that the strike has so far not affected the examination process. However, if the strike were to continue, some exam-related works may be impacted, said the official. While the recommendations by the seventh pay commission came into force in 2016, the state education department has not yet revised the pay scales of university staff so far. State education minister Uday Samant held a meeting with representatives of the committee. “The state government will soon implement the recommendations of the seventh pay commission in non-agricultural colleges and universities. As soon as the Covid-19 situation improves, we will start the process of filling the vacant positions. The government is positive towards fulfilling the demands of the employees,” said Samant. Despite the minister’s assurances, the Maharashtra State College Universities Employees Action Committee has refused to call off the strike. “The minister’s assurances alone will not suffice. We will continue to protest until the government expedites the process,” said a representative of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-varsity-staff-employees-launch-strike-demand-implementation-of-7th-pay-commission/story-dqtpY16spNrl3VhK24E39J.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Youth Akali Dal workers pay homage to Bhagat Singh on birth anniversary||The Youth Akali Dal workers on Sunday paid tribute to Shaheed Bhagat Singh on his 113th birth anniversary. Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha said that youngsters should follow the footsteps of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev. “It is need of an hour that the young generation should treat Bhagat Singh as their idol and follow his footsteps,” he said. “It is also very disappointing that some politicians are using the name of martyrs in elections for political gains,” he said adding that people should boycott those who use the name of martyrs for political mileage. Gosha said that the Centre should announce martyr status to Bhagat Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/youth-akali-dal-workers-pay-homage-to-bhagat-singh-on-birth-anniversary/story-qVEKkVCcuiEr9hcyh5RSBL.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man, woman booked for furnishing fake divorce agreement in Ludhiana||A man and his woman friend were booked after former’s wife accused him of furnishing fake divorce agreement, police said on Monday. An FIR was registered following the statement of Ravinder Singh’s wife, who claimed that a divorce petition filed by her husband earlier was declined by a court.According to the complainant, a resident of Gujjarwal village, she had married Ravinder in 2007 and the couple had two children. She told the police that her husband was having an affair with a woman, and accused him of beating her up on raising objection. My husband had filed a divorce petition, which was declined on September 9, 2019, she said, adding that she shifted to her parents’ home after he assaulted her in March. The complainant said Ravinder turned up at her parents’ house in June and thrashed her again, following which she lodged an FIR at the Jodhan police station. “I came to know that my husband had furnished a fake divorce agreement by forging my signatures,” the woman said, who approached the police on July 23 to file a cheating complaint against her husband. ASI Baljinder Kumar, who is investigating the case, said the FIR was registered following an investigation. Ravinder Singh and his friend have been booked under sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “We would soon arrest the accused,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-woman-booked-for-furnishing-fake-divorce-agreement-in-ludhiana/story-WnmkY3klbKtkZUcdsWSBBJ.html
28-09-2020||Pune||Police officials, unhappy with transfers, line up at commissioner office||At least 70-80 police officials had gathered at the Pune police commissioner’s office at Sadhu Vaswani chowk in hopes of gaining reconsideration of the recent internal transfers.The transfers were a part of the scheduled process that took place under the regime of former commissioner of police K Venkatesham. These officials include staff members of the constabulary from headquarters, police station, and traffic police departments.Some of them were all granted a private audience with Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, Pune, while some others were asked to reschedule their plea for tomorrow (Tuesday).“I live in an area that is almost 30km away from my house. My wife is also a police staff member and she has to travel equal distance. My term at the previous police station was up and I had filled in three choices that were closer to my house. But I was given none of them,” said an official in his 40s who requested anonymity.In response to the question, newly-appointed commissioner of police Amitabh Gupta, said, “If you take a survey, 90% of the staff is happy with the new postings. However, among the ones who have gathered here, most are defaulters. These transfers are a committee decision after all and I agree with the thought process. However, if there is a genuine reason for mid-term transfer where the reason for default is not strong enough, the application will definitely be considered.”The commissioner’s office was teeming with officials trying to get an audience with the joint commissioner. The officials were seen lining up on the steps of the officers’ entrance on the first floor up til the second floor with others waiting outside the building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-officials-unhappy-with-transfers-line-up-at-commissioner-office/story-48OcjEbxmav0eL70OwSUAO.html
28-09-2020||Pune||Man arrested for murder at Swargate||Hrushikesh Jivraj Kamthe (34), a resident of Lokmanya Colony, SNG Pump in Kothrud, has been arrested on Monday for the murder of Nagesh Dagdu Gund (37), a resident of Kerul, Tuljapur, Usmanabad. Kamthe attempted to rob Gund at Swargate on September 3, between 11:30pm and midnight. A scuffle ensued during which the accused murdered Gund, police said. The deceased man was waiting for a friend to pick him up from Swargate and drop him to Kothrud, according to the police. “We were investigating a robbery in the Sinhagad road area. We had also seen the footage of the Swargate case. He committed a robbery in Yerawada as well, after the Swargate incident,” said senior police inspector Milind Gaikwad of unit 3 of the Pune police crime branch. Gund resisted the robbery and was attacked by Kamthe with a sickle, after which, Kamthe fled the spot with cash and Gund’s mobile phone. Gund succumbed to his injuries on the way to hospital. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Swargate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-arrested-for-murder-at-swargate/story-nBOz1WAz5KDUwyw7NwsCPJ.html
28-09-2020||Pune||Doctor, wife robbed at gunpoint in Katraj||A 32-year-old doctor and his wife were robbed at a gun-point by two men on a motorbike in the early hours of Sunday in Katraj. The couple was travelling in a car along the Mumbai-Bengaluru Highway stretch after midnight on Sunday. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dr Chinmay Deshmukh (32), a resident of Bibwewadi, Pune. Deshmukh in his complaint said that the couple had stopped near the tunnel on the road connecting Satara and Pune. They were 500 meters away from Pune city when the doctor alighted his vehicle to relieve himself. The two accused arrived at the spot on a motorbike and held a gun to the stomach of the doctor’s wife and demanded valuables, according to the complaint. The two left after the doctor and his wife handed over their belongings including gold rings and a wristwatch. The robbed belongings were found to be worth ₹1,20,000, according to police. The police are on a lookout for two people who fled on the motorbike. A case under Sections 392 (punishment for robbery), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(25) of Arms Act was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station. Police sub-inspector Mahendra Patil is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/doctor-wife-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-katraj/story-PT9H93vAQ0suf7FTsvwTMM.html
28-09-2020||City||Pune dist reports 1,910 fresh Covid-19 cases, 19 deaths||PUNE On Wednesday, the state health department reported 1,910 fresh Covid-19 cases, in 24 hours, in Pune district. Nineteen deaths were attributed to the infection, taking the district’s death toll up to 5,690. Currently, Pune district has a total of 2.87 lakh Covid cases, of which 2.24 lakh have recovered, with 57,310 active cases. Pune rural reported 606 fresh cases, taking the final count to 60,012, according to the state health department. Eight deaths were reported putting the rural death toll at 1,197. Pune city, as per the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) reported 799 fresh cases, taking its total case count to 1,53,339. Six deaths reported on Monday, put the death toll at 3,475. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) reported 505 fresh cases, taking its final case count to 74,093. Five deaths reported on Monday put thee PCMC death toll at 1,017. The state health department reported that 19,932 patients were discharged as of Monday, putting the final discharged count at 10,49,947. The recovery rate in the state is 77.71%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.65%. Currently, 19,75,923 people are in home quarantine, with 29,922 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-dist-reports-1-910-fresh-covid-19-cases-19-deaths/story-0YVIdBLjOsfswwGm5qQ1vJ.html
28-09-2020||City||PMC collects Rs 35.4 lakh in fines for spitting, mask violations||PUNE The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has collected Rs 35.4 lakh in fines from people spitting in public places and not wearing masks.The civic body earlier this month increased the penalty to Rs 500 for not wearing a mask and Rs 1,000 for spitting in public places.As many as 5,916 people have been fined for not wearing a mask and a total of Rs. 29.13 lakh has been collected in fines; 4,677 people have been fined for spitting and Rs 6.27 lakh has been collected in fines. These fines have been collected until September 23.The district administration had to especially form a committee called ‘Social Action for Covid-19 control’ which would try to encourage people to wear masks and avoid spitting.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, epidemiologist and chairman, state technical committee on communicable diseases, who heads the committee, said, “We will take help from common man to encourage others to follow all the safety norms including social distancing, wearing masks and not spitting in public places.”In the month of May the fine collected for not wearing a mask was Rs 1,000 from two people; June Rs 90,100 from 189 people; July Rs 2,08,500 from 417 people and in August Rs 5,000 from ten people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-collects-rs-35-4-lakh-in-fines-for-spitting-mask-violations/story-6zJWEyceXeE8HZYx0CvshN.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||135 appear for CLAT in Ludhiana, 58 skip||The Common Law Admission test (CLAT) for admission to various law colleges in the country was held at the TCS ION digital zone in Sherpur Chowk on Monday. Around 135 of the 193 registered candidates appeared for the exam.The centre authorities took stringent precautionary measures to avoid the spread of Covid-19 and social distancing norms were followed. Student wore masks and were thermally screened outside the exam centre. Candidates reached the venue at 1pm ,and keeping in mind SOPs, were asked to maintain social distancing outside the gate. Hand sanitisers were kept at the entrance gate, near the examination hall and inside the hall.The paper comprised 150 questions of 1 mark each and had five sections including English, logical reasoning, mathematics, legal aptitude and general knowledge. Aspirants said the paper was moderately easy and added that the general knowledge section was relatively tough compared to the others. Nidhi Jain, a candidate, said, “Of all the five sections, general knowledge was the toughest, and took a lot of time. The others were moderately easy.”Another candidate, Arman Negi, a student of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, said, “The paper was moderate to difficult as majority of the questions in general knowledge questions were indirect and time consuming . The logical reasoning section was also difficult.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/135-appear-for-clat-in-ludhiana-58-skip/story-kmgnkmcGskbudD4Zofln1K.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Kuldeep Singh Chahal is new Chandigarh SSP||Kuldeep Singh Chahal, a 2009-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, has been appointed the senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh.Chahal started his career as an assistant sub-inspector in Chandigarh Police before clearing the UPSC exams and getting selected to the IPS. He is currently the Mohali SSP. “The appointments committee of the cabinet has approved the proposal of ministry of home affairs for inter-cadre deputation of Kuldeep Singh Chahal, IPS, from Punjab cadre to AGMUT cadre for a period of three years,” stated the department of personnel and training’s orders issued on Monday. Though the administration has received the communication, the official order is awaited, said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Former SSP Nilambari Jagadale’s term had ended in August. The fresh appointment was awaited since then. The Punjab government had sent a panel of three names for the post, including Chahal, Patil Ketan Baliram (AIG, counter intelligence, Amritsar) and Vivek Sheel Soni (SSP, Ludhiana rural). The UT administration had recommended Soni’s name to the MHA in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kuldeep-singh-chahal-is-new-chandigarh-ssp/story-0q2IFqaHZJkRqYkVuo49mI.html
28-09-2020||City||Woman dies of ‘shock’ after son gets arrested for liquor smuggling in Ludhiana||A 70-year-old woman died of ‘shock’ after a team of excise department and anti-smuggling wing arrested her son for liquor smuggling from his house in Gurpal Nagar on Sunday. The accused, Aman Sharma, 30, had lost his father in January this year. His brother Rohit Sharma said the police and excise department team had on Sunday arrested Aman for smuggling liquor. “All our family members, including my mother Prem Lata Sharma, requested them to let him go, but to no avail,” he added. Rohit said minutes after Aman’s arrest, his mother complained of chest pain and died, possibly due to cardiac arrest. Aman was released on bail after sometime and took part in his mother’s cremation on Monday. Rohit said their mother suffered from no such ailment.“Aman owned a shop of window panes. Due to the lockdown, he had suffered losses and shut down his business,” he added. Sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma, in-charge of anti-smuggling wing, said a police and excise department’s team had arrested the accused following a tip-off and recovered 24 bottles of illicit liquor from his possession. The accused used to sell illicit liquor from his house, he added. A case under sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered against the accused at Division Number 6 police station.The sub-inspector said he had no information about the death of Aman’s mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-dies-of-shock-after-son-gets-arrested-for-liquor-smuggling-in-ludhiana/story-w299VezdpasSpRyn7QvigL.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Five held in Ludhiana for betting on IPL matches||Daresi police arrested five men for allegedly accepting bets on a cricket match played between Rajasthan Royals and Kings XI Punjab in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) on Sunday night. The accused were operating from a flat in the Moti Nagar’s Housing Board Colony. The police have recovered three mobile phones, two keyboards and ₹6,500 from their possession.The accused have been identified as Sahil Kumar and Mintu of Shivaji Nagar, Yuvraj Sharma of Tajganj, Sajan Sharma of Bhamiyan Kalan and Naresh Kumar of Jassiyan Road locality.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ranjit Singh said the accused were arrested following a tip-off. “When the cops raided their flat, the accused were accepting bets on the match through their mobile phones,” he added. During questioning, they told the police that they had created a secured network of bookies. “They accepted bets only within their circle and used to record all the calls to preserve them as a record,” the ASI said. The cop added that the next day, the accused would collect and distribute payments according to the result of the match. “We have found voice recordings of people placing bets on the match in their phones and sent them to the Forensic Science Laboratory in Kharar to recover the data. We have also found that the mobile phones that were being used by the accused for accepting bets were procured using fake ID cards,” he added. A case under sections 13A, 3 and 67 of the Public Gambling Act has been registered against the five accused.On September 24, the anti-smuggling wing had arrested four men for betting on the match between Kolkata Knight Riders and Mumbai Indians from a house in Rup Nagar of Basant City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-held-in-ludhiana-for-betting-on-ipl-matches/story-WzI6YBOXR04gPnGBJIKURI.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||621 doctors, healthcare workers in Ludhiana contracted Covid while on duty: Report||A report released by the Ludhiana health department revealed that 621 healthcare workers have contracted Covid-19 while treating patients so far. Of the 621 infected healthcare workers, the report mentioned, 50 were doctors. Among these doctors, 34 worked at government hospitals, while 16 were from private healthcare facilities. Apart from doctors, 571 infected healthcare workers included nurses, housekeeping staff and class-IV employees. While 440 such staffers belonged to private hospitals, 131 caregivers worked at government hospitals. Ludhiana civil surgeon Rajesh Bagga, while praising the doctors and healthcare workers, said, “I have no words to express my gratitude to the doctors and paramedical staff. Initially, some private hospitals were not attending to patients, and it was then the doctors at government healthcare facilities came forward and started offering treatment. We knew a little about the virus then. Several of our doctors got infected and fell ill. But after recovering from the disease, they again joined the duty and started serving the humanity.” ‘Treating a patient in such circumstances ain’t easy’“Dr Bandeep Singh, Dr Amanpreet Kaur, Dr Anmol Rattan, Dr Varun Bansal and Dr Ankit, the list of doctors is long and I am sorry that I could only name a few. But my heart fills with pride on seeing their dedication and devotion. Treating a patient, while knowing that one could get infected, is not easy,” Dr Bagga added. The civil surgeon said the list of doctors and paramedical staffers who tested positive for Covid-19 was compiled to find out the reason as to how they contracted the virus. “There were multiple reasons. Besides working in hospitals, the healthcare workers and doctors had been also visiting the field to collect samples of patients. Despite being attacked and facing hostilities from people who were against offering samples, the doctors and paramedical staff did not deter. If the fresh Covid infections have reached a plateau and are on a decline, the credit should also be given to these heroes,” he added. As per the civil surgeon, in majority of the cases, it was seen that the healthcare workers caught the infection from their spouses or while eating during a gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/621-doctors-healthcare-workers-in-ludhiana-contracted-covid-while-on-duty-report/story-QoUiMBCumEEcESFSfMBfLM.html
28-09-2020||City||Six more Ludhiana residents succumb to Covid-19, toll now 723||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) claimed lives of six more residents of Ludhiana, where 133 people tested positive on Monday. With the latest fatalities, the death toll reached 723, while the count of those infected with the virus so far mounted to 17,615 in the district. As many as 15,785 patients have recovered from the disease in the district till now, leaving only 1,104 active cases.Among those dead were a 56-year-old man from Ramgarh Samrala; a 45-year-old man from Payal; a 75-year-old man from Dugri; a 34-year-old man from Shimlapuri, a 82-year-old man from Model Town, and a 55-year-old woman from Jagraon.Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma on Monday said that under Punjab government’s ‘Mission Fateh’ campaign, the number of patients getting cured of Covid in the district has been increasing with each passing day. He said there are presently 1,104 active cases in the district, while adding that sincere efforts are being made to keep people safe from the deadly virus. DC Sharma said a total of 163 patients (133 new patients from Ludhiana district and 30 from other states/districts) have tested positive in the last 24 hours.He further said that till date, as many as 2,64,791 samples have been taken, of which report of 2,63,340 samples has arrived. The DC said that now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana was 17,615, while 2,143 patients were from other districts/states.He said 10 patients lost their lives on Monday (six from Ludhiana and one each from Jalandhar, Pathankot, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr districts).He informed that till date, 43,434 people have been kept under home quarantine in the district and currently, the number of such persons is 4,051. On Monday, he said, 224 people were sent for home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-more-ludhiana-residents-succumb-to-covid-19-toll-now-723/story-MaGCMESYQWxIB5Rsggml4L.html
28-09-2020||City||Old equipment installed at power station in Panchkula village||Old equipment is being installed at the 66kV power house being constructed at a cost of Rs 8 crore at Taparia village in Panchkula. The discrepancy came to the fore during an inspection carried out by Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Monday.The power house is to supply electricity to the surrounding 12 villages and has been a long-standing demand of locals.An official release claimed that Gupta visited the spot following a complaint and found many irregularities, including “burnt transformers, old panels and wires installed in the power station”. “Many points were burnt and many machines did not have complete equipment,” it stated, adding that as the engineers “could not give satisfactory answers”, Gupta had a telephonic conversation with TC Gupta, additional chief secretary of the electricity department.“The matter should be investigated thoroughly and strict action should be taken against the officials concerned,” said Gupta. It has also been alleged that the old panel has been brought from Gurugram while the price of new equipment has been added to the estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/old-equipment-installed-at-power-station-in-panchkula-village/story-4M8h8mAUxlrqbIeFqEj0BN.html
28-09-2020||City||SAD asks party leaders to resign from posts held in Delhi’s civic bodies||New Delhi After severing its ties with the BJP over farm bills, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has now asked its members to resign from the posts held by them in the three municipal corporations of Delhi, ruled by its former ally.The party has decided to give up all the posts it jointly held with the BJP in any organisation, including the municipal corporations, the president of the Delhi unit of SAD, Harmeet Singh Kalka, said at a press conference on Monday.The Delhi unit of the party chalked out its future course of action at a meeting of its core committee held earlier in the day.Kalka said SAD councillor Manpreet Kaur has resigned from the post of deputy chairperson of the licencing and tehbazari committee of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC).The SAD had been contesting the assembly and civic body polls in Delhi in an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“The SAD leaders have to resign from such posts that they held in an alliance with the BJP, considering the party leadership’s decision to go alone in its political journey after ending the ties with the BJP,” Kalka said.SAD leaders, at a meeting held in Chandigarh on Saturday, decided to break its ties with the BJP and quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-asks-party-leaders-to-resign-from-posts-held-in-delhi-s-civic-bodies/story-6njFx6rZ9NN8xTvODsAEiM.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Covid-19 tally nearing 112,000; 1,271 fresh cases logged||As per a medical bulletin, Punjab on Monday added 1,271 fresh cases and 46 more related deaths due to coronavirus (Covid-19), which pushed the state’s tally and death toll to 111,375 and 3,284 respectively. The active cases have climbed to 17,746 whereas over 90,000 have recovered from Covid-19 till now, the bulletin showed. The bulletin highlighted 68 critical patients are on ventilator support while 331 are on oxygen support.Out of the new Covid-19 cases, Amritsar added 180, followed by Ludhiana (138), Mohali (127), Jalandhar (101) and Gurdaspur (88).Among the new deaths, eight were reported from Jalandhar, seven from Mohali, six each from Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur, five from Gurdaspur and four from Amritsar. Two deaths each were reported from Kapurthala, Pathankot and Tarn Taran and one each from Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Mansa and Sangrur, the bulletin added. Over 1.7 million samples have been tested so far for Covid-19 in the state, it said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-covid-19-tally-nearing-112-000-1-271-fresh-cases-logged/story-zZ7TytsuwEcOGe1M9PNWdP.html
28-09-2020||City||14 more succumb to Covid in Chandigarh tricity||Covid-19 claimed 14 more lives in the tricity, while 360 people tested positive on Monday.As many as 27,592 people have been infected so far, of whom 424 have succumbed. Chandigarh recorded the maximum number of deaths on Monday, as six people, including two senior citizens, died. Its toll stands at 153.Meanwhile, 171 people tested positive, taking the tally to 11,678. While 9,325 patients have been cured, 2,200 cases remain active. Those who died included an 80-year-old woman from Sector 8 and a 71-year-old man from Sector 25. The remaining four were identified as two men, aged 50 and 58, from Sectors 56 and 27, respectively, and two women, aged 51 and 57, from Raipur Khurd and Sector 20, respectively. Most of them had diabetes, hypertension or heart diseases.Five people died in Panchkula district, taking the number of casualties to 85. Sixty new cases also surfaced. The total stands 5,790, of which 924 are active, as 4,781 patients have been discharged so far.Those dead included an 80-year-old woman from Sector 16, who had diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease, and an 84-year-old woman from Sector 10. A 67-year-old man from Sector 27 and 73-year-old woman from Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4, also died. Both had diabetes and hypertension. A 40-year-old woman from Kalka was the fifth casualty.In Mohali, three deaths were confirmed on Monday while 129 people tested positive and 273 were discharged. The total number of deaths has gone up to 186 in the district, which has recorded 10,124 cases. Of these, 7,896 patients have recovered, while 2,042 are still hospitalised or in home isolation. Those dead included a 92-year-old woman from Zirakpur, who had bronchial asthma and diabetes, and a 50-year-old woman from Jujhar Nagar, also with comorbidities. A 32-year-old man from Mohali city also succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-more-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-2FjuqB026I23vbZ7nWeVTO.html
28-09-2020||City||SGPC ₹981-cr budget shrinks by 18% comparing last year||AMRITSAR With dip in its earnings amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Monday unanimously passed ₹981-crore budget for 2020-21, down by 18.5% from last financial year’s ₹1,205 crore. Though the session was by and large peaceful, Sikh bodies continued with the protest outside over the missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib.The budget speech was delivered by the SGPC general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami and it was approved by the general house at Teja Singh Samundri Hall in the presence of Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. The annual budget session that is held in March every year, was delayed this year due to the pandemic.The gurdwara body earmarked ₹577 crore for the management of gurdwaras, ₹215 crore for educational institutions, ₹58 crore for dharam parchar, ₹57 crore for general fund, ₹37 crore for Trust fund, ₹28 crore for education fund, ₹8 crore for printing presses and ₹88 lakh for directorate of education.Addressing the house, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said, “Though the budget is lower than last year but it covers all aspects. Money has been allocated for upcoming centenary celebrations, amritdhari children, Sikligar and Wanjara Sikhs, and for youths doing well in sports and academics.”Arrangements have been made for free education of 200 Sikh girls at Mata Sahib Kaur Girls College, Damdama Sahib. Under this, 10% reservation will be given to the daughters of Sikh preachers, Gurbani readers and singers, and 5% for those coming from poor families.For celebrating 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh master Guru Teg Bahadar next year, 100th foundation day of the SGPC and 300th birth anniversary of Bhai Taru Singh, a sum of ₹3.45 crore have been allocated.Some dissenting voices were heard from some members during the session. SGPC members Kiranjot Kaur, Sewa Singh Sekhwan and Balwinder Singh Bains were allowed to speak from the dais. Kaur grilled the SGPC office-bearers over the missing saroops. She was interrupted by a member, Amarjit Singh Chawla, but she continued speaking and asked him to keep quiet.Outside, however, there was commotion as members of Sikh bodies continued with their ongoing stir. The protesters were demanding resignation of SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal over the missing saroops and strict punishment to those indicted by the probe panel of dereliction of duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-981-cr-budget-shrinks-by-18-comparing-last-year/story-skRNUppqPsDqjlDLBJNf0M.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested for forging registration certificate in Mumbai||Two people have been arrested by officers of Mumbai police’s crime branch for allegedly making and selling forged registration certificate book (smart cards). According to officers of unit 12 of the crime branch, the two were arrested earlier by the Tilak Nagar, Samta Nagar and Bhandup police stations for the same offence. The arrest took place four days ago when one of the police officers received a tip-off that the main accused identified as Jayesh Gopaliji Mehata, 50, was going to reach Dahisar station.On searching Mehata, the officers found a forged smart card in his possession. The officers found that there was an offence registered against Mehata and his accomplice Avinash Borkar, 40. “We questioned Mehata and he revealed that they procure expired RC Books of potential buyers and then change the date and other details with the help of printing,” said police inspector Sachin Gavas, from Unit 12. Based on Mehata’s statement, the officers arrested Borkar and also raided his residence in Charkop at Kandivli west. On searching the premises, the officers found 18 forged smart card RC books and printing material which they used to make a new smart card. The two were arrested on the charges of cheating, forgery and several other sections of the India Penal Code and were presented in the court where they were remanded to judicial custody till September 30th.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-arrested-for-forging-registration-certificate-in-mumbai/story-DVtrM3h7dQ9XrkUFmz3OfJ.html
28-09-2020||City||Five more succumb to virus in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh on Monday registered five more deaths due to Covid-19 while 266 fresh infections took the state tally to 14,457. Two deaths were reported in Mandi and one each in Kinnaur, Una and Sirmaur. The death toll has mounted to 175. Of the new cases, 70 were reported in Kangra, 41 in Shimla, 28 each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur, 24 in Mandi, 16 in Kullu, 15 in Bilaspur, 14 in Lahaul-Spiti, 11 in Solan, seven each in Chamba and Una and five in Kinnaur. In Kangra, 24 trainee jawans of Himachal Pradesh Police tested positive at the Police Training College, Daroh. There are 3,650 active cases in the state. As many as 268 more people have been discharged, taking overall recoveries to 10,552. Solan is the worst-hit district with 2,929 cases followed by Kangra where 2,189 people have been infected. Sirmaur has 1,785 cases Mandi 1,656, Una 1,244, Shimla 1,219, Hamirpur 910, Chamba 814, Bilaspur 781, Kullu 589, Kinnaur 190 and Lahaul-Spiti 151.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-more-succumb-to-virus-in-himachal/story-qJIUPcLe9jZEwXWHpwXGnO.html
28-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapse: Inquiry committee asks for 10 days extension to submit report||The inquiry committee formed to inspect all the dangerous structures in Bhiwandi vicinity, after the Jilani building collapse on September 21 that killed 38 and injured 25, has asked for an extension of 10 days to submit the report to the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) commissioner Pankaj Ashiya. The report will comprise a fresh list of all the dangerous structures and also what went wrong with the Jilani building. The report was supposed to be submitted on Tuesday to the civic body chief; however, the committee has asked for an extension on Monday. “The report will take time as we are still working on it. It was not possible to submit it in 3-4 days as many of our staffs are still busy with the Jilani building collapse incident, as they were also part of the rescue and management of rehabilitation of the residents,” said Ajay Sawant, deputy municipal commissioner, who is the in-charge for the committee. “Although we have asked for 10 days extension, we might submit the report before that. The work is being done with priority,” added Sawant. The 36-year-old Jilani building collapsed around 3.30 am, while the rescue operations at the site continued for 80 hours. It marked as the worst building collapse incident in Bhiwandi city till date. “The committee has asked for an extension of time for the inquiry which comprises of knowing what went wrong with the Jilani building, who is at fault and also it will have the list of all dangerous structures after the inspection and the future measures that can be taken up to prevent from such incidents,” said Pankaj Ashiya, commissioner, BNCMC. He added, “Since the officers were busy with the rescue and rehabilitation work of the Jilani incident I have approved the extension for now and have directed to complete it with priority.” Meanwhile, the Narpoli police that is investigating the case and has booked the builder cum owner Sayyed Ahmed Jilani right after the incident are yet to arrest him. Senior police inspector of Narpoli police station, M B Shinde said, “The investigation is on, while, our team is also in constant touch with them. We will require some proofs and documents from the civic body which we have asked. Meanwhile, we are also checking on if any other person is involved in this.” Tariq Khan,34, who managed to escape from the collapse with his family of three, said, “Even now after the incident people are searching for homes. I am living at my relative’s place and have no clue where to go with my family. After the incident the civic body had asked residents to take the civic hall of school as a temporary shelter but how many days can we live there?” Meanwhile, there is no clue about the two bodies of a 2.5-year-old boy Museb Qureshi and 28-year-old Shabnam Mohammad Ali Shaikh. “We are awaiting the DNA test for the Shaikh’s body while a missing complaint was registered for the boy and the probe is on,” added Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapse-inquiry-committee-asks-for-10-days-extension-to-submit-report/story-fpqevDdJXAA5d9iSpQa6pI.html
28-09-2020||Dehradun||‘Drug addict to aspiring lawyer’: Uttarakhand boy’s life story is all about grit and determination||When 21-year-old Archit Sharma was caught by police of Raipur locality in Uttarakhand’s Dehradun, he never thought he would come back to the same police station later as an aspiring lawyer. Sharma’s journey is an example of transformation, grit and determination. It also shows the humane face of police which offered him refuge at the police station where he is now living and studying for his class 12 examinations and law entrance test. After getting released from jail, Sharma’s family refused to accept him after which he took refuge at the same police station where he was booked for theft to fund his drug addiction. Drugs addiction after father’s death Narrating his story, Sharma says that he was good in studies and never consumed drugs till he was living with his family in Uttarkashi district. Everything changed after moving to Dehradun to his grandparent’s place following his father’s death. “After my father passed away, my mother, younger sister and I came to Dehradun to my maternal grandparent’s place to live with them as they were our only caretakers along with my maternal uncle. There, unfortunately, I got into the wrong company of friends which ultimately pushed me into drug addiction,” said Sharma. He said that as his drug addiction problem got serious in Dehradun, he was then sent to live with his maternal uncle in Bangalore. Also read: Sonia Gandhi urges Congress-ruled states to override Centre’s farm laws“My family sent me there in 2014 where I lived for a year. I pursued by class 10 board examinations with 8.6 CGPA. As my uncle is very strict, I was away from drugs there. However, I couldn’t tolerate his behaviour and returned after a year in 2015 only to again get into drugs,” said Sharma. “The addiction got worse and I got a supplementary in one of the subjects in class 12 boards in 2017. Ashamed of it, I left home without telling my family members.” Petty jobs for drugs Sharma said that after leaving home, he spent two years wandering in different areas of Dehradun while working in restaurants and dhabas to earn money to buy drugs. “As I was deep into drugs, I funded my addiction with the money I earned by working in restaurants. Then one day, one of my relatives saw me in a restaurant and took me home,” he said. After going home, he claimed that his drug addiction got worse and he started stealing household things. “I first stole some household things and then sold them to buy drugs. I stole gold jewellery for about Rs 3-4 lakhs and spent it all on drugs. Finally, my family members got to know about it and lodged a complaint against me in Raipur police station,” said Sharma Sharma was arrested by police on June 25, 2019, and produced before a court which sent him to jail for one year. No acceptance from family “I was released from jail on parole citing the pandemic on April 2 this year. I went home but my uncle, who is the guardian of my grandparent’s house, refused to accept me. I then turned back and spent 2-3 days on roads,” said Sharma. He said that he relied on the food being distributed by people for the needy ones during those 2-3 days. “During that time, the lockdown was strict and police caught me sleeping in an auto-rickshaw and asked me to go home. I told them I don’t have any home and they let me go,” said Sharma. “Later when I lost all hope, I turned towards the same Raipur police station for a refuge where I was arrested. I met its station house officer Amarjeet Singh Rawat and narrated my ordeal on which he provided me with a place yo live in the police station premises. I am still living there,” he said. Sharma says that it was initially an unusual experience for him to live in the police station but later he settled down.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine portal launched, all data linked to research on it “Initially I would see some people crying, shouting in the police station with police bringing strangers in the lockup. I used to think what is this unusual scene. Later it got normal,” said Sharma. While living in the police station, he started helping cops in rescue operation in accidents and social work of distributing food to needy ones and stray animals. “SHO Amarjeet sir helped me a lot by providing me clothes, food and even books when I told him that I want to study. As my class 12 was incomplete, he filled my form for it for which I will be taking my examinations next year in April,” said Sharma. He said when he told Rawat that he aspires to become a lawyer, he also bought him books for the preparation for law entrance examination. “He treats me like his own and never made me feel that I am living with cops. The other personnel in the police station also help me a lot and treat me like their family member which shows that police also has a humane face,” said Sharma.Sharma says that he is not in touch with his family members as his uncle didn’t allow his mother and sister to talk to him over the phone. “Initially I used to call my mother with the mobile phone provided by SHO sir. But then my uncle got to know about it and stopped her from taking my calls. I miss my mother a lot and once I stand on my own feet after becoming a lawyer, I will bring her from there to live with me,” he said. Police lauds Sharma’s transformation Station house officer (SHO) Amarjeet Singh Rawat said, “He has changed completely. Nobody can tell that he was a drug addict and had spent time in jail.” Rawat said, “When he came to me crying that he has nowhere to go as his family members refused to accept him, I decided to help him and allowed him to live in the station premises.” Rawat said he provided him with space in the police barracks. “For food, I have asked our police mess to give him food while sometimes I also bring him food from my home. We were impressed with him helping the needy ones and strays in the area with a pure heart,” said Rawat. He said, “When he expressed his desire to study, I made all the required arrangements for him by filling his form for class 12 as well as for law entrance examination. I have taken full responsibility for his studies till he stands on his own.” Rawat said that he tried to convince his family members to take him back several times. “But they refused straight away citing the theft incident.” Governor pardons remaining jail term Rawat said, “When Governor Baby Rani Maurya came to know about his good conduct while living in the police station, she pardoned his remaining jail term of about three months.” “We are happy to be a part of his transformation journey and setting an example on how one can leave the menace of drug addiction and lead a meaningful life with self-determination,” said Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/drug-addict-to-aspiring-lawyer-uttarakhand-boy-s-life-story-is-all-about-grit-and-determination/story-UKw5nhZUhPRWrgYtyiyPrO.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi registers 1,984 Covid-19 cases, 37 deaths in last 24 hrs; tally over 273,000||Delhi recorded 1,984 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, as the infection count mounted to over 273,000 lakh in the city, while the death toll rose to 5,272 with 37 new fatalities, according to a health department bulletin. The relatively low count of fresh cases came out of the 36,302 tests done the previous day. The active Covid-19 case count on Monday stood at 27,123, down from 29,228 the previous day, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 5,235 on Sunday. The Monday bulletin said the fresh cases pushed the Covid-19 tally to 273,098 in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-registers-1-984-covid-19-cases-37-deaths-in-last-24-hrs-tally-over-273-000/story-bNrZBJmjQiydtRFNBVW6zM.html
28-09-2020||City||World Rabies Day: Srinagar reported 55,000 animal bite cases in past decade||Despite a dog birth control programme in place to stabilise the increasing population of stray canines in Jammu and Kashmir’s capital Srinagar, the annual bite cases here have not shown a major decline.Data of the past decade from Valley’s only anti-rabies clinic at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital (SMHS) in Srinagar reveals a constant increase in the number of dog bite cases.In the period 2009-10, the clinic recorded 3,711 people getting animal bites, a majority of them caused by dogs. The number shot up to 7,324 cases in 2015-16 and since then around 6,500 animal bite cases have been documented at the clinic annually. Around 55,000 animal bite victims have reported to the anti-rabies clinic from 2009 to 2019. These cases are beside the dog bite incidents reported in the towns and villages of Kashmir.“Annually 6-7 thousand dog bite cases are reported by the SMHS clinic, run by the department of community medicine, where anti-rabies vaccines and rabies immunoglobulin are provided free of cost to the bite victims,” said Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, head of community medicine at Government Medical College and Hospital, Srinagar.On the occasion of World Rabies Day, the department in collaboration with non-profit organisation ECHO organised a webinar on this year’s global theme ‘End Rabies: Collaborate, Vaccinate’.“The cases of rabies are still reported. However, such patients don’t come to the anti-rabies clinic and are treated in general hospitals,” Khan said.Stray dogs menace has remained a persistent issue in Kashmir, particularly in capital Srinagar, where conservative estimates put the dog population anywhere around 60,000. With animal rights activists against any culling of dogs, the animal birth control (ABC) or sterilisation measures by the Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) authorities started in 2013 to control the dog population have often been described as sluggish.“The sterilisation is not happening. We have numerous dogs on the roads. Outside the state, stray dogs starve due to lack of food but here they get protein-rich diets in the form of animal wastes. Even after eight years, the ABC is not showing results,” Khan said.The SMC’s veterinary officer, Dr Javaid Rather, said their ABC programme at Shuhama was on a halt since August 5, 2019, when the Valley was put under restrictions followed by lockdown due to Covid-19 in March 2020.“Due to the pandemic, there was no work. We started ABC again at Shuhama from September 1 where we are sterilising 8 dogs on an average daily,” he said.The official said the construction of another facility at Tengpora, where they could perform 50 sterilisations a day, would still take two to three months to complete.He said they were trying to implement a two-pronged approach. “We are trying to minimise the availability of garbage to the dogs and in the long term we are hopeful to implement the sterilisation programme after our infrastructure is in place,” he said.“We believe the dog bites are stabilising and showing some decline in Srinagar,” he claimed.GFXCanine attack A year-wise breakup of the animal bite cases reported at the anti-rabies clinic of SMHS Hospital, Srinagar:Year Number of cases2009-10 3,7112010-11 4,5152011-12 4,1542012-13 4,4892013-14 6,0412014-15 4,9172015-16 7,3242016-17 6,5482017-18 6,802||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/world-rabies-day-srinagar-reported-55-000-animal-bite-cases-in-past-decade/story-wqt6O2x3UVgQ5XRNH3JMmI.html
28-09-2020||City||World Rabies Day: Stray dog sterilisation drive held in Kangra||A special stray dog sterilisation and anti-rabies vaccination drive was held at Bir and surrounding areas in Baijnath of Kangra district to mark World Rabies Day on Monday.The theme for World Rabies Day-2020 is ‘End Rabies: Collaborate, Vaccinate’.Over a dozen stray dogs were sterilised at the veterinary hospital in Bir and 80 were vaccinated against the rabies virus, said Dr Sandeep Mishra, assistant director of cattle production, Palampur.These activities were conducted to mark the global occasion and spread awareness among the locals, pet owners and children about rabies and taking care of animals. A talk was also held to educate people about the deadly disease, vaccination protocol and other important information related to rabies, said Mishra.The programme was held with the support of animal husbandry department.Medical experts Dr Sachin Sood, Dr Vijay Kapoor and Dr Mukesh participated in the event and contributed their technical know-how at the camp, said Mishra.Similar camps and vaccination drives were also carried out at Paprola, Bhaura, Chowki and Alampur, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/world-rabies-day-stray-dog-sterilisation-drive-held-in-kangra/story-2DyldoT4k0kOS0jXV3pvNP.html
28-09-2020||City||Missing youth’s body found in Sidhwan Canal, family alleges murder||A 20-year-old youth, who went missing on September 25, was found dead in Sidhwan Canal near Barewal area here on Monday.The police are suspecting suicide; however, the family alleged that he has been murdered.The victim, identified as Sonu of Krishna Nagar, was working with a real estate firm. He had left the house on Friday night with his friend however, he did not return ever since. The victim’s mother Malti said that on Friday night Sonu’s friend Hans Raj, of Kochar Market area, had come home and the duo left the house. However, Sonu did not return ever since. She said that Hans Raj did not respond to her calls. Later, the family received a call from the Raghunath Enclave police post stating that Sonu’s scooter was recovered near the canal.Malti alleged that Sonu had an affair with a girl and her family was against their relationship. A few days ago, the girl’s family members had threatened Sonu after which he was depressed, she added.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP-city 3) Sameer Verma said that around two months ago the girl had filed a harassment complaint against Sonu. However, both parties landed a compromise.He added that the body has been sent to a hospital for a postmortem examination. The police will take appropriate action following the autopsy report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-youth-s-body-found-in-sidhwan-canal-family-alleges-murder/story-cGELU2vFkK2DAAizGt606K.html
28-09-2020||City||Jagraon Bridge’s bowstring girder catches the fancy of commuters||With the newly constructed Jagraon bridge expected to open for traffic on Tuesday, the bowstring girder bridge has become the cynosure of all eyes with city residents often being spotted taking pictures of the structure and uploading it on social media.At 63.5-metres, Jagraon bridge’s bowstring girder is the longest in Punjab. The bridge weighs around 530 tonnes and there are over 34,000 nut bolts.Also, the road being constructed on this bridge will be a three-lane road.The project worth ₹24 crores is being carried out by a Delhi-based company and the bowstring girder was prepared at a workshop in Ghaziabad. Senior section engineer (SSE) (constructions) Gurdeep Singh said that normally a bridge has two lanes but the newly constructed part of the Jagraon bridge will have three lanes for movement of traffic. It is the longest bowstring bridge in the state as earlier a similar bridge was constructed in Shahkot but it is around 50m long. A resident of BRS Nagar, Surinder Singh said, “The authorities have taken four years to complete the project, but now when the bridge is complete it would now become the landmark of the city. The bowstring design fascinated the commuters.” The completion of the Jagraon bridge project would also streamline the movement of traffic in the area, which has been hit for over four years. Member of Punjab Road Safety Council, Rahul Verma said, “It will be a huge relief for commuters as it will reduce the pressure on nearby roads including Lakkar bridge, Railway station road, etc. Now, the administration and the civic body should work to expedite the other pending projects including the construction of a ROB at the missing link, construction of ROB/RUB at Pakhowal road etc.”Bridge to open for traffic on Tuesday: MayorThe railway authorities claim that there has been some delay in the completion of work at the site after the machine to lay mastic asphalt developed a snag and the work is now expected to complete by Tuesday afternoon. However, Mayor Balkar Sandhu said that the railway authorities have assured that the bridge would be completed by Tuesday and it will be opened for traffic on the same day only. The bridge was opened for a trial run on Sunday. He said that the MC would also further beautify the bridge by installing colourful lights as part of the Smart City project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagraon-bridge-s-bowstring-girder-catches-the-fancy-of-commuters/story-86kdlfdxfzroJ0emyWoyJI.html
28-09-2020||City||SAD quits NDA: BJP no more main opposition party in Ludhiana MC||With changing political scenario after the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) snapped ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over farm bills, the latter has lost the tag of the main opposition party in the MC general house.Earlier, the SAD-BJP alliance had 21 councillors, but now SAD has 11 councillors while the BJP has 10 councillors. The BJP, however, claims the support of an independent councillor Parvinder Kaur.While the Congress holds a majority in the general house with 64 councillors, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) stands at fourth position with seven councillors. Of the total 95, there are three independent councillors in the city. With this, there seems to be uncertainty over who will retain the position of the leader of opposition in the MC general house.With the SAD claiming to be the main opposition party, the BJP leaders said that they will conduct a party meeting in the coming days to discuss the issue. SAD district president, Ranjit Singh Dhillon and current leader of opposition in the MC house, councillor Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “SAD has 11 councillors and the party will retain the tag of the opposition party as BJP has 10 councillors and the vote of the independent candidate will not be counted.” Dhillon said, “The BJP would soon see the implications of SAD pulling out of the alliance and they will witness a downfall in the coming time.” BJP district president, Pushpinder Singal, however, said that BJP has 11 councillors in the house as independent councillor Parvinder Kaur is also a part of their party.“We will soon conduct a party meeting to discuss different issues including the leader of opposition in the MC general house and nothing has been decided till now.”This division will benefit Congress as it will not have a strong opposition in the general house.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Leader of opposition would be announced after both parties give in writing the number of councillors in their party’s support.” .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-quits-nda-bjp-no-more-main-opposition-party-in-ludhiana-mc/story-A826NYhROV8hABMFTLs3VO.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administrator for strict action against protesters violating Covid safety norms||With caution being thrown to the wind during protest rallies related to new farms Acts, Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore on Monday instructed police to take strict action against those violating Covid-19 safety protocols.In the review meeting held on Monday, Badnore directed the director general of police to ensure that there is no spread of coronavirus due to the gathering of a large number of people at such political demonstrations.Opposition parties have scaled up protests in the city after the Presidential accent to the bills, with the Congress holding one of Monday. Its Chandigarh unit president, Pardeep Chhabra, led a foot march and tractor rally towards the Punjab Raj Bhawan to submit a memorandum to Badnore against the new legislations. Chhabra said: “Every time, the BJP has come to power, it has passed draconian laws against the interests of government employees and youth, and now it has targeted farmers, who are the backbone of India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrator-for-strict-action-against-protesters-violating-covid-safety-norms/story-uj8YVR0MDepd2xLKp9K01O.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh teen rape victim found pregnant gets ₹4-lakh relief||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Chandigarh, on Monday gave ₹4-lakh compensation as medical aid to the 15-year-old girl who was sexually exploited for months and was found eight-month pregnant on September 23.In her statement to police, the Class-9 student had said that her brother, the sole earning member of the family, raped her for the first time in December 2019 under the influence of drugs. He continued to sexually abuse her for several months, but her mother remained oblivious to her plight as she was visually impaired.Apart from the brother, who was arrested on September 23, police have also nabbed his friend, aged 25, and a former tenant, aged 51.She is under the care of the 181 helpline and social welfare department, and is being counselled. The FIR had been registered on the complaint of her elder sister, who got married in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-teen-rape-victim-found-pregnant-gets-4-lakh-relief/story-m95dsFY0lr5LOUsEhVaHRJ.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||3 phones recovered from inmates at Chandigarh’s Burail Jail||Closed-circuit television cameras installed in jail barracks helped the authorities recover three mobile phones, including a smartphone, during surprise checking at Chandigarh Model Jail, also known as Burial Jail, on Saturday night. The phones were recovered from inmates Ravinder Singh, alias Kali, a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang; Rajan Bhatti, alias Rajbir; and Pardeep, alias Naggad. A case has been registered against them at the Sector-49 police station, said Amandeep Singh, deputy superintendent, Model Jail.The inspection was conducted following a tip-off. The phones were recovered from barrack number 10. Police are investigating if the phones were used to execute any crime from jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-phones-recovered-from-inmates-at-chandigarh-s-burail-jail/story-iLt1nIrankubxLqimT4FnN.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Biodiversity by the Bay: Mumbai’s green gems plotted on a map||The Karvi flower that blooms once in eight years, flamingo-watching spots, a new species of scorpion – there are among the many natural treasures that often go unnoticed in the hustle and bustle of Mumbai’s dense urban sprawl . Now, you can discover these wonders for yourself, with a first-of-its kind biodiversity map that has been created by illustrator and cartoonist Rohan Chakravarty as part of a campaign to highlight sustainable development.  Conceived by Purpose Climate Lab (PCL), the map is part of the Biodiversity by the Bay campaign, run by citizens’ collective, Ministry of Mumbai’s Magic and other partner organisations. “The campaign was designed to inspire citizens to use their creativity and collective power to fight for Mumbai’s biodiversity. This map is intended to inspire pride in all of Mumbai’s treasures,” said Sonali Bhasin, senior strategist, PCL.  The map shows urban and forest spaces in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and contains pointers to forest patches, intertidal spaces, mangrove areas, as well as animal species that can be found, like the two spiders, a scorpion, and a lizard species that were discovered in recent years in Aarey Milk Colony. “The motive behind producing this map, which will also be an interactive webpage, is to empower young Mumbaiites with a visual resource of their biodiversity, to instil a sense of pride and ownership in the city’s wildlife, and to drive responsible governance,” said Chakravarty. It took dentist-turned-cartoonist Chakravarty a month to make the map, which provides an index of intertidal wildlife hotspots – Girgaum Chowpatty, Haji Ali, Carter Road, and Juhu Beach – as well as urban green spaces, mangrove forests, and wetland patches. He used information from experts, marine enthusiasts and scientific reports in addition to information provided by the PCL team. “Usually I conduct field visits before taking up such projects but because of Covid-19, this time I had to rely on secondary information,” said Chakravarty, who, as a wildlife and conservation enthusiast, has previously done nature walks in Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) and along the Mumbai coastline.  In addition to the city’s flora and fauna, the map also identifies spots for photography, nature trails, and other recreational activities. “I have laid emphasis on state symbols, animals discovered from Mumbai and also tribal heritage, with the compass paying tribute to the indigenous Warli art,” said Chakravarty. Among the green gems plotted on the map are the Karvi flower that blooms at Sanjay Gandhi National Park once in eight years; Mumbai’s infamous beach stinger, the Portuguese Man-o-war; and the two species of flamingo that come to the city.   “When we think of Mumbai, we immediately think of a fast-paced city with its vibrant film industry and endless opportunities. This iconic map highlights the flora, fauna, green spaces and indigenous communities of this region which remain hidden in the hustle and bustle of our city of dreams,” said Suma Balaram, senior designer, PCL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/biodiversity-by-the-bay-mumbai-s-green-gems-plotted-on-a/story-82a15YWKL72mqA4CSJ4IIO.html
28-09-2020||City||Ambulance driver transporting Covid patient body beaten up in Sultanpur Lodhi||Kapurthala An ambulance driver was beaten up allegedly by relatives of a Covid-19 patient who had died during treatment at NHS Hospital in Jalandhar. The driver had gone to deliver the body to his family at a village in Sultanpur Lodhi when the incident occurred. Police have booked seven people for assaulting the driver and damaging the ambulance under sections 323, 341, 427, 269, 270, 271, 188, 148, 149 of the IPC and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act. One of the accused has been identified as Happy, a relative of deceased Heera, while six others are unidentified. In his statement to the police, ambulance driver Amrik Singh said when he reached Sultanpur Lodhi, some youths exchanged argued with him over Heera’s death. “They tore my PPE kit and thrashed me badly. They also damaged the ambulance,” Amrik said. Assistant sub-inspector Bhupinder Singh said the accused are absconding and efforts are on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambulance-driver-transporting-covid-patient-body-beaten-up-in-sultanpur-lodhi/story-aJC0dB1dsUBVIkbMBYFsBK.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||HP records 25% monsoon rain deficit, 76% in Sept||Himachal Pradesh recorded a rain deficit of 25% during this monsoon, which is expected to withdraw from north India in the next few days, data from the Shimla Meteorological Centre reveals.The season’s highest deficit of 76% was recorded In September, with just 29.9 mm rain as against 125.6 mm.  About 11 of the state’s 12 districts received sporadic and scanty rain, making it the second year running in which the hill state had a deficit.Last year’s deficit was 10% below normal even as 21% surplus rain was recorded 2018. About 567.2mm rain was reported this season against the normal average of 761 mm. June had a deficit of 35% with only 69 mm rain instead of the normal 105.3 mm, and July a deficit of 27.5% with 202.9 mm rain against the normal 280 mm . There was a slight improvement in August, however, with 0.38% surplus rain of 263 mm as against 262 mm. Biggest deficit in Lahaul, Spiti and Kinnaur The Tribal districts of Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur had the biggest deficit of 73% (105 mm against the normal 392 mm) and 54% (114 mm against the expected 249mm), respectively. With 477 mm or rain against the normal 1,047.9 mm, Chamba had a deficit of 54%. Bilaspur was the only district with 10% surplus rain, recording 956.8mm against 871.8 mm.Kangra had the highest rainfall of 1,218.9 mm among all the 12 districts, though it was 23% below normal against an average of 1,592.2 mm. Similarly, Hamirpur experienced 818.7 mm or rain and Solan 781 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-records-25-monsoon-rain-deficit-76-in-sept/story-nZU0HaQ2ZzLA4Lo9Vc5iiL.html
28-09-2020||City||AAP asks Akal Takht jathedar to not let SAD ‘misuse’ shrines||AMRITSAR An Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) delegation comprising Punjab legislators Baljinder Kaur, Jai Kishan Singh Rori and Kulwant Singh and others on Monday handed over a memorandum to Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, demanding that Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) shouldn’t be allowed to “misuse gurdwaras and Takht sahibs” for their personal and political purposes. Addressing the media on the occasion, Baljinder Kaur said there were times when SAD used to work for the betterment of Panth, Punjab and Sarbat, but in the recent times, its leaders have abandoned the agenda and were running the party like a private firm. “The Akali Dal has lost political ground and is now going to launch demonstrations from three Takhts starting October 1 to exploit religious sentiments of the Sikhs. Political demonstration by the Badal family on September 24 at Takht Sri Damdama Sahib was a misuse of the Guru’s house,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-asks-akal-takht-jathedar-to-not-let-sad-misuse-shrines/story-cE5PyOLzXKvqyZ1YWE3NFN.html
28-09-2020||City||Gurdaspur man held for marrying minor in Panchkula||A Gurdaspur man has been arrested for marrying a minor in Panchkula, police said on Monday.Following the Punjab and Haryana high court’s intervention last month, a case was registered at the Mansa Devi Complex police station against groom Dalbir Singh and Ramesh Sharma, the priest who performed the wedding.The petitioner, who was born in October 2002, got married on August 17, 2020, as per the marriage certificate issued by Pracheen Shiv Mandir, Panchkula. She filed an application in the high court, wherein a notice was issued to the Panchkula police on August 20. An FIR was registered under the The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurdaspur-man-held-for-marrying-minor-in-panchkula/story-SPhKQXO12kwZH3OVI4uFpI.html
28-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand allows inter-state bus services, only 100 trips per day allowed with curbs||The Uttarakhand government on Monday issued standard operating procedure (SOP) for the running of the inter-state buses by the state transport corporation with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. The order for the same was issued by state chief secretary Om Prakash under which the Uttarakhand Transport Corporation (UTC) will be allowed to operate only 100 trips to and fro each day. The order stated, “The UTC will be allowed to run inter-state buses only after establishing coordination with the transport corporations of other states. They will have to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines during the operation of bus services including mandatory wearing of masks by bus staffers and passengers along with thermal screening.” Also read: Sonia Gandhi urges Congress-ruled states to override Centre’s farm laws“The bus staffers and passengers will have to register themselves on the state government portal before undertaking the journey and will have to mandatorily download Aarogya Setu application on their mobile phones before starting the journey,” the order stated. According to the SOP, the UTC will have to ensure proper sanitisation of the buses before the start and after the end of the journey. Also, the passenger occupancy will be as per the capacity with social distancing in place and no passengers will be allowed to travel while standing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-allows-inter-state-bus-services-only-100-trips-per-day-allowed-with-curbs/story-4ClIsOsMAC1NusDBZoSw8N.html
28-09-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: ‘Mahagathbandhan’ seat sharing talks hit roadblock||Losing friends fast, the opposition ‘Mahagathbandhan’ in Bihar is facing strong headwinds weeks ahead of the assembly elections with new allies hard to come by and the old seeking a greater share of the electoral pie, virtually blocking seat-sharing talks among its constituents.The grand alliance spearhead, the RJD, which had emerged as the single largest party in the last elections with 81 seats, it finding it tough to convince its recalcitrant partners of its pre-eminence in the coalition and allow it to contest 150 odd seats of the 243-member assembly.The Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi has already deserted the coalition and returned to the ruling NDA.Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) of former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha looks set to follow suit, with the party having already said “all is not well” in the ‘Mahagathbandhan’, which its leader Lalu Prasad and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar had cobbled together to humble the BJP in the 2015 assembly polls.Apart from RJD’s 81, Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) had won 70 seats and Congress 27. A cornered BJP had managed toclinch just 53 seats.The RJD is fighting its first state polls in the absence of Lalu Prasad, who is serving time in a Jharkhand prison after conviction in multiple fodder scam cases.Prasad’s son and heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav has already been declared the RJD’s chief ministerial candidate, something that has not gone down well with some alliance partners.Sources in the coalition said the RJD, the main anti- NDA force in the state, is not ready to settle for anything less than 150 seats.The Congress, which happily played a second fiddle to the RJD for many years, has been insisting on at least 75 seats, a demand lalu Prasad’s party is not prepared to concede.“We have given the Congress a proposal to contest 58 assembly seats and the Valmikinagar Lok Sabha constituency which will have bypoll soon,” RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari told PTI.Another RJD spokesman Shakti Singh Yadav also confirmed the numbers and said “one or two seats can be adjusted here and there.” Bihar Congress spokesman Rajesh Rathor refused to go public about the number of seats the party wants to contest, but maintained it has definitely sought a larger share than what was being offered. “In the 2015 election under the grand alliance, the JD(U) and the RJD had contested 101 seats each and the Congress 41. Now that JD(U) has ditched the Mahagathbandhan and joined hands with the BJP, the seat distribution arithmetic is needed only for the 101 seats Nitish Kumar’s party had fought then.“Out of that we expect proportionate distribution of seats to us,” Rathor told PTI.RJD’s Tiwari, however, is unconvinced. He said the Congress being a national party has the scope to contest elections in many states but Bihar is the only strong turf for the state’s main opposition party.RLSP chief Upendra Prasad Kushwaha is already camping in New Delhi where he is believed to have met top BJP leaders to finalise the modalities for his return to the NDA.Kushwaha, according to sources in the NDA circles, wants to contest the Valmikinagar Lok Sabha byelection, which has been necessitated following the death of sitting JD(U) MP Baidyanath Mahto.Sources in the Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) of Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni said with the number of alliance partners shrinking, the party wants to contest a respectable number of seats. As a Mahagathbandhan ally, it fielded candidates in three places in the Lok Sabha polls but had drawn a blank.Even RJD’s Jharkhand partner JMM has expressed keenness to be a part of the grand alliance and field candidates on some seats.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had recently met Lalu Prasad in Ranchi and the two were learnt to have discussed the issue.The RJD also hopes to bring on board the three Left Parties- the CPI-ML, CPI, and CPI-M.Of these, CPI-ML alone has pockets of influence and three MLAs in the outgoing assembly.However, it is peved at the ‘nakaratmak’ (negative) approach of the RJD in taking along opposition parties, including the prospective allies like the Left.“The CPI-ML has been contesting around 100 seats on its own. But for the sake of unity among anti-NDA forces, we first scaled down our demand to 50 seats and finally to 25.“But the RJD has a negative approach as it does not want us to contest from constituencies like Paliganj, Sandesh and Obra that are out traditional seats,” CPI-ML Secretary Kunal said.“The RJD’s logic about our traditional seats is that it had fielded candidates there in the 2015 election and hence can’t leave them for others. But it should understand that in 2015 they fought elections to make Nitish Kumar the chief minister while now they want to throw him out of power,” he told PTI.Kunal said his party may decide to go to the hustings alone if the RJD remains intransigent and refuses to accomodate the ultra-Left party’s demand.Leave alone taking forward the seat-sharing talks with the existing and probable allies, the Mahagathbandhan remains an amorphous entity weeks before the first phase of polling on October 28, a situation that will make the rival NDA camp, which in any case looks sitting pretty, all the more happier.The three-phase polls in Bihar will be held on October 28, November 3 and 7. The votes will be counted on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-mahagathbandhan-seat-sharing-talks-hit-roadblock/story-9atnRu1p8awBGS2nWZMCjO.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress submits memo seeking rollback of farm laws||A Haryana Congress delegation on Monday submitted a memorandum to the Governor, condemning the enactment of three farm laws by the BJP government at Centre. The Congress workers who began to move in a procession from party office in Sector 9 were stopped by the Chandigarh police and only a few leaders were allowed to proceed towards Raj Bhawan due to Covid-19 restrictions. A number of party leaders and workers were also rounded up by the police. A party spokesperson said that the memorandum sought the intervention of President to undo the three laws which are endangering the existence of the farmers, labourers and arhtiyas. It said that by dismantling the APMC, the whole system of the sale and purchase of agricultural commodities will be shattered and will result in disastrous situation in the country. State Congress chief Kumari Selja said the party rank and file will concentrate on organising Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Sammelan on October 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-congress-submits-memo-seeking-rollback-of-farm-laws/story-FW15XacNLbfRTMmakNaIsK.html
28-09-2020||City||Sixth Schedule for Ladakh: Will sustain campaign if hoodwinked by Centre, says ex-minister Chering Dorjay||Though the Centre’s assurance to include Ladakh in the Sixth Schedule of Constitution has rekindled hope among the people of the Union Territory, former BJP minister and ex-president of the party’s Ladakh unit Chering Dorjay on Monday cautioned of a sustained campaign in case they were hoodwinked.Apex Body of People’s Movement, an apolitical body having former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang, Dorjay, Thiksay monastery head Rinpoche Nawang Chamba Stanzin and former minister Nawang Rigzin Jora as members, has been demanding constitutional safeguards under its Sixth Schedule to Ladakh on the lines of north-eastern states.The umbrella group includes political parties and religious organisations and Leh-based Ladakh Buddhist Association.The safeguards also guarantee more teeth to the two hill development councils of Leh and Kargil with legislative powers.On Saturday, after Union home minister Amit Shah’s assurance over the same, the delegation withdrew its call to boycott the ensuing polls of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council.Dorjay said, “Following home minster’s assurance, we have withdrawn the election boycott call. The assurance had to be verbal because of the model code of conduct and we have to trust him. But if the central government hoodwinks us, we will launch a sustained campaign and resorting to other modes of protest.”“As per the home minister’s word, Ladakh will be brought under the Sixth Schedule within 15 days after the culmination of the hill development council polls. However, the exercise has to be preceded by participation of the representatives elected in the polls. We will also have to take the people of Kargil on board,” said Dorjay.He informed that the apex body will visit Kargil in the next few days to have detailed discussion on the issue.Dorjay said the Sixth Schedule also guarantees no settlement of outsiders.“Outsiders purchasing land or property in the region is the main concern of the people here because Ladakh region has vast swathes of barren land which are vulnerable to human settlement. Eventually, trains will also reach Ladakh. Atal Tunnel has already come up and the Zojila Tunnel upon completion will provide easy connectivity to the region. Thus, apprehensions of the tribal people here are not unfounded,” he maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sixth-schedule-for-ladakh-will-sustain-campaign-if-hoodwinked-by-centre-says-ex-minister-chering-dorjay/story-gazox0KuzaI2pBYl5hDo6J.html
28-09-2020||City||Delhi cop on shooting spree kills father-in-law, injures female friend||Nearly 12 hours after a Delhi Police sub-inspector allegedly shot his female friend in outer Delhi’s Alipur area, he killed his 62-year-old father-in-law in Rohtak’s Bhainsi village on Monday morning while being on the run with his service pistol, prompting the Delhi and Haryana police to launch a manhunt. The suspect has been identified as Sandeep Dahiya, a 35-year-old sub-inspector (SI) posted at the Lahori Gate police station in north Delhi, officials from Delhi and Haryana police said.Biker passing by area hurt A motorcyclist from Haryana, identified by his first name Satbir, was also injured while he was passing by the area, where Dahiya fired three bullets at the woman, with whom he was in a relationship for over a year, as the bullets’ flying shrapnel his hit left leg. Satbir saw his leg injury only when he reached Sonepat and got himself admitted to a local hospital. The Delhi Police team met him and recorded his statement. Satbir is a key witness to the Alipur firing incident, said deputy commissioner of police (outer-north Delhi) Gaurav Sharma. Woman out of danger According to Sharma, the 34-year-old woman was spotted in an injured condition on the roadside on GT Karnal Road by another Delhi police officer, sub-inspector Jaiveer, who was passing through the area in his car around 5.30pm on Sunday. Jaiveer took her to a nearby hospital. “On the way, she had told him that SI Sandeep Dahiya had shot her following an argument. She also told him that Dahiya had strained relations with his wife. We registered a case and formed teams to search for the SI. The woman suffered bullet injuries in her right shoulder and arm. Her condition is stable and out of danger,” said Sharma, adding that they are probing whether Dahiya used his service weapon in the crime. On Monday morning, the absconding sub-inspector reportedly drove up to his in-laws’ house in Rohtak’s Bhainsi village and shot his father in-law, Ranbir Singh, 62.Shot father-in-law in the forehead Dahiya’s wife Rajesh Devi said the incident took place around 7am when her father was sanitising the street outside their house. “My husband, along with my brother’s father-in-law, Balbir Singh, and cousin Pawan, came in an SUV and pumped a bullet into my father’s forehead, killing him on the spot,” said Rajesh Devi. She further revealed that she had moved back to her parents’ house four years ago following a marital discord, and a case was pending in the local court. “My husband had illicit relations with my sister-in-law, Reena. She had also filed a case seeking divorce from my brother as she wanted to marry my husband. Sandeep wanted to take custody of our son but I was against it,” she added.Meham deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Shamsher Singh Dahiya said the suspect, a resident of Sisana village in Sonepat, has been booked under Section 302 (murder) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code. He further said that the victim’s family members have revealed that the accused had threatened to kill him a few days ago. The DSP added that the footage of closed-circuit television cameras installed near the crime scene has been collected and a hunt is on to nab the accused. ‘Cop had not turned up for work’ As per information from north Delhi police officials, Dahiya had been deputed for patrolling duty in Lahori Gate area between 9pm (September 26) and 1am on September 27 but he had not turned up. On September 23 and 24, Dahiya was on medical leave as he had complained of stomach pain. Being a division officer, Dahiya was allotted a 9mm service pistol and 10 bullets on September 26. Since Dahiya neither came for duty nor returned the service weapon, he was marked absent and a daily diary (DD) entry, mentioning his indiscipline, was made in the police station, they said. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said, “Multiple teams are now on a lookout for Dahiya. We are working in coordination with the Alipur police and our counterparts in Haryana,” said DCP Alphonse. ‘Cop’s troubled personal and professional life’ Delhi Police officials said Dahiya joined the police force as a constable in 2006. In 2016, he became a sub-inspector after clearing the exam for the post. He has been posted in north district since 2013 and in Lahori Gate police station since December 2017. He has been living in a government allotted flat at Shalimar Bagh police colony. “Dahiya has been in a marital dispute with his wife, who already filed a dowry harassment case against him in a police station in Rohtak. He faced a departmental inquiry in regard to that. His service was also forfeited after the inquiry found him guilty,” a police officer who knows Dahiya said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-cop-on-shooting-spree-kills-father-in-law-injures-female-friend/story-1CZsKmq4JIb43bUiOyc7UM.html
28-09-2020||Kolkata||Police complaint against BJP national secretary for ‘Covid hug’ remark on Bengal CM||The refugee cell of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Monday lodged a police complaint against Anupam Hazra, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP)’s new national secretary from West Bengal, for saying that he will hug chief minister Mamata Banerjee if he is infected by Covid-19. In its complaint lodged at Siliguri police station in north Bengal, where the chief minister is on a three-day tour, the TMC refugee cell said Hazra’s comment was distasteful and an insult to a woman. It went against the culture of India, the complainants said. “By making such a statement at the administrative head of a state, Hazra has violated the Constitution. We see this as an insult to all women,” said the complaint lodged by two women members of the refugee cell, Tara Biswas and Arpita Das. Also read: ‘Will hug Mamata Banerjee if I have Covid-19’ - BJP’s new national secretary from BengalHazra made the statement at Baruipur in South 24 Parganas on Sunday, a day after his party made him national secretary by replacing former state president and veteran leader Rahul Sinha. Sinha reacted sharply, saying after serving the BJP since its birth he had to leave to make way for TMC leaders. On Sunday, Hazra and a large number of BJP workers were not wearing masks and social distancing norms were flouted during a meeting at Baruipur. Reporters asked Hazra why wasn’t he or the others wearing any mask.“Our workers are fighting a bigger enemy than Covid-19. They are fighting Mamata Banerjee. Since they were not affected by Covid-19, they are not scared anymore. I will hug Mamata Banerjee if I get infected. She treated victims of the disease in a pathetic manner. Their bodies were burnt with kerosene. We don’t even treat dead cats or dogs like that,” said Hazra. The statement drew flak. Hazra could not be contacted on Monday after the police complaint was lodged and the BJP distanced itself from the controversy.“Any responsible person should be more careful before making any statement,” said Mukul Roy who was made a national vice president during the reshuffles in the BJP’s national committee in Delhi on Sunday. Hazra was a TMC Lok Sabha MP from Bolpur in Birbhum district. He joined the BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He was fielded against popular actress Mimi Chakraborty, the ruling party’s candidate from the Jadavpur Lok Sabha constituency. Hazra was defeated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/police-complaint-against-bjp-national-secretary-for-covid-hug-remark-on-bengal-cm/story-WJFAJLAXTrCccC8EvRuKBP.html
28-09-2020||Bangalore||Special court rejects bail plea of Sanjana Galrani, Ragini Dwivedi in drugs case||A special (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) court in Bengaluru on Monday rejected the bail plea of actresses Sanjana Galrani and Ragini Dwivedi and one Rahul in connection with a case related to the alleged drug abuse in the Kannada film industry.Arguments on the bail pleas of others accused in the case will be held on September 30.Sanjana Galrani and her mother were arrested a day after they were detained on September 8 by the Central Crime Branch (CCB), Bengaluru for their alleged involvement in the drug case. The mother-daughter duo was later sent to the CCB office in Chamrajpet for further interrogation.Ragini was arrested in the drug case for her alleged involvement on September 7.As per the CCB, one Niyaz has also been arrested in connection with the case as part of the ongoing probe. Notably, Kannada filmmaker Indrajit Lankesh and a few other actors have also been questioned by the CCB in the matter.Notably, Lankesh had revealed information about drug use in the Kannada film industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/special-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-sanjana-galrani-ragini-dwivedi-in-drugs-case/story-9wkDQY3SQd4HsXTA2ombmL.html
28-09-2020||Noida||Six arrested for clashing over property in Greater Noida||Six people were arrested over a property-related clash between two groups in Uttar Pradesh’s Greater Noida on Monday, police said.The incident took place in Aliwardipur village in the Ecotech 3 police station area around 9 am, when the foundation structure of an under-construction property was allegedly razed by one of the groups that had objected to the construction, the police said.Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, Harish Chander said the group that allegedly razed the foundation had earlier approached the police, claiming that it was their property, which was illegally occupied by a property dealer.“The complaint was being probed by the police. On Monday morning, the property dealer’s group was at the site when the complainant’s group reached the spot and used a JCB operator to raze the foundation,” the officer said.“A clash broke out between the two groups, resulting in minor injuries to some people, while shots were fired in the air, but no one got hurt. Six people have been arrested, an FIR has been lodged against them and they are being taken to a court,” he added.Around a dozen people were involved in the clash. The six arrested men have been identified as Vijay Singh, Sonu Yadav, Arbaaz, Mohammad Safi, Mohammad Surman and Mohnish Ali, the police said.Members of both the groups were among those arrested, they added.An FIR has been lodged at the Ecotech 3 police station under Indian Penal Code sections 147, 148, 149 (all related to rioting), 327 (causing hurt to extort property), 352 (assault or criminal force without grave provocation), 504 (insult to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation), the police said.The accused have also been booked under provisions of the Criminal Law Amendment, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/six-arrested-for-clashing-over-property-in-greater-noida/story-hg9alQDgmpzEESm28xuEAP.html
28-09-2020||Lucknow||3,838 fresh cases push Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally to over 390,000||Uttar Pradesh on Monday registered 3,838 fresh cases and 58 deaths due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease which pushed the overall tally and death toll to 390,875 and 5,652 respectively, an official said. During a press briefing, Additional chief secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan said that the active cases have climbed to 53,953 whereas 331,270 have recovered from Covid-19 so far adding that the state’s recovery stands at 84.75 per cent. Over 151,000 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state so far, Mohan said. Out of the fresh cases, Lucknow recorded the highest (550), followed by Prayagraj (229), Gorakhpur (189), Gautam Buddh Nagar (186) and Ghaziabad (172), the health bulletin issued by the state government showed. Lucknow apart from adding the highest number of cases to the state’s tally on Monday also added the highest number of recoveries (924). The bulletin added that out of the new Covid-19 related deaths- Lucknow reported nine deaths, followed by five in Meerut and three each in Gorakhpur, Varanasi and Ballia. Meanwhile, India on Monday logged 82,170 Covid-19 cases and 1,039 deaths which pushed the tally to over six million, as per the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The total cases include 962,640 active cases, over five million recoveries and 95,542 deaths. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/3-838-fresh-cases-push-uttar-pradesh-s-covid-19-tally-to-over-390-000/story-NwAbUM0v5oAj2LdWMh7DfO.html
28-09-2020||Kolkata||Bengal sweet shop owners seek PM Modi’s intervention to roll back FSSAI directive||Sweet shops owners in West Bengal, a state that is known for its traditional sweet treats, has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee to roll back the latest directive of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) that makes it mandatory for sweets shops to declare the ‘best before date’ of non-packaged or loose sweets.The food safety regulator, in a letter dated 25 September to the commissioner of food safety of all states and Union Territories, said, “...In the public interest and to ensure food safety, it has been decided that in case of non-packaged/loose sweets, the container/tray holding sweets at the outlet for sale should display the ‘Best Before Date’ of the product mandatorily with effect from October 1, 2020.”Authorities of the sweet manufacturers’ association said that this could spell doom on the small and medium sweet shops in urban areas and towns, which form the bulk of the Rs 2,000 crore sweets industry in Bengal. Also read: Centre drops offset clause in govt-to-govt deal in new weapons buying policy“While a small-time shop manufactures around 20-30 varieties of sweets every day, for a big shop this can go up to 100 varieties. Imagine keeping a tab on each and every tray and noting down the time and mentioning the best before date on each tray. The industry is already facing a shortage of labour. Also, you need a literate person who can maintain the log. Not all labour in a sweetshop can do that. We would need to employ another person or two for this. This could spell doom,” said Asis Pal, joint secretary of the All West Bengal Sweet Manufacturers’ Association, who has been in the business for more than four decades and has two shops in a district. Bengali sweets, most of which are primarily made of milk and chhena, are not just popular in the state but are also famous across India. According to the association, there are around 1.5 lakh sweets manufacturers and shops in Bengal.“We are ready to abide by laws. But it has to have some practicality. This new directive may suit big brands and traders but would be disastrous for the small and medium traders,” said D Das, who owns a popular confectionary and is a member of the association. The letter also said that the food business operators (FBOs) might also display the date of manufacturing, adding that “it is not mandatory”. The food regulator said that the decision was based on various complaints about the quality and adulteration of sweets, mostly during the festive season.“We have already written to the Prime Minister, the chief minister and Union MSME minister Nitin Gadkari seeking their intervention. We are also trying to meet the chief minister. The new directive would spell doom on us,” said Pal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-sweet-shop-owners-seek-pm-modi-s-intervention-to-roll-back-fssai-directive/story-KNyqKEHvrVA4bU8CFQbG9O.html
28-09-2020||City||Farmers extend ‘rail roko’ stir till Oct 2||AMRITSAR Farmers’ body Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC) has decided to extend its ‘rail roko’ protest against the farm laws till October 2. This was announced by committee’s general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher during a protest near Devidaspura village in Amritsar on the occasion of the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh on Monday.The protesters laid siege to tracks on the Amritsar-Delhi rail link and were joined by hundreds of youths. “The Union government had passed the legislations to benefit big corporates. We will intensify our stir and will force the government to scrap the anti-farmer laws,” said Pandher. The farmers under the aegis of the KSC have laid siege to the railway tracks since September 24. Sporting yellow turbans and holding pictures of Bhagat Singh in their hands, the youths from various villages of the Majha region started thronging to the protest site around 10am. They pledged that they will continue supporting the farmers until the controversial laws are scrapped. They termed their joining the protest as “true tribute” to Bhagat Singh on his birthday.Harpal Singh, a youth, who had come from Chabba village, said; “Now, the time has come to walk the path shown by Bhagat Singh. Every youth of Punjab should come out not only to support the farmers, but also to fulfil the dreams of our revolutionary martyrs.”“Our fifth day’s protest is dedicated to Bhagat Singh, who had laid down his life for the freedom of the country. Now, our protest is being joined by hundreds of youth from various villages. This will give strength to our movement,” said Sukhwinder Singh Sabhran, district president of the KSC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-extend-rail-roko-stir-till-oct-2/story-oMIGcDltK2RT0HxyoQq8CL.html
28-09-2020||City||Shimla residents stage protest, ask MC to waive ‘inflated’ bills||The members of Shimla Nagrik Sabha (SNS) on Monday staged a protest outside the offices of Shimla municipal corporation and deputy commissioner demanding the civic body to waive the “inflated” water and garbage collection bills charged during the coronavirus pandemic.SNS secretary Kapil Sharma said around 70% people in Shimla have lost their jobs due to the pandemic and the state government and MC have not provided any financial assistance to such persons.“Businesses of thousands of street vendors and small traders have been shut, while the salesmen working in shops and showrooms have lost their jobs and are struggling to meet their basic needs,” he added.Sharma said that instead of giving relaxations to the financially-hit residents, the MC slapped inflated bills in the form of garbage collection and water use charges. Even the closed rented accommodations are being unnecessarily being charged every month and the landlords are being pressurised to pay up, adding to their monetary woes, he rued.The residents’ body will intensify its movement if their demands are not fulfilled immediately, the SNS secretary warned.Apart from this, the other demands of the SNS include rationalisation of civic bills of paying guests, gymnasium, street vendors and other small shopkeepers; no hiking of garbage and water bills by 10% every year; no 10% late charges for water bills; slashing parking charges; withdrawal of property tax rates for municipal shops, stalls, warehouses owing to coronavirus; waiver of garbage collection and water bills from landlords whose tenants have left to their native places; 20,000 litres of water should be provided free on the lines of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shimla-residents-stage-protest-ask-mc-to-waive-inflated-bills/story-W5hT7f8BB5c0Kbaaa0z4nN.html
28-09-2020||City||With no motorable road, 85-year-old man from remote HP village dies on way to hospital||An 85-year-old man died before reaching the hospital due to the unavailability of a motorable road in Kullu district’s remote village Shanghad in Sainj valley.Mane Ram’s health had started to deteriorate on Saturday and to take him to the hospital the villagers had to carry him on a chair for at least eight kilometres till Niharni village from where he was shifted into a vehicle, but died on the way to the hospital.The incident has exposed the chinks in the administration’s working as it failed to provide proper road connectivity to the far-flung areas of the state.Enraged by the octogenarian’s death due to poor road infrastructure, the villagers blamed the state government for the mishap. They said even after having raised the connectivity issue time and again with the officials concerned, including the chief minister, MLAs and district administration, no progress was made and they were still without a road.Shanghad panchayat pradhan Savitra Devi said many people from the village, including pregnant women, have lost their lives as they were not able to reach the hospital on time due to the unavailability of road. It is disappointing that even after seven decades of Independence, Shanghad has no road, she rued.“We demand the state government to provide us road facilities as soon as possible or else we will start a movement,” said the pradhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-no-motorable-road-85-year-old-man-from-remote-hp-village-dies-on-way-to-hospital/story-coTxBEMGRPR2mZ7M3H8ZrK.html
28-09-2020||City||Himachal front runner in implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission: Jai Ram||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said every household in Himachal Pradesh will be provided piped drinking water supply by July 2022 under the Jal Jeevan Mission.While interacting with beneficiaries via video conferencing here, the CM said Himachal has emerged as a frontrunner in effective implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission in the country.He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has launched it on August 15, 2019 with a provision of ₹3.5 lakh crore which envisages to provide functional tap connection to every rural household by 2024 in the country. The CM said there are 17,04,231 households in the state out of which 1,61,102 have been provided with tap water in 2019-20. He said till date under various programmes, 11 lakh households were provided with tapped water and a target has been fixed for 2,44,351 households during the current financial year.Himachal Pradesh has been recognised for providing fully functional household tapped water connection in Tashigang village in Lahaul Spiti district, situated at about 14,000 feet above sea level. He said under the Jal Jeevan Mission, better quality of water is being ensured besides providing drinking water taps in all anganwari and educational institutions.The CM said 100% coverage had been ensured in Lahaul-Spiti district, Kandaghat development block of Solan district and Pooh development block of Kinnaur district under the mission. He said 89% households were covered in Kinnaur district, 81% in Solan district, 74 % in Bilaspur district, 72% in Hamirpur district, 67% in Mandi district, 62% in Kangra district, 50 % each in Shimla and Kullu districts and 45% in Chamba district.He said the Jal Shakti department has worked effectively even during the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure that desired targets were achieved within stipulated time period. The beneficiaries thanked the CM for effectively implementing the scheme to provide tapped water to every rural household.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-front-runner-in-implementation-of-jal-jeevan-mission-jai-ram/story-KhcueDmiVtpcvL7vIj5yzH.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Turnaround Turk Keshav R Murugesh to deliver talk at Chitkara webinar||To give students a glimpse of the corporate world and inspire them to build brilliant careers, Chitkara University has invited Keshav R Murugesh, Group CEO of the WNS Global Services, to deliver a leadership talk. Part of the university’s ‘Explore Series’, the webinar will be held on September 30, 2020.Popularly known as the Turnaround Turk, Murugesh is credited with radicalising the BPM industry, when he took over the reins of the ailing WNS brand almost a decade ago, and introduced the “vertical approach to business” model. He has been awarded the Executive of the Year Award by Stevie International Business Awards, Outstanding CEO by Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Awards and Asia India Disruptor of the Year award by CNBC. Chitkara university vice-chancellor Madhu Chitkara said, “In these uncertain times when students are worried about their future, these webinars with industry leaders will reiterate that hard work, focus and a strong desire to succeed will help them tide over these tough times and stay a step ahead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/turnaround-turk-keshav-r-murugesh-to-deliver-talk-at-chitkara-webinar/story-9c6r6f5Zh1soJq4YcTW7iK.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||SIT names former Punjab DGP Saini, suspended IG Umranangal as accused in 2015 Behbal Kalan firing case||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing incidents has named former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal as accused in the first information report (FIR) in the Behbal Kalan case registered at Bajakhana police station. A senior member of the SIT said, “During investigation, it was found that Saini and Umranangal were involved in the Behbal Kalan firing conspiracy, so they have been nominated as accused in the FIR.” Though they have been accused of criminal conspiracy, they won’t be arrested immediately as the Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the SIT to give them a seven-day notice before initiating action against them in the police firing cases. The SIT is likely to issue notices to Saini and Umaranangal soon. The development comes weeks after a policeman, the prime accused in the firing incident, turned approver. On September 15, a Faridkot court allowed the SIT’s application seeking pardon to inspector Pardeep Singh, the then reader to former Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma. On September 10, SIT member IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh had told the Faridkot court that then DGP Saini and suspended IGP Umranangal were the main conspirators in the Behbal Kalan firing incident. However, hearing the plea of another accused, a former Kotkapura station house officer Gurdeep Singh Pandher, the high court last week directed the SIT not to submit any supplementary chargesheet in the Behbal Kalan firing case till the next hearing on October 3. Pandher has alleged in the petition that Kunwar Vijay Pratap is biased against him and he has been threatened on his instance. The high court sought a reply from the state government that if it would be willing to substitute IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap with another officer to be part of the SIT constituted to investigate the Behbal Kalan incident. Gurjeet Singh of Sarawan village and Krishan Bhagwan Singh of Niamiwala village had died in the police firing on October 14, 2015, while protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. Besides, many people were seriously injured in the incident. Umranangal, who was the then Ludhiana police commissioner, is also an accused in the Kotkapura police firing incident of October 14, 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sit-names-former-punjab-dgp-saini-suspended-ig-umranangal-as-accused-in-2015-behbal-kalan-firing-case/story-CRECwO7O0iy5IZtTS2BTiI.html
28-09-2020||City||Two-phase elections for exiled Tibetan government on January 3, April 11||The Exile Tibetan community will elect a new Sikyong (president) and parliament in the upcoming general elections to be held in two phases on January 3 and April 11.The election commission of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) on Monday announced the electoral calendar for the 2021 polls as per the Charter of Tibetans-in-Exile and the Tibetan electoral rules and regulations.The Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Wangdu Tsering Pesur accompanied by Geshema Delek Wangmo and Sonam Gyaltsen, the two additional election commissioners, made the announcements here at a press conference.As per the announcement, the preliminary election for Sikyong and members of the 17th Tibetan Parliament is slated for January 3 and the final election is to be held on April 11.The EC also issued a set of guidelines for shortlisting candidates for the final Sikyong election:Firstly, as per the Article 67 (4) of the electoral rules and regulation, the election commission should shortlist not less than two candidates for Sikyong in the final election after due examination of their preliminary results, green book dues and the withdrawal of candidature if any,” the CEC said.Pursuant to this, the EC shall shortlist two candidates for the final election of Sikyong. Secondly, if candidates poll equal second-highest votes in the preliminary round, then three candidates shall be shortlisted for the final Sikyong election.Thirdly, if candidates poll two equal first-highest votes in the preliminary round, then announcement will be made on those two candidates. The 2021 general election will elect the fifth directly elected Sikyong (earlier Kalon Tripa) and the 17th Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-phase-elections-for-exiled-tibetan-government-on-january-3-april-11/story-wEg6rO1exGSkYSBG4BnrrL.html
28-09-2020||Pune||Man trying to acquire fast food franchise duped of ₹8.5 lakh||A 47-year-old man was duped of ₹8.5 lakh in his quest to acquire a franchise in Pune, of a well-known American fast-food chain. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Namdev Bhapkar (47), a resident of Khadki. The transactions were done between September 7 and September 14 through online banking. “He is a businessman and was looking to purchase a franchise of the chain. In the process, he received a call ,” said police inspector (crime) Shafil Pathan of Khadki police station who is investigating the case. The accused called the person and offered to help acquire the franchise, for which, the person demanded ₹8,55,600, which the complainant paid. However, the complainant soon realised that he had been duped. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act has been registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-trying-to-acquire-fast-food-franchise-duped-of-8-5-lakh/story-wQ7qYCD2viG3FWpkyMWOhK.html
28-09-2020||City||Covid essentials adding to plastic waste||Covid-19 has pushed up the sale and use of hand sanitisers exponentially and you don’t need much imagination to think of the amount of plastic waste that the empty containers are generating. And that’s not the only impact of Covid- 19 on the environment. With increased hand washing, our consumption of hand soap in plastic dispensers has gone up substantially, thereby increasing the quantum of plastic containers and plastic refill pouches going into trash cans and subsequently to our landfills and water bodies. That’s not all. Increased hand washing and sanitising has robbed our hands of moisture and we are, therefore, buying more moisturisers to overcome the dryness -- so more plastic trash. Worse, the pandemic has made us so nervous that we are buying a variety of power cleaning liquids– for the kitchen, for the floors, for the bathrooms, for the laundry and for sanitising packages. All claiming to kill 99.9 per cent of germs and many of them packaged in plastic trigger sprayers. Another popular item of purchase is the vegetable and fruit cleaner, also filled in plastic bottles. Just think of the amount of plastic debris created from these products, besides the additional amount of chemicals being released into the environment by all these cleaning agents.Then there’s the waste generated by plastic gloves, personal protection equipment and the disposable masks by the general public (this is besides the huge quantities of medical waste coming out of hospitals). Increased online shopping in these Covid times is also resulting in larger volumes of plastic waste, particularly bubble wrap.Un-Plastic Collective, a voluntary multi stakeholder initiative to eliminate plastic pollution and move towards a circular economy, had estimated recently that India generates 9.4 million tones of plastic waste annually , of which 40% uncollected. There are no estimates as yet on the increase in plastic waste as a consequence of Covid-19, but the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development estimates that about 75% of the plastic generated on account of the world pandemic will become plastic waste, clogging landfills and floating in water bodies around the world. A highly worrisome scenario.Coming back to sanitisers and cleaners, I checked a number of these containers to see if there is any information on whether the containers are recyclable and the manufacturer takes responsibility for collecting and recycling them or whether they are compostable. I saw no information whatsoever. In fact a look at the wide range of fast moving consumer goods on shop shelves also makes you realise how over the years, our consumption patterns have changed, adding substantially to the plastic waste that we generate. The shift from bathing bars or soap cakes to body washes, hand washes and face washes, from shikakai powder or soapnut powder to shampoos and conditioners, from utensil and laundry washing bars and powders to liquid cleaners and fabric softeners, from an all purpose toilet cleaner to a variety of them for different surfaces, have all stepped up the volume of plastic containers. Covid-19 and the increased generation of plastic waste should make us scrutinise our purchases once again from the point of view of their environmental impact . We obviously cannot do away with alcohol-based hand sanitisers for now, but we can certainly review our choices vis-à-vis household cleaning products and toiletries, eliminate non-essentials and opt as much as possible for products made from natural substances rather than harsh chemicals. More important, we must choose products of only those manufacturers who take these measures in respect of their packaging: (a) use non-plastic packaging or (b) use compostable packaging or (c) collect and process or recycle their containers. There are also manufacturers who are bringing out concentrated or compressed versions of their product to bring down their weight and sell them in eco-friendly packages. Remember, it is only consumer preference and demand that will promote these changes in manufacturing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-essentials-adding-to-plastic-waste/story-C7OSKWvv5Rop4uRhqavGWO.html
28-09-2020||City||Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University to speed up crop improvement programmes: V-C||The Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University (HPAU) will speed up various crop improvement programmes for diverse farming communities of north- west Himalayas, vice-chancellor professor HK Chaudhary said on Monday.Chaudhary, who was heading twin departments of genetics and plant breeding and agricultural biotechnology before his appointment as V-C, said scientific innovations and research work at internationally acclaimed High-tech Molecular Cytogenetics and Tissue Culture (MTC) Lab during his leadership, invented Chromosome Elimination Mediated Wide Hybridization Technique. It is cross of wheat and Imperata Cylindrica System leading to Doubled Haploidy (DH) Breeding.“This work has been able to open new vistas by shortening the breeding cycle and accelerating the varietal development programmes of bread (chapati) and durum (pasta) wheat,” he said. He said the HPAU was first to develop release DH wheat variety ‘Him Pratham’ in 2016.Professor Chaudhary said many institutes of the country were using the HPAU facility to accelerate varietal development programmes and also developing gene mapping populations in shortest possible time.This high- tech Lab has also pioneered in establishing, for the first time, molecular cytogenetics facility with the support of ministry of science and technology for physical mapping of targeted genes introgressed in various crop species by using novel tools like Genomic in situ hybridization (GISH) and Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) for enhancing precision of selection of desired recombinants in an accelerated manner.Combination of DH Breeding and Molecular Cytogenetics techniques has opened new horizon in the sphere of speed and precision breeding for the targeted crop improvement in the shortest possible time, he said.The V-C said efforts were afoot in the HPAU laboratory to develop wheat varieties associated with high profile drought and disease resistance for rainfed agriculture and enhance the productivity and quality level by utilising Himalayan old wheat genetic resources.Keeping in view the congenial environment at Palampur and available technical expertise in the high-tech MCT Lab, he said, the HPAU has proposed to develop a national facility for DH Breeding in wheat to cater to the needs of wheat geneticists, breeders and biotechnologists of the country for accelerating their wheat improvement endeavours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-agricultural-university-to-speed-up-crop-improvement-programmes-v-c/story-QGNOUajeW3LhgNeXkC9PPL.html
28-09-2020||Dehradun||Two rogue elephants stray into Uttarakhand from Nepal, forest officials fail to track them||Uttarakhand forest officials have failed to track two elephants from Nepal a fortnight after they ventured into the state’s Udham Singh (US) Nagar. Forest officials said they have spotted the animals’ pugmarks several times but have not been able to track them because of the tall bushes. Last year also, two rogue elephants from Nepal had created panic in border areas of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. After straying from Nepal on June 27 last year into Uttarakhand’s Khatima area in US Nagar district and later into Uttar Pradesh, the tuskers killed five people, causing panic in the bordering districts like Rampur, Pilibhit, Bareilly, Moradabad and US Nagar. “This time, two elephants from Shuklafata sanctuary in western Nepal came to the bordering areas of US Nagar nearly two weeks ago. Villagers spotted them and informed us. Our teams have been trying to track them to ensure they don’t enter villages and endanger human lives or damage crops or properties,” said Babu Lal, sub-divisional officer (SDO), forest, Khatima. Lal said it is not clear whether these two elephants are the same tuskers as those of the last year. “Ultimately, they were tranquilised before being shifted from Bilaspur area of Rampur to Khatima,” he said. Last year, forest officials from India and Nepal had met in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve to discuss how effective measures could be taken to monitor and check the entry of elephants from Nepal into the bordering areas of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, where they have been damaging crops and killing or injuring people. The SDO said their main concern is to track them and not let them come near the villages. “These elephants from Nepal have become a mystery for forest officials here. Despite patrolling by teams of forest officials, they haven’t succeeded in locating the animals yet. Only their pugmarks have been spotted, not the elephants,” he said. Lal said, “Their location, Nakhatal area of forest, is close to the Nepal border and a traditional elephant corridor. The area is rich in terms of fodder and water. High bushes in the forest due to rainy season are creating a hindrance in spotting them.” Jeevan Chandra Joshi, conservator of forest (CCF), western circle, and Nitish Mani Tripathi, divisional forest officer (DFO), Terai-East, also visited the area last week to take stock of the situation. “Our concern is that they should not enter villages and attack people. We have instructed our officials to trace them and keep a watch on their movement round-the-clock,” said Tripathi. AG Ansari, a Ramnagar-based wildlife expert, said, “Nakhatal connects the elephant corridor in Uttarakhand to Nepal. These elephants from Nepal keep moving in this corridor. Due to the dense growth of bushes these days, it is a bit challenging to locate them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/two-rogue-elephants-stray-into-uttarakhand-from-nepal-forest-officials-fail-to-track-them/story-iVivQ0zZQ6rHEntHhW6MPL.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Make social gatherings safe with tissues, sanitiser, masks: Delhi health minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday urged people to take adequate preventive measures against Covid-19 if they organise small gatherings as he shared tips on social media on how to do that amid a decline in the number of infections in the city.“If you are organising a small gathering or event, take precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among guests. You should provide all necessary supplies: Tissues, hand sanitisers or soap and water, masks, distance markers, closed bins,” Jain said in a Facebook post.Experts cautioned against indicating to people that things are okay. “These kinds of messages make people believe that the situation is better; things are returning to normal. But the truth is that over 3,000 infections are still being reported. Plus, we are moving towards winter when the incidence of infections goes up and [it] likely will happen with Covid-19 too. With the Unlock [easing of restrictions for social distancing] process in place, people have thrown caution to the wind, especially those who do not have comorbidities or are not old,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, a professor of pulmonology at New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital.Also Read: Covid-19: India crosses 60 lakh-mark, latest million added in 11 daysGupta added people must not be encouraged to flout norms. “If such gatherings do happen, they have to be monitored closely,” he said. “If people travel unnecessarily, they might spread the infection to those who are vulnerable and at risk of severe disease.”Jain also shared a post about herbal remedies like chyawanprash, turmeric milk, and herbal tea made with basil, cinnamon, black pepper, dry ginger, and raisin to boost immunity.On Saturday, Jain said the number of Covid-19 cases has been consistently below 4,000 over the previous week. “Over the week, the positivity rate has also reduced to an average of 6.5%. The hospital bed occupancy has also gone down a little, with about 6,800 people hospitalised. Over 55% of the beds earmarked for Covid-19 are vacant,” Jain said on Saturday. He credited aggressive testing and isolation of patients for the decline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/make-social-gatherings-safe-with-tissues-sanitiser-masks-delhi-health-minister/story-wosJcajvNwNR4qOq1nk9XK.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu is an asset for Congress, says party’s Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat||Punjab Congress legislator and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu was conspicuous by his absence at the dharna led by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh at Khatkar Kalan against the Centre’s farm laws on Monday but the party still considers him an asset. “Sidhu is an asset for the party and is close to Rahul ji (Congress leader Rahul Gandhi). I am foreseeing a bigger role for the charismatic leader in 2022 when Punjab goes to the polls. He can do well on the national political scene as the former cricketer has the ability to build a mass campaign. We will make meaningful use of his abilities,” All India Congress Committee general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat said here. On the reorganisation of the state Congress unit, Rawat said the party has assigned him the task of ensuring the Congress returns to power in Punjab in 2022. “For this, the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) will be reconstituted. It’s long due. I will meet state Congress leaders and workers to assess the party’s mood, build consensus on issues, and give the feedback to the party president, who will take a final decision.” Rawat did not confirm if Sidhu was being considered to lead the party’s state unit but said he will work for better coordination between the party and the government. On the Shiromani Akali Dal snapping ties with the BJP, he said, “The SAD parted ways as a face-saver on the farmer issue. The SAD and the BJP have lost support of their votebank in Punjab. The Congress has strong chance of returning to power.” Rawat, who has already met Congress rebel members of Parliament Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo in Delhi, said that he had listened to their views and issues raised by them. “Every problem has a solution. Their issues will be sorted out. I have asked them not to speak to the media and to raise their issues on a party platform,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navjot-singh-sidhu-is-an-asset-for-congress-says-party-s-punjab-affairs-in-charge-harish-rawat/story-cUDgcN6Fwr7ItngZew5jaJ.html
28-09-2020||Pune||SPPU issues notice to final year students to vacate hostel premises||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is gearing up for the final year students’ examination, however, final year students are now facing a fresh issue regarding hostels. Final year students lodged in SPPU hostels have received notices by the SPPU administration to vacate their rooms and collect their luggage by October 3, 2020. However, students are preparing for their exams and most of them who used the hostel are not residents of Pune. Kamlakar Shete, a final year student at SPPU in the Commerce department demanded more time to collect luggage than what is allotted. “On September 25 we got to know about a circular issued by the SPPU hostel department in which they have told students to vacate hostel rooms until October 3. And if the luggage or belongings are not taken away by students by the given date, then it will be kept in the storeroom of the hostels. As most of the students left for their homes before lockdown, we were not able to take our entire luggage, important documents, study material and other goods. Now our examinations are coming close and by issuing such notices students are getting worried and confused. So, our demand is such notices should be taken back and more time must be given to students to collect their luggage,” Shete said. The SPPU management sent the notice to all final year students of the academic year 2019-20 to vacate their hostel rooms by October 3. As the majority of the students are in their hometowns and are preparing for their final exams to be conducted soon, they have taken objection to the directive. Students have demanded an extension; while SPPU has given a deadline of October 3. After the deadline, the SPPU will clear the premises and store the luggage in the storeroom of the university. Prafulla Pawar, SPPU registrar said, “We are aware of the situation and that there is a final year examination scheduled, but we need to start this process at some point in time. Already 60 per cent of students have taken their entire luggage from the hostels. Now for the remaining students, we have issued this circular, and if there is any problem for the students, they can contact us and we will surely help and cooperate with them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-issues-notice-to-final-year-students-to-vacate-hostel-premises/story-wcntid4QuyoJ6CG4YyA4cK.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra restaurants likely to reopen from first week of October||Restaurants in the state are likely to begin their operations from the first week of October as the state government has assured hoteliers during their meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday of receiving the requisite permissions. The state government has prepared a Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) for the restaurants, which is expected to be finalised in the next few days.The state government is preparing a draft SOP in consultation with various associations representing hotels and restaurants and it is expected to be finalised soon. Valsa R Nair Singh, principal secretary, tourism department, said that they have been allowed to reopen restaurants from the first week of October. “The SOP is yet to be finalised,” she said.Also Read: Covid-19: Maharashtra mortality rate rises over past two weeksThe state government is expected to extend the ongoing lockdown by another month, though certain restrictions are expected to be lifted under Mission Begin Again. The restaurants are expected to be asked to maintain a distance of 6 feet between two tables and follow personal hygiene protocols. Hoteliers have opposed the idea of imposing a cap on the capacity to operate at.“The decision will be taken once the SOP is finalised mutually. We are not against opening up activities, but in the wake of the rising number of cases, we are treading very cautiously. The restrictions have been imposed in the public interest despite huge losses of revenue to the state exchequer. It will be the responsibility of the restaurant and hotel operators to ensure safety of the customers and staff members in the wake of the pandemic,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has been quoted in a statement issued by his office.Also Read: Mumbai likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases todayThe Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHAR) called it a huge relief to the restaurant sector. “The whole sector is in deep crisis as the takeaway business is not at all profitable. We know that the next six months will be very difficult but then we needed to start somewhere,” said AHAR president Shivanand Shetty.Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, the former president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), echoed the sentiment. He said that social distancing and other norms will impact the whole business. “We have no choice but to adhere to the norms. This reopening will generate some revenue so we can pay the staff as well as keep the business moving,“ said Kohli.Kohli said that 0.12 million restaurants and hotels in Mumbai and about 2.2 lakh in Maharashtra can now open their shutters. He said at national level the hotel and restaurant industry has suffered losses of about Rs 1.90 lakh crore in last six months of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-restaurants-likely-to-reopen-from-first-week-of-october/story-e1TbaujyQwZf9k1hX4AI7M.html
28-09-2020||Pune||First heart transplant this year conducted successfully in Pune||Sahyadri and Birla hospitals conducted the first heart transplant of the year on Saturday. The donor was a 21-year-old woman who was working at a pathology lab and the recipient was a 49-year-old woman resident of Manjri. Aarti Gokhale, Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC) transplant coordinator for Pune division, said, “This is the first heart transplant in the city this year which is also the 11th donation during the pandemic since May. The donor was a 21-year-old female who was unmarried, a resident of Wakad and worked at a pathalogy lab. She was admitted to Birla hospital due to IC bleed. We got to know that earlier when her father succumbed two years ago, the donor had consented to donate all the possible organs and now, her mother has consented to donate her organs.”The donor’s heart was allocated to Sahyadri hospital, liver, kidney and pancreas to Ruby Hall Clinic and another kidney to Apollo hospital, Nashik. The heart retrieval started early morning on September 26 and the heart was explanted at around 4:30 am and brought to the hospital.The heart transplant surgery was successfully completed by the team of doctors by 8.30am on Saturday. The recipient was suffering from a disease of the heart muscle called Dilated Cardiomyopathy which led to progressive deterioration of her heart function over the last 15 years. She had repeated episodes of heart failure and over the last year was very breathless despite maximum medical therapy. Her heart function was only 15% compared to normal heart function of 50-60%, added the officials from the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/first-heart-transplant-this-year-conducted-successfully-in-pune/story-4wz6m1KCylGH3wV6pFe84L.html
28-09-2020||City||President gives his assent to the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Act, 2020||The Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Act, 2020, that lists the languages to be used for official purposes in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and for matters connected therewith, has received the assent of President Ram Nath Kovind and been notified by the Centre. As per the Centre’s notification appearing in the official Gazette, this Act may be called the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Act, 2020, as per which, Kashmiri, Dogri, Urdu, Hindi and English shall be the languages used for all or any official purpose in the Union Territory.“The J&K Official Languages Act, 2020, as per which Kashmiri, Dogri, Urdu, Hindi and English shall be the official languages of the UT, has received Presidential assent and been notified by the Centre,” a government spokesman said.The Act further provides that business in the Legislative Assembly of the Union Territory shall be transacted in the official language or languages.Also Read: Amid Covid-19 slump, Travel Agents Association of Kashmir gears up to host tourists in Valley againThe administrator (lieutenant governor) may, for the promotion and development of regional languages of the Union Territory, take necessary steps to strengthen existing institutional mechanisms such as the Academy of Art, Culture and languages in the Union Territory.It further provides that institutional mechanisms shall make special efforts for the promotion and development of Gojri, Pahari and Punjabi languages.There has been a growing demand for the inclusion of more languages into the list of official languages, especially Punjabi and Gojri. However, by this order, the government seems to have put full stop to the proposal of including more languages in the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/president-gives-his-assent-to-the-jammu-and-kashmir-official-languages-act-2020/story-KjpuzzIJdbNtvTGEv2k03L.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to move Supreme Court against Centre’s farm laws: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday announced that Punjab will challenge the Centre’s ‘anti-farm laws’ in the Supreme Court. Taking part in a protest against the legislation at Khatkar Kalan, the native village of Shaheed Bhagat Singh on the freedom fighter’s birth anniversary, the chief minister said, “Our lawyers are coming from Delhi tomorrow (on Tuesday). We will discuss how to proceed in the matter and then challenge the legislation in the Supreme Court.” Capt Amarinder Singh said that he will request Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to join the farmers’ protest. “Rahul Gandhi has been tweeting daily and issuing statements that the BJP has betrayed the farmers,” he said. “The BJP has snatched the constitutional powers of one state after the other. How do we run the state? BJP leaders think they will remain in power but I want to remind them that the Akalis also thought so. People threw them out. It is a decision of the people to keep political parties in power or not,” he said. Targeting the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Congress leader said, “The Akalis are trying all tactics but they’re not working because once you let people down, they don’t forget.” CONGRESS WILL TAKE UP FARMERS’ FIGHT All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat said that the Congress will fight for the rights of the farmers against the new agricultural Acts. Rawat, who is a former Uttarakhand chief minister, paid tributes to the freedom fighter at the Shaheed Bhagat Singh memorial on his 113th birth anniversary. He was accompanied by Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, Patiala MP and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s wife Preneet Kaur besides cabinet ministers and party legislators. Amritsar East Congress MLA and former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu was conspicuous by his absence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-to-move-supreme-court-against-centre-s-farm-laws-capt-amarinder-singh/story-Sd89e7O0e21YVx3fsd2GAN.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks Kangana Ranaut to submit her tweets, objectionable video by Sanjay Raut||The Bombay high court, while hearing the petition of actor Kangana Ranaut, asked her to substantiate the claim that she had been abused by Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut. Senior counsel Dr Birendra Saraf, appearing for the actor, played a video clip wherein Raut is heard saying “wo haramkhor ladki”. Dr Saraf said that Raut used the abusive word to refer to Ranaut, and it was Raut’s malice towards Ranaut which prompted the demolition of her Pali Hill bungalow on September 9. However, when the bench questioned Raut’s lawyer advocate Pradeep Thorat, he clarified that as his client had not mentioned Ranaut’s name when he spoke, it could not be construed that Raut had abused Ranaut. Dr Saraf informed the court that the abusive stance of Raut had been prompted by a tweet made by Ranaut on September 5. Also Read: Kangana Ranaut must be booked over anti-farmer tweet: Lawyer files complaint in Karnataka courtSenior counsel Aspi Chinoy for Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said, “I believe the tweet which is referred by Dr Saraf was made around 5 pm. If Dr Saraf is referring to any other tweet prior to that it will have some relevance.” In light of this, Chinoy sought a clarification on the timing of the tweet which allegedly led to the altercation between Ranaut and Raut. After hearing the submissions, the court asked Dr Saraf to submit all Ranaut’s tweets and the entire video interview of Raut. The hearing will continue at 3pm. Ranaut had filed a petition on September 9 through advocate Rizwan Siddiquee seeking a stay on the ongoing demolition of her bungalow at Pali Hill by the BMC. The BMC had issued Ranaut a show cause notice on September 7 and a stop work notice under Section 354 (A) of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act was pasted on her gate on September 8. The stop work notice stated that during inspection of the bungalow on September 5 by a mukadam and another inspection by the executive engineer on September 7 it was found that there were 14 unauthorised alterations and additions to the bungalow which were illegal as per the sanctioned building plan and were carried out without the permission of the BMC’s ward office concerned. On expiry of the 24-hour period after the stop work notice was issued, BMC personnel, along with Khar police, had entered the bungalow and started the demolition. Ranaut filed a petition the same day and sought an urgent hearing and stay on the demolition, which the court granted and asked both parties to maintain status quo. Thereafter, Ranaut sought to amend the petition, which the court allowed. In the next hearing, Ranaut’s amended petition, apart from the prayer to stay the demolition, also sought Rs 2 crore as compensation for the damage caused to the bungalow and movable properties. Ranaut had claimed that almost 40% of the bungalow had been demolished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-kangana-ranaut-to-submit-her-tweets-objectionable-video-by-sanjay-raut/story-iZuEixdA8xRC2Qlu9FdQKK.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Plea in Delhi HC to prevent stubble burning by Punjab, Haryana amid Covid crisis||The Delhi High Court Monday sought the Centre’s response on a plea seeking immediate steps to prevent stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana on the grounds it would aggravate Covid-19 related problems.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Centre on an application which contended that stubble burning would increase the air pollution drastically in the national capital and could further aggravate the health problems in the city in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The application was moved by Sudhir Mishra, an advocate, who urged the court that the central government be directed to coordinate a meeting between chief secretaries of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to address the issue.During the hearing, Mishra told the court that stubble burning has already started in Punjab and Haryana.The Centre told the bench that despite directions of the respective state governments not to engage in stubble burning or face penalties for violation, the farmers were doing it.The court listed the matter for hearing on October 22 and asked the central government to find out if any similar matter was pending before the Supreme Court.The application was filed by Mishra in his main PIL moved in 2015 seeking directions to the Centre to take immediate steps to control increasing air pollution in the national capital.He has claimed that there is a direct connection between the increase in air pollution and the rise in Covid-19 cases in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plea-in-delhi-hc-to-prevent-stubble-burning-by-punjab-haryana-amid-covid-crisis/story-ha0H7n9YWf7Cwl1wiYq1cL.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||State if enough ICU beds for non-Covid patients: Delhi HC to govt||The Delhi High Court on Monday wanted to know from the Delhi government if there are sufficient Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds for non-Covid patients and if hospitals are being compensated for keeping these beds vacant for coronavirus patients.The court also sought the response of the Association of Healthcare Providers on a Delhi government plea, challenging a single-judge bench’s September 22 ruling that stayed an order reserving 80% of ICU beds in city hospitals for Covid-19 patients.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the only question now is whether the government is blinding to the needs of other patients. “You are a government and the executive has the liberty of experimenting. But the only thing is whether we are blinding ourselves to the other patients,” Justice Jalan said during the hearing.The Delhi government did not comment on the matter. Also Read: Delhi HC stays AAP govt decision to reserve 80% ICU beds in private hospitals for Covid-19The bench did not grant interim relief to the government even as its additional standing counsel, Sanjoy Ghose, said Covid-19 cases were increasing exponentially, warranting the reservation.On September 22, the court had stayed the government’s September 12 order reserving 80% of all ICU beds in private hospitals and nursing homes for Covid-19 patients, saying it appeared to be “arbitrary”, “unreasonable” and in “violation of the fundamental rights of an individual”. It said the state cannot discriminate between Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients.In the order, the Delhi government directed nursing homes and private hospitals to reserve the beds with immediate effect.On Monday, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, who appeared for the Delhi government, told the court that Covid-19 cases were again rising in the city. He said Covid-19 patients require care related to lungs, kidney, etc, as the virus attacks these organs.The court said the government has to first satisfy the court that there are sufficient numbers of ICU beds available for non-Covid patients. “Also show us how you are compensating private hospitals for keeping their ICU beds vacant for Covid patients,” the bench said.Advocate Ghose told the court that there are 3,222 ICU beds and only 1,186 of them are being reserved for Covid-19 patients. Jain said several patients were coming to Delhi from other parts of the country for treatment as well. ASG Jain told the court it had not given any money to hospitals because none of them have sought compensation.Also Read: 30% patients in Delhi hospitals in ICUs, says govt dataFollowing some arguments, the court posted the matter for further hearing on October 9.The government, in its plea, said the stay order did not take into account the submissions regarding the surge in the number of Covid-19 patients and its efforts to tackle the changing situation. It said states such as Maharashtra have issued similar orders and notifications to tackle the issue of rising cases.“Even in the approach adopted by such other States, health care providers have been directed to make all attempts to increase their bed capacity to accommodate maximum number of patients. 80% of total operational bed capacity (excluding beds of PICU, NICU, day care, maintenance haemodialysis) will be regulated by rates prescribed,” the government said in its plea.The association moved the court against the September 12 order, saying it puts non-Covid-19 patients at risk of contracting the virus. It alleged that the order was issued without prior discussion with private hospitals and understanding the current demand-supply gap in critical care beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/icu-bed-reservation-delhi-hc-asks-for-heathcare-providers-association-response/story-GHC1LSo3I6jiTH5TPN3H9I.html
28-09-2020||Kolkata||Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay appointed new chief secretary||Alapan Bandopadhyay was named as the new chief secretary of West Bengal on Monday.Bandopadhyay, who is at present the state home secretary, will join his new posting on October 1, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said.He will take over the new role from Rajiva Sinha who retires on September 30.Bandopadhyay is a 1987-batch IAS officer of West Bengal cadre.HK Dwivedi, who is at present the finance secretary of the state, will take over as the home secretary, the chief minister said.Manoj Pant will be the new finance secretary. He is at present the principal secretary of the Land and Land Reforms and Refugee Relief and Rehabilitation Department.Sinha was appointed the chairman of the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, Banerjee announced.He has been appointed to the post for a period of three years, she said.“I thank him for his tireless service to GoWB, Banerjee tweeted.“Best wishes to entire team,” she added. PTI SCH SOM SOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-home-secretary-alapan-bandopadhyay-appointed-new-chief-secretary/story-VAQMKGxuhwWd989OLgk8jJ.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Centre must make MSP a legal right, say Congress MPs Bajwa, Dullo||A Congress Rajya Sabha members Shamsher Singh Dullo and Partap Singh Bajwa on Monday demanded that the Centre must make the minimum support price (MSP) a legal right to prevent private corporations from buying agricultural goods below this price.Speaking to reporters after paying obeisance at Golden Temple, Dullo and Bajwa, both former state Congress chiefs, said that Punjab must unite and ensure the Centre repeals the Acts that seek to liberalise agriculture. “By notifying the anti-farmer laws on September 27, the Government of India has committed a mistake. The people of Punjab have been the sword arm of the country and have always been at the forefront to protect the nation. In the 1950s, when food security of India was under threat, and the Centre pushed through the Green Revolution, farmers of Punjab and Haryana led the battle to ensure India became the food surplus nation it is today. These sacrifices by farmers of Punjab and Haryana have come to nought now that the bills have been become law,” they said in a joint statement distributed on the occasion. The two Congress MPs said the Centre must make MSP a legal right to prevent private corporations from buying agricultural goods below this price. “Any purchase below the MSP should be made a punishable offence. The Centre must use the Swaminathan Commission recommendation to fix the MSP of crops. The Food Corporation of India must also be made to buy all prices at the MSP and never below,” their statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-must-unite-to-ensure-centre-repeals-anti-farmer-acts-congress-mps-bajwa-dullo/story-E89AGmEebiITv89FDS7KuO.html
28-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Maharashtra mortality rate rises over past two weeks||Maharashtra has reported a rise in the weekly Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) in the last two weeks. The CFR, the proportion of people who have died among the confirmed cases, had dropped to its lowest since the outbreak of the pandemic to 1.74% and 1.91% respectively in the first and second weeks of September (August 31-Sept 6 and Sept 7-13), only to see a sudden rise after that. In the last two weeks (Sept 14-20 and Sept 21-27), the CFR rose to 2.11 and 2.22% respectively, which also resulted in the overall rise in the rate. The two weeks reported 148,334 cases and 3,140 deaths; and 130,590 cases and 2,900 deaths respectively. Also read: India inching closer to 1% Covid-19 death rateThe first two weeks of September (August 31-Sept 6 and Sept 7-13) had reported 126,523 cases and 2,205 deaths; and 153,096 cases and 2,927 deaths respectively. The fourth week has seen the drop in the cases and the fatalities, but the death rate kept mounting, which is a cause of worry for the authorities.According to the health department officials, they have not been able to bring down both the fatality and the positivity rate vis-a-vis the target set. “In July, we set the target of bringing the CFR below 1% and the positivity rate below 10%, but could not achieve them in three months. Positivity rate still hovers between 20 and 22%. We have now been targeting aggressive tracing through ‘My Family My Responsibility drive’ launched on September 15 and hope to see cases being brought to the facilities at early stages. This would help us in bringing the caseload as well as the CFR down,” said an official from the department requesting anonymity. The officer also said that the hike in the number of tests and allowing inter-district movement from September 2 has resulted in the sudden spurt in the cases. Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, former national president of Indian Medical Association, has attributed the rise in the mortality rate to faulty management of data and weak health infrastructure. “First of all, the Covid-19 is a ‘patchy pandemic’ which has no certain pattern to describe. The data maintained by the state government has many factors attached to it, leaving room to believe it to be unscientific. Many a times, the older cases and fatalities are added to it, sometimes the turnaround time of the reports take days, resulting in a sudden rise or drop in the percentage,” he said. Dr Wankhedkar said that the overall CFR in Maharashtra is one of the highest owing to the poor healthcare system and mechanism that lags in tracing contacts. “The patients are admitted to the government facilities for Covid-19 only after their health has deteriorated. The state should now seriously focus upon bringing down the CFR,” he said.Maharashtra has recorded 1,339,232 Covid-19 cases and 35,571 deaths till Sunday evening. The state conducted 693,408 tests over the past week (Sept 21-27) at the daily rate of 99,058 with the positivity rate of 18.83%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-maharashtra-mortality-rate-rises-over-past-two-weeks/story-oCrVI7p0K9axaOz8A3qU0N.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini finally appears before SIT in Mohali||Former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini finally appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) in Mohali on Monday in connection with the 29-year-old case of the disappearance and murder of a junior engineer, Balwant Singh Multani. Saini walked in alone around 11am as the SIT waited for him at the Mataur police station in Mohali. The police had pasted summons outside his house in Sector 20, Chandigarh. The Supreme Court recently granted Saini interim protection from arrest in the case. Multani, the junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (Citco), was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen dead. Saini was injured in the attack. Trouble started for the former DGP when two co-accused policemen turned approvers and recorded statements against Saini, corroborating the series of incidents which proved that Multani was tortured and eliminated at the ex-DGP’s behest. Thereafter, an independent witness who is a resident of Sector 33, Chandigarh, advocate GK Mann, and another independent witness, who is a resident of Kharar, deposed against Saini, turning approvers. Saini had evaded Punjab Police raids and had not been at his Chandigarh residence since August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-finally-appears-before-sit-in-mohali/story-wYcEZEbY1exWZwIuJktxZO.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases today||With the majority of Covid-19 cases reported in the month of September, Mumbai is likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases on Monday. Over 50, 000 cases were reported in September so far, the highest number of cases recorded in a month. The city crossed the 0.1 million-mark on July 18. However, the trend of a spike in daily cases post the Ganesh festival in August has continued with over 2, 000 cases a day reported frequently.So far, there have been 198,846 Covid-19 cases reported in Mumbai, including the 2, 261 cases reported on Sunday. The Covid-19 positivity rate is 18.15%. Of the total, 1.62 lakh Covid-19 patients have recovered and been discharged. Civic officials partially attribute the surge to increased testing capacity in the last month. “We have conducted over 15, 000 Covid-19 tests a day, at most, and 9,000 -11, 000 Covid-19 tests are conducted every day on an average in mid-September. Cases are directly proportional to the number of tests. We have scaled up testing as compared to 4,000-6,000 tests per day in June when more than 1,000 cases were being reported,” a senior civic official said. The BMC has so far conducted 1.082 million Covid-19 tests across the city.Also Read: Covid-19: India crosses 60 lakh-mark, latest million added in 11 daysAreas like Borivali, Malad, Andheri, Jogeshwari, Dadar and Kandivali that have reported over 10, 000 cases each, have also reported a significant number of active cases. As per Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, R central ward (Borivali) has the highest number of active cases, 2,287, among all 24 administrative wards in the city, followed by K west (Jogeshwari) which has reported 1,965 active Covid-19 cases and P north (Goregaon), which has reported 1,472 active Covid-19 cases. Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, has reported 3,140 Covid-19 cases, of which only 188 are active so far. Meanwhile, Covid-19 fatalities in the city have also increased with the total death toll reaching 8,794. However, BMC has managed to bring down the death rate from 5.7% in July to 4.4%. Senior BMC officials said that their current focus is to bring down the fatality rate through their ‘Mission Save Lives’ strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-likely-to-cross-0-2-million-covid-19-cases-today/story-K3DQKmZuH75HuuqTr5SwRI.html
28-09-2020||Lucknow||CDRI extends Covid-19 drug trial to another Lucknow hospital; results by November||The Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI) has extended the ongoing randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials of influenza drug Umifenovir involving Covid-19 patients to a third hospital in Lucknow for a broader base of results.The trials began in August at King George’s Medical University and Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences. CDRI has now started the trials at ERA’s Medical College.CDRI director Tapas Kumar Kundu said the idea is to ensure a broader base for trails that will give more accurate findings. “The trials are being done as per the schedule and if everything goes right, we will be in a position to release the findings in November.”Kundu said Umifenovir has a good safety profile and acts by preventing the entry of the virus into human cells and also by priming the immune system. “It has been in use to cure influenza in countries like China and Russia for over two decades. Our preliminary research shows that it could be a suitable candidate in Covid-19 management. The clinical trials are aimed to gauge its efficacy.”He declined to specify the number of Covid-19 patients involved but people aware of the matter said it could be between 150 to 200.CDRI began the trials after getting a go-ahead from the Drug Controller General of India in June.As part of the trials, patients have been divided into groups with some administered Umifenovir while the rest placebo. None of the candidates will know if they are getting the drug or a placebo to check the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of Umifenovir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cdri-extends-covid-19-drug-trial-to-another-lucknow-hospital-results-by-november/story-qNMDuu2qqro9KritpaeAgM.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC raps jail authorities for neglecting hospital advice to suspected Maoist operative||The Bombay high court has expressed anguish over the apathetic approach of jail authorities for not acting, for over six months, on Sassoon Hospital’s advice to suspected Maoist activist Kanchan Nanaware to undergo heart and lung transplants.“The Chief Medical Officer (CMO) must be conscious of the fact that the transplant is advised only as a last resort when there are no other ways of treating the heart ailment,” said justice Bharati Dangre on Friday.Also read: Spike in killings by Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar raises questionsThe judge said that medical officers, though of jail, must remember that they are doctors who should care for the health of a patient, even if he or she is a prisoner.The judge was irked to note that six months had elapsed since the hospital’s advice, but nothing was done as regards the transplants, and only conventional treatment was being provided to Nanaware.The court has now directed the CMO of Yerwada central prison, where the alleged Maoist operative is lodged, to enquire with the directorate of health services as to where the transplants can be performed and inform the court of the same on September 30.Nanaware has moved the court for bail on medical grounds. According to her counsel, senior advocate Gayatri Singh, the 36-year-old has already undergone open heart surgery twice and has been advised to undergo further surgeries.Singh said Nanaware suffered from congenital heart disease and menorrhagia and has been continuously under treatment at Sassoon Hospital at Pune. Singh said she required immediate attention, particularly in the wake of the spread of Covid-19 inside Yerawada prison.Several offences are registered against Nanaware and her husband Arun Bhelke in Vidarbha region for being Maoist operatives and the couple is accused of working in metro cities like Mumbai and Pune to indoctrinate the urban poor, especially young, unemployed slum dwellers, to join the banned movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-raps-jail-authorities-for-neglecting-hospital-advice-to-suspected-maoist-operative/story-iTXgNXUUeX6bz6vBH5vXuL.html
28-09-2020||Jaipur||1st phase of Rajasthan gram panchayat election begins||The polling for the first phase of election of the sarpanch and panch in 947 gram panchayats in Rajasthan began on Monday morning. “The polling began at 7.30 am amid security arrangements. The polling will take place as per the guidelines related to Covid-19,” state Election Commission secretary Shyam Singh Rajpurohit told PTI. He said elections in 55 village panchayats of the Sarada and the Gogunda panchayat samitis of Udaipur had been postponed in view of the prevailing situation in Dungarpur. Violence erupted last Thursday in Dungarpur district, where candidates of a recruitment exam blocked a highway. The situation remained tensed till Sunday. “Since the police force was engaged in law and order, and polling parties were facing problems in reaching the gram panachayats of Udaipur, the decision was taken to postpone the elections in 55 gram panchayats,” he said. The commissioner said wearing a mask was mandatory during the election, while arrangements for ensuring compliance of social distancing had also been made at polling booths. The voting will take place from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm. After the voting is over, counting of votes will begin. The second phase of election will take place on October 3, third on October 6 and the fourth on October 10. In total, 3,848 gram panchayats will go to polls in the state in four phases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/1st-phase-of-rajasthan-gram-panchayat-election-begins/story-e5v9MNr9HUHv5poiPd5lNP.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Farm bills: Protesters from Youth Congress burn tractor at Rajpath, raise slogans||The Congress’s youth wing on Monday said a group of its members set a tractor on fire at Rajpath, which connects the India Gate to the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi, in protest against the new farm laws as the party planned to intensify protests against the legislation.“Our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers. From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation’s backbone. On [freedom fighter] #BhagatSingh’s birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the govt’s anti-farmer bills,” the Youth Congress said in a tweet.Our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers.From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation's backbone.On #BhagatSingh's birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the govt's anti farmer bills. pic.twitter.com/1uOIp79DzrPresident Ram Nath Kovind signed three contentious farm bills into law on Sunday even as over a dozen Opposition parties urged him not to sign them, saying they were passed “unconstitutionally” in “complete disregard” of parliamentary normsThe tractor was set afire hours before Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh of the Congress began a sit-in at Bhagat Singh’s ancestral village of Khatkar Kalan against the laws.Farmers have been blocking the Amritsar-Delhi railway track as part of protests against the laws even as the government has insisted that they will make them self-reliant. They say the new laws could lead to an end of the minimum support prices for their produce.The Congress has likened the laws to cancer and slow poison that will kill farmers and agriculture. It has urged all parties to come together and oppose the laws, which the party said will make farmers “slaves of big businessmen”.The Delhi police said five people have been detained for setting the tractor afire and that the fire was doused and no one was injured in the incident.“Today [Monday] at around 7:15 am, some [15-20] persons carrying a tractor in Tata 407 vehicle came at Rajpath, Man Singh Crossing. They offloaded the tractor and tried to set it ablaze. They claimed to be members of Youth Congress, Punjab. Appropriate legal action has been taken,” a Delhi police spokesman said. “Five persons have been detained till now and one vehicle impounded. Affiliation of these persons is being verified.”Also Read: PM Modi reaches out to farmers amid angerPassersby told police the men raised slogans of “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” and clicked pictures with the burning tractor. Some also went live on social media from the spot. They were also carrying effigies.Deputy police commissioner Eish Singhal said: “Our men reached the spot and doused the fire before the tractor was completely burnt. The vehicle has been removed and legal action is being taken.”Officials said the adequate police force has been deployed in the area to avoid a repeat of such an incident.The Delhi Police have stepped up security around the city’s borders amid the ongoing farmers’ protest in Punjab and Haryana against the farm reforms. On Friday, the police prevented protesting farmers from entering Delhi through the Mayur Vihar border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farm-bills-protesters-burn-tractor-at-rajpath-raise-slogans/story-enUPWSwZ1MbzZPugcknj1L.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Mandatory quarantine order for Covid-19 patients above 60 in Delhi withdrawn||The southwest district of Delhi withdrew an order on Sunday that mandated isolation in a Covid Care Centre or Covid Health Centre for any Covid-19 patient above the age of 60 or with comorbidities. The home isolation guidelines by Delhi government, similar to the Central government guidelines, allow those who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms to isolate at home, provided there is enough space for them to isolate themselves from other members of the family. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has described home isolation, along with aggressive testing, as the “most important strategy” for fighting coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city. In June, when the number of cases had last surged, the government had fought the lieutenant governor’s decision of mandatory institutional quarantine for all Covid-19 patients. Also Read: Covid-19: India inching closer to 1% death rateAccording to data shared by the government, over 101,000 patients have recovered in home isolation in the city and only 40 people died of the infection in home isolation till September 17. Last week, the government had directed all district commissioners to mandatorily shift any Covid-19 patient in home isolation to institutional isolation if they were found to be violating guidelines. Southwest Delhi’s order had come just a day before this meeting. As per government data, as on September 17, 7,847 patients had recovered in the district in home isolation, there were 1,545 active cases, 110 people were moved to hospitals and none of the patients had died in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/order-for-mandatory-institutional-isolation-for-senior-comorbid-patients-withdrawn-by-s-w-delhi/story-ePUdgFa82iPljMGj7K0VDP.html
28-09-2020||Lucknow||UP Assembly bypolls: Congress names candidates for Suar and Bangarmau seats||The Congress on Sunday became the first political party to start declaring candidates for the forthcoming Assembly bypolls for eight seats in Uttar Pradesh. The party named its candidates for two of the eight seats. Haider Ali Khan alias Hamzah Mian will contest from Suar (Rampur) and Aarti Vajpayee from Bangarmau (Unnao). All India Congress Committee general secretary Mukul Wasnik announced the two names saying that the Congress President, Sonia Gandhi has approved them. The two candidates would make the contest interesting and tough on the respective seats as both are local and are from strong political families that had won elections in the respective area multiple times, Congress leaders claimed. Haider Ali Khan is the son of Nawab Kazim Ali and the grandson of Begum Noor Bano. Kazim Ali had won the Suar assembly seat thrice as Congress candidate while Noor Bano had twice been a Congress MP from Rampur. This would be Haider Ali Khan’s first assembly election. Aarti Vajpayee is the daughter of late Gopinath Dixit, a former UP minister and was also related to late Delhi chief minister Sheila Dixit. She had contested the same seat in 2012 as an independent candidate. “Both our candidates are heavyweights and are local. They have the trust of people,” said Anshu Awasthi, a UPCC spokesperson. Elections are likely to be announced soon for Malhani (Jaunpur), Suar (Rampur), Tundla (Firozabad), Bulandshahr (Bulandshahr), Naugawan Sadat (Amroha), Ghatampur (Kanpur City), Bangarmau (Unnao), and Deoria (Deoria) assembly seats. Of these Malhani and Suar were held by the Samajwadi Party and the rest of the six by BJP. In the last by-polls in 2019 for 11 seats, the Congress had drawn a blank. Bangarmau and Suar seats fell vacant following disqualification of the sitting MLAs on these seats. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Bangarmaul Kuldeep Singh Sengar was disqualified following his conviction (life sentence awarded to him in a rape case) and Samajwadi Party’s Mohammad Abdullah Azam’s election to Suar seat fell vacant after the Allahabad High Court declared his election invalid in a fake birth certificate issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-assembly-bypolls-congress-names-candidates-for-suar-and-bangarmau-seats/story-WvU5ENmeXtT82VXJlUPxTM.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality likely to improve slightly: IMD||With mainly clear sky and strong surface winds expected on Monday and Tuesday, Delhi’s air quality is likely to improve slightly. According to scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), strong surface winds are expected over the next two days, keeping the air quality from dropping. “Because of slight rainfall in neighbouring Rajasthan, strong winds are travelling towards Delhi. The winds are also likely to reduce the overall humidity levels. However, this is likely to change from October 1 when the wind speed will reduce,” said a senior IMD scientist. The IMD has warned that the air quality may dip slightly from next month with a change in wind pattern and reduction in wind speed because of the overall weather transition. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) on Monday at 6 am was 125 in the ‘moderate’ category. This is likely to improve with the winds picking up, as the day progresses. The average overall Delhi AQI was recorded at 117 on Sunday, as per CPCB data. “The air quality is likely to improve though remaining in the moderate category over the next two days,” said a senior CPCB official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-likely-to-improve-slightly-imd/story-GD6Ma7a00U0MF1ZZYl7HGP.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Cop saves man from armed attackers in Delhi’s Anand Parbat||A 32-year-old man escaped an attack when a group of at least five men armed with a knife, sticks and cooking utensils was thwarted by a policeman carrying just a lathi in central Delhi’s Anand Parbat on Saturday night, police said.The attack and the subsequent intervention by the policeman, head constable Damodar, was captured by a CCTV camera installed in the neighbourhood.The victim, Gaurav, sustained stab wounds to his head and other body parts, but he was out of danger, said Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central).The attack took place around 9.30pm on Saturday when Gaurav and his friend Prem Sagar visited a dhaba in Anand Parbat’s Nayi Basti for dinner.“Since the service was slow, it led to an argument between the two friends and the dhaba owners. The two men decided to leave the dhaba, but they were attacked from behind,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cop-saves-man-from-armed-attackers-in-delhi-s-anand-parbat/story-OLMJwA09WLR6S55hSA2MAK.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Man held for raping 24-year-old woman in Delhi||A finance firm employee — who had lost his job during the lockdown — raped a 24-year-old factory worker at his home in South Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh on Wednesday after luring her on the pretext of a job interview, police said.The suspect was arrested on Sunday.“We arrested the suspect from his home. The survivor has identified him as the man who raped her,” said RP Meena, DCP (south-east).The woman lives in Ghaziabad and works in a factory in an east Delhi neighborhood. Seeking a better job, she had recently joined a WhatsApp group.“The same group also had the suspect as a member. He worked in a finance firm but had recently lost his job. When the woman posted her requirement for a new job in the group, the man reached out to her,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-held-for-raping-24-year-old-woman-in-delhi/story-ynDgBhkB1gN3I8AA5ayWbN.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Her plans for tomorrow, and for days after tomorrow||It’s late night and Poonam Yadav is sitting by the desk, with her laptop and scores of bulky books on Corporate Tax, Strategic Management and other subjects of the kind. “I have my first of the final year exams in the morning,” she says, looking half-amused as she chats on WhatsApp video. Is she smiling at the ironic timing of this rare power cut, that has forced her to light a candle? She playfully shrugs. A masters student in commerce, Ms Yadav is the only one in the family to be awake at this hour, in the third-floor house in Gurugram’s Sector 11. In her mid-20s, she will be the only person in her family to become a post-graduate. She is also the family’s only earning female. “I’m a beauty professional.”In the eerie stillness of the quiet hour, Ms Yadav explains that she prefers to depend on herself to finance her dreams. “I don’t like being told, ‘Ab study band karo aur shaadi karo (now, stop the studies and get married).’”Three years ago, she trained in a beauty salon and started a salon-at-home service. It’s by diving into her earnings drawn in this career that she bought her study table, laptop and a series of mobiles—while the supportive family paid half the amount for the scooty.Not looking an inch nervous about the approaching Cost Accounting Standard and Reporting exam, she declares she has many plans. “If I like anything I have to learn it quick... so I learned stitching from mummy, car driving from bhayya, and in the lockdown, I taught myself pickle-making on YouTube.” She also set up a kitchen garden on her terrace as her beauty business took a severe beating due to the pandemic, “perhaps because my regular clients fear calling me at home due to virus threat.”After finishing her exams, Ms Yadav intends to prepare for scores of competitive entrances for clerical-level placements in government departments. Winning one of those hard-to-get jobs won’t be the culmination of her ambitions, though. Leaning closer to the phone screen, she says, “I do not want to stick to just one thing... I have many dreams, I want to try them all.” Even so, she confesses: “At some point I would be obliged to marry. Then, what I will be doing will also depend on the expectations of the family I go into.”By now it’s almost midnight, and she must get back to her books. The exam starts at 10am tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-her-plans-for-tomorrow-and-for-days-after-tomorrow/story-K9weyvr1DpBcNgLyVgF2VM.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Fatality rate lower than 1% over last 10 days: Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said that Covid-19 case fatality rate in the national capital was less than 1% in the last 10 days while attributing the spike in the number of fresh infections to the increase in testing.The case fatality rate (CFR) is the proportion of infected people who have died from the disease.He said Delhi recorded 3,372 fresh cases on Saturday and 4,476 patients recovered within 24 hours.As on Sunday, Delhi had a total of 271,114 Covid-19 cases and 5,235 deaths due to the disease, according to the Delhi government’s daily bulletin. Commenting on 46 deaths reported on Saturday — the highest in nearly 70 days -- Jain said, “We do not look at the figures for a single day. The average fatality rate for the last 10 days has been 0.94%. The patients who have succumbed are not those who tested positive in a day. These are people who tested positive 15-20 days back. That is why we take the average of 10 days,” he said.The overall case fatality rate is 1.94%, the data shows. The occupancy of beds in Delhi hospitals has declined in the last four to five days and 55% beds are vacant, the minister added.The Delhi government had constituted a three-member committee to audit daily deaths caused by the disease in the city.Jain said the committee visited all the hospitals and the report is “satisfactory”.“There were a few glitches which have been ironed out. There was a time when the fatality rate was at 4% but it has remained below 1% in the last 10 days,” he said.In the national capital, the number of containment zones breached the 2,000-mark last week, which Jain said is a part of Delhi’s strategy to tackle the spread of the virus. As on Sunday, there were 2,380 containment zones in Delhi.“We tripled the number of tests and those who tested positive were isolated in small zones to contain the spread. We knew we would have to do it aggressively for two to four weeks and we are seeing positive results now as the cases are declining,” he added.“Wherever cases were reported, now there is a slowdown. In the last seven days, cases and positivity rate have declined. The positivity rate for the last seven days has been 6.5%. Two weeks ago, it was 8.5% and three weeks ago it was 9%.The positivity rate shows how widespread the virus is in a region.The Delhi government has so far provided 60,042 oximeters to patients in home quarantine, according to official figures.The Arvind Kejriwal government had in June announced that it would provide oximeters to all Covid-19 patients in home isolation with no symptoms or mild symptoms of the disease and facing breathing problems due to low oxygen levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fatality-rate-lower-than-1-over-last-10-days-jain/story-mjmP2yhKJTbSfLaWLYXavI.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi adds 40+ Covid-19 deaths for 2nd straight day; 3,292 new cases||The national capital reported more than 40 Covid-19 fatalities for the second straight day on Sunday, which also saw 3,292 infections added in the city, taking the tally to 271,114.According to data released by the Delhi government in its daily health bulletin on Sunday, 42 people in the national capital died of the coronavirus disease on the day.Authorities had on Saturday reported 46 fatalities — the highest in a day since July 16, when the city reported 58 deaths.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayOn Sunday, 51,416 samples were collected for Covid-19, and a bulk of these were conducted using the less-sensitive rapid antigen method, which is known to throw up inaccurate results.However, the number of RT-PCR tests, considered the gold standard of Covid-19 diagnosis, has continued to rise over the past few days, with the Delhi government reworking its testing strategy and directing all districts administrations in the city to ensure all symptomatic people who test negative after an RAT, are reconfirmed using the RT-PCR method.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 millionThe cumulative Covid-19 death toll in Delhi rose to 5,235 on Sunday.So far, 236,651 in Delhi have recovered of the infection, while 29,228 are recovering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-adds-40-covid-19-deaths-for-2nd-straight-day-3-292-new-cases/story-I6TytkazQKagOUXtAgmv9I.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi police sub inspector shoots woman in Alipur||A Delhi police sub inspector shot a 34-year-old woman with whom he allegedly was in a relationship with, in outer Delhi’s Alipur on Sunday evening.While the woman’s condition is stable, senior police officers said a search for the policeman is underway.The officer knew the woman for the past year, police officers involved in the investigation said.According to the police, information was received at Alipur police station around 5 pm from sub inspector Jaiveer, posted at Shahbad dairy police station that while he was driving on GT Road, he spotted a woman lying unconscious, injured on the roadside.DCP (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma said, Jaiveer immediately shifted the woman to a near by hospital in his car.“He told us that on their way to the hospital, the injured woman told him that she has been shot by a Delhi Police sub-inspector Sandeep Dahiya, who is currently posted at Lahori gate police station,” Sharma said.“She said on Sunday afternoon she and Dahiya were out for a drive in his car when they had an argument after which he took out his pistol and shot her, the woman said,” the DCP said quoting SI Jaiveer.“A case of attempt to murder and under other sections is being registered and search for Dahiya is on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-sub-inspector-shoots-woman-in-alipur/story-sYP55DUrCLTRFvNJfjSaAK.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Join drive to prevent spread of dengue: Kejriwal to RWAs||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday appealed to residents’ welfare associations (RWA) in the national capital to endorse the “10 Hafte –10 Baje –10 Minute (10 weeks, 10 o’ clock, 10 minutes)” campaign against dengue and other vector-borne diseases.“I appeal to all RWAs to talk to people in their neighbourhoods and motivate them to join the campaign. We have to join hands in the fight against dengue. We have to stop the breeding of mosquitoes and protect our families, and all Delhi residents, from dengue,” the chief minister said in a statement.The campaign urges the public to inspect their homes for any possible sources of stagnant water, which may lead to the breeding of Aedes mosquitoes, which spread diseases. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government launched the programme last year in a bid to rein in the number of dengue cases and deaths.Several senior AAP leaders, MPs, MLAs, councillors, as well as party volunteers joined the campaign, sharing their pictures on social media.Saurabh Gandhi, secretary of United Residents of Delhi (URD), an umbrella body of RWAs in the city, said, “WhatsApp groups maintained by RWA groups have played a significant role in anti-dengue, anti-malaria campaigns. We shall continue with our efforts on this front.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/join-drive-to-prevent-spread-of-dengue-kejriwal-to-rwas/story-gu7GE9CGeYBX07ktqsosaL.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||4 days, 14,000 applications: Demand for HSRPs hots up||Around 14,000 vehicle owners in Delhi have applied for high-security registration plates (HSRP) and colour-coded stickers since Wednesday — when the Delhi government issued a public notice urging vehicle owners to fix their vehicles’ number plates and avoid being penalised, even though no deadline has been set so far.“Between September 23 and 26, 13,966 vehicle owners have applied for HSRP and colour-coded stickers,” said a transport department official, who asked not to be identified.The official said there are around 3.2 million vehicles in Delhi — commercial and private — which are supposed to have high-security registration plates. These include around 1.1 million four-wheelers and 1.9 million two-wheelers, while the rest include auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, buses, trucks, and others. The rule applies largely to vehicles registered before April 1, 2019, as vehicles registered after that date are mandatorily equipped with HSRPs and stickers, the official said.In 2018, the Delhi government had made it mandatory for vehicles registered in the Capital to be equipped with HSRP. Since then, around 3.5 million vehicle owners in the city have updated their registration plates, the transport official said.Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Thursday wrote to the transport department, asking for provisions be made for vehicle owners who want to avail only stickers.In the letter, Gahlot also asked the department to make provisions for vehicle owners who own vehicles of brands that may not have showrooms and dealerships in Delhi, and to do away with the requirement of uploading registration papers and other documents while booking a time slot with a dealer.To get an HSRP and colour-coded stickers, one has to contact any of the 236 vehicle dealers authorised by the Delhi government. The list is available on the state transport department’s website. Or, one may book an appointment with the chosen dealer online.Starting Monday, the website can be used to book slots for availing stickers too, said another government official.Vehicles registered in other states will need to have their registration plate upgraded from authorised dealer in the respective state.“It takes four or five days for the HSRP to be ready and delivered to the vehicle dealer. The customer will have to go to the dealer just once at the scheduled appointment date and time to get the HSRP affixed. The process does not take more than 30 minutes, subject to the existing circumstances,” said a spokesperson of Rosmerta Security Systems Private Limited, which manufactures HSRP and manages the website for booking time slots with dealers.Addressing concerns that people would not get enough time to install the registration plates and colour-coded stickers, transport minister Gahlot said, “Adequate time will be given to people for compliance.”Under the motor vehicles law, transport department officials and traffic officials can fine any vehicle between ₹5,000 to ₹10,000 for not having HSRP and colour-coded stickers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/4-days-14-000-applications-demand-for-hsrps-hots-up/story-wE8D2orI7mvFND8oP8DmwM.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||With Delhi’s pollution going up, watchdog begins to crack whip||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has launched a crack down on waste burning and industrial units using fuels that emit toxic fumes at 13 pollution hot spots across the city.In Delhi, 13 areas — Okhla phase-II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, R K Puram and Jahangirpuri — were identified as hot spots by the DPCC and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) last year based on particulate matter (PM) concentrations. Pollution levels in these areas were found to be higher than the city’s average.According to DPCC officials, during inspection drives, more than 20 such units using unapproved fuels in areas such as Mandoli in east Delhi have been issued notices.Also read: Farm fires set to continue as subsidy may not encourage shift to tech“The drive has been going on for the past 10 days and notices have been issued to errant industrial units. The units have been given time to convert to piped natural gas (PNG), failing which the units will be shut down,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named.Earlier this month, the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) had asked the DPCC to direct all agencies concerned to formulate an action plan to curb pollution levels at the 13 hot spots sites ahead of winter.It had also asked the DPCC and other agencies to start night patrolling at the hot spots from October 15.Every year, Delhi’s pollution levels soar in winter due to a combination of factors, including changes in meteorology such as cold weather, calm winds, local emissions, coupled with stubble-burning in neighbouring states.The pollution watchdog has also roped in industrial associations to keep a vigil and not allow dumping of waste, which is eventually put to fire.Also read: Air quality on the decline in Delhi, expect worse in coming week“A number of spots such as Anand Vihar and Punjabi Bagh, among others where traffic congestion and dust pollution is a major issue, road owning agencies have been asked to pave the stretches and work out an arrangement with the traffic police to reduce congestion,” the official said.DPCC has imposed fines amounting to Rs4 crore on 31 ready mix concrete (RMC) plants and eight large construction sites for violating air pollution control norms. The pollution control body also issued directions to stop construction and demolition work at four large sites for not installing anti-smog guns and causing air pollution.“Steps taken to minimize dust emission were deficient at 31 RMC plants. Accordingly, action has been initiated. Penalties ranging between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 20 lakh have been imposed,” DPCC had said in a statement. “Directions have been issued to close 11 plants where violations were more serious,” it said.The Central Public Works Department has been asked to stop work at CGO Complex and deposit an environmental compensation of Rs5 lakh for not taking dust control measures, including an anti-smog gun, the DPCC said.In an action taken report prepared by the Epca based on inspection of 15 locations, including the hot spots and surrounding areas, the anti-pollution watchdog found that dumping of garbage/construction and demolition waste/industrial waste, road dust as well as traffic congestion are major contributors to high pollution levels in these areas.Epca inspected several locations, mostly having confirmed and non-confirmed industrial pockets, during August-September.“In most industrial areas, plastic, rubber and cloth waste was found dumped and burning in some places. More material was found stacked for burning. We have asked concerned agencies to file an action taken report in the matter before the next review meeting,” said Bhure Lal, Epca chairperson.Meanwhile, the number of crop stubble burning cases in Punjab has been increasing over the past five days, especially in Amritsar district, satellite images released by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) have shown. Nasa also warned that with plumes of smoke being seen over Delhi, the city’s air quality may also deteriorate in the coming weeks.Delhi government data shows that last year stubble burning accounted for 44% of the city’s air pollution.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said that now with the opening up of the economy, the PM concentrations are again building up. “To curb overall pollution levels, there is a need for a spot-specific local solutions as well as city level systemic solution. For instance, paving an unpaved road could be a local solution, but in case of waste burning, a larger systemic solution is required so that it doesn’t get burnt at any time of the year. An interface between the two strategies is the need of the hour,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-delhi-s-pollution-going-up-watchdog-begins-to-crack-whip/story-yXltRPA8nQTNQA7cxaSHCI.html
28-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 shadow over big, fat weddings in Delhi||With the wedding season just round the corner, banquet and tent house owners are demanding that the Centre and the Delhi government relax the number of guests at a wedding function—currently only 50 people are allowed—to 50% of the the banquet hall’s capacity.They want the restriction on the number of guests be waived off in the next Unlock guidelines, which are likely to be announced soon.While the Centre had allowed a gathering of 100 people from September 20 onwards in its Unlock 4 guidelines, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently allowed only 50 people in wedding gatherings. The decision was made due to a rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, said an official.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayBanquet owners say that this has adversely impacted their business. While the number of bookings for the upcoming wedding season is far less as compared to last year, some banquet halls have started getting cancellation requests.Puneesh Khanna, 45, director of Lavnaya Motel, a banquet facility in north Delhi’s Alipur, resumed work earlier this month after five months of closure because of restrictions imposed to halt the spread of Covid-19.Khanna said, “We have been banking on the upcoming season to stay afloat. But the order has led to confusion among people. Those who had booked the hall thinking that 100 people will be allowed have started cancelling the event. In the past week, 10-15% bookings have been cancelled.”Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 millionWith over 50 motels and farmhouses along GT Karnal Road, Alipur is one of Delhi’s preferred destinations for big, fat, fancy weddings. Popular wedding venues are also located in Wazirpur, Peeragarhi, Rohini, Punjabi Bagh, Chattarpur, Mehrauli, etc, that can accommodate anywhere between 1,000 and 1,500 guests.Like Khanna, banquet and tent houses owners in Delhi now are pinning their hopes on the wedding season in November and December after facing huge losses due to the lockdown and Covid restrictions.Banquet and tent house owners ask why they are not being allowed when gyms, restaurants and Delhi Metro have been permitted to operate on 50% capacity. Sandeep Madan, owner of The Heritage Grand at Britannia Chowk in north Delhi, said, “Metro has started at 50% capacity. The government has allowed gyms and restaurants to operate. Then why not us? There are over 10 lakh families associated with our business.”Madan said that banquet owners as well as those who are planning weddings are in a dilemma. “The government should give some clarity of what they plan to do. We can restart our businesses on a week’s notice. People book banquet halls months in advance,” said Madan, who is the senior vice president of the Community Welfare Banquet Association.Also read: Why adequate testing is crucial to saving livesWhile uncertainty looms large, some banquets have started taking bookings based on fixed charge for the hall and a gathering of 100-250 people. Ramesh Dang, president of the Delhi Banquet Federation, said, “We are waiting for the next set of guidelines. We will take up the matter with the Centre, Delhi government and the Lieutenant governor of Delhi and request them to allow gathering up to 50% of the capacity. Currently, we are taking minimum bookings for the venue. As for the number of guests, we are telling the clients that it will depend on the government’s order.”A majority of banquets — there are around 500 in Delhi — have 2-3 halls with a capacity of 350-500 guests each.Virender Singh, who runs a construction material firm in Mehrauli and lives in Aya Nagar, said his family had cancelled his 22-year-old niece’s wedding scheduled for April 26. The family had then planned to call 1,000-odd people. The event was postponed to November 29. The family hired a tent house to set up a venue in a park. But now that plan also stands cancelled.“There is no clarity on how many guests will be allowed. We have a big family. If we count just our close relatives, we have at least 80-90 people whom we have to call. There is no clarity on whether the government will increase the number of guests. For us, it is a big event. We don’t want to spoil it. We have cancelled the wedding. We will plan it once things are normal,” said Singh.While banquet owners have started bookings, tent house owners are still out of business. A majority of tents are erected for big weddings and other events mostly held in parks. But according to lockdown norms, commercial activities in parks are prohibited.“Customers who want big weddings opt for tent houses. But due to the restriction on the number of guests, there is no demand for us. People are opting for banquets. The government should think about us also,” said Nitin Gulati, owner of Gulati tents, who largely operates in west and north Delhi.Gulati also said that there was a shortage of manpower since labourers engaged with them had gone home and were yet to return. Even banquet halls are working with limited staff with only one guard deployed to screen guests at the limited number of functions which are being organised these days.A large number of tent houses have taken godowns on hire to store items. Pankaj Shokeen, president of the Delhi Tent Federation, said, “There are close to 5,700 tent house owners in Delhi. As these are temporary structures, people have taken big godowns in villages to store goods. Now owners have asked them to vacate as they are unable to pay rent,” Shokeen said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-shadow-over-big-fat-weddings-in-delhi/story-O5NucA9dhDoYbJSvIO9ipI.html
28-09-2020||City||Two held for impersonating exam candidate in Panchkula||The Panchkula police on Sunday arrested two persons in connection with the case wherein a fake candidate was caught taking the State Eligibility Test in Computer Appreciation and Applications (SETC) here.The accused were identified as Mahender of Sirsa and Sumit of Sonipat.On September 26, a complaint was registered by one Roshan Lal, who works as assistant general manager at Hartron in Sector 2, Panchkula. He reported that in the place of a candidate named Mahender Singh, some other person was taking the SETC exam.A case was registered under Sections 419(cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-impersonating-exam-candidate-in-panchkula/story-kwslYHBlyb139VTBios9xM.html
28-09-2020||City||It’s too little, too late: Bains on SAD snapping ties with BJP||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president Simarjit Singh Bains today lambasted Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal for severing ties with old allies BJP. He said that breaking the alliance was ‘too little and too late’. Badal’s aides, who were earlier supporting the bill, recently took a u-turn on realising that they were losing their political ground in the state, he added. “But now they are exposed. Both Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal had won the elections by sitting comfortably on the Modi wave. I challenge them to resign and fight for re-election to prove that they had won without Modi wave,” said Bains. “Till now, the BJP was quiet on the illegal businesses of Badals and their aides. As now they are out of favour, the cases of drugs against Bikram Singh Majithia will resurface. I hope a probe into Badal family’s private transport racket will also be launched and reveal how it caused losses to the government-run public transport sector,” said Bains. On the issue of allying with BJP, Bains said, “We are fighting for farmers, while the saffron party is ruining the farming sector. I hope the local BJP leadership will visit Delhi and acquaint the central leadership about the situation in Punjab.” Bains asked chief minister Amarinder Singh to lead the farmers’ agitation to Delhi to press the government to withdraw the bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/it-s-too-little-too-late-bains-on-sad-snapping-ties-with-bjp/story-d22LJiJBURM416to0iun2L.html
28-09-2020||City||9 fatalities, 151 new cases recorded in Ludhiana||Nine more Covid-19 deaths took the district’s fatality count to 717 on Sunday. Besides 151 persons, who tested positive, took the total tally of positive cases past 17,482.So far, 15,572 persons have recovered from the illness while 1,190 are still battling it.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that till date, a total of 2, 61,062 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 2, 58,884 samples have been received. While 2, 39, 289 samples were found negative, the reports of 2,178 samples were still pending. He said that now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 17, 482, while 2, 113 patients are from other districts and states, who tested positive here. The DC said that in all, 12 patients lost their lives on Sunday, of which nine were from Ludhiana while the others were from Jalandhar, Pathankot and Kapurthala). The dead include a 64-year-old male from Aman Nagar, a 63-year-old male from Millar Gunj, a 73-year-old male from Shahpur Payal village, a 38-year-old female from Boothgarh, a 40-year-old male from Gill Road, a 58-year-old female from Lohara village, a 63-year-old female from Jamalpur, a 70-year-old male from Raj Guru Nagar, a 56-year-old male from Tajpur Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-fatalities-151-new-cases-recorded-in-ludhiana/story-4mIkepofVkVNoaE3IY3M0I.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Atal Tunnel inauguration: PM Modi to be accorded traditional welcome||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will get a glimpse of the unique culture and traditions of Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti districts during his brief five-hour visit to the hill state on October 3 to inaugurate the strategic Atal Tunnel in Rohtang. As per the reception plan, approved by the cabinet, Modi will be accorded a grand welcome upon his arrival at four points as per the traditions of the districts. The PM, who will return to New Delhi the same day, will be accompanied by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur.The PM’s helicopter will land at the Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) helipad in Manali at 9am where will be welcomed by Himachal chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur, Himachal assembly speaker Vipin Parmar, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, rural development and panchayati raj minister Virendra Kanwar. Alternate arrangements have been made in case the helicopter fails to land at the SASE helipad. Jal shakti minister Mahendra Singh Thakur, technical education minister Ramlal Markaday and social justice and empowerment minister Sarveen Chaudhary will greet the PM at the south portal of the tunnel.Industries minister Bikram Singh Thakur and forest minister Rakesh Pathania will be stationed at the north portal while deputy speaker Hansraj will oversee the arrangements at Bhunter.The 9.2 kilometre-long tunnel under the Rohtang Pass has been named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had announced the project on June 3.The Atal tunnel is the world’s longest tunnel above an altitude of 3,000 metres. It will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 kilometres and reduce travel time by 4.5 hours. It will also speed up movement of troops to the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/atal-tunnel-inauguration-pm-modi-to-be-accorded-traditional-welcome/story-9eEYXmhwt6cXR6Qa6qDR7O.html
28-09-2020||City||₹1.5 lakh robbery case in Ludhiana solved, three arrested||With the arrest of three persons, the Shimlapuri police on Sunday solved the ₹1.5 lakh robbery case in which a building contractor got looted at gunpoint on September 22.The accused were identified as Sunil Kumar, 25, Lakesh, 22, and Yuvraj, 22 of the Shimlapuri area. According to police, all accused are drug addicts and needed money to acquire drugs. Accused Sunil Kumar even has a criminal case registered against him.ASI Ajmer Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the police arrested the accused from the Shimlapuri area, following a tip-off. The ASI added that victim Abhimanyu Kumar Mehta, 35, of Chimney road, Shimlapuri, was robbed of ₹1.5 lakh on the night of September 22. Abhimanyu was returning home from a construction site of a cycle factory building in Jaspal Bangar village at around 11.30pm on his bike when the accused intercepted his way, flashed a gun, and threatened to kill him. They robbed him of Rs 1.5 lakh and fled.No cash and weapon used in the crime have been recovered. The police will produce the accused before the court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-5-lakh-robbery-case-in-ludhiana-solved-three-arrested/story-9kVvhpQa54kgSpfZiIO4SJ.html
28-09-2020||City||Two nabbed after three back-to-back snatchings in Ludhiana||Four miscreants executed three snatchings on Kakowal road and in Shivpuri area on Sunday before they were finally overpowered by some passersby. Two of them were nabbed and handed over to the police while the other two managed to escape.Complainant Kamaljit Singh, 36, of Kila Mohalla, who is a hosiery contractor, said that one of his labourers, Harish Kumar, was targeted by the snatchers near Shivpuri when he was returning after collecting Rs 5,000 cash. Kumar narrated the incident to him following which they returned to the area and saw the miscreants still lurking around. Kamaljit proceeded to nab them but the miscreants assaulted him with an iron rod following which some passersby rushed to his rescue. They nabbed two of the accused and handed them over to the police but the other two fled the spot. Kamaljit said that some cops and small-time political leaders were trying to influence him against lodging a police complaint.Meanwhile, another labourer and a woman also approached the police, alleging that the accused had snatched mobile phones from them at Kakowal road and Jalebi Chowk.Daresi station house officer, sub-inspector Davider Singh said an FIR will be registered after recording the statement of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-nabbed-after-three-back-to-back-snatchings-in-ludhiana/story-UUUiONZuunkffGS3AIQauN.html
28-09-2020||City||Eye on Swachh rankings: Mayor launches ‘Clean Ludhiana, Green Ludhiana’ campaign||Hoping to improve the city’s rankings in Swachh Survekshan 2021, Ludhiana mayor Balkar Sandhu, along with municipal corporation (MC) chief Pardeep Sabharwal, formally launched the ‘Clean Ludhiana, Green Ludhiana’ campaign on Sunday. Under the initiative, 24 city roads have been adopted for cleaning and maintenance. The MC will look after the dust management on these roads and also undertake the repair of three pothole-ridden roads. Besides, strict action will be taken against those found littering here. Mayor Sandhu further said that action will be taken against those involved in defacing graffiti in different parts of the city. Waste segregation survey The MC will also conduct a survey of 10,000 households to study the implementation of waste segregation. Besides encouraging residents to separate wet and dry waste, the civic body will also exhort them to make useful products from waste material. Green initiative Apart from that, cleanliness competitions will also be organised for the 95 councillors and sanitary inspectors of the health department. An independent agency will monitor the cleanliness initiatives undertaken by councillors and sanitary inspectors and accordingly declare the winners. Councillors to be sent to study Indore model Addressing a press conference on Sunday, Mayor Balkar Singh said that it is the duty of the MC to clean and beautify the city but it cannot happen without the cooperation of the public. “The entire MC team is working hard to beautify the city. I also solicit cooperation from Ludhiana residents to support this campaign,” he said. He said that if Indore can secure India’s cleanest city tag, why can’t Ludhiana. “We will send a team of councillors to Indore for comparison and to ascertain that where we are lacking,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eye-on-swachh-rankings-mayor-launches-clean-ludhiana-green-ludhiana-campaign/story-YCq0ROVrehnLYnPSVLjsqO.html
28-09-2020||City||Political dynamics in Ludhiana set to change as SAD, BJP go separate ways||The snapping of ties between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will change the political dynamics in Ludhiana. Normally sharing seats in the assembly constituencies of Ludhiana urban, SAD is now likely to field their candidates in Ludhiana West, North and Central constituencies. Conventionally these seats were reserved for BJP candidates on seat share basis. However, the saffron party had lost all three seats in the 2017 assembly elections. The SAD leaders had been eying these constituencies for long, wishing to field their own candidates.During the 2017 elections, some SAD leaders had even deserted the party to fight as independents.Madan Lal Bagga, once a prominent leader in the party, had snapped ties with the Akalis and fought the elections from Ludhiana North in 2017. However, he lost the elections. In a twofold blow to the SAD, the then BJP candidate Parveen Bansal had also suffered a defeat.May lead to vote splitting Political experts believe that the breaking of alliance between the two parties will also divide the dedicated vote bank and increase the possibility of a multi-cornered contest with Congress, SAD, BJP, Aam Aadmi Party and Lok Insaaf Party fielding their respective candidates.SAD senior spokesperson and former cabinet minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal said, “Not just in Ludhiana, we will fight alone across all constituencies in the state. Our workers are enthusiastic and filled with renewed energy.” He added, “SAD has a legacy of making sacrifices in the interest and welfare of the people of Punjab. We will not let an inch of land fall in the hands of corporates. First our leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal did not hesitate to resign to register her protest against the farm bill and then the party decided to snap ties with the BJP. Our workers and leaders were feeling suffocated in this alliance as the BJP is turning communal and pro-corporate in nature. Our decision of pulling out from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will have far-reaching repercussions on BJP.” While addressing party workers at a gurdwara in Alamgir Sahib on Saturday morning, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had hinted that he would analyse the performance of party workers in each assembly constituency and accordingly allot the tickets. On the other hand, Dakha MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali, said, “I am thankful to the SAD high command for snapping ties with the BJP. The saffron brigade was trying to destroy the farmers but we will not let this happen.” BJP’s state vice-president Parveen Bansal reiterated that it was the 23-year-old alliance between the SAD and the BJP that had taken Punjab on the path of development. “The alliance worked as a strong bridge between the communities divided by the dark days of militancy. However, it is the SAD that decided to part ways from us after praising the bills as pro-farmer. Let me reiterate, we have not touched the old system of procurement. We have just provided another option to the farmers to sell their produce. Our decision is being projected as harsh to cash on the farm vote bank but it is going to help the farmers in the long run and the BJP will emerge victorious in 2020,” said Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/political-dynamics-in-ludhiana-set-to-change-as-sad-bjp-go-separate-ways/story-EYOaX0i8quoACdhFPxF5yL.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||8-acre landfill for non-recyclable solid waste coming up at Chandigarh’s Dadumajra||The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) will be setting up a new sanitary landfill (SLF) at Dadumajra for dumping of non-recyclable solid waste generated in the city.Spread over 8 acres, the site will be developed at a cost of around Rs 12 crore over a period of one year. It is located adjacent to the current dumping site in Dadumajra and the waste processing plant. The municipal corporation, through CSCL, is already undertaking the “Mining of Legacy Waste and Recovery of Land” project at the Dadumajra dumping ground. Nearly 5 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of waste, lying at the ground for over 20 years, is being bio-mined and processed through scientific procedures. MC intends to reclaim the entire land, about 25 acres, for scientific waste disposal and treatment.Confirming the development, NP Sharma, chief general manager, CSCL, said, “The landfill is a crucial component for achieving total waste segregation in the city, in its entire cycle, from collection to processing and disposal. The site will be used specifically for dumping non-recyclable dry waste, which will neither be re-used nor processed at the waste processing plant.”Stating that site will be developed on scientific lines so that there was no damage to the environment and inconvenience to the people living nearby, Sharma said, “The site will be surrounded by a 4.5m tall and 10m deep boundary wall. The waste dumped there will be covered at all times. The site design incorporates systems that will leave no scope of seepage of water into the dumped waste or the ground beneath. There will be no foul smell generated at the site.”CAPACITY AUGMENTATIONThe city’s urban and the rural areas generate about 450 MT municipal solid waste (MSW) per day, which is estimated to increase to 788 MT by 2036.The treatment plant for resource recovery is able to divert only about 20% as refuse-derived fuel (RDF), while the rest is dumped in the open. RDF is a fuel produced from various types of waste such as MSW.MC is currently operating Phase 1 of the SLF, which was constructed in 2007 and commissioned in 2012. SLF’s Phase 1 area is about 10 acres and it is planned to be taken to an average height of about 10m. Given the large quantity of waste arrival, Phase 1 has almost run out of capacity.“Considering the proximity of habitations, the adverse impact on public health and environment, and the urgency of compliance with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, it is imperative to expand the capacity of the SLF for safe waste disposal for a foreseeable period in the future,” said a senior MC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/8-acre-landfill-for-non-recyclable-solid-waste-coming-up-at-chandigarh-s-dadumajra/story-okjGbkjpn4wl1JuTg7pb0N.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration owes MC ₹10 crore in property tax||Around 150 buildings of the UT administration have been put on the defaulters list of the municipal corporation (MC) for owing the civic body more than ₹10 crore in unpaid property tax.To recover the amount, a notice has been issued to the executive engineer of the UT engineering department, under whose jurisdiction these buildings fall. The dues are pending for the period between 2004 and March 2020.The MC has also started issuing notices to the Estate Office; UT Press Trust; State Transport Authority (STA); hockey stadium, Sector 18; swimming pool, Sector 23; traffic police lines, Sector 29; Sector 35 and 37 civil dispensaries; Government Model High School, Sector 38; sports complex, Sector 42; several anganwadi centres; Lake Club; CLTA tennis stadium; roller skating rink; Karuna Sadan, Sector 11; 19 police stations; Bal Niketan: Old Age Home, Kendriya Pustakalaya; ISBT Sector 17; and others.The electricity department alone owes MC a property tax of ₹35.5 lakh. If the pending dues are not deposited in time, these buildings will be sealed, said an MC official requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-owes-mc-10-crore-in-property-tax/story-gsRIcncgbSiWIn5MZfzcKP.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid toll reaches 147 with two deaths, 173 test positive||Covid-19 claimed the lives of two city residents on Sunday, while 173 people were also found positive.With this, Chandigarh’s toll due to the virus has reached 147, while the tally is 11,553.Among these, 2,303 cases remain active, while 9,103 persons have been cured. Out of the 173 new cases, 105 are males and 68 females. The latest fatalities are a 70-year-old woman from Ram Darbar and an 81-year-old man from Sector 52.While the woman was also suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome and kidney disease, the man had type-2 diabetes and hypertension.Sunday also saw 166 patients being discharged. These included people who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic.MAYOR’S CONDITION IMPROVING: PGIThree days after she was admitted to PGIMER due to Covid-related complications, mayor Raj Bala Malik was stated to be stable on Sunday and shifted from the ICU to the isolation ward. “She was not in a good condition when she was admitted on Thursday night, but her health has improved. Hopefully, we will discharge her in a day or two,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.MOHALI’S TOLL RISES TO 183 WITH THREE DEATHSMohali Three people succumbed to Covid-19 in Mohali district on Sunday, taking the death toll to 183. The deceased include a 53-year-old man from Baltana. He died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and had a history of diabetes and hypertension. A 49-year-old diabetic and hypertensive man from Saidpura village also died at Rajindra Hospital, while a 72-year-old man from Dera Bassi died at Max Hospital, Mohali. He was suffering from hypertension, anaemia and diabetes as well.On Sunday too, the recoveries outnumbered fresh Covid cases. While 160 people tested positive, 264 people were discharged after being cured. Of the positive cases, Mohali urban had the maximum at 134, followed by Dera Bassi with nine, Kharar eight, Lalru six, Zirakpur two and Nayagaon one. With this, the patient tally has reached 9,992, of which 2,186 cases are active, while 7,623 patients have recovered.ONE DEATH, 67 NEW CASES IN PANCHKULA The death of a 55-year-old woman from Naggal village took Panchkula’s toll to 80 on Sunday. The woman also had hypertension, health officials said.As many as 67 people also tested positive cases. Panchkula now has 5,730 confirmed cases, of which 1,047 patients are still infected, while 4,603 people have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-toll-reaches-147-with-two-deaths-173-test-positive/story-wiwIQGQFkfizwA0T91UDQK.html
28-09-2020||City||Paddy procurement begins in Mohali||Paddy purchase began in Mohali in compliance with the directions of Punjab government for early start of procurement season. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said in place of 11, 27 mandi yards have been set up in order to decongest the market and maintain proper social distancing norms to check the spread of Covid-19. “The procurement will be made in a staggered manner as farmers will enter the mandis with passes issued to them by Mandi Board officials. The yards have been marked with 30ftx30ft blocks to ensure social distance,” he added. He said market committees/arhtiyas and procurement agencies have been directed to make arrangement of adequate amount of soaps, sanitisers and masks for the farmers, labourers and staffers. They would also ensure fumigation of mandis with sodium hypochlorite, he added. The mandis have been allotted to the various purchase agencies. As of now, sufficient quantity of bardana is available. Mandi Board has been asked to make arrangements for tarpaulins to save the grain in case of rain. Besides, other requisite facilities for farmers and labourers would be provided at all procurement centres, including availability of potable water, proper sitting place, and public conveniences. He urged the farmers to bring the ripen and dry crop to mandis for smooth and hassle-free procurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paddy-procurement-begins-in-mohali/story-6N9KPDcDeZdGMpPhfQgQ1O.html
28-09-2020||City||After 4 years, Jagraon Bridge repair finally complete||Four years after the Jagraon Bridge was closed for vehicular traffic as its girders were badly damaged, Ludhiana mayor Balkar Sandhu on Sunday announced that the repair work has finally been completed. Announcing this, he threw open the bridge to the public but Congress councilors Sunny Bhalla and Rakesh Prashar said that the bridge was opened only for 45 minutes on a trial basis and closed again. When contacted, Gurdeep Singh, railways engineer, who is supervising the construction work on the part falling under the railway’s jurisdiction, said that some final inspections for checking wear and tear was left and it is expected to be completed by Monday evening. “We will open the bridge for vehicular traffic on Tuesday morning,” he said.NO INAUGURATION CEREMONYAs per sources, the Shiromani Akali Dal and Bharatiya Janata Party leaders were set to jointly inaugurate the bridge, but Saturday night’s political developments, wherein the Akalis walked out of the alliance, shelved the plans for a grand inauguration. A SAGA OF DELAYSThe 132-year-old bridge, which is major lifeline of the city, was closed for heavy vehicles in May 2016 after its girders were found badly corroded. Two months later, in July, it was closed for all vehicles except two-wheelers.This affected the traffic movement on the Railway Station Road, Jagraon bridge, Lakkar bridge and nearby areas, even as the repair project kept hitting several hurdles and inviting the wrath of residents. For over two years, the project stayed in limbo as the railways refused to pool in money for it. It was only after the municipal corporation (MC) handed over ₹24.3 crore to the railways that the construction finally began in 2018, with a deadline of June 30, 2019. This was extended to December 2019, when the MC took over the project and announced it will be completed by March 2020. However, roadblocks caused by the Covid-19 lockdown pushed the completion date further.Last week, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had announced that the project will be complete before Gandhi Jayanti on October 2. Traffic expert Rahul Verma said that all’s well that ends well. Rahul, along with other activists, had been observing ‘Barsi (death anniversary) every year, in a symbolic protest against the project’s delay. “Finally, people would be able to commute through the bridge from Tuesday morning. I have urged the mayor that the potholes on the existing side of the bridge, upon which the traffic was diverted to, should be filled once the new stretch is operational,” said Rahul||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-4-years-jagraon-bridge-repair-finally-complete/story-qpXFGOH0qVYwW14x2oLwBI.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||PU’s libraries asked to cut short subscription of online journals||With Panjab University grappling with financial crunch this year, its libraries may cut short the online journal subscriptions on the basis of their usage to curtail the spending. This was recommended by the varsity’s panel constituted for austerity measures to minimise the expenses in view of the revenue loss due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The scrutiny of the list of online journal subscriptions is among the various other measures recommended by the panel. The recommendations have been approved by PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar. The committee has said that the list of online journal subscription by libraries may be scrutinised and pruned on the basis of their usage and the possibility of subscription of online journals through a consortium of Chandigarh-based institutions via Chandigarh Region Innovation and Knowledge Cluster (CRIKC) be explored.Jivesh Bansal, librarian of PU’s AC Joshi library, said, “We will explore all possibilities for subscription of online journals via CRIKC also.”PU is not expecting revenue from various resources this year which include hostels. The varsity has also given concession of 5% in semester fee as well to all students.A staffer at the library said that the scrutiny of subscription of online journals was also done by a committee a few years ago. “The committee has suggested that there are journals whose usage is less and they should be removed from the list,” he said.According to the estimated budget for 2020-21 of PU approved last year, the expenditure on books, journals, and publications was pegged at Rs 10 crore. The panel for austerity measures in its meeting last month had also recommended that the work of manpower audit initiated by the establishment section may be expedited to ensure rationalisation of manpower at the university.What is CRIKCCRIKC was founded by Panjab University in 2013, where 29 academic institutions from the region collaborate. The consortium includes Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER); Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh; Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Ropar; Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Sector 32, Chandigarh and other institutions. It aims to foster and sustain close academic alliances between institutions of higher education and research in the Chandigarh region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-s-libraries-asked-to-cut-short-subscription-of-online-journals/story-4ADEVXyamNUXCY3h2zLKnI.html
28-09-2020||City||Noida: Drive conducted in Sector 51 for tenant verification||Noida: The residential body of Sector 51, along with the local police, on Sunday conducted a tenant verification drive in the area to identify illegal squatters. The move is aimed at curbing crime in the area, said members of the residents’ welfare association (RWA). The drive was conducted a day after an incident of vehicle theft in the area. “A car was stolen around 4pm on Saturday. The theft is a major security concern for us. It seemed that someone living in the sector might be involved in it. So we decided to conduct a verification for tenants and illegal squatters in the area,” said Sanjeev Kumar, general secretary, Sector 51 RWA. The police said that a case has been registered at the Sector 49 police station regarding the car theft.A team from the residents’ body and local police visited many houses in E and D blocks of the sector on Sunday afternoon.“We have identified 12-13 families that were unable to provide any verification. In one house, it seemed that three families were squatting illegally. We have asked them to bring back an acknowledgment from the landlord and submit it within three days to the police. We don’t want to create problems, but only want to ensure safety of all people living in the sector. Landlords who refrain from getting tenants verified should also take responsibility and abide by the laws,” said Kumar.The RWA will continue the drive over the coming weeks to ensure that there are no illegal tenants in the locality before going for legal action against offenders.Saunvir Singh, in-charge of Sector 51 police post, said, “We accompanied the RWA officials to provide support to them and ensure that nothing happened outside the gambit of law. Those people who were unable to provide necessary documents have been given three days to get their verification done as per law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-drive-conducted-in-sector-51-for-tenant-verification/story-sOH1vDCyPcYScJy68hPo0J.html
28-09-2020||Noida||Six booked for shooting at man in Greater Noida||A man in his early sixties, along with five others, was booked for allegedly shooting at his younger brother over a property dispute in Kasna on Saturday. The police said that all the suspects are currently on the run.The victim, Ismael Khan (40), who is a carpenter, had sustained a bullet wound on his left hand, and is now stable, the police said.According to Ismael’s younger brother, Akbar Khan (30), the victim was going to his farm in Salempur Gurjar village early Saturday morning when a group of people ambushed and shot at him. “Ismael has a property dispute with our older brother, Akhtar Khan. Akhtar along with his three sons – Babli, Sameer, Bhola, and two other accomplices – Raju and Manish – followed Ismael to the farm. They surrounded him and started abusing him. When Ismael put up resistance, they opened fire at him,” he said.The victim received a bullet in his left hand and fell on the ground, and the suspects fled the spot, Akbar said. Local villagers heard the firing and reached the spot and Ismael was rushed to the Noida district hospital for treatment.“The victim said he has a dispute over some ancestral property with his brother and nephews. They had filed complaints against each other regarding the disputed property in the past too. Based on Akbar’s complaint, we have registered a case against Akhtar, his three sons, and two accomplices under Section 307 (attempt to murder),147 (rioting),148 (rioting with a deadly weapon), and 504 (intentional insult) of Indian Penal Code.The SHO added that the suspects are on the run. “We have launched a search for them and soon we will arrest them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/six-booked-for-shooting-at-man-in-greater-noida/story-ztGExnIP1Xjj3rUTXDqxBK.html
28-09-2020||City||Greater Noida: Fire breaks out at electronic goods manufacturing factory, none injured||A massive fire broke out at an electronic goods manufacturing factory in Sector Ecotech in Greater Noida on Sunday. No injuries were reported in the incident.The police said that prime facie, it appears that the fire, which started around 2pm, was caused by a short circuit. The fire at the two-storey factory was doused after nearly four hours, said the fire department.Electronic equipment including mobile chargers, head phones, power banks, among others are manufactured at the factory. Construction work was also going on at the premises of the building where the factory runs from, the police said.“ While construction work was going on in one portion of the building, the factory was functioning from the second portion. Around 2pm, we received a call about a fire in the factory. A police team reached the spot and also informed the fire fighters,” said Vivek Trivedi, station house officer, Kasna police station.Trivedi said that nearly 10 workers were successfully evacuated from the premise as soon as the flames started erupting. “It appears the fire originated from a short circuit in the electronic equipment unit located on the ground floor of the building. Soon, the fire spread to the first and second floor of the factory,” the SHO said.As many as 20 fire fighters were engaged in dousing the flames. The police said that initially the fire tenders struggled to reach the spot as number of people had also gathered congesting the narrow lanes leading to the factory. The police personnel barricaded the area so that the fire tenders could reach the factory.Police said there is no immediate report of any person getting harmed in the fire and the loss of property is yet to be assessed. Trivedi said the factory management has not filed a complaint in this regard.Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire safety officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “The fire had spread to the entire building and we controlled it by 6 pm. There was no injury to any person during the incident. The police will investigate what led to the incident,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-fire-breaks-out-at-electronic-goods-manufacturing-factory-none-injured/story-nxVz6Ne30Y18wCZJArHQMP.html
28-09-2020||Noida||NTPC to partially use crop residue to fire power plants||In order to keep tabs on its carbon footprint as well as help reduce burning of crop residue by farmers on their fields, power producer NTPC Limited has decided to use biomass pellets for co-firing its various thermal plants. Co-firing is a process where coal and biomass pellets – made up of crop residue – are co-combusted in boilers to produce power. NTPC has envisaged consumption of five million tonnes of biomass pellets in the current year at its 17 power plants across the country, including the one at Dadri. Besides helping reduce carbon emissions, co-firing also aims to help create large scale rural employment opportunities, through processing and supply chain, for the biomass, an NTPC spokesperson said.For this, the power producer has issued a tender to hire an agency to supply biomass pellets after collecting crop residue from farmers in different states. The NTPC, in a press statement, said that as per their estimates, about 145 million metric tonnes per annum of crop residue remains unutilised in the country and most of it is burnt in open fields, giving severe air pollution.An official of the power corporation said that the NTPC had first undertaken this initiative on a pilot basis at its Dadri plant in 2017, wherein 100 tonnes of agro residue-based pellets had been fired. The test-firing was carried out in four phases, with a gradual increase in percentage of firing. Till date, the company has fired more than 7,000 tonnes of agro residue pellets.“Post successful implementation at Dadri, the NTPC now plans to replicate the model at 17 of its plants. The application process for bids for the tender will start on September 28 and the last date is October 5,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ntpc-to-partially-use-crop-residue-to-fire-power-plants/story-EKZA2hG5Jcp1GhqKyR7zEO.html
28-09-2020||City||Noida: Yeida directed to demarcate area for Film City project||Senior Uttar Pradesh government officials on Sunday inspected the land in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway earmarked for the Film City project.Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (home and information) Awanish Kumar Awasthi, who visited the site along with others, directed Yamuna expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) to send a proposal to Film Bandhu, a state nodal agency for film projects, to get the ball rolling on the detailed project report.The directions come a week after the Uttar Pradesh government on September 20 announced setting the Film City on a 1000-acre plot in Sector 21.Awasthi, who was accompanied by Yeida’ chief executive officer, CEO, Arun Vir Singh and other senior officials of the authority, also instructed the staff to demarcate the boundary of the site where the Film City will come up.“We will send the proposal about the project in the next 10 days to the state government, paving way for the detailed project report. The state government has put this project on fast-track and we are working on this project very seriously,” Singh said.Once Yeida sends the proposal, the UP government will appoint a consultant to prepare a DPR for the project. The DPR will be made at earliest and no deadline has been fixed for it so far, said officials.“We have started the process to hire a consultant who will make the DPR. Once the DPR is finalised, the project will witness further progress,” Awasthi said.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had on September 18 announced setting up the country’s “biggest” and “most beautiful” film city in Gautam Budh Nagar and had instructed officials to search for land in or around Noida and Greater Noida.“We have already acquired 835 acres agricultural land from farmers for the project. We have expedited the work to procure 165 acres of land for this project. All farmers from Rabupura village in Sector 21, where the Film City will come, are happy to give their land for the project,” Yeida CEO said.Once ready, the Film City, located close to upcoming Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar, will house film studios, film academies among other facilities.“The Film City will benefit not only aspiring filmmakers, actors, cameraman and technicians among others, but also the film industry at large at large as they will get a much needed facility for shooting at reasonable cost. The project will give a platform to local talent, groom them employ them,” said Piyush Singh, CEO, Vistas Media, a Singapore- based company keen to set up an international film Academy at the Film City. The firm had earlier this week submitted a proposal to Yeida to set up a film academy over 20 acres, with an initial investment of USD 10 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-yeida-directed-to-demarcate-area-for-film-city-project/story-Eceh7KqlJPGVR2VyrBzx0N.html
28-09-2020||City||Noida: Woman ‘raped’ by neighbour||Noida: A 24-year-old man allegedly raped his 21-year-old neighbour at her house, located under the jurisdiction of the Sector 20 police station. The alleged incident came to the fore on September 27, when the woman’s husband filed a complaint with the Noida police in the matter.“The man would send her obscene messages and we had warned him earlier (against this). Yesterday (Saturday), I saw him leaving my house and when I went inside, I found my wife in a poor condition. She was in a semi-conscious state and her clothes were torn,” the woman’s husband alleged in his police complaint.Police officers said that the family was initially scared to approach them due to social pressure, which is why the matter was reported to them a day later. “An investigation is underway in the matter. The suspect is absconding at the moment. A woman constable was sent to speak with the victim, who has also been sent for a medical examination,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer of the Sector 20 police station.Police officers, however, added that a case had not been registered yet. “We will know more after the investigation and file a case after that,” said a police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-woman-raped-by-neighbour/story-wq04anMhEY1o3gBsxt1NbI.html
28-09-2020||Noida||Noida: Number of patients, surgeries remains low during Unlock phase||The number of surgeries in Gautam Budh Nagar hospitals have plummeted by around 40% in July to September period (till date) this year when compared to 2019, the district chief medical officer (CMO) said. During the same period, he added, number of out-patient department (OPD) patients dropped 70%.This period comes after the 68-day Covid-19-induced lockdown period. From June 8, the central government’s Unlock protocols had begun and economic activities were slowly opened and movement of people resumed. The latest of these Unlock protocols, the fourth, was announced on August 29.The numbers could suggest that people are yet to confidently approach hospitals and that hospitals were continuing to defer non-essential surgeries. Another reason could be that migrant workers were yet to return to the city.There are 17 government hospital and over 100 private hospitals. Of these, six government hospitals and nine private hospitals are dedicated to treating Covid patients.In the sector 30 district hospital, OPD turnout was 56,125 and surgeries were 697 during 2020 period. Last year, there were 225,736 OPD patients and 1,359 surgeries. Hospital superintendent Dr. V B Dhaka said that Covid-19 had derailed the whole health care system. “We have only two anaesthetists. While one of them contracted Covid-19, the other one is deputed to a Covid-19 facility in sector 39. As a result, we have so far cancelled about 300 surgeries in the last three months,” he said. Dr. Dhaka said that an ad hoc anaesthetist handles critical surgery cases. “I hope things will get normal once the pandemic situation is over and our hospital will have its full strength of staff,” he said. Dr. Balraj Bhandar, deputy medical superintendent of Employee’s State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital in sector 24, says they are serving emergency surgery cases. “There is a big fall in patients turnout. As compared to last year, the number of OPD patients from July has halved,” he said. The usually teeming OPD of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) nowadays wears a deserted look. After being designated an L-3 Covid-19 facility to treat severe cases, the hospital shut its OPD ward. The hospital is the only critical government healthcare centre for this area and many adjoining villages. Dr. Rakesh Gupta, GIMS director, said that despite knowing this, the hospital is not in a position to start its OPD again. “At present, we serving only Covid-19 cases. Before the pandemic, the average daily turnout in OPD here was around 2,000 patients, while our doctors use to do surgeries of at least 100 patients daily. But now these facilities are not available here,” he said. Private hospitals, too, have been impact. Sharda hospital recorded around 45,000 OPD patients since July, a third of its figures during same period last year. “The number of surgeries recorded from July is around 2,500, which is less than half compared to last year’s figures,” said Dr. Ashutosh Niranjan, the medical superintendent of Sharda hospital. The spokesperson of Fortis hospital in sector 62, also said that there is a sharp decline in OPD patients and surgeries since July. “The number of surgeries done between July 1 to September 26 last year was 5,632, which has been reduced to 3,450 in same period this year,” she said.“The reason for low turnout in OPDs is that people are apprehended to go hospitals. They fear that that in contact with other people they might get Covid infection. Even in normal surgery cases, people are trying to avoid it,” said CMO Dr. Deepak Ohri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-number-of-patients-surgeries-remains-low-during-unlock-phase/story-E6hLL8Rm0ERIfPhLUnUdYI.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Missing fuel at Citco’s Sector-17 pump: Retired judicial officer to conduct inquiry||A retired judicial officer has been entrusted with the inquiry into the case of missing petrol and diesel at Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (Citco) petrol pump at Sector 17.The case pertains to the misappropriation of around 20,000 litres of petrol and diesel detected at the Sector-17 fuel station in May this year after Citco management ordered physical verification of its petrol pumps. The management has pegged the loss incurred by Citco at more than Rs 12 lakh.Confirming the development, Jaswinder Kaur Sidhu, managing director, Citco, said, “We have marked an inquiry into the matter. Additional sessions judge BR Bansal (retired) will head the probe. We will take strict action in case of any wrongdoing on the part of the Citco employees is confirmed after the inquiry report is submitted.”In March this year, Citco management had ordered inspections of its petrol pumps in Sector 9 and Sector 17. But, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the same could not take place. These were finally conducted in May after the lockdown restrictions were eased.The petrol and diesel stocks in the Sector-9 petrol pump were found as per the record and norms. But, in the investigation of the Sector-17 pump, serious irregularities in the stocks of three categories of fuels were reported.The investigation revealed that the pump’s stock register, dip register and daily sales register were not updated correctly. As per the set standards of the HPCL, around 7,500 litre diesel and about 13,000 litre petrol was found to be less than stipulated by the record and company norms. Shortages were also found in power petrol. CNG storage was found to be in tune with the stipulated norms after its meter readings were noted.Consequently, Citco sought clarifications regarding the shortage from the HPCL and its employees posted at the petrol.After investigations, it found that shortage of some of the fuel was because of its seepage into the ground. “The deficiency of around 10,000 litre was due to the leakages caused by faulty constructions of the underground storage facility. The reason for the shortage of the remaining fuel is being ascertained,” said a senior Citco official.The corporation has issued show-cause notices to four of its employees who were supervisors at the petrol pump during the period when the shortages have said to taken place.Meanwhile, Citco has also claimed compensation from the company for the faulty construction of the underground storage tanks. “Company has in turn initiated action against the contractor who built the tanks, and asked for financial damages from it,” the official added.Fuel FiddleSHORTAGEAfter physical verification and record checking, 7,500 litre diesel and 13,000 litre petrol was found missingREASONWhile some of the fuel loss was due to seepage/leakages, major loss was suspected because of impropriety ACTION SO FARShow-cause notices have issued to four supervisors at the petrol pump; retired judicial officer entrusted with an inquiry||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-fuel-at-citco-s-sector-17-pump-retired-judicial-officer-to-conduct-inquiry/story-mBsQGpLthHPGfkmJ6qS2bI.html
28-09-2020||Noida||Noida: Free OPD at child PGI for Covid-recovered patients from today||Gautam Budh Nagar’s Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI), better known as Child PGI, will start a free out-patient department (OPD) for its Covid-recovered patients from Monday.The aim of the OPD is to give post-treatment care to these patients. Of late, there have been many studies that suggested that the coronavirus disease could affect other organs as well. On Sunday, Union health minister HArsh Vardhan acknowledged these studies, but added that these were small sample sizes and advised against generalisation. An L-3 hospital that treats severe cases of Covid-19, Child PGI has treated and discharged 470 cases till date. These patients will get free consultation and medication at its OPD.Child PGI director Dr DK Gupta said, “We decided to start the OPD to take follow-up feedback from patients and check for any consequent complications. The OPDs will be in two rooms on the ground floor of the hospital from Monday.” “We are in regular touch with the patients during their post-recovery period to diagnose and treat their mental and physical illness. A team of seven doctors have been deputed to this OPD, who will take full stock of patients’ physical and psychological health after their recovery from the infection of Covid-19 virus,” he said. He also said the OPD will not only help in post-recovery treatment of Covid-19 patients, but will also help in analysis of their symptoms with co-morbidity. “The cured patients will also be classified in two categories-- symptomatic and asymptomatic -- and then they will be provided different doses of medicines and vaccines according to their health conditions. We will also analyse the longevity of antibodies in different patients, which can play a vital role in later stage of researches,” he said. Dr Gupta further said that out of 470 cured patients, more than 130 were below 18 years of age. “At present, we are taking the whereabouts of 25 patients every day. During the telephonic calls, we have found that patients above 45 years are having some complications. We are sure that their problems will be solved at this new OPD. Our doctors have also cured number of new-born babies, who got infected from the virus just after their birth,” he said. Meanwhile, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY has also appreciated the decision of doctors of child PGI, to open Covid-19 follow-up OPD. “Such efforts will not only help the recovered patients to come out of fear, but will also help in analysis of their post-recovery status,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-free-opd-at-child-pgi-for-covid-recovered-patients-from-today/story-eFQ3jlL1ekDdRb7LHtUHrJ.html
28-09-2020||City||In September, Ghaziabad saw almost 200 new Covid-19 cases per day||Ghaziabad: In September, the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases reported daily in the Ghaziabad district are found to be at an average of about 195 so far, official records show. According to officials, they estimate that the trend is likely to continue in October as well, as testing will be ramped up to 6,000 tests per day from the current 3,500-4,000 tests per day.According to records of the district health department, at least 5,073 Covid-19 cases were reported till September 26.Meanwhile, July saw 3,440 cases (average of 110 a day) while August saw 3,392 cases (average of 109 a day). “In July and August, we conducted about 600 tests per million of population per day, while in September, the number of tests has been over 800 per million per day. So, the rise in cases could also be a result of increase in testing. As of now, we are conducting 3,500-4,000 tests per day in Ghaziabad,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of the district.“The nodal officer has directed for strict enforcement of norms in containment zones and testing to be increased to 6,000 per day. Besides, we are strictly monitoring coronavirus patients who are in home isolation. If a patient is found flouting norms, they will be immediately shifted to Covid facility. With the increase in testing, the trend of a steep rise in cases is likely to continue in October as well,” Dr Gupta, added.According to official records, the district conducted an average of 617 tests per day per million in July and 677 tests per day per million in August. Data reveals that this rate was ramped up to about 850 tests per million per day in September so far.The World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends 140 Covid-19 tests per million residents a day.“Increase in testing is also one of the reasons why the number of cases increased in September. However, with more and more social activities opening up, there is a lot of mixing of the population in areas like markets, offices and other places. Besides, the public has been showing signs of complacency as people are often seen not wearing masks and even not adhering to social distancing norms. So, all these factors have contributed to the rise in the number of coronavirus cases,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad.However, the rise in cases is mostly in urban segments and less in rural areas as there is less overcrowding in the latter, Dr Jindal added. “It is estimated that the number of cases has been seeing an upward trend since March and hopefully, we have reached a plateau. However, it may take more time to see a declining trend. Till then, adherence to all health protocols is essential,” he said.The district had a positivity rate of 4.59% till September 26, with 2,94,819 sampling/tests conducted so far. Official records show that positivity has been below 5% since the past three months. According to recommendations by WHO, the positivity rate of a region which has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region. The district had a recovery rate of 85.87% till September 26, while the fatality rate with the overall 76 deaths so far was about 0.56%. Experts, however, caution against confusing seasonal flu with Covid symptoms.“Apart from opening up of activities, the public, seeing that the rate of recovery is high, are becoming more casual and less fearful of the pandemic, which is causing the number of cases to rise. The other reason is that seasonal flu is also prevalent in August and September, and people are misjudging their symptoms, taking a longer time to decide to get themselves tested, which is aiding in the easy spread of the infection,” said Dr Gyan Bharti, senior pulmonologist from Columbia Asia Hospital at Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-september-ghaziabad-saw-almost-200-new-covid-19-cases-per-day/story-EEYSAD5KLTof9EjSAU020O.html
28-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: CM directs officials to focus on surveillance, initiate ‘virtual ICUs for Covid-19 patients||Ghaziabad: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, during a video conference with Ghaziabad officials on Sunday, underlined the need for intensifying surveillance, and contact tracing in order to keep the positivity rate for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) below 5% and death rate below 1% in the state. The CM also stressed on the concept of creating ‘virtual ICUs’ in order to provide better treatment and consultation to Covid-19 patients.The conference was held Sunday evening wherein the CM said that care should be taken to ensure that patients get help in the initial stages of the disease itself. “The CM directed that efforts should be made to ensure that patients do not reach the severe symptom stage, which needs hospitalisation at L3 hospitals, and are treated at L1 or L2 level hospitals instead. He said that if the patient reaches L3 category treatment, then there is a problem with the surveillance system, which needs to be strengthened. He has directed that the positivity rate should be below 5% and the death rate should be below 1%. The district is already below the desired levels,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.The L1, L2 and L3 category hospitals are part of the state government’s three-tier Covid healthcare facility. The L1 hospitals are for treating asymptomatic patients while L2 hospitals deal with patients having moderate complications. The L3 hospitals deal with patients who have severe symptoms.The meeting was held with officials from 16 districts of the state, which have been seeing an average of 100 or more coronavirus cases a day. These include Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar.“The CM has also directed to initiate the concept of virtual ICUs and remotely connecting specialists from the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences and King George’s Medical University at Lucknow to patients. At present, we have 164 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in the district. We will soon start the virtual ICU facility, through which online consultation with specialists is available to Covid-19 patients lodged in ICUs in Ghaziabad,” Dr Gupta added.The CM has also directed district officials to come up with ‘micro containment zones’ which will be more compact, with a reduced parameter, in order to cover a smaller number of houses. Officials said that more modalities about the micro containment zones are expected to be received in a day or two. “Besides, the chief minister has directed that one-third of total testing should be done through the use of RT-PCR method, while the rest should be with the help of rapid antigen kits. In this context, the government-appointed nodal officer took a review meeting on Sunday evening and directed us to increase the testing to 6,000 per day, and also to increase testing at the new RT-PCR lab at MMG Hospital to 750 samples per day,” Dr Gupta added. He said that in order to scale up testing, he has provided five lab technicians for the new lab. The district is presently testing 3,500-4,000 samples per day. “We have directed the concerned authorities to take up strict enforcement of containment zones in the district. District officials will monitor containment zones regularly,” said IAS, Senthil Pandian C, the nodal officer for Ghaziabad for reviewing Covid-19 preparedness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-cm-directs-officials-to-focus-on-surveillance-initiate-virtual-icus-for-covid-19-patients/story-QkhxDF5vBR5gXfN66ZJBFI.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||No more online order or discounts on liquor, says Maharashtra excise department||Consumers will no longer be able to order liquor via online platforms or get discounts as the Maharashtra excise department is all set to crackdown on such mediums.The excise department in its circular issued this week said that home delivery of liquor allowed during the Covid-19 pandemic was temporary in nature, and added that any listing, advertisement or offer was against excise rules and could invite prosecution as per law. This is in contravention of the May 22 circular issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) wherein the civic body allowed the use of online platforms for selling liquor to avoid crowding at wine shops.The excise department’s decision has irked many consumers who have questioned as to why liquor was being excluded from online platforms when all other goods are available.Kevin Rodrigues, 39, who works in a leading BPO, said, “When liquor is legal, what harm is there to allow it to be sold online? In fact, tipplers will get a good choice of brands from the comfort of their homes,” said Rodrigues.Savio D’sa, bar and restaurant consultant, is of a similar view and said it is about time liquor business is eased. “Online deliveries will prevent overcrowding at the counters, especially when Covid-19 cases are increasing by the day, and will encourage people to order more. Currently, the state coffers are bleeding and such a move (allowing online delivery of liquor) will only add more revenue to the exchequer,” said D’sa. According to a senior official of excise department, home delivery of liquor was not allowed but an exception has been made due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Wine shops can only give their names and addresses. They cannot even list liquor brands. We have observed that some stores are displaying bottles and in some there are models promoting the brand. Some are also promoting incentive schemes on bulk purchases. This is not allowed,” said the official requesting anonymity. Excise commissioner Kantilal Umap has defended its decision saying he is following the rules. “We will crackdown on all who are advertising, whether it’s online or offline, as it’s not allowed,” said Umap. Excise Department has warned that anyone indulging in such advertisements will face penalty of up to six months’ imprisonment and/or a fine of ₹5,000 under sections 23 and 24 of the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949. Wine shop merchants agree that advertisements may have taken place. “It’s true that some merchants may have advertised, but it was due to lack of clarity of rules. However, now things are clearer,” said Arvind Miskin, president of Association of Progressive Retail Liquor Vendors.Liquor has been one of the major sources of revenue for the state government. The state was able to garner ₹15,434 crore as excise duty from sale of liquor during the previous financial year (April 2019-March 2020). This was one of the reasons that the cash-strapped government allowed opening of liquor shops from May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-more-online-order-or-discounts-on-liquor-says-maharashtra-excise-department/story-yPMrGxrSfhFVaWBqUuATiI.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 case tally 1,339,232; toll 35,571||Maharashtra recorded 18,056 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, taking its case count to 1,339,232. If Maharashtra were a country, it would be at fourth position globally in terms of cases, according to reference website worldometers.info.Active cases went up to 273,228, which is 20.40% of the total. The Covid-19 death toll climbed up to 35,571 after 380 casualties were reported. Of them, 200 were in the past 48 hours, another 96 were from the past week, while the rest 84 were from the period before that, health officials said. Maharashtra has recorded 547,978 cases in September till date, highest total of any of the months since the first case was reported in March. In August, 371,238 cases were detected, while in July, June, May, April and March, total cases were 247,392; 102,172; 57,157; 10,196 and 302. The surge in cases has led to a rise in average number of cases a day. In the past 27 days, average number of cases a day has jumped up to 20,295, compared to 11,975 cases a day in August and in July, it was only 7,980 cases per day.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said daily cases were not going up in the past one week and have remained constant by far. “The daily infections were rising in the first and second week of September, but from the third week, the growth rate has showed some sort of stability. The reason is less number of cases from the areas where infection rate was very high. For instance, in Pune, the rate of infection is not going up,” he said. “We are not sure if it is a temporary phenomenon or not. We need to wait at least for three weeks to draw any conclusions,” he added.State authorities have also been struggling to deal with the high number of casualties per day as the daily figure is not coming down. This has led to 10,626 casualties reported in this month till Sunday, which is again the highest number of deaths in any of the months.In August, the state had reported a total of 9,589 deaths, whereas in July, June, May, April and March, the casualties reported were 6,988; 5,638; 2,286; 449 and 10 deaths respectively. This, too, has led to a rise in the average number of deaths per day to 393. If compared with August, average casualties were 309 deaths per day, while in July, June, May and April, they were 282, 187, 59 and 14 deaths per day, showed the statistics of the state health department.However, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state is reducing gradually, but it is mainly because cases are going up rapidly. The case fatality rate (CFR) was recorded at 2.66% on Sunday and it comes at second position after Punjab. The CFR of Punjab was 2.93% (with 3,188 deaths) on Saturday, according to the information shared by the state medical education department.“To bring down the casualties, we have launched the ‘My family, My responsibility’ campaign and are hoping for positive results. In most cases, people are found asymptomatic despite being infected with the virus. In case of senior citizens or people having comorbidities, it is a direct risk to life. The initiative is helping us in early detection of the virus, consequently, we will be able to save lives and reduce per day deaths,” said a senior health official, wishing not to be named.Mumbai recorded 2,261 cases, highest in the state, pushing its tally to 198,846. Of them, active cases were 26,716.The city toll reached 8,794 with 44 deaths on Sunday.Pune city has contributed second-highest infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,557 cases, taking its tally to 152,540, while Pune district became the third-highest contributor with 948 cases, pushing its count to 59,406. The combined tally of Pune goes to 2,505 cases.On Sunday, the state has conducted 188,973 tests, highest in a day and with 18,056 positive reports, the positivity rate comes to 9.55%.The total number of tests conducted till date are 6,565,649.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-case-tally-1-339-232-toll-35-571/story-PPgobddxhITBuhktHdKugJ.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||Fashion designer duped of ₹15.05 lakh in dating club membership scam in Mumbai||A 40-year-old fashion designer was duped of ₹15.05 lakh by a gang that lured people into paying money to join a dating club. The complainant, Jayantibhai V, a fashion designer who owns a store in Vile Parle, and resides at Dahisar, in his complaint said, “In March 2020, he received a call from a woman who identified herself as Sonali. She asked him to join the dating club and meet ‘beautiful women’. She also offered lakhs of rupees if he registered with their dating and friendship club service.” The complaint said that he ignored the call, but on June 3 he received a call again from another woman who lured him with a similar offer. The woman told him many men and women were members of her club and they provided service to many who were separated or divorced. She also enticed him with an offer to earn ₹30,000 to ₹40,000.“I was asked to deposit ₹25,000 for lifetime club membership. From June 3 to August 22 the accused demanded ₹15.05 lakh citing various reasons, but never provided any contact number of women,” said Jayantibhai in his complaint. The complainant later realised that he was being cheated and decided to file a complaint. An officer from Vile Parle police station said, “We have registered an offence and are investigating the case.” Police booked unknown fraudsters under section 419 (punishment for cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and section 66(C) (punishment for identity theft), 66(D) (punishment for cheating by impersonation by using computer resource] of Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fashion-designer-duped-of-15-05-lakh-in-dating-club-membership-scam-in-mumbai/story-owxYO2ryK21rAjHnEO21LI.html
28-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Active Covid-19 cases decline to 2,560 from 2,764 a week ago||The district recorded 274 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, against 372 recoveries. This marks the third consecutive day on which the number of new Covid-19 cases remained lower than the number of new recoveries. As a result, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Gurugram has also been on the decline, currently standing at 2,560 (down from 2764 active cases a week ago).Gurugram’s total tally of Covid-19 cases now stands at 19914, of which 17184 patients have already recovered. The recovery rate currently stands at 86.29%. Meanwhile, with the growth of new cases slowing down, the district’s doubling rate improved to 70 days on Sunday. The mortality remains at 0.85 percent, the lowest it has been so far in the outbreak.Of the current active cases group, 2312 patients are under home isolation, while 232 are hospitalised. Of the available 112 ventilator beds, 52 are in use while 134 (out of 160) ICU beds are in use. Health department data shows that just over 50 percent of all active cases are between the ages of 20-40, which officials said bodes well for the district’s improving mortality rate.The district also tested 3074 new samples on Sunday. Of these, 274 tested positive for SARS-Cov-2 infection, resulting in a positivity rate of nine percent. “If we are able to keep testing at the current rate, and the growth of new cases slows down, the positvity rate will fall further. Our aim is to see a TPR of about five percent, which is the WHO recommended threshold,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program’s district suveillance officer in Gurugram.No new Covid-19 related deaths were recorded on Sunday. So far this month, Gurugram has reported 7773 new cases, 5270 recoveries and 28 deaths (against a total mortality toll of 170).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-active-covid-19-cases-decline-to-2-560-from-2-764-a-week-ago/story-8KZYu2TbCPG5mT8vQCz1uK.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||‘Investment firm’ dupes 241 of ₹76 crore; Mumbai Police’s EOW arrests 2 owners||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police arrested two of the six co-owners of an investment firm for allegedly duping 241 people to the tune of ₹76 crore by accepting money from them by offering 12% annual interest. The accused used the money to invest in other firms for higher returns, but as they failed to pay the interest as well as return the principal amount, the investors lodged complaints against them. Hasmukh Gogari and Pankaj Chheda, co-partners of Ramnik Hashmukh Associate have been arrested, confirmed Parag Manere, deputy commissioner of police, EOW. Both the accused have been charged under sections 409 (breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 120B (conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 3 and 4 of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act. Other accused partner in the firm and their relatives who were named in the case are Ramnik Dedhia, Dilesh Vira, Mukesh Chheda, Kushal Chheda and their relatives Hemant Chheda and Jayesh Dedhia. They are yet to be arrested. “Arrested accused Gogari and Chheda are one of the main accused in the fraud in which 241 investors have been duped of ₹76 crore. They were produced before the court and have been remanded in police custody till October 1,” said Rajendra Sangale, senior inspector, MPID unit. According to EOW, the arrests have been made based on the complaint of Rajesh Shah, a Goregaon resident, who alleged that Ramnik Hashmukh Associate lured him into investing money by offering 1 to 1.05% interest per month in 2016. “The firm had given a promissory note to investors as an acknowledgement. The said note was allegedly also signed by concerned executives of the firm where the investor’s money would be further invested for high returns,” said a police officer. Shah, who works at a senior post in a private bank, was also promised by the accused firm that they would return the money within a month if the investor wished to withdraw the amount. Shah invested ₹48 lakh and initially received the interest regularly. However, since January 1, 2018, he had not received interest nor the principal amount, following which he filed a complaint, a copy of which is with HT. Later, Shah learnt that many others had also not got their money from the firm, and all of them all visited the firm’s office in Matunga. The firm told them that they were facing a major crisis due to demonetisation. However, investors later found out that the firm invested their money in eight other companies under their relative’s names. Shah and 77 other investors then approached EOW. The case was first registered at Matunga police station, later EOW took over the investigation. During investigation more victim investors turned up before the police and now there are 241 victim investors. The number of investors and fraud amount are likely to go up in coming days as the two accused have been arrested, said Sangale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/investment-firm-dupes-241-of-76-crore-mumbai-police-s-eow-arrests-2-owners/story-EiPI3Stuu6apgMWuAUnEYJ.html
28-09-2020||City||Sand mafia busted: ₹7.90-crore worth sand, excavator, 230 boats, 152 suction pumps seized in Vasai, Virar||In one of the biggest crackdown against the sand mafia in Vasai and Virar, Palghar police conducted two raids at a sand depot at Khanivade in Virar and at Khardi in Vasai near Vaitarna river. One officer from Virar police station, who was deployed at Khanivade post, has been transferred to the office of Palghar superintendent of police (SP) as he failed to check illegal sand mining operations there. An inquiry has also been initiated against police officers, and if found guilty others may also face suspension, said Dattatray Shinde, SP, Palghar. “The two local police stations of Virar and Vasai were not informed about the raid. We first conducted the raids and then informed the two police as per strategy,” said Shinde. He added that the police seized 152 suction pumps, 1,650 brass sand, an excavator and 230 boats worth ₹7.90 crore from the two spots. The state revenue department evaluated the seized materials. Though no arrest has been made, a case has been registered against unknown accused under section 395 (dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code, said Shinde.Illegal sand activity is rampant in Khanivade and Vaitarna creek. Palghar district collector has banned all kinds of sand mining activity in the vicinity of Vaitarna rail bridge as the foundation of two bridges in the area got damaged due to sand dredging.Earlier on November 16, 2019, the then Palghar SP Gaurav Singh conduced a surprise raid on sand mafia and arrested three people and seized 15 excavators, dumper and 330 brass sand worth ₹2.90 crore. During the raid, Dinesh Patil, bodyguard of the SP, was even attacked by the sand mafia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sand-mafia-busted-7-90-crore-worth-sand-excavator-230-boats-152-suction-pumps-seized-in-vasai-virar/story-6RhcToqia9Z53oAXEjTGvI.html
28-09-2020||City||Teacher raped by colleague in Palghar||Milind Bhangre, a 31-year-old teacher of a government school in Gondhe of Palghar, has been arrested by Mokhada police for allegedly raping a 32-year-old colleague after promising her a transfer to a city ashramshala (government hostel). The survivor used to commute from Boisar which used to take a lot of time, hence she could not take care of her child and family. She then approached the accused who said he has ‘contacts’ with block education office, which looks after transfers, and assured her that she would be transferred to a city school so as to save commute time, said senior inspector Sanjay Ambhire of Mokhada police station.Last week, the accused took the survivor to a friend’s house to discuss the transfer issue where he allegedly raped her. He allegedly also took her gold ring and threatened her.The survivor narrated the ordeal to her husband, following which they approached Mokhada police and a rape case was registered. The accused was produced before the Jawhar court and has been remanded in police custody. The police are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teacher-raped-by-colleague-in-palghar/story-qhPLY9D2ZvuU8KHJqEKGkJ.html
28-09-2020||Mumbai||IndiGo flight grounded in Mumbai after a bird-hit||Low budget carrier IndiGo’s A320 aircraft had to be grounded due to bird hit on Sunday. The aircraft was operating as 6E 5047 from Mumbai to Delhi and returned minutes after take-off. The aircraft took off at around 8.05am, its scheduled departure time, but returned to Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) minutes later. The airline spokesperson person confirmed the incident and said, “IndiGo flight 6E 5047 operating from Mumbai to Delhi had to turn back to Mumbai due to a bird hit. An alternate aircraft was arranged to operate the flight from Mumbai to Delhi. We regret the inconvenience caused to passengers.” The flight then took off at 10.45am after a delay of 2.45 hours with 67 passengers on board. Earlier on August 8, an AirAsia flight was forced to abort operations after it suffered a bird-hit during the take-off exercise at Ranchi airport. The flight i5-632 was to take off for Mumbai’s CSMIA at around 11.50am. The airline had to arrange an alternate aircraft to accommodate the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indigo-flight-grounded-in-mumbai-after-a-bird-hit/story-AmW04ySygzOISxzUn6ah3I.html
28-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: BPTP Park Serene residents demand access to revenue road, better maintenance||Residents of BPTP Park Serene condominium in sector 37 on Friday complained to the department of town and country planning (DTCP) of certain deficiencies in their society. They claim that the elevators were failing regularly, plaster was falling from the balconies, and the developer had blocked a revenue road. Hemant Kumar, a resident said that the revenue road had been blocked without any reason as a result of which over 800 families have to depend on a narrow access road. “The revenue road should be opened as it will ease the movement of residents. Also the sewerage treatment plant is not functional for the last one month and, despite complaints, no action had been taken by the developer,” said Kumar. Another resident said that due to seepage of water, the elevators had become faulty and the vendor has refused to repair them. “The lifts are not in good shape and people often get stuck inside. There is urgent need to take remedial measures,” he said. The residents also complained that plaster from balconies is falling down at several places this putting lives of people in danger. “We have also met the deputy commissioner and asked for criminal complaint in the matter,” said Kumar. A report submitted by residents said that common amenities shared by BPTP projects in sector 37D -- Park Serene, Park Generations, Park Spacio and Terra -- were not sufficient for Serene residents. The residents in their submission also alleged that partial occupancy certificates (OCs) were being issued despite inadequate infrastructure. When asked about the matter, RS Bhath, district town planner, said that they will visit site in a week and also will issue notice to the developer to reply on the matter in 15 days. “If there is any encroachment on revenue road it shall be removed at the earliest,” said Bhath. A spokesperson for the developer said that they had assured the residents that the issues would be resolved. “We will resolve the issues and abide by the direction of authorities. Another issue is that a lot money is pending as maintenance fees with residents and they need to pay it for ensuring quality services,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-bptp-park-serene-residents-demand-access-to-revenue-road-better-maintenance/story-E2Xd6C1RAkRNKMnQi5m1FM.html
28-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man booked for stalking, probe on||A man was booked on Saturday for allegedly stalking his former daughter-in-law. An FIR was registered at sector 56 police station, the police said, adding that the suspect is yet to be arrested. According to the police, the woman, who is a doctor at a private hospital, said that she had divorced her husband and her ex-husband’s father had been stalking her for some time. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The woman was earlier settled abroad. She has alleged that her ex-husband’s father, who stays in the city, often followed her when she went to the market near her house and on an occasion, he had also showed up at her office and stalked her.” The woman’s statement was recorded before a duty magistrate on Saturday. Police said a dispute regarding compensation and property between the two parties was also sub-judice. The complaint was first filed at sector 51 women police station and was later marked to sector 56 police station. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “We are verifying the allegations. No arrest has been made in the case so far.” A case was registered against the suspect under Section 354 D (stalking) of Indian Penal Code, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-man-booked-for-stalking-probe-on/story-ACkybqNR4ib5ujrmUusJVJ.html
28-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Air quality fluctuates with seasonal changes; pollution expected to surge in next two weeks||After recording ‘moderate’ air quality for two weeks in succession — from September 9 to September 22 — air pollution readings in the city have shown a wide variation in the past five days, with experts warning that the city’s air quality is likely to deteriorate in the next few weeks due to the incoming pollutants from stubble burning in the neighbouring states. From 184 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin on Saturday (the highest concentration of pollutants recorded all month), the city on Sunday recorded 82 on the AQI, indicating ‘satisfactory’ air (among the lowest recorded in September).Experts and officials attributed these wide variations to the changing meteorological conditions. “When air quality varies so widely from day to day, it means we are in a transitory period, in terms of weather and meteorology. For example, on September 23 and 24, wind speeds in Gurugram were very high and the winds were accompanied by light showers. This helped to bring air quality back into the satisfactory AQI range. But on September 26, when wind speed was low and atmospheric moisture was high, the reading shot back up because particulate matter was being ‘held’ in the atmosphere,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist.The next two weeks, however, are likely to witness a steep deterioration in the air quality, with transboundary pollutants from across the Indian border, as well as from Punjab, expected to accumulate in the northern Indian plains. “The next couple of weeks will give us an idea of how the winter will progress. Incoming pollutants due to crop stubble burning are expected to reach NCR within the next week itself,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB).Changes in atmospheric temperature, Singh, will also play an important role in determining the nature and extent of pollution in the coming days. “The daily maximum temperature has been around 35 degrees throughout September, and it dropped sharply to about 33 degrees Celsius over the weekend. But this was immediately followed by high wind speeds, which improved the air quality on Sunday,” he said.According to the Early Air Quality Warning System for Delhi-NCR, operated by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, “The air quality over Delhi-NCR is likely to improve marginally but remain in the moderate category on 27.09.2020 and 28.09.2020. The air quality is likely to remain in moderate category on 29.09.2020.” The forecast also states, “The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from northwest direction in Delhi with wind speed up to 20 kmph, mainly clear sky and strong surface winds (20-30 kmph) during the day on 29.09.2020.”Experts said that while these high speed winds may have a positive impact on air quality in Gurugram in the short term, they will eventually bring in pollutants from crop burning within the next two weeks. “Once the temperature drops and winter commences, there will be little wind left to disperse these pollutants, and we can expect the AQI in Gurugram to touch about 250, in the poor category,” said Panwar. Air quality: September 21: 112September 22: 139September 23: 82September 24: 97September 25: 114September 26: 184September 27: 89||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-air-quality-fluctuates-with-seasonal-changes-pollution-expected-to-surge-in-next-two-weeks/story-Yq6020RIYGhjsQ5i2C0GYO.html
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Patients have right to access hospital bills, treatment details: Mohali consumer panel||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has said it is the fundamental right of patients to get detailed information from hospitals on medical bills and treatment. The commission was on September 21 disposing of a complaint filed by Satrajit Sharma from Ludhiana after he was not given bills for treatment and medicines by Chandan Hospital in Phase 7, Mohali.“As per the new Consumer Protection Act, 2019, rights of consumers are very carefully protected. We feel that it was fundamental and natural right of the consumer to get bills and details of medical treatment. To our mind, a hospital can never be permitted to withhold the medical treatment details as well as bills from its consumer,” said the commission’s president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma in the orders uploaded on the commission’s website on September 24. Satrajit, who had been treated for cardiac ailments at Chandan Hospital in May 2017, paid Rs 1.50 lakh to the hospital as it was not empanelled with the insurance company issuing his policy.In his complaint, Satrajit said after he sought claims from the insurance company the hospital did not give him detailed bills, because of which treatment costs could not be reimbursed.The commission has directed the hospital to hand over medical bills, treatment chart and receipts of medicines administered to the patient within 30 days from the date of receipt of free certified copy of the order. Compensation of Rs 25,000“Since the hospital have unnecessarily caused harassment (to) Satrajit, who is a heart patient, it is ordered that hospital will also compensate him with consolidated amount of compensation to the tune of Rs 25,000 for mental harassment and litigation expenses,” the order read As no one appeared before the commission on behalf of Chandan Hospital, the commission proceeded ex parte against it. Commenting on the order, consumer rights activist Pankaj Chandgothia said, “A patient is the owner of his body and must have all records pertaining to its functioning. The hospital has been paid for its services and has no right to retain the records.” Records of the treatment are necessary to inform doctors and hospitals about the patient’s condition should he or she require treatment again, he said.“Even PGIMER does not give the entire records, but private hospitals have made it a practice of not handing over detailed reports and bills to patients to avoid being caught for charging for services not provided. People have to apply and get the information through Right to Information,” he said.Advocate HC Arora too was of the opinion that it was the right of any person to access details of treatment. “Most hospitals fear litigation, but they have to provide the records for complete transparency,” he said.Former president of the Indian Medical Association, Dr Rajesh Dhir also felt there should be no secrecy about the line of treatment and the patient should have complete access to the medical history. Most hospitals were giving the requisite information to patients, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patients-have-right-to-access-hospital-bills-treatment-details-consumer-panel/story-saFzAFbijbM24Yu3mpiPLM.html
28-09-2020||Pune||FDA claims availability of 11,000 remdesivir vials in Pune; hospitals complain of shortage||Despite the city having at least 11,000 vials of remdesivir for Covid-19 treatment, hospitals are complaining of a shortage. The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has said that the system of distribution is being improved and all hospitals have been asked to regularly update the stock so that the supply can be monitored.The remdesivir injection is prescribed to critical Covid-19 patients.According to assistant commissioner Dinesh Khivasara, there is a stock of remdesivir with hospitals as well as wholesale medical stores and dealers, who have been asked to provide it to doctors and patients.“As of now, we have 4,000 vials of remdesivir with the hospitals and 7,000 to 8,000 with the stockists. There is absolutely no shortage of the drug and we are improving the system to monitor the supply. We have now asked the hospitals to send us a daily update of the stock that they have which we monitor daily. The demand has increased now,” said Khivasara.SB Patil, joint commissioner (drugs), Pune division, FDA, said, “We are now asking the hospitals to send us a daily report of the stock that they have and have also asked them to keep a strict vigil on their staff. Based on the guidelines issued by the central health ministry, we have asked the hospitals to use the injection only for patients in moderate condition on oxygen.”Earlier, the state government had asked hospitals to judiciously use oxygen and now they have extended the guidelines for remdesivir too.However, hospitals have countered the FDA claim saying the injection is in short supply.Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble hospital, said, “Just three days ago despite paying the full advance payment for 600 vials, we got only 250 vials; that too in instalments. Despite repeatedly telling the FDA to look into it, the matter was not resolved finally after much follow up we got the vials all in one lot. This simply says that although there is no shortage, the fact remains that there is hoarding and the shortage is artificial.”The FDA claim comes a day after Maharashtra government issued a circular to all the divisional commissioners in the state. The circular has asked the administration of each district to make judicious use of injection and for it to be given with utmost care. According to the state health department, the medicine cannot be used for every Covid patient.Following the circular, the FDA has also started monitoring any black marketing of remdesivir in the city and other parts of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fda-claims-availability-of-11-000-remdesivir-vials-in-pune-hospitals-complain-of-shortage/story-MIG4iJzwhthf8CO8CRsAJO.html
28-09-2020||Pune||Despite EWS quota, Maratha protests intensify||Various Maratha outfits under the banner of Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) staged protests on Sunday in front of political party offices in the city, demanding immediate resolution of the reservation issue. The protests will continue until the first week of October, MKM convenors said. Members of various outfits gathered at offices of BJP on Jangli Maharaj (JM) road, Congress at Shivajinagar road, Shiv Sena at Deccan and NCP on Tilak road. The community outfits have intensified agitation days after Supreme Court stayed the reservation for Marathas, referring the matter to a larger constitutional bench. Earlier on Saturday, Maratha outfits staged a ‘dhol-bajao’ (beating the drum) in front of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s residence in Baramati. The agitators said they will further escalate their stir if the government does not take concrete steps. The agitators also submitted a memorandum to the additional superintendent of police Milind Mohite. While the state government has already taken a decision to bring Marathas under the 10 per cent quota for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) after the SC order, community leaders have decided to raise the issue politically and stage protests outside residences of members of Parliament (MPs) and legislators. “The steps taken by the state government are inadequate as the EWS quota does not serve its purpose. The government has to first take a call about thousands of youths awaiting jobs after clearing exams and also about the admissions. If the state government is so much concerned about Marathas, it should increase seats in education sector to accommodate Marathas,” said Rajendra Kondhare, convenor of the Maratha Mahasangh . Meanwhile Shiv Sangram Party founder Vinayak Mete held separate meetings with BJP Rajya Sabha MP and Chhatrapati Shivaji’s 13th descendant Udayanraje Bhosale and party legislator from Satara Shivendraraje Bhosale to chalk out planning for the upcoming community meeting. The meeting will be held in Pune on October 3 and Udayanraje and Shivendraraje are expected to attend it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/despite-ews-quota-maratha-protests-intensify/story-IiC0kGMJ84xxUvgrjIhp2L.html
28-09-2020||Pune||Two arrested, one on the run after killing 23-year old in Pisoli||Two men were arrested by Pune police on Sunday and one person is on the run for the murder of a 23-year-old man in a garage in Pisoli, Pune, on Saturday afternoon.The two arrested men have been identified as Narayan Puri and Janaid Shaikh.“Two of them have been arrested. They have cross complaints and subsequent cases against them in the past. The deceased has once been booked in the past for the attempted murder of one of the two arrested. They had a long-standing rivalry,” said assistant police inspector Swaraj Patil of Kondhwa police station who is investigating the case.The deceased man was identified as Sagar Dada Awtade (23), a resident of Awtadewadi area of Pune. The attack happened at 1:30pm on Saturday in the garage located along the Jagdamba Bhavan road in Pisoli. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Purshottam Mandawale (25), a resident of Wadachi Wadi, Undri, Pune. Mandwale runs a garage where Awtade had come to get his two-wheeler repaired, according to his complaint. “The assailants arrived at the garage as Awtade was waiting inside the garage premises and attacked him with a sharp weapon on his head and elsewhere on his body. He was rushed to a nearby hospital but succumbed to his injuries on Saturday,” said assistant police inspector Swaraj Patil of Kondhwa police station, who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 302 (murder), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 37(1)135 of Maharashtra Police Act and Section 4(25) of Arms Act has been registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/three-on-the-run-after-killing-23-year-old-in-pisoli/story-EyHwJ1U6vuPkuskvEqD3bJ.html
28-09-2020||Pune||Farmer in extramarital relationship kills woman for exposing affair to wife||A woman, reported missing by her sister on Saturday, was found dead on Sunday in Adarsh colony, Dehuroad.The deceased, identified as Priya Chavan (20), lived with her sister Reshma Chavan (24), in Adarshnagar, Dehuroad.The arrested accused has been identified as Prashant Gaikwad (31), a resident of Kiwale and the father of the deceased woman’s child. He is a farmer who is married to another woman and was involved in an extramarital affair with the deceased woman, according to police. Gaikwad was arrested and remanded to police custody until October 1 by a court in Maval, according to senior police inspector Manish Kalyankar of Dehuroad police station. Gaikwad was found in Rahatani while he was trying to flee.A second accused, identified as Vikas Rokade, was arrested on Sunday. “A minor boy was also identified but not yet apprehended. The kidnapping, and the killing immediately after it, happened at 2am on Saturday. The investigation was conducted within hours of the crime and registration of the case,” said senior police inspector Manish Kalyankar.“These three men were together when Gaikwad went to her house and dragged her out of her house around Friday midnight. While Gaikwad went to her house, the others were standing nearby. They were all involved in the murder,” said police sub-inspector Ashok Jagtap of Dehuroad police station who is investigating the case. The deceased and the accused knew each other for the past five years, according to the complainant. The deceased woman has a six-month-old daughter with the accused man. However, he did not wish to care for the child as he was married to another woman, according to the police. “On Thursday, the woman had gone to his house and confronted him in front of his wife. His wife had left the house after that. He was angry about the incident,’ said PSI Jagtap. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), and 364 (kidnapping for murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dehuroad police station against the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/farmer-in-extramarital-relationship-kills-woman-for-exposing-affair-to-wife/story-aLqEeiPwQbmhFbx6KGSbVP.html
28-09-2020||Pune||Covid care centres in Pimpri-Chinchwad help patients beat virus stress through yoga, games||The Covid-19 care centres at Pimpri-Chinchwad arrange interactive fun activities daily for its patients to beat the stress of fighting the virus battle.The Covid-19 care centre at Balnagri, Bhosari started functioning from September 3 under the supervision of Ruby Ailcare Service Pvt Ltd. Since day one they have been conducting activities like yoga, meditation and fun activities.“I had noticed that if a person is infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, there is some social stigma attached to it and it can create mental trauma for such people. So when the centre was started we decided to help such people beat stress through such fun activities and games,” said Apurva Shah, director, Ruby Ailcare Service Pvt Ltd.“We have arranged painting and drawing competitions as well to cheer them up,” he said.As of Sunday, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has 73,588 positive patients and 1,012 Covid-19 deaths have been reported.“We need to keep the morale of the patients high so we have initiated to conduct such fun activities. At all the Covid care centres some fun activities are organised to keep them motivated,” Shravan Hardikar, PCMC commissioner.“Patients are spending more than ten days away from their families so to keep them positive and happy such activities are conducted. Different activities are conducted at centres. At some centres yoga is practised while at some motivational speeches are delivered,” added Hardikar.Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC, said, “People who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms of the virus and do not have home quarantine option are kept at such facilities. To keep them motivated we arrange such programmes.”“Conducting such engaging activities is very important. Although Covid impacts physically, but it also brings feelings of anxiety among patients. Practising fun activities, yoga, motivational speeches will keep them away from these thoughts,” said Dr Manjeet Santre, head, department of psychiatry, Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-care-centres-in-pimpri-chinchwad-help-patients-beat-virus-stress-through-yoga-games/story-4o9xuZ4QqkdCyBItrbCMWM.html
28-09-2020||Pune||9% of survey referrals test positive for Covid-19 in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has screened 9.5 lakh people as of September 24 under the ‘My family, My responsibility’ initiative, of which 4,988 were referred for testing.Of those tested, about nine per cent, or 452 persons, tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection.The initiative has been undertaken by the state government to screen every individual in the city and test anyone found to have symptoms.Earlier, HT reported that the city’s positivity rate for September is close to 30%. This covers persons who got themselves tested voluntarily upon experiencing symptoms, or who came in to contact with a Covid-19 positive person.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, epidemiologist and chairman, state technical committee on communicable diseases, said, “There is a high prevalence in the city which is beyond doubt. So now this new committee formed by the district administration called ‘Social Action for Covid-19 control’ has been formed to improve people’s engagement in this process to break the chain.”“We want to encourage people to wear masks not because they will be fined but because it is for their own good. Also, we want people to get themselves tested voluntarily for which we will include common people like auto drivers and vegetable vendors to spread the word,” he said.The initiative started on September 15 and the first round of the survey will continue till October 10. A total of 800 teams have been formed and as of September 24, a total of 9,49,690 people have been screened from 3,04,634 houses.A total of 4,988 people have been referred for testing out of which 452 were found to be positive for the infection. The areas surveyed include Sinhgad road and Warje-Karwenagar wards which have also have been reporting a maximum number of cases with an average growth of about 12.8 per cent and 11.5 per cent respectively for the past two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-of-survey-referrals-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-aDYgOA8A5BqTV1VaSDMrjP.html
28-09-2020||World||Uber gets 18-month license extension in London||London mayor Sadiq Khan on Monday said transport officials will closely monitor Uber after the Westminster Magistrates Court ruled that the cab-hailing app company, whose licence was revoked last November, is now ‘fit and proper’ to run private car services.Uber Technologies Inc won the ability to continue operating in its biggest European market after the court granted it an 18-month license extension.The extension was refused by Transport for London (TfL) over safety concerns. It appealed against the decision and admitted gaps in its service. The court said that despite Uber’s historical failings, it is now satisfied that it can hold the operator’s licence for 18 more months.Khan said after the judgement: “Public safety is paramount, so TfL was absolutely right not to renew Uber’s licence last November after identifying failures that directly put passengers in danger. I am pleased that Uber have admitted that their response to very real concerns about passenger safety was inadequate, and since then Uber has made improvements”. “I can assure Londoners that TfL will continue to closely monitor Uber and will not hesitate to take swift action, should they fail to meet the strict standards required to protect passengers,” he added.The judgement said Uber had tightened up review processes to tackle document and insurance fraud and it now “seems to be at the forefront of tackling an industry-wide challenge”. One of TfL’s safety concerns was that thousands of Uber trips had been done by non-licensed drivers logging on to the app using other people’s IDs.The court ordered Uber to pay TfL’s costs of £374,770 to be paid by October 26.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uber-gets-18-month-license-extension-in-london/story-s8rCzhvmvRh3X1pVVNVa2L.html
28-09-2020||World||‘No more ladies and gentlemen’: Japan Airlines embraces gender neutral greetings||Japan Airlines is ditching the phrase “ladies and gentlemen” and instead embracing gender neutral terms during in-flight and airport announcements from next month, the company said Monday.From October 1, JAL “will abolish expressions that based on (two types of) sex and use gender-friendly expression” like “good morning” and “good evening,” a spokesperson for the airline told AFP.In Japanese, the expression generally used for such announcements is already gender-neutral, but the decision applies to other languages used by the airline.The decision appears to be a first for major Japanese carriers, with a spokeswoman for rival ANA Holdings telling AFP they would “study the issue based on comments from our customers.” Same-sex marriage is not legally recognised in Japan but the government has gradually expanded rights protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender citizens in recent years.JAL last year operated a trial “LGBT Ally Charter” flight for same-sex partners and their families, and has already changed rules to extend spouse and family allowances to same-sex partners.While Japan is relatively tolerant of homosexuality, there are no specific legal protections for gay people.Japan’s LGBTQ population has campaigned for greater recognition from the government in recent years.Thirteen same-sex couples filed suits last year accusing Tokyo of discrimination for failing to recognise their unions.They argue that they are being denied rights accorded to heterosexual couples and hope courts will declare the government’s position unconstitutional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-more-ladies-and-gentlemen-japan-airlines-embraces-gender-neutral-greetings/story-G97jiNSz3sxJLFVJi7aW9K.html
28-09-2020||World||More digital evidence driving major change in UK courts||Digital devices such as smart doorbells, dashcam footage, car GPS systems and even Amazon Alexa are providing increasingly more evidence in criminal trials in the United Kingdom, a top prosecutor at the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said on Monday.The CPS represents India in extradition cases that have recently seen video footage of Arthur Road jail in Mumbai, where individuals sought by India are to be lodged, while witnesses from India have deposed digitally through video links.Max Hill, director of public prosecutions, said developments in digital technology are driving significant changes in the way evidence is collected and used in UK courts.He said: “As little as 15 years ago, criminal investigations and subsequent prosecutions were likely to focus on the crime scene for evidence backed up by eye witness testimonies and door-to-door enquiries”.“This has been transformed by the way we now live our lives and share information online. The digital devices which are becoming part of the fabric of everyday life, like smart phones, social media and even things like Alexa can actively provide key evidence to pinpoint whereabouts, provide footage of an incident or a timeline”.“Alexa has already been used as a line of enquiry in a murder case the US. The opportunities and threats presented by the digital age is a constantly evolving challenge for all parts of the criminal justice system, as well as for wider society,” he told the Westminster Policy Forum.He cited an example of how the GPS system in a Land Rover Discovery was instrumental in providing evidence during a crossbow murder case earlier this year. Following the death, the defendant was questioned about his possession of crossbows, but it was only two week later when the GPS system was retrieved from his partner’s burned-out vehicle that vital evidence was found.Information retained by Jaguar Land Rover proved the car had been used for reconnaissance as it was traced to the victim’s driveway the night before the murder. It also showed that the car had travelled to the crime scene again the following night and remained until 12 minutes after the victim was shot. The system indicated the boot was opened and closed when the car arrived and before it left. The offender was convicted and received a life sentence.Hill added: “The detectives of the past could only dream of the modern opportunities to gather and deploy evidence. But these also represent unprecedented evidential challenges. Just as technology is changing the nature of crime, technological innovations will change investigations”. “Machine learning and artificial intelligence is being developed to be more effective and reliable in sifting through vast amounts of data…This is a fast moving landscape and we will not and must not stand still.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-digital-evidence-driving-major-change-in-uk-courts/story-uBhGgVufaOE3iYGGggUh6M.html
28-09-2020||World||Covid-19: Rapid tests to be given to poorer countries, says WHO||The head of the World Health Organization says it and partners have agreed to a plan to roll out 120 million rapid diagnostic tests for the coronavirus to help lower- and middle-income countries make up ground in a testing gap with richer countries — even if it’s not fully funded yet.At $5 apiece, the cost of the antigen-based rapid diagnostic test for which WHO issued an emergency-use listing last week, the program initially requires $600 million. It is supposed to get started as early as next month to provide better access in areas where it’s harder to get the PCR tests that are used often in many wealthier nations.The rapid tests look for antigens, or proteins found on the surface of the virus. They are generally considered less accurate, though much faster, than higher-grade genetic tests, known as PCR tests. Those tests require processing with specialty lab equipment and chemicals. Typically that turnaround takes several days to deliver results to patients.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus hailed the program as “good news” in the fight against Covid-19.“These tests provide reliable results in approximately 15 to 30 minutes, rather than hours or days, at a lower price with less sophisticated equipment,” he told a news conference in Geneva. “This will enable the expansion of testing, particularly in hard-to-reach areas that do not have lab facilities or enough trained health workers to carry out PCR tests.”“We have an agreement, we have seed funding and now we need the full amount of funds to buy these tests,” he said, without specifying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-rapid-tests-to-be-given-to-poorer-countries-says-who/story-PVIU9xjER2PN7XHkQU3XJN.html
28-09-2020||World||Breonna Taylor killing: Louisville lifts curfew; legislator questions rioting law||The curfew has been lifted in Louisville, where many people have been charged with refusing to stop their nighttime protests after a grand jury’s decision not to charge officers in the fatal shooting of Breonna Taylor.Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer said he allowed the curfew to expire as of 6:30 am Monday.“The curfew served its purpose of helping ensure that most people were home safe by 9 pm, because our past experience had shown that most violence and destruction occurs after dark,” the mayor’s statement said.“We sadly saw some violence, including the shooting of two police officers, one of whom remains hospitalized, dealing with complications of his injuries. But we believe the curfew helped, by ensuring fewer people were out late in the day.”Fischer said barriers and traffic restrictions set up downtown last week will remain but will be assessed daily.Meanwhile, Kentucky state Rep. Lisa Willner, a Louisville Democrat, said Monday that she’s starting to craft legislation that would narrow the scope of the state’s rioting statute.Her proposal, which she intends to offer in next year’s legislative session, would protect people from being charged with first-degree rioting if they’re present but don’t engage in destructive or violent actions. Her response comes after Democratic state Rep. Attica Scott was charged with the felony last week while participating in Louisville protests for racial justice.“This is not any attempt at all to weaken the current law,” Willner said in a phone interview. “It’s just to make sure that people who are peacefully protesting, who are merely exercising their First Amendment rights, are clearly not engaging in rioting.”Scott was among demonstrators who converged in downtown Louisville to express their disagreement with the grand jury decision. Many marched along Louisville’s streets chanting “Breonna Taylor, say her name,” and “no justice, no peace.”Taylor was shot multiple times March 13 after her boyfriend opened fire as officers entered her home during a narcotics raid, authorities said. Taylor’s boyfriend said he didn’t know who was coming in and fired in self-defense. One officer was wounded.The grand jury indicted one officer, who was already fired, on wanton endangerment charges, saying he shot repeatedly and blindly fired shots that could have hit Taylor’s neighbours.Kentucky Attorney General Daniel Cameron said the other officers were not charged with Taylor’s killing because they acted to protect themselves.Scott, the state’s only Black woman representative, was arrested and charged Thursday night with the felony of first-degree rioting as well as unlawful assembly and failure to disperse, which are misdemeanor offenses.Police said Scott was in a group whose members damaged buildings and set fire to a library.Scott called the charges “ludicrous” and said she would never be involved in setting fire to a library. She said she was arrested as she walked with her daughter to the sanctuary of a church.Kentucky law defines a riot as a public disturbance involving five or more people “which by tumultuous and violent conduct creates grave danger of damage or injury to property or persons or substantially obstructs law enforcement or other government function.”The law defines first-degree rioting as knowingly participating in a riot that causes injury to a person who is not rioting or causes substantial property damage.Scott said she and her daughter were driving from a protest to a church that offered refuge to people who would otherwise be caught violating the curfew when police blocked their route, so they parked and walked to the church instead. Officers then converged on them to make arrests before the curfew took effect, Scott said.“LMPD swarmed us,” Scott said. “They started yelling, ‘Circle ‘em, circle ‘em.’ They wouldn’t let us leave to go back to our vehicle. And they wouldn’t let us literally cross the street to get to the church and sanctuary.”Willner said Scott’s arrest “raises the question of how many others have been accused of rioting in the first degree — which is a felony — who are facing loss of voting rights, simply by being present.”“We can make the language much clearer so that in order for a person to be convicted for riot in the first degree, it should be clear that they participated in the unlawful action by engaging in violent or destructive acts or by complicitly encouraging others to engage in violent or destructive acts,” she said.Republicans have overwhelming majorities in both chambers of the Kentucky legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/breonna-taylor-killing-louisville-lifts-curfew-legislator-questions-rioting-law/story-lqTPB9UVNJxMlBxcjUB0tK.html
28-09-2020||World||Spain’s top court rules to remove Catalan chief from office||Spain’s Supreme Court on Monday effectively barred Catalonia’s regional president from his office for refusing to remove a banner that called for the release of imprisoned separatist leaders and was displayed on a public building ahead of the 2019 general election.The ruling that Quim Torra disobeyed Spain’s electoral law triggers a new period of political uncertainty in the northeastern region where a demand by some for independence has triggered the country’s biggest constitutional crisis in decades.According to the existing regulations, Torra’s deputy should take over as president-in-charge until the regional parliament elects a new leader or a new election is held.Pro-secession activists reacted by calling for protests later Monday in the regional capital, Barcelona.In their ruling, the panel of judges unanimously agreed to uphold last year’s decision by a lower court to ban Torra from holding any public office for 18 months and fine him 30,000 euros (USD 35,000).Torra, a staunch separatist who became the head of Catalonia’s government following the 2017 push for the region’s independence from Spain, had previously criticised the case as an act of repression against the democratic mandate of voters in the region.His predecessor, Carles Puigdemont, who fled to Belgium after the Spanish government deposed him for pushing ahead with an independence declaration, criticised the court’s decision.“Once more, the Spanish state interferes in our democratic institutions,” Puigdemont wrote in a tweet.Torra had remained at the helm of Catalonia during the appeal but Monday’s decision must be implemented even if the case is taken to the European Court of Human Rights, as pledged by Torra’s defense team.The banner at the center of the case referred to a dozen former Catalan Cabinet members, lawmakers and activists who were imprisoned or left Spain following a declaration of independence in October 2017.The court on Friday said Torra had “stubbornly” disobeyed the country’s electoral board by refusing to take it down from a balcony in the regional government’s headquarters.In hearings, Torra and his defense lawyers had argued that he was defending the higher cause of political and human rights. But the Supreme Court judges said that the electoral board’s order didn’t violate Torra’s right to free speech, only limited what he could do in his role as an elected official.Torra, who has in the past encouraged acts of civil disobedience in response to Spanish judicial rulings, didn’t immediately react to the ruling.Polls and election results show that the 7.5 million residents of Catalonia, a wealthy northeastern region, are roughly equally split on the question of whether it should become independent from Spain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-s-top-court-rules-to-remove-catalan-chief-from-office/story-VoOdEcV0ClUAIuRks4T5hO.html
28-09-2020||World||Proud of my son, says father of Pakistani man who stabbed 2 in Paris||The father of Ali Hassan, a young man who stabbed two persons in an attack using a meat cleaver outside the former Paris office of the controversial Charlie Hebdo magazine last week, has said he is “proud” of his son. In an interview to the web-based channel Naya Pakistan, the father, whose name is not revealed, said his son has “done a great job” and he is “very happy” about the attack.The French government had condemned the stabbing on Friday outside the former office of the satirical magazine as an act of “Islamist terrorism”.The man, earlier identified as Ali Hassan, seriously injured two employees of TV production agency Premieres Lignes, whose offices are in the same city centre block that used to house the magazine Charlie Hebdo. The magazine had shifted out after the January 2015 attacks on Charlie Hebdo, a policewoman and a Jewish supermarket that left 17 people dead. The magazine’s current address is kept secret for security reasons, AFP reported.On Monday, the news agency said the man, who had declared earlier in a two-minute video that he was going to target the magazine, identified himself as Zaheer Hassan Mehmood.Ali Hassan aka Zaheer Hassan Mehmood is accused of stabbing two persons believed to be working with the magazine. Friday’s attack came three weeks into a trial in Paris of suspected accomplices of the culprits in the January 2015 attacks on Charlie Hebdo, a policewoman and a Jewish supermarket that left 17 people dead, news agency Reuters said.Back in Pakistan, the attacker’s father appealed to the Imran Khan government and other Islamic countries to help bring his son home. “I want to appeal to the Pakistan government to bring my son home. He has done service in the cause of Islam and we are a Muslim country,” he told the Pakistani channel .Ali Hassan, his father said, “was a good son” who prayed regularly and attended Milad twice a year. He said that Ali Hassan was a follower of Muhammad Ilyas Qadri, a Pakistani Sunni Muslim scholar and founder of the Dawat-e-Islami organisation, which has established a chain of madrasas across Pakistan and abroad.Ali Hassan’s father, a farmer, lives in the small town of Mandi Bahauddin in Punjab. He said that Ali Hassan had gone to France two years ago. Of his five sons, three are abroad - two in France and one in Italy. “My son has the heart of a lion,” he told his interviewer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/proud-of-my-son-says-father-of-pakistani-man-who-stabbed-2-in-paris/story-4SlYyadJihMniXNBp6ENbI.html
28-09-2020||World||UK moves to defuse row with lawmakers over Covid-19 measures||Britain’s government moved to defuse a row with lawmakers over the government’s handling of the coronavirus crisis on Monday, promising to engage with them more on restrictions some have complained impinge on society’s freedoms.Some Conservative lawmakers have criticised the government after ministers announced a ban gatherings of more than six people and introduced a range of other fines, saying ministers were “ruling by decree” and undermining the role of parliament.Prime Minister Boris Johnson, criticised for his handling of the Covid-19 crisis, is keen to prevent a rebellion on Wednesday when parliament will vote on the renewal of the Coronavirus Act, which hands the government powers to impose restrictions.Ministers were at pains to say they would ensure parliament was more involved in agreeing any further national measures.“We’re looking at further ways to ensure the House (of Commons) can be properly involved in the process, in advance if possible. I hope to provide the House with further details soon,” health minister Matt Hancock told parliament.He said he would also meet Graham Brady, a senior Conservative, who has led efforts to try to win parliament more power over the government’s restrictions.But he warned lawmakers over tying the government’s hands, saying the nature of the pandemic meant that ministers sometimes had to act quickly.“Sometimes in this pandemic ... we have had to move fast, and we may need to again. The challenge we have in this house is how to ensure proper scrutiny while also being able to move fast in response to the virus,” he said.Johnson won last year’s election by a large margin, handing him an 80-seat majority in parliament, but the depth of the anger among Conservative lawmakers on this issues has threatened to undermine his authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-moves-to-defuse-row-with-lawmakers-over-covid-19-measures/story-VmruvzMiSH1sqdtTHHGOkO.html
28-09-2020||World||Iraqis concerned after US signals it could close embassy||The Trump administration has signalled it could close its diplomatic mission in Baghdad if measures are not taken to control rogue armed elements responsible for a recent spate of attacks against US and other interests in the country, Iraqi and US officials said Monday.A US official said the warning was clear and given to both Iraq’s president and prime minister but that it was not an imminent ultimatum. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about diplomatic discussions.There should be “no confusion” among Iraqi leaders about how seriously the US takes the threat to its personnel and property, the official said.The threat to evacuate the US Embassy in the Iraqi capital, which stoked concerns on the part of Iraqi officials of a diplomatic crisis, was first delivered to President Barham Saleh on Tuesday in a phone call with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.Pompeo said that if the US presence continues to be targeted, measures would be taken to close the embassy and a “strong and violent” response would follow against the groups responsible for the attacks, according to three Iraqi officials with knowledge of the call.On Saturday, Pompeo went a step further, telling Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi that the US will initiate plans to withdraw from the embassy. The Iraqi officials spoke on condition of anonymity in line with regulations.An official announcement has not been made by the Americans.In a tangible sign of a strain in US-Iraq relations, the State Department shortened an Iran sanctions waiver deadline by 60 days last week. The previous waiver, crucial for Iraq to import badly needed Iranian gas to meet power demands, gave the government 120 days.Without the waiver, Iraq would suffer crippling sanctions barring it access to US dollars.Despite comments from US officials that a deadline on closing the embassy is not in place, Iraqi officials appeared to be under the impression they have until the waiver expires in two months’ time to take action.“America will observe what measures the government of Iraq takes within two months,” one senior Iraqi official said. During this time, al-Kadhimi’s administration must halt the targeting of foreign missions, military installations and logistics convoys destined for the US-led coalition or else, “aggressive” action would follow, the official said.Iraq’s leadership is feeling the heat.Al-Kadhimi, Saleh and Parliament Speaker Mohamed al-Halbousi held a meeting late Sunday in which all three leaders said they supported measures to bring arms under the authority of the state and to prevent the targeting of diplomatic missions.So far, Iraqi authorities have redistributed some security forces inside the Green Zone.The Iraqi officials also said two factors might determine whether Iraq’s leadership can walk back from an impending diplomatic crisis: Security fallout from protests planned in the coming weeks to mark one year since mass anti-government demonstrations began, and domestic politics inside the US ahead of the November federal election.“We expect large crowds,” said one official of the protests. “And we expect it will impact American thinking.”Two Western diplomats said they had been informed that the US has started the process of closing its sprawling facility inside the heavily fortified Green Zone, but could not provide details. The US Embassy declined to comment.Closing the facility is expected to be a complex and time-consuming process. The embassy was already functioning at minimum levels since March due to the coronavirus and ongoing security threats.Diplomats were told the US had already started the process of closing but would “re-evaluate while progressing,” one Western official said, suggesting the decision was reversible if security inside the Green Zone improved.The State Department declined to comment on the calls between Pompeo and Iraq’s leadership, but said the US will not tolerate threats, in a statement.“We have made the point before that the actions of lawless Iran-backed militias remains the single biggest deterrent to stability in Iraq. It is unacceptable for Iran-backed groups to launch rockets at our embassy, attack American and other diplomats, and threaten law and order in Iraq,” it added.Meanwhile, attacks targeting convoys continue.On Monday, a roadside bomb targeted a convoy carrying materials destined for US forces southwest of Baghdad, two Iraqi security officials said. It was the third attack in 24 hours, with IED attacks in Babylon and Dhi Qar provinces targeting similar convoys. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity in line with regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraqis-concerned-after-us-signals-it-could-close-embassy/story-NeF8d4fWyknrNbYvaZQJHI.html
28-09-2020||World||New California fire scorches wine country near San Francisco||California firefighters battled destructive new wildfires in wine country north of San Francisco Monday as strong winds fanned flames in the already badly scorched state.The new fires erupted Sunday in the famed Napa-Sonoma wine region and in far Northern California’s Shasta County, forcing hasty evacuations of neighbourhoods.In wine country, flames engulfed the distinctive Chateau Boswell Winery north of St. Helena, The Black Rock Inn in the small community of St. Helena and multiple homes in the city of Santa Rosa, the San Francisco Chronicle reported. Residents of a senior home were among those evacuated.The Adventist Health St. Helena hospital suspended care and transferred all patients elsewhere, according to a statement on its website.The wine country blaze had burned 17 square miles (44 square kilometers) as of early Monday, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, or Cal Fire.Numerous studies in recent years have linked bigger wildfires in America to global warming from the burning of coal, oil and gas, especially because climate change has made California much drier. A drier California means plants are more flammable.Evacuations were also ordered in Shasta County as that fire spread.The causes of both new fires were under investigation.During the weekend, the Pacific Gas & Electric utility turned off electricity to targeted areas where the winds raised the potential for arcing or other power equipment damage that could spark new fires.So far this year, more than 8,100 California wildfires have scorched 5,780 square miles (14,970 square kilometers), destroyed more than 7,000 buildings and killed 26 people.Most of the losses occurred after a frenzy of dry lightning strikes in mid-August ignited a massive outbreak of fires.Power will be shut off for 65,000 Northern California electric customers in 16 counties to prevent the spread of wildfires that have engulfed areas of the state, officials said Sunday.Pacific Gas & Electric, the nation’s largest electric utility, shut off power to 11,000 customers beginning at 4 a.m. Sunday and planned to cut service to another 54,000 customers by 8 p.m.The company expected to have power restored by Monday evening to all customers.PG&E Incident Commander Mark Quinlan said the initial plan was to temporarily cut service to 89,000 customers but continuous monitoring enabled the company to reduce the number by 27%.The initial power outage for 11,000 customers occurred in Butte and Plumas counties.The second shutdown phase beginning Sunday evening was planned for Alpine, Amador, Butte, Calaveras, El Dorado, Lake, Napa, Nevada, Placer, Plumas, Shasta, Sierra, Tehama and Yuba counties. Two customers were also scheduled for shutdowns in Sonoma County.Shutoffs were also scheduled to begin Monday at 7 a.m. in Kern County for a small number of customers.The company plans to begin restoring power after receiving confirmation that the weather and wildfire risks enable patrols, inspections and repairs by 50 helicopters and about 1,700 ground personnel in vehicles and on foot.The shutoff was enacted as result of a red flag warning because of high winds, officials said.PG&E Senior Meteorologist Scott Strenfel said beginning Saturday evening there was a reported wind speed of 15-30 mph (24-48 kph), 40-55 mph (64-89 kph) wind gusts and humidity levels of 15% to 20%.The company continues to monitor weather conditions in concert with federal agencies including the National Weather Service and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.Customer Experience Manager Vanessa Bryan said PG&E sent 913,000 customer notifications and is operating 28 community resource centers from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. while power is out. As of Sunday evening, the centers had received about 1,200 visitors, Bryan said.The shutoffs came as a new, swift-moving wildfire broke out in Napa County, which prompted evacuations of homes and a hospital. The fire was burning near several wineries and churned through 1.9 square miles (4.9 square kilometers) Sunday, the San Francisco Chronicle reported.Fire-weary California is facing a new siege of hot, dry weather with potentially strong winds that could cause power lines to arc and spark new blazes in parched vegetation that’s ready to burn.Red Flag warnings for extreme fire weather conditions were issued for the northern and central areas of the state from late Saturday to Monday, the National Weather Service said. Similar warnings were in place for parts of Southern California’s San Bernardino and Riverside counties on Monday.So far this year, more than 8,100 California wildfires have scorched 5,780 square miles (14,970 square kilometers), destroyed more than 7,000 buildings and killed 26 people.Most of the loss has occurred since a frenzy of dry lightning strikes in mid-August ignited a massive outbreak of fires. The causes of other fires remain under investigation and authorities said one was caused by a pyrotechnic device at a gender reveal event.On Sunday, wind drove smoke from the new Napa County fire toward Sonoma and Marin counties, worsening the air quality, said Gerry Diaz, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service.“We just have smoke on all fronts, unfortunately,” Diaz said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-california-fire-scorches-wine-country-near-san-francisco/story-HlCm0yhu4oRTFqH9ZEypCN.html
28-09-2020||World||Top Afghan negotiator in Taliban peace process holds talks in Pakistan||Abdullah Abdullah, Afghanistan’s top official in peace talks with the Taliban, met top officials in Pakistan on Monday as he began a three-day trip during which he will meet Prime Minister Imran Khan and the country’s military leadership.The chairman of Afghan High Council for National Reconciliation was received by top government officials on arriving in Islamabad. “We discussed the #PeaceProcess, the intra-Afghan talks in Doha, & strengthening bilateral relations,” he tweeted after a meeting with Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi.In his meeting with Qureshi, Abdullah appreciated Pakistan’s efforts in taking the peace process ahead.Quershi told the visiting delegation that Pakistan, as a shared responsibility, has been playing the role of facilitator in the Afghan peace process and that the US-Taliban peace agreement and later the intra-Afghan dialogue held in Doha have raised the prospects of durable peace in Afghanistan.The Pakistani minister told the delegation that the Afghan leadership should seize this historic opportunity and undertake serious efforts to take the Afghan peace process to a logical conclusion.“We will also have to keep an eye on the spoilers who do not want peace and stability in the region,” said Qureshi, adding “Pakistan desires dignified return of millions of Afghan refugees to their homeland.”Abdullah is expected to meet with President Arif Alvi, army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa, the speaker of the National Assembly and the chairman of the Senate.He is accompanied by a high-level delegation including prominent members of the council.A statement by the Pakistan foreign office said Abdullah will deliver a keynote address at the Institute of Strategic Studies Islamabad and interact with the media. This is Abdullah’s first visit to Pakistan in his capacity as Chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation. The visit will provide an opportunity for wide-ranging exchange of views on the Afghan peace process and strengthening of Pakistan-Afghanistan bilateral relations and people-to-people interaction, the ministry statement noted.It said that Pakistan attaches high importance to its fraternal ties with Afghanistan, rooted deep in shared history, faith, culture, values and traditions. Pakistan fully supports all efforts for peace, stability and prosperity of the Afghan people. The visit of Abdullah will contribute to further strengthening amity, brotherhood and close cooperation between the two countries, it said.The council represents the Afghan government in historic peace negotiations with the Taliban which began in Qatar on September 12. Those talks represent the most serious effort yet at ending decades of war in Afghanistan that followed the 2001 US-led invasion that toppled its Taliban government, which then hosting al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden who planned the September 11 attacks.The Afghan-Taliban talks come after a deal signed in February between the US and the Taliban. That deal aims to allow the US to withdraw from Afghanistan and end the longest military engagement in American history.Many Taliban leaders have lived in Pakistan since the 1980s. In those years they were part of the Afghan mujahedeen, allies of the US in ending the 10-year occupation of the country by the Soviet Union.Pakistan has denied giving sanctuary to Taliban members following their ouster in 2001. However, both Washington and Kabul routinely accuse Islamabad of giving them a safe haven, citing the Taliban long ties with Pakistan’s powerful Inter-Services Intelligence agency.Khan publicly has said his government facilitated the talks. He said now it was now up to the Afghans to seize this opportunity.Pakistan’s border areas in the northwest served as a base for the Pakistani Taliban and other militants until a few years ago, when the army said it cleared the region of insurgents. But occasional attacks have continued.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-afghan-negotiator-in-taliban-peace-process-holds-talks-in-pakistan/story-aPRYcnaTPCVr6If8dUcYoM.html
28-09-2020||World||Pakistan’s top court stays release of Daniel Pearl murder accused||Pakistan’s Supreme Court on Monday barred the Sindh government from releasing British-born al Qaeda leader Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh and his three aides - the main accused in the abduction and murder of US journalist Daniel Pearl in 2002.The court also accepted an appeal by the family of the slain Wall Street Journal reporter to join as a party in the case.A three-member judge bench led by Justice Mushir Alam granted the petition of the Sindh government as well as that of Daniel Pearl’s parents to appeal against an earlier judgment of the Sindh High Court to release British-born Shaikh, the main accused in the case.In April, the Sindh High Court commuted the death sentence of Sheikh – convicted for kidnapping and murdering Pearl in 2002 – to seven years, and acquitted three others who were serving life terms in the case. This decision had been handed down almost two decades after they were found guilty and jailed. The detention period of the accused was set to end on September 30.The counsel for Pearl’s parents, Faisal Siddiqui, argued on Monday that Sheikh wrote a confessional letter to the SHC Registrar .But the high court ignored his confession in the letter, he said.Siddiqui told the court that all parties in the case had filed an appeal against the decision of the Sindh High Court. He pleaded that an earlier decision by a trial court be reinstated that had condemned Sheikh to death.Faisal Siddiqui said the confessional statements of the two accused persons proved the murder to be a conspiracy. In August, the Sindh High Court had dismissed a petition challenging the extended detention of the men accused of kidnapping and murdering Pearl. The court had found it inadmissible.Daniel Pearl was kidnapped in Karachi in January 2002 and killed soon after. Sheikh has already spent 18 years in prison while on death row. The Sindh High Court had ruled that his seven-year sentence for kidnapping was counted as time served.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-s-top-court-stays-release-of-daniel-pearl-murder-accused/story-GtfPlTJwoAWKuwpQki2DiP.html
28-09-2020||World||UK to create 4-month stockpiles of protective equipment for health, social care workers||The United Kingdom will establish four-month stockpiles of personal protective equipment for use by health and social care workers from November as part of efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, the Department of Health and Social Care said on Monday.“Four-month stockpiles of items such as face masks, visors and gowns will be in place from November to provide a continuous flow to the frontline, helping to ensure staff always have the equipment they need,” the department said in a press release.UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock added that three-quarters of the demand for personal protective equipment will be met by domestic manufacturers, adding that the supplies will allow workers to continue to provide vital care amid the ongoing pandemic.“As we take every step to combat this virus we are setting out this plan to reassure our health and social care workers that they will have the PPE they need to carry out their tireless work,” Hancock was quoted as saying.In April, the UK government faced criticism for having failed to create stockpiles of vital medical equipment, including gowns and respirator masks, ahead of the onset of the coronavirus disease. At that time, National Health Service staff said that they were at risk due to equipment shortages.The United Kingdom is in the midst of a second Covid-19 wave, and 5,693 new positive tests were registered by the Department of Health and Social Care on Sunday. The country’s case total currently sits at 434,969 and 41,988 people have died due to complications from the disease within 28 days of a positive test, according to government data.Prime Minister Boris Johnson last week announced the introduction of pub and bar curfews from 22:00 [21:00 GMT] as part of renewed efforts to curb the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-create-4-month-stockpiles-of-protective-equipment-for-health-social-care-workers/story-BgHntJnMksQQp8txtNZkBI.html
28-09-2020||World||Belarus detains 500 at weekend anti-government protests||Authorities in Belarus have detained about 500 people during weekend protests against the country’s authoritarian president, who has claimed a sixth term in office in an election widely seen as rigged.Belarus’ interior ministry said Monday that 150 protesters were detained on Saturday and over 350 more on Sunday, when anti-government protests spanned 22 cities in the biggest challenge yet to President Alexander Lukashenko’s long reign.About 100,000 demonstrators marched in the Belarusian capital of Minsk on Sunday, demanding the resignation of Lukashenko, who has cracked down hard on opposition and independent news media during 26 years in power.According to the Viasna human rights group, the clampdown on the protesters this weekend wasn’t as violent as before.“Repressions get stuck when more than 100,000 people take to the streets,” Viasna head Ales Bialiatski said. “The authorities’ scare tactics don’t work anymore.”Hundreds of thousands of Belarusians have been protesting daily since the Aug. 9 presidential election, which officials claim handed Lukashenko, a 66-year-old former state farm director, a victory with 80% of the vote.Both opposition members and some poll workers say the vote was rigged, and the United States and the European Union have condemned the election as neither free nor fair. Many European countries have refused to recognize Lukashenko as the legitimate leader after his unexpected inauguration earlier this week.During the first days after the election, police used tear gas, truncheons and rubber bullets to disperse crowds. Some protesters died, many were injured and nearly 7,000 were detained. Amid international outrage over the violent suppression of the protests, Belarusian authorities switched to prosecuting top activists.Belarusian authorities have opened a criminal probe into members of the Coordination Council, created by the opposition to push for a peaceful transition of power, on the charges of undermining national security. Many members have been arrested or forced to leave the country.On Monday, Svetlana Alexievich, the winner of the 2015 Nobel Prize in literature and the only member of the council’s executive presidium still free in Belarus, left for Germany. The council told The Associated Press that Alexievich will spend a month in Germany and receive medical treatment, then she plans to travel to Italy and come back to Belarus.The council also reported Monday that the health of Maxim Znak, another top council member who was jailed earlier this month and has been on hunger strike since Sept. 18, took a sharp turn for the worse.It urged authorities to release Znak and make “quality medical treatment” available to him and urged Znak himself to stop the strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/belarus-detains-500-at-weekend-anti-government-protests/story-n94VVBpVdnuZoO045UBb4H.html
28-09-2020||World||Pakistan’s opposition leader Shahbaz Sharif arrested in money laundering case||Pakistan’s Leader of the Opposition and PML-N President Shahbaz Sharif was arrested on Monday after the Lahore High Court rejected his bail plea in a Rs 7 billion (USD 41.9 million) money laundering case. Shahbaz, the younger brother of former premier Nawaz Sharif, was arrested by the country’s anti-graft body National Accountability Bureau (NAB) a week after the Opposition parties launched an alliance to hold a countrywide protest movement to oust the Imran Khan government. Shahbaz, 69, was taken into custody from the court’s premises, where a large number of PML-N workers gathered ahead of the hearing. The NAB took him to its Lahore’s detention centre and will produce him to the accountability court for his physical remand. The LHC’s two-member bench headed by Sardar Ahemd Naeem rejected his bail after hearing the arguments from the NAB’s team and Shahbaz’s lawyer. The Imran Khan government last week filed the money laundering case against Shahbaz, who served as chief minister of Punjab from 2008 to 2018, and his family. Adviser to the Prime Minister on Interior and Accountability Shahzad Akbar on September 23 alleged that Shahbaz and his sons Hamza and Salman were involved in money laundering through fake accounts. Akbar said the financial monitoring unit had detected 177 suspicious transactions of Shahbaz’ family after which NAB started a probe. He alleged that billions of rupees were laundered through employees of the companies owned by Shahbaz and his children. Akbar accused Shahbaz and Hamza of taking kickbacks and commissions in return for party tickets and projects to favourites. Before his arrest, Shahbaz told media that Prime Minister Khan wanted to have him arrested. “It is the unholy alliance of Imran Khan and NAB that wanted to put me behind bars,” Shahbaz said. Reacting to his arrest, PML-N spokesperson Maryam Nawaz said Shahbaz has been arrested only because he did not leave his elder brother. Alleging that it was a political victimisation by the government, she said, “This politics of vengence cannot dampen the spirits of our workers.” PPP Chairperson Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari condemned Shehbaz’s arrest, saying that Prime Minister Khan was worried after the Opposition parties launched an alliance, Pakistan Democratic Movement, to oust the Imran Khan government. The Opposition was anticipating strong reaction from the government following Nawaz Sharif’s attack on the military in the multi-party conference over a week ago. Sharif while addressing the conference via video link from London talked about the Army’s involvement in politics, saying in the country “there is a state above the state.” He said that the joint Opposition’s struggle is not against Khan but against those who imposed an “inefficient” man on the nation through a rigged elections in 2018.” The Opposition is anticipating more arrests. The NAB has already issued a call up notice to JUI-F chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman who is also leading the joint opposition’s campaign against the government in income beyond means case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-s-opposition-leader-shahbaz-sharif-arrested-in-money-laundering-case/story-nrtCKe8EeNq68MMZogL2kI.html
28-09-2020||World||Five things to watch in the first Donald Trump vs Joe Biden debate||President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden square off on Tuesday in their first presidential debate. With five weeks to go until the November 3 general election, the stakes are high.Here are five things to watch for during the 90-minute debate in Cleveland:FLASHPOINTSThe televised match-up comes as Trump faces persistent questions, based on his statements about a rigged election, about whether he will accept the results should he lose. With millions at home watching, how will he respond if Biden pushes him to commit to a peaceful transfer of power? Both candidates will scuffle over Trump’s nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the U.S. Supreme Court. Trump is using his pick to rally his conservative voter base and distract from his record on the coronavirus and other matters, while Biden is warning of threats to health care and abortion rights.BIDEN’S MOMENTFor Biden, the debate will serve as sort of a reintroduction. While he has held limited events in some states and given media interviews, the coronavirus pandemic has largely rendered him off stage for months.That has allowed Biden to keep the focus where he wants it: on Trump and his performance in office. But on Tuesday, the Democratic nominee will have to make his own case for the presidency, while giving concise answers and avoiding some of the verbal mishaps that have plagued him throughout his political career.With Biden leading in polls, a strong outing could place Trump in even worse shape. A weak one could reshape the race. OWNING ITFaced with alarming coronavirus statistics or unrest in the streets, Trump is quick to blame Democratic officials, activists, scientists – anybody but him. One of Biden’s goals will be making sure the public understands that Trump is the one in charge.Trump could use his office to his advantage, as he often tries to do with the economy. Voters like to see a president take responsibility – for the good and the bad. John Geer, an expert on voter opinion at Vanderbilt University, wonders if Trump will react poorly to sharp or unfriendly queries from moderator Chris Wallace of Fox News. “Will Trump have a tough time answering non-softball questions?” Geer said. TWISTING THE TRUTHAs Trump’s campaign rallies show, he can fire off falsehoods in machine-gun fashion. Examples include the Republican’s common claim that the U.S. economy was operating at historic levels before the pandemic (it wasn’t) and that the virus has largely dissipated (it hasn’t).Attempting to constantly pin Trump to the truth could turn Biden into a real-time fact-checker - possibly to the Democrat’s detriment.“It’s a big mistake to try and do that,” said Aaron Kall, the director of debate at the University of Michigan. “You have to focus on your own agenda.”DOWN IN THE MUDBiden has worried aloud about reacting to Trump’s propensity for ad hominem attacks. On the campaign trail, the former vice president has sometimes shown flashes of temper, getting his “Irish up” as he calls it. Trump in a tweet on Sunday went as far as to suggest Biden will be on performance-enhancing drugs during the debate, signaling that perhaps there is little he will not do or say to rattle Biden and disrupt the proceedings. Polls show that Trump’s frequent questioning of the 77-year-old Biden’s mental fitness has registered with some voters. Trump’s team will be looking for moments where Biden seems flustered or unsure to exploit as viral video. “If the president lies, call it a lie. If he attacks Biden personally, just shrug it off and not get personal,” Geer said. “Biden needs to continue to be presidential and tough, even if there is some mud on his suit jacket.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/us-presidential-election/five-things-to-watch-in-the-first-donald-trump-joe-biden-debate/story-bV3TOSU4bqj3tmbVZXzN9J.html
28-09-2020||World||Covid-19: £10,000 fine regime comes into force in UK||A new regime of fines up to £10,000 for those who do not self-isolate or breach quarantine rules came into force on Monday as the Boris Johnson government grappled with a spike in new coronavirus cases, with more areas under local lockdowns.As of Sunday evening, 5,693 new cases were recorded, the same level of daily cases in the peak of April and May. The number of daily deaths has remained low at 17, compared to the peak of nearly 1,000 per day in April. Another national lockdown is one of the official options.The government is facing a new front in at least 40 universities, where the new academic year has begun, but thousands of students have been placed in isolation due to the outbreak of new cases. There are demands that universities refund the high fees given the situation, which includes mainly online teaching in all universities and students not getting the ‘university experience’.The new regime also includes a payment of £500 to those who test positive, self-isolate and cannot work from home. Fines for those breaking the rules start at £1,000 and increase up to £10,000 for repeat offenders.Health secretary Matt Hancock said: “Anyone can catch coronavirus and anyone can spread it. We all have a crucial part to play in keeping the number of new infections down and protecting our loved ones.“As cases rise, it is imperative we take action, and we are introducing a legal duty to self-isolate when told to do so…These simple steps can make a huge difference to reduce the spread of the virus, but we will not hesitate to put in place further measures if cases continue to rise”.Home secretary Priti Patel added: “These new measures are about saving lives. Everyone must take personal responsibility and self-isolate if they test positive or if told to do so…For those who fail to do so, the police will enforce the law”.Chancellor Rishi Sunak last week announced more financial support to employees and those self-employed, but struggling sectors such as hospitality despaired over new rules that make it mandatory to close at 10pm. Wedding planners and tourism sectors have also been struggling.In Wales, two-thirds of the population have been placed under local lockdown, including in two its biggest cities, Cardiff and Swansea. Several areas in north England and the Midlands are under similar local lockdowns, with London placed on the watchlist following rise in new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-10-000-fine-regime-comes-into-force-in-uk/story-CZ4Yl7IYWf7nWR70yaIVGK.html
28-09-2020||World||At least 21 reported killed as Armenia-Azerbaijan clashes enter second day||Armenian and Azeri forces exchanged fierce fire for a second day on Monday over the territory of Nagorno-Karabakh, with the sides accusing each other of using heavy artillery amid reports of at least 21 deaths and hundreds of people being wounded.The clashes between Armenia and Azerbaijan, the heaviest since 2016, have rekindled concern over stability in the South Caucasus region, a corridor for pipelines carrying oil and gas to world markets.The two former Soviet republics have clashed periodically in a decades-long conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh, a breakaway region that is inside Azerbaijan but is run by ethnic Armenians.Azerbaijan’s president declared a partial military mobilisation, and his foreign minister said six Azeri civilians had been killed and 19 injured since the fighting began. Interfax news agency quoted an Armenian defence ministry representative as saying 200 Armenians had been wounded. Nagorno-Karabakh reported that 15 more of its soldiers had been killed. It had said on Sunday 16 of its servicemen had been killed and more than 100 wounded after Azerbaijan launched an air and artillery attack.Nagorno-Karabakh also said it had recovered some territory that it had lost control of on Sunday, and said Azerbaijan had been using heavy artillery to shell areas. Azerbaijan’s defence ministry said Armenian forces were shelling the town of Terter.China and Russia urged both sides to show restraint.The clashes have spurred a flurry of diplomacy to defuse the reignited tensions between majority Christian Armenia and mainly Muslim Azerbaijan. Russia called for an immediate ceasefire and another regional power, Turkey, said it would support Azerbaijan, its traditional ally. Armenia’s ambassador to Russia said on Monday Turkey had sent around 4,000 fighters from northern Syria to Azerbaijan, Interfax news agency reported, an accusation denied by Baku.Under international law, Nagorno-Karabakh is recognised as part of Azerbaijan. But the ethnic Armenians who make up the vast majority of the population reject Azeri rule. They have run their own affairs, with support from Armenia, since Nagorno-Karabakh broke away from Azerbaijan in a conflict that erupted as the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.Although a ceasefire was agreed in 1994, after thousands of people were killed and many more displaced, Azerbaijan and Armenia frequently accuse each other of attacks around Nagorno-Karabakh and along the separate Azeri-Armenian frontier.Pipelines shipping Caspian oil and natural gas from Azerbaijan to the world pass close to Nagorno-Karabakh. At least 200 people were killed in a flare-up of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan in April 2016. At least 16 people were killed in clashes in July. (Reporting by Nvard Hovhannisyan in Yerevan and Nailia Bagirova in Baku; writing by Tom Balmforth; Editing by William Maclean/Mark Heinrich)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-21-reported-killed-as-armenia-azerbaijan-clashes-enter-second-day/story-bLQ2UoQjexFSTJllRTSUeN.html
28-09-2020||World||Mike Pompeo pledges US support to ease Greece-Turkey dispute||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Monday the United States will use its diplomatic and military influence in the region to try to ease a volatile dispute between NATO allies Greece and Turkey over energy rights in the eastern Mediterranean.Pompeo began a five-day regional tour Monday in the northern Greek city of Thessaloniki, days after Greece and Turkey committed to restarting a diplomatic dialogue on the dispute that triggered a dangerous military build-up — and fears of military conflict — in the disputed maritime area over the summer. “The United States and Greece shared views on the eastern Mediterranean and reaffirmed their belief that maritime delimitation issues should be resolved peacefully,” the two countries said in a joint statement after Pompeo met with Greek Foreign Minister Nikos Dendias. The two countries, it said, “reiterated their dedication to enhancing their close cooperation as NATO allies, using all appropriate means at their disposal, in order to safeguard stability and security in the wider region.” Relations between Greece and neighbouring Turkey deteriorated sharply this year over disputed maritime boundaries and exploration rights in the eastern Mediterranean.Turkey sent a research vessel, accompanied by warships, to prospect for energy resources in an area Greece claims is on its own continental shelf and where it claims exclusive economic rights. Athens sent warships of its own to the area.European Union members later this week are to discuss imposing sanctions on Turkey for its actions.Pompeo had discussed the situation in the eastern Mediterranean late Sunday with NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg as he headed to Greece.Pompeo’s regional tour will also include Italy, the Vatican, and Croatia.Later Monday, he will depart to the Greek island of Crete where he is scheduled to meet with Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and visit a US naval base at Souda Bay.Last October, Pompeo visited Athens and signed a revised defense cooperation agreement with Greece that provided for increasing joint US-Greece and NATO activity at three locations in Greece as well as infrastructure and other improvements at Souda Bay.Amid the tension with Turkey, Greece has announced major arms purchases, including fighter jets from France, as well as warships, helicopters, and weapons systems.Pompeo is the first US Secretary of State to visit Greece’s second-largest city of Thessaloniki. Security was tight in the port city, with the venue of Pompeo’s meeting with Dendias changing from the originally planned location, a local ministry, to a hotel for security reasons, authorities said. A protest against his visit was planned for Monday evening.During his visit to Thessaloniki, Pompeo is to sign a bilateral science and technology agreement, as well as host energy sector business leaders for a discussion to highlight energy diversification and infrastructure projects in Greece. He will also join members of the city’s Jewish community to commemorate Yom Kippur. No date has yet been set for the start of the Greek-Turkish exploratory talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-pledges-us-support-to-ease-greece-turkey-dispute/story-lgs06691Omc0fqsh5K6mKM.html
28-09-2020||World||Turkey prepares second indictment on 6 Khashoggi murder suspects: Report||Turkish prosecutors have prepared a second indictment against six Saudi officials in connection with the 2018 murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Istanbul, broadcaster NTV and other media said on Monday.The reports did not specify the charges in the indictment, nor did they say whether the six suspects were among those already being tried in absentia in an Istanbul court for Khashoggi’s killing.A Saudi court this month jailed eight people for between seven and 20 years for the murder, four months after Khashoggi’s family forgave his killers and enabled earlier death sentences to be set aside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-prepares-second-indictment-on-6-khashoggi-murder-suspects-report/story-NGDvy5utnS6rfJ629FlJQO.html
28-09-2020||World||UK Parliament’s bars exempt from government’s 10 pm curfew||While pubs and restaurants are now legally required to shut at 10 p.m., there is still one place where a select few thirsty Britons can get a late-night drink -- the Houses of Parliament.Westminster’s bars are exempt from new coronavirus regulations and can keep serving politicians and their staff alcohol after the curfew, the Times newspaper reported on Monday.Across London, and the country, people are now forced out of pubs on to the streets at 10 p.m. sparking scenes of crowded outdoor revelry that appear to defeat the point of the new rules, which is to promote social distancing.The official reason why Parliament’s bars are exempt is because they are classed as workplace canteens, according to the Times.But the loophole may enhance the feeling of many Britons that there’s one rule for government officials, and another for the rest of the country -- a sentiment that’s persisted since Boris Johnson’s top aide, Dominic Cummings, drove the length of England during lockdown in order to get childcare support for his four-year-old son.A House of Commons spokeswoman confirmed the exemption, but said staff follow social-distancing rules and regulations on cleaning to prevent transmission of the disease, according to the paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-parliament-s-bars-exempt-from-government-s-10-pm-curfew/story-b7i5NnqnHNwp6Ewi2YRarJ.html
28-09-2020||World||Huawei CFO Meng Wanzhou back in Canadian court fighting US extradition case||Huawei Technologies Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou will be back in a Canadian courtroom on Monday as her lawyers resume their fight to block the United States’ efforts to extradite her.Meng, 48, was arrested in December 2018 on a warrant from the United States charging her with bank fraud for misleading HSBC about Huawei’s business dealings in Iran and causing the bank to break U.S. sanction law. Huawei lawyers will argue that the U.S. extradition request was flawed because it omitted key evidence showing Meng did not lie to HSBC about Huawei’s business in Iran.Meng, the daughter of billionaire Huawei founder Ren Zhengfei, has said she is innocent and is fighting extradition from her house arrest in Vancouver.The arrest has strained China’s relations with both the United States and Canada. Soon after Meng’s detention, China arrested Canadian citizens Michael Spavor and Michael Kovrig, charging them with espionage.Meng will appear in British Columbia’s Supreme Court on Monday for five days of Vukelich hearings - in which the judge will ultimately decide whether to allow the defence to admit additional pieces of evidence in their favour.In this case, Huawei lawyers will use a PowerPoint presentation to show HSBC knew the extent of Huawei’s business dealings in Iran, which they say the United States did not accurately portray in its extradition request to Canada.In previously submitted documents, Meng’s lawyers claim the case that the United States submitted to Canada is “so replete with intentional and reckless error” that it violates her rights.The argument is part of Meng’s legal strategy to prove that Canadian and American authorities committed abuses of process while arresting her.Lawyers representing the Canadian attorney general are arguing for her extradition to the United States.Vukelich hearings are rare in extradition cases, said Gary Botting, an extradition lawyer based in Vancouver, but given the complexity of Meng’s case it is not surprising.The defence’s success “depends entirely on the nature of the evidence… and whether or not there is any substance to their allegations,” Botting added.Meng’s extradition trial is currently set to wrap up in April 2021, although if either side appeals the case, it could drag on for years through the Canadian justice system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/huawei-cfo-meng-back-in-canadian-court-fighting-u-s-extradition/story-3DrXx9Jle74ZlUzQV5ArhL.html
28-09-2020||World||Timeline of Huawei CFO Meng Wanzhou’s extradition case||Meng Wanzhou, chief financial officer of Huawei Technologies Co Ltd will appear in a Canadian court on Monday as her extradition hearing enters the next phase. Here is a timeline of the case.AUG. 22, 2018: A New York court issues an arrest warrant for Meng for her to stand trial in the United States.DEC. 1, 2018: Meng is arrested by Canadian police in Vancouver as she changes planes. The arrest is not made public until Dec. 5. The Chinese embassy in Canada demands her release.DEC. 6, 2018: Chinese officials say they have not been given a reason for Meng’s arrest. The White House and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau both move to distance themselves from the arrest.DEC. 7, 2018: Court proceedings show that the United States issued the arrest warrant because it believes Meng covered up attempts by Huawei-linked companies to sell equipment to Iran, breaking U.S. sanctions against the country.DEC. 8, 2018: China threatens Canada with consequences if it does not release Meng.DEC. 10, 2018: Two Canadians Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor are arrested in China.DEC. 11, 2018: Meng is released on bail to house arrest in Vancouver by a British Columbia court. U.S. President Donald Trump tells Reuters he will intervene in the case if it would serve national interests.JAN. 8, 2019: Documents found by Reuters confirm Huawei’s links to companies suspected of operating in Iran and Syria, breaking sanctions.JAN. 22, 2019: The U.S. Justice Department announces it will formally seek the extradition of Meng to the United States.JAN. 26, 2019: Trudeau fires John McCallum, Canada’s ambassador to China, after he tells Chinese-language media Huawei can make a good case against extradition, thanks in part to Trump’s comments about his willingness to get involved.FEB. 4, 2019: Canadian canola shipments are delayed in China.MARCH 1, 2019: Canada approves the extradition order of Meng to the United States.MARCH 3, 2019: Huawei sues the Canadian government over Meng’s arrest.MARCH 6, 2019: China says it found “hazardous pests” in Canadian canola samples and blocks most shipments of the crop.JUNE 25, 2019: China blocks all pork shipments from Canada.JULY 15, 2019: Canada postpones decision on whether to allow Huawei to build a 5G network in Canada.MAY 27, 2020: A British Columbia Supreme Court judge rules the charges against Meng met the legal standard of double criminality, meaning they could be considered crimes in both the United States and Canada.JUNE 19, 2020: China charges two detained Canadians with suspected espionage.JULY 27, 2020: Meng’s lawyers push for the release of more documents relating to her arrest, which Canada argued should not be handed over on the basis of national security.AUG. 25, 2020: The Canadian court blocks the release of further documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/timeline-of-huawei-cfo-meng-wanzhou-s-extradition-case/story-fV0WEWX9EHVphhVtpjZQ4L.html
28-09-2020||World||Alexei Navalny says Merkel visited him in Berlin hospital||Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny said on Monday that German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited him at a Berlin hospital where he was treated after being poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent.“I am very grateful to Chancellor Merkel for visiting me at the hospital,” the anti-corruption campaigner wrote on Twitter following reports of the meeting in German media. The 44-year-old Kremlin critic was discharged from Charite hospital in Berlin last week after receiving treatment over several weeks for exposure to Novichok. He fell ill on a flight from Siberia to Moscow in August in what his allies say was a state-sanctioned attack -- labs in France, Germany and Sweden confirmed he had been poisoned. German magazine Der Spiegel reported on Sunday that Merkel had visited Navalny in what it described as a “secret” meeting at Charite hospital that underscored the Chancellor’s personal commitment to Navalny’s case.Navalny confirmed the meeting but argued the label “secret” was not accurate, saying: “Rather, a private meeting and conversation with the family.”The Kremlin has denied allegations of involvement in the poisoning and accused Western leaders of launching a disinformation campaign over the opposition leader’s illness.Russia insists medical tests carried out by doctors in Omsk found no poison in Navalny’s body. It says it lacks grounds for a criminal investigation, despite international calls for a transparent probe.Navalny’s spokesperson Kira Yarmysh has said the Kremlin critic plans to return to Russia but will remain in Germany until he has recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alexei-navalny-says-merkel-visited-him-in-berlin-hospital/story-FWDINv6JhtucsfmgMJkcmO.html
28-09-2020||World||Azerbaijan-Armenia conflict: UN chief calls for ‘immediate’ end to clashes||Amid the ongoing clashes between Azerbaijan and Armenia, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Sunday (local time) said that he is concerned with the fresh “resumption of hostilities” between the two countries.“The Secretary-General strongly calls on the sides to immediately stop fighting, de-escalate tensions and return to meaningful negotiations without delay,” Guterres’s spokesman said in a statement.At least 23 people were killed and over 100 sustained injuries on Sunday (local time) as heavy clashes broke out between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces over the disputed separatist region of Nagorno-Karabakh, Al Jazeera reported.Meanwhile, US State Department Spokesperson Morgan Ortagus condemned the clashes between the two countries and said: “The US is alarmed by reports of military action along the Line of Contact between Armenia and Azerbaijan. We extend our condolences to the families of those killed and injured. We remain committed to helping the sides achieve a peaceful settlement.”According to Al Jazeera, Armenia has declared martial law and ordered its military to mobilise after a major “flare-up in violence” with Azerbaijan broke out over the disputed region.Sputnik quoted presidential aide Hikmet Hajiyev as saying that Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev has approved the introduction of martial law in several regions of the country with a curfew set to go into effect on September 28.Meanwhile, both have blamed each other for the escalation that led to casualties. Armenia accused the neighbour Azerbaijan “of hurting civilian settlements” in Nagorno-Karabakh -- which is recognised as a part of Azerbaijan internationally but controlled by Armenian forces.Azerbaijan launched what it described as a “counteroffensive,” while the self-proclaimed Republic of Artsakh accused Azerbaijani forces of opening fire against civilians and civilian infrastructure in its capital of Stepanakert. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/azerbaijan-armenia-conflict-un-chief-calls-for-immediate-end-to-clashes/story-wkgNQdnMWob0ntOOXrNNdP.html
28-09-2020||World||South Korea reports lowest new Covid 19 cases since fresh outbreaks last month||South Korea on Monday reported 50 new coronavirus cases, the lowest since a new wave of outbreaks emerged from a church and a large political rally last month.Of the new cases, 40 were domestic and 10 imported, according to the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA). The numbers were the lowest since Aug. 11, just before a new cluster of infections emerged from a church whose members attended an anti-government rally in Seoul on Aug. 15, which had boosted the daily tally to more than 440 late last month. The outbreaks have prompted the government to take unprecedented social distancing measures including a ban on on-sight nighttime dining. Some of the rules have been eased in recent weeks after the rate of daily infections slowed, but officials were still on high alert ahead of the Korean thanksgiving holidays of Chuseok this week, when tens of millions of people travel across the country. The government said the social distancing rules will remain in place during the holidays, calling for people to refrain from trips and gatherings and banning a “drive-thru” protest planned by some civic groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-reports-lowest-new-covid-19-cases-since-fresh-outbreaks-last-month/story-OnoSRqjWgZEVv9ri7FnnIO.html
28-09-2020||World||In Australia’s Covid-19 hotspot, single digit rise in infections for first time in 3 months||Australia’s coronavirus hotspot Victoria recorded a single digit rise in new cases for the first time in three months on Monday and lifted some of the state’s tough restrictions, as it aims for near-normal conditions by Christmas.Australia’s second-most populous state reported just five new cases and three deaths from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, after daily cases had topped 700 in early August. That pushed a key indicator, the rolling 14-day average, to 20.9 cases, tracking ahead of state government expectations. “That is a very, very significant set of numbers. We are well ahead of schedule,” Premier Daniel Andrews told a daily press conference, anticipating a move to “Covid normal”, where most restrictions are lifted. However, he urged people to continue to follow strict social distancing rules, despite the rigours of an eight-week lockdown so far to curb the second-wave outbreak.“If people don’t do the right thing in the final few weeks of the lockdown, or if they lie about where they’ve been, there’s no Covid-normal Christmas,” he said.Australia has reported just over 27,000 cases, and 875 deaths, with Victoria accounting for about 75% of infections and nearly 90% of all deaths. The numbers are still well below those in many other developed nations.Andrews said on Sunday the state would accelerate an easing of some restrictions, announcing an immediate end to nightly curfews and potentially bringing forward the next round of looser restrictions by a week to Oct. 19. However, a fine of nearly A$5,000 ($3,527) was introduced for anyone flouting restrictions that limit social gatherings to two households in an outside space, in a bid to prevent parties or other large events.The latest easing meant 127,000 workers were allowed to go back to work on Monday, including at manufacturing and food processing industries, giving a boost to the country’s hard-hit economy.Australia’s most populous state, New South Wales, on Monday reported its second consecutive day without a Covid-19 case in more than three months, as did the northeastern state of Queensland.Western Australia, which logged 7 infections on Sunday in workers on a bulk carrier moored off the iron ore export hub of Port Hedland, had yet to report its latest numbers. The latest declines have renewed attention on the possibility of travel between Australia and New Zealand.New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Monday told state broadcaster TVNZ it was “possible” that New Zealanders would be able to travel to at least some Australian regions before Christmas.Plans for a travel ‘bubble’ between the countries lost pace after the resurgence of Covid-19 in Melbourne and a second wave of infections in Auckland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-australia-s-covid-19-hotspot-single-digit-rise-in-infections-for-first-time-in-3-months/story-8O4u9qMxD7rWZLZ77ATAEJ.html
28-09-2020||World||Trump paid taxes of $750 in US for 2017 while his businesses paid $145,400 in India: Report||US President Donald Trump paid only $750 in federal income tax for 2017, his first year in the White House, compared to $145,400 his businesses paid in taxes in India that year, The New York Times reported.Trump dismissed claims in the bombshell report as “fake news”.In 2017, his businesses also paid substantially more taxes in Panama ($15,598) and in the Philippines ($156,824), said The Times, which said it had accessed the president’s previously undisclosed tax information.Trump paid $750 in 2016 as well, the year he ran for president and won. That was still way more than what he had paid the previous years. “He had paid no income taxes at all in 10 of the previous 15 years — largely because he reported losing much more money than he made,” the report said.He also got tax write-offs on business expenses such as meals and his aircraft, as well as on “the cost of haircuts,” including the more than $70,000 paid to style his hair during ‘The Apprentice’, a TV show he hosted, it said.“Together, nine Trump entities have written off at least $95,464 paid to a favourite hair and makeup artist of Ivanka Trump,” the report added.It cited Trump businesses’ tax payments in India to underscore his manipulation of his finances to pay less to negligible taxes at home, which he has not acknowledged by refusing to release his tax returns, claiming they are being audited.The report gave no details of the taxes in India. According to previous media reports, the Trump Organization’s largest overseas operations are in India.In the first two years of his taking office, the India businesses earned him $2.3 million, The Times said. In his first two years in the White House, the bulk of his $73 million earnings from foreign operations came from properties in Scotland and Ireland, while $3 million came from the Philippines, and $1 million from Turkey.The report drew a picture of President Trump that runs contrary to his self-propagated image of a successful businessman. His marquee golf course in the US and Europe, for instance, are all running in losses. So is his luxury hotel in Washington DC, just a few blocks from the White House, which is being patronised by his supporters and foreign governments lobbying his administration.Alan Garten, a lawyer for the Trump Organization, told The Times that “most, if not all, of the facts (in is report) appear to be inaccurate”.“It’s fake news,” President Trump told reporters at a news conference in the White House. “It’s totally fake news. Made up. Fake.”He went on to say, “Actually, I paid tax, but - and you’ll see that as soon as my tax returns - it’s under audit.”“They’ve been under audit for a long time. The IRS does not treat me well. They treat me like the Tea Party - like they treated the Tea Party. And they don’t treat me well. They treat me very badly.”The report came just two days before the first of the three presidential debates.But will it impact his re-election prospects? His core supporters have been seen to be unmoved by all negative reports and revelations about him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-paid-taxes-of-750-in-us-for-2017-while-his-businesses-paid-145-400-in-india-report/story-fdCV39JppefqfHq4IcCDVP.html
28-09-2020||World||Armenia-Azerbaijan clash: US will try to stop violence, says Donald Trump||US President Donald Trump on Sunday (local time) said that Washington is looking into what can be done to stop the flare-up of tensions in the disputed region of Nagorno-Karabakh.Military hostilities between Armenia and Azerbaijan erupted along the region’s contact line on Sunday morning, with each side blaming the other for putting civilian lives in danger.“We are looking at it very strongly. We have a lot of good relationships in that area, we will see if we can stop it,” Trump told reporters at the White House.The US State Department said in a statement addressing the Nagorno-Karabakh escalation that the involvement of any external party would be “deeply unhelpful and only exacerbate regional tensions.”Washington urged the conflicting parties to cooperate with the Minsk Group co-chairs, which, aside from the US, include France and Russia, with the aim to “return to substantive negotiations as soon as possible.” (ANI/Sputnik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/armenia-azerbaijan-clash-us-will-try-to-stop-violence-says-donald-trump/story-qly9uCo3lKKpnrl2vdGn1L.html
28-09-2020||World||With anger at police high, officers face greater danger||A man walks up to a squad car and opens fire on two sheriff’s deputies sitting inside. Two police officers are shot after responding to sounds of gunfire during a protest.The shootings — one in Los Angeles and the other 2000 miles (3,200 kilometers) away in Louisville, Kentucky, less than two weeks later — are stark reminders of the dangers law enforcement officers face at a time when anger toward them in the wake of police killings of Black Americans, such as George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, has boiled over.“I think it’s more than a suggestion that people are seeking to do harm to cops,” Chicago Police Superintendent David Brown told reporters at a recent briefing.The suspect who shot the deputies in Los Angeles has not been caught, so it’s not known why he opened fire. And authorities have not said why the suspect in Louisville, who was captured, targeted the officers. Those shootings came during protests of a grand jury decision not to charge police for Taylor’s killing.It is unclear how many times officers across the country have been shot at or otherwise attacked this year; police departments say such statistics are not readily available.But the few statistics available, such as those compiled by the FBI, show so far this year 37 law enforcement officers in the United States have been “feloniously killed” in the line of duty compared to 30 such deaths at this point last year. There are some 8,000 police agencies around the country, and tens of thousands of uniformed law enforcement officers.Experts and law enforcement officials agree that it is no coincidence that such violence comes at a time when Floyd’s killing and the resulting nationwide protests have thrust law enforcement officers into the spotlight. Videos of Black Americans being killed or wounded by police have played out across the nation’s television screens, including one that showed the last moments of Floyd’s life under the knee of a Minneapolis police officer and another showing a Kenosha, Wisconsin, officer firing seven bullets into Jacob Blake’s back, leaving him paralysed.In the ensuing demonstrations, police have both been criticized by those who saw their response in many cities as heavy-handed and the target of several violent attacks. Officers have been shot at, run over, blinded and jeered at by angry crowds who have wished for their deaths.The very role of police has been called into question and become a central theme in this year’s election. President Donald Trump and his supporters believe violence against police deserves more attention in the national debate centered on addressing racial inequality in the criminal justice system.“Part of what we are seeing is the response to images of officers killing people in ways the public sees as undeserved (and) rulings like the one in the Breonna Taylor case where it looks like the courts are willing to hold the safety of officers above the safety of civilians when they are often asleep and unarmed,” said Delores Jones-Brown, a retired professor from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York.There’s no question that police officers all over the country feel they are under siege.“We’re hyper vigilant anyway as a profession, but when officers are shot here and another parts of the country, it makes us even more concerned about the safety of our officers,” said Brown, Chicago’s police superintendent.According to the police department there, 66 officers have been shot at thus far this year, compared to 17 at this point last year. Ten were struck by the bullets and wounded. Last year at this time, three officers had been hit.In a “Potential Activity Alert,” first reported on by ABC 7 in Chicago, the FBI warned the police department that a person had notified the federal agency that several street gangs had “formed a pact to ‘shoot on-site any cop that has a weapon drawn on any subject in public.’” Marshall Hatch, a prominent minister on Chicago’s West Side, condemned the violence against police, both because it is wrong and because it might put people at even greater risk of police violence.“It’s going to make it more dangerous for everybody when you have police who are kind of spooked,” he said. “They are going to be hair-triggered.” Further, Hatch said the attacks could undermine the political goals of liberal activists who are demanding police reform. Trump has made questions of safety and security central to his reelection bid, and continued violence against police could help draw voters to his law-and-order message.National Black Lives Matter organisers also say they do not encourage or condone attacks on law enforcement or police supporters.In New York, where a few officers have been shot this year, a pace similar to that of recent years, the police department said the protests have taken their toll.“Since May 28th, 2020, our officers have been shot at, stabbed, assaulted with rocks, bricks and other debris, have been struck by vehicles and have even had Molotov cocktails (thrown) at them and inside their vehicles,” Sgt. Jessica McRorie, a spokesperson for the New York Police Department, said.In all, 472 officers suffered some form of injury during the protests, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-anger-at-police-high-officers-face-greater-danger/story-eXgqsAOav6GHDcoSZgKByM.html
28-09-2020||World||Trump’s ban on TikTok temporarily blocked by federal judge||President Donald Trump’s ban on TikTok was temporarily blocked by a federal judge, dealing a blow to the government in its showdown with the popular Chinese-owned app it says threatens national security.US District Judge Carl Nichols granted a preliminary injunction against the ban on the widely used video-sharing network after an unusual Sunday morning hearing. The judge refused to grant an injunction against a November deadline for a sale. TikTok’s owner, ByteDance Ltd., had requested the hold after the president ordered TikTok out of American app stores unless the company sold a stake in its US operations to a domestic buyer.The ban, scheduled to go into effect at 11:59 p.m. in New York, would have removed TikTok from the app stores run by Apple Inc. and Google’s Android, the most widely used marketplaces for downloadable apps. People who don’t yet have the app wouldn’t be able to get it, and those who already have it wouldn’t have access to updates needed to ensure its safe and smooth operation. TikTok is used regularly by 19 million Americans.ByteDance is fighting the Trump administration in court even as it pursues its approval for the sale of a stake in the US business to Oracle Corp. and Walmart Inc. Trump has called for bans on both TikTok and WeChat, owned by China’s Tencent Holdings Ltd., arguing that the apps could give China’s government access to millions of Americans’ personal data. The bans are part of an increasingly hard line he has taken on Beijing as the election approaches.Even as the sale of TikTok is still awaiting final US approvals, two of China’s most prominent state-backed media mouthpieces last week denounced the deal.“What the United States has done to TikTok is almost the same as a gangster forcing an unreasonable and unfair business deal on a legitimate company,” the state-run China Daily wrote in a Wednesday opinion piece. Hu Xijin, the influential editor-in-chief of the Party-run Global Times, tweeted that Beijing likely wouldn’t approve the current agreement as it endangered China’s national security.A lawyer for TikTok told the judge at Sunday’s virtual hearing that the ban was irrational given that ByteDance is in talks to strike a deal the president himself has demanded.“How does it make sense to impose this app-store ban tonight when there are negotiations underway that might make it unnecessary?” attorney John Hall asked.Hall said banning TikTok from US app stores would undermine security by preventing existing users from receiving weekly security updates. He argued that the government has less burdensome alternatives, such as the stake sale, to achieve its national-security aims. ByteDance says Trump is exceeding his authority with the ban.“The consequences immediately are grave,” Hall told the judge. “It would be no different than the government locking the doors to a public forum, roping off that town square.”His language echoed the ruling of a judge in California who put a hold on Trump’s WeChat ban last week, citing its effect on free speech and the irreparable harm that the ban would cause to the business.Daniel Schwei, a lawyer for the Justice Department, countered that “the concern here is about data security risk and leaving data vulnerable to the Chinese government. It is a threat today, it is a risk today, and therefore it deserves to be addressed today.” The US government decided last week to extend its deadline to allow for more sale discussions.In a filing on Friday, the US cited FBI Director Christopher Wray’s assessment that China poses the “greatest long-term threat to our nation’s information and intellectual property.”TikTok is “challenging a national security determination by the president as well as the judgment of the secretary of commerce about what’s necessary to mitigate those national security harms,” Schwei told the judge. “And I think the court owes significant deference to that.”In a separate case, a federal judge in Pennsylvania on Saturday rejected a request by TikTok users to halt the ban, saying the consequences of the ban wouldn’t be severe enough for the users to justify an injunction temporarily blocking the order while the litigation continues.The case is TikTok Inc. v. Trump, 20-cv-2658, US District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-s-ban-on-tiktok-temporarily-blocked-by-federal-judge/story-a3rJx2wSaomvYKHVTLXtvJ.html
28-09-2020||World||TikTok fate in the balance as judge weighs app store ban||Lawyers for TikTok pleaded with a US federal judge on Sunday to delay the Trump Administration’s ban of the popular video sharing program from app stores set to take effect at the end of the day, arguing the move would infringe on First Amendment rights and do irreparable harm to the business.The 90-minute hearing came after President Donald Trump declared this summer that TikTok was a threat to national security and that it either sold its US operations to US companies or the app would be barred from the country.Also read: Judge plans to decide on TikTok US app store ban by end of dayTikTok, owned by Chinese company ByteDance, is scrambling to firm up a deal tentatively struck a week ago in which it would partner with tech company Oracle and retailer Walmart and that would get the blessing of the Chinese and American governments. In the meantime, it is fighting to keep the app available in the USThe ban on new downloads of TikTok, which has about 100 million users in the U.S, was delayed once by the government. A more comprehensive ban is scheduled for November, about a week after the presidential election. Judge Carl Nichols of the US District Court for the District of Columbia said he would make a decision by late Sunday, leaving TikTok’s fate hanging.In arguments to Judge Nichols, TikTok lawyer John Hall said that TikTok is more than an app but rather is a “modern day version of a town square.”“If that prohibition goes into effect at midnight, the consequences immediately are grave,’“ Hall said. “It would be no different than the government locking the doors to a public forum, roping off that town square” at a time when a free exchange of ideas is necessary heading into a polarized election.Hall called the ban “punitive,” noting that this is “just a blunt way to whack the company now while doing nothing to achieve the stated objective of the prohibition. “TikTok lawyers also argued that a ban on the app would stop tens of thousands of potential viewers and content creators every month and would also hurt its ability to hire new talent. In addition, Hall argued that a ban would prevent existing users from automatically receiving security updates, eroding national security.Also read: TikTok will survive Donald Trump, US users sayJustice Department lawyer Daniel Schwei sought to undercut TikTok lawyers’ argument, saying that Chinese companies are not purely private and are subject to intrusive laws compelling their cooperation with intelligence agencies. The Justice Department has also argued that economic regulations of this nature generally are not subject to First Amendment scrutiny. Plaintiffs can’t claim a First Amendment right in hosting TikTok itself as a platform for others’ speech because merely hosting a platform is not an exercise of the First Amendment, the Justice Department contends.“This is the most immediate national security threat,” argued Schwei. “It is a threat today. It is a risk today and therefore it deserves to be addressed today even while other things are ongoing and playing out.”Schwei also argued that TikTok lawyers failed to prove it would suffer irreparable business harm.The Justice Department laid out its objections to TikTok’s motion for a temporary injunction in a brief under seal, but it was unsealed in redacted form to protect confidential business information.Trump set the process in motion with executive orders in August that declared TikTok and another Chinese app, WeChat, as threats to national security. The White House says the video service is a security risk because the personal information of its millions of US users could be handed over to Chinese authorities.Trump has said he would approve a proposed deal in which Oracle and Walmart could initially own a combined 20% of a new US entity, TikTok Global. Trump also said he could retract his approval if Oracle doesn’t have “total control.”The two sides of the TikTok deal have also appeared at odds over the corporate structure of TikTok Global. ByteDance said last week that it will still own 80% of the US entity after a financing round. Oracle, meanwhile, put out a statement saying that Americans “will be the majority and ByteDance will have no ownership in TikTok Global.”Chinese media have criticized the deal as bullying and extortion, suggesting that the Chinese government is not happy with the arrangement. ByteDance said Thursday it has applied for a Chinese technology export license after Beijing tightened control over exports last month in an effort to gain leverage over Washington’s attempt to force an outright sale of TikTok to US owners.China’s foreign ministry has said the government will “take necessary measures” to safeguard its companies but gave no indication what steps it can take to affect TikTok’s fate in the United States.TikTok is suing the US government over Trump’s Aug. 6 executive order, saying it is unlawful. So are resulting Commerce Department prohibitions that aim to kick TikTok out of US app stores and, in November, essentially shut it down in the US, it claimed.The Chinese firm said the president doesn’t have the authority to take these actions under the national-security law he cited; that the ban violates TikTok’s First Amendment speech rights and Fifth Amendment due-process rights; and that there’s no authority for the restrictions because they are not based on a national emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tiktok-fate-in-the-balance-as-judge-weighs-app-store-ban/story-wAaLqmMUrFU4NZmcA2IJTJ.html
28-09-2020||World||China reports 21 new Covid-19 cases versus 14 a day earlier||Mainland China reported 21 new coronavirus cases on Sept. 27, up from 14 a day earlier, the national health authority said on Monday.The National Health Commission said in a statement that all new cases were imported infections involving travellers from overseas. The number of new asymptomatic cases, who are not classified by China as confirmed Covid-19 patients, fell to 14 from 26 a day earlier.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in mainland China now stands at 85,372, while the death toll remained unchanged at 4,634.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mainland-china-reports-21-new-covid-19-cases-versus-14-a-day-earlier/story-OtFnDR3JemOqGp5bX9YqQL.html
28-09-2020||World||Report says Trump paid $750 in income taxes in 2016, 2017, he calls it ‘fake news’||President Donald Trump paid just $750 in federal income taxes the year he ran for president and in his first year in the White House, according to a report Sunday in The New York Times.Trump, who has fiercely guarded his tax filings and is the only president in modern times not to make them public, paid no federal income taxes in 10 of the past 15 years. He campaigned for office as a billionaire real estate mogul and successful businessman.Speaking at a news conference at the White House, Trump dismissed the report as “fake news” and said he has paid taxes, though he gave no specifics.The disclosure, which the Times said comes from tax return data it obtained extending over two decades, comes at a pivotal moment ahead of the first presidential debate Tuesday and weeks before a divisive election against Democrat Joe Biden.The president vowed that information about his taxes “will all be revealed.” But he offered no timeline for the disclosure and made similar promises during the 2016 campaign on which he never followed through.In fact, the president has fielded court challenges against those seeking access to his returns, including the US House, which is suing for access to Trump’s tax returns as part of congressional oversight.A lawyer for the Trump Organization, Alan Garten, and a spokesperson for the Trump Organization did not immediately respond to a request for comment from The Associated Press on the report.Garten told the Times that “most, if not all, of the facts appear to be inaccurate.” He said in a statement to the news organization that the president “has paid tens of millions of dollars in personal taxes to the federal government, including paying millions in personal taxes since announcing his candidacy in 2015.” During his first general election debate against Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016, Clinton said that perhaps Trump wasn’t releasing his tax returns because he had paid nothing in federal taxes.Trump interrupted her to say, “That makes me smart.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/report-says-trump-paid-750-in-income-taxes-in-2016-2017-he-calls-it-fake-news/story-6jJjo7PbicU59fRQQ83IbK.html
28-09-2020||World||11 killed in bar shooting in Mexico’s Guanajuato||Gunmen killed 11 people, including four women, early Sunday in a bar in the central Mexico state of Guanajuato.State prosecutors said the bullet-ridden bodies were found at a bar near the town of Jaral del Progreso. The area is near the border with Michoacán state, which has been a point of incursion for the Jalisco cartel, which wants to move into Guanajuato.Local media reported the four dead women may have been employed as dancers at the bar, located on the side of a highway. There was no immediate information on a possible motive in the attack, but it bore the signs of a drug gang killing.Guanajuato has been the most violent state in Mexico in recent years, but authorities had hoped the detention of a leader of a local gang on Aug. 2 would help stem the violence.The detained leader of the Santa Rosa de Lima gang, José Antonio Yépez Ortíz, was better known by his nickname “El Marro,” which means “The Sledgehammer.” He had long fought a bloody turf battle with the Jalisco cartel, and authorities blamed him for much of the violence in the industrial and farming state.While murders across the state dropped slightly to 339 in August from 403 in July, they may be rebounding in September as gang members fight to fill the vacuum left by Yépez Ortiz’s detention. (AP) CPS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/11-killed-in-bar-shooting-in-mexico-s-most-violent-state/story-W17ZDrVWd2aPzZZ52SqAPN.html
28-09-2020||World||Global coronavirus fatalities cross 1 million||An overnight curfew in Australia’s second-largest city will be lifted this week, officials said on Sunday, even as the global coronavirus toll surpassed one million dead.Worldwide, at least 1,000,374 people have died of the coronavirus from more than 33 million infections, according to virus tracker Worldometer.In Australia, Victoria Premier Daniel Andrews said Melbourne residents would be free from Monday to leave their homes for work, exercise, shop for essentials, or provide care, after active cases in the state fell below 400 for the first time since June 30. People will still be confined to within 5km of their homes, and fines for breaching other restrictions will be increased to almost Aus$5,000 ($3,515). Andrews said several other restrictions, including on religious services, will also be lifted. In New York state - once the epicentre of the US outbreak - new infections rose for the first time since June to above 1,000 a day, local officials said.But for residents of Wuhan, where the coronavirus first emerged late last year, life is already back to normal.There have been 50,340 confirmed cases and 3,869 deaths in Wuhan, according to the official figures - the majority of mainland China’s toll - but no new infections since May.Families are once again packing amusement parks, and shopping streets were full over the weekend - although residents remained cautious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-coronavirus-fatalities-cross-1-million/story-ytj8VwEIIi8uCj2uDh4QXN.html
28-09-2020||World||TikTok will survive Donald Trump, US users say||“I never thought I would have a voice, but this app has given me one and people have been listening,” said Rebecca Fisher-Tringale, explaining her love for social network TikTok, adding, “I never thought it would be possible.”The aspiring political scientist said she has no doubt TikTok will survive -- despite the Sword of Damocles that President Donald Trump has been dangling above the social network.Under her screen name @theprogressivepolicy, Fisher-Tringale comments on current events several times a day in short videos lambasting Trump for his handling of the coronavirus pandemic or his immigration policies. In early August, the president signed an executive order to force China’s ByteDance group to sell or spin off the platform to an American company in the name of an alleged threat to “national security” by TikTok. Trump has claimed, without giving evidence, that Beijing can use the hugely popular app to spy on Americans.But Fisher-Tringale shrugs this off; she is not overly worried about TikTok’s survival, despite its importance in her life. “I joined the app kind of as a joke in 2019 to watch videos and be entertained,” she said. “Then I started to make videos about my dog, then I made one about Trump, and it blew up,” she told AFP from her house-share in Boone, North Carolina. With more than 80,000 followers, the 21-year-old college student said she hopes to bring “different perspectives” to young people of all backgrounds, many of them not yet of voting age.“So many people have texted me saying we wouldn’t be involved in politics if it wasn’t for you,” she added.A viral rebellionIn one of her most viral episodes, Fisher-Tringale posted an ironic quiz for those who push back against anti-racist “Black Lives Matter” protesters by insisting that “All Lives Matter.”“Who was brought to America in chains at the bottom of ships?” she asked, before offering these options: “A. Black Lives; B. All Lives.”In June, she joined thousands of other TikTok users in registering online to attend a Trump rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma -- while planning all along not to go.The rows of empty seats seen in the televised event represented a humiliating setback for the Republican candidate’s campaign, but a source of pride for young TikTok’ers.“I think it made him angry,” Fisher-Tringale said of Trump; she believes that partly explains his antipathy to the platform.TikTok, which went global in 2018, is completely separate from its Chinese version, Douyin, which serves only the Chinese market. It now has some 100 million monthly users in the United States, half of them using the app every day, according to company data. It has built its rapid success on its format -- parodies, messages and dance or comedy performances of 15 to 60 seconds, set against popular music -- along with an algorithm that determines which content is most likely to interest each user.“There’s that virality component that TikTok has been able to take over, better than Facebook and Instagram,” said Saadia Mirza, who owns a marketing agency in Houston, Texas. “What Trump doesn’t like is this virality component, and that he can’t control the narrative on TikTok -- it’s something he doesn’t understand, so he’s afraid of it.”A question of prioritiesMirza turned to TikTok early in the coronavirus pandemic -- out of boredom, she says. She quickly recognized its potential and began posting political videos, urging fellow users to vote or explaining public policies while playing popular songs.Her motivation?“The wonderful thing is seeing young people or even my age group sharing ideas,” said the thirty-something Mirza. “I’m learning from other people.”After a series of diplomatic twists, and despite negotiations involving several companies, the network -- which now has some 700 million monthly users worldwide -- could disappear from the US if Washington and Beijing, along with concerned companies, fail to reach agreement. Many of TikTok’s creators and influencers say they will migrate to rival platforms -- like Instagram Reels, YouTube Shorts and Triller -- if need be.But, said nanny and part-time stand-up comedian Brittany Tilander, “I don’t think anything’s gonna happen with TikTok. I don’t think it’s going anywhere.”The 29-year-old from Kansas City has taken her humor to TikTok since the pandemic prevented her from appearing on stage. She, Fisher-Tringale and Mirza say they think the president’s position on TikTok will not stand; that other US institutions will protect the platform where they feel most free to express their opinions. Trump, said Tilander, is attacking the app as “a really nice distraction” from what she says is his poor job handling other issues. “With the pandemic going on, the wildfires, unemployment as high as it is, the civil rights movement -- in an election year (TikTok) should be really low on his priorities,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tiktok-will-survive-donald-trump-us-users-say/story-k2VbofhxGn1WvoNaEpRlHI.html
28-09-2020||World||Armenia, Azerbaijan dispute over Nagorno-Karabakh leads to death of 16||Fighting erupted anew Sunday between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces over the disputed separatist region of Nagorno-Karabakh and a top territorial official said 16 people were killed and more than 100 wounded, while Azerbaijan’s president said his military has suffered losses.Armenia also claimed that two Azerbaijani helicopters were shot down and three Azerbaijani tanks were hit by artillery, but Azerbaijan’s defense ministry rejected that claim.Heavy fighting broke out in the morning in the region that lies within Azerbaijan but has been under the control of ethnic Armenian forces backed by Armenia since 1994 at the end of a separatist war. It was not immediately clear what sparked the fighting, the heaviest since clashes in July killed 16 people from both sides.Nagorno-Karabakh authorities reported that shelling hit the region’s capital of Stepanakert and the towns of Martakert and Martuni. Armenian Defense Ministry spokesman Artsrun Hovhannisyan also said Azerbaijani shelling hit within Armenian territory near the town of Vardenis.Artur Sarkisian, deputy head of the Nagorno-Karabakh army, said that 16 people were killed and more than 100 wounded. It wasn’t immediately clear if the figure included both soldiers and civilians. Earlier, the Armenian human rights ombudsman said a woman and child had been killed in the shelling.Another Armenian Defense Ministry spokeswoman, Shushan Stepanyan, said “the Armenian side” shot down two helicopters and hit three tanks.Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev ordered martial law be imposed in some regions of the country and called for a curfew in major cities.In a televised address to the nation, Aliyev said that “there are losses among the Azerbaijani forces and the civilian population as a result of the Armenian bombardment,” but didn’t give further details. He also claimed that “many units of the enemy’s military equipment have been destroyed.” Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov “is conducting intensive contacts in order to induce the parties to cease fire and start negotiations to stabilize the situation,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said.Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama, chairman of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, called on the sides to stop fighting. The long-unsuccessful negotiations for resolving the territory’s status has been conducted under OSCE auspices.Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinian on Sunday said the country could reexamine whether to recognize Nagorno-Karabakh as independent. Such a move would likely obstruct further negotiations.Foreign Minister Javad Zarif of Iran, which borders both Azerbaijan and Armenia, said “We call for an immediate end to hostilities and urge dialogue to resolve differences. Our neighbours are our priority and we are ready to provide good offices to enable talks.” Turkey’s ruling party spokesman Omer Celik tweeted: “We vehemently condemn Armenia’s attack on Azerbaijan. Armenia has once again committed a provocation, ignoring law.” He promised Turkey would stand by Azerbaijan and said, “Armenia is playing with fire and endangering regional peace.” Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin also condemned Armenia.“Armenia has violated the cease-fire by attacking civilian settlements ... the international community must immediately say stop to this dangerous provocation,” Kalin tweeted.Mostly mountainous Nagorno-Karabakh — a region around 4,400 square kilometers (1,700 square miles) or about the size of the U.S. state of Delaware — lies 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the Armenian border. Local soldiers backed by Armenia also occupy some Azerbaijani territory outside the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/armenia-azerbaijan-dispute-over-nagorno-karabakh-leads-to-death-of-16/story-JUYed34JGAbjx2pMLUFk7M.html
28-09-2020||World||Joe Biden, fellow Democrats focus on healthcare in Supreme Court fight||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden and fellow Democrats on Sunday made it clear that their opposition to President Donald Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Amy Coney Barrett, will focus on the possibility she could cast a decisive vote to strike down the Obamacare health law.With Republicans controlling the Senate, Democrats have little leverage to prevent a quick vote on Barrett before the Nov. 3 election and almost no hope of preventing her confirmation.Instead, their attacks appeared aimed at energizing their political base with an issue that is already a talking point for Biden, who gave a speech on the subject in Wilmington, Delaware on Sunday.Barrett could be on the court’s bench for oral arguments on Nov. 10 in a case in which Trump and his Republican allies are seeking to invalidate the Affordable Care Act (ACA) - the 2010 law popularly known Obamacare. That could cost millions of Americans their healthcare coverage as well as protections for pre-existing health conditions. “It’s no mystery what is happening here. President Trump is trying to throw out the Affordable Care Act. He has been trying to do this for four years,” Biden said. In a White House Rose Garden ceremony on Saturday, Trump announced Barrett, 48, as his selection to replace liberal Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who died on Sept. 18 at age 87. Barrett said she would be a justice in the mold of her mentor, the late staunch conservative Antonin Scalia, who twice voted in favor of previous unsuccessful Obamacare challenges.Her confirmation would result in a 6-3 conservative majority on the court.Biden tied the fate of the law to the ongoing coronavirus crisis, in which more than 200,000 Americans have died.“The clear focus is: this is about your healthcare. This is about whether or not the ACA will exist. This is about whether or not pre-existing conditions will continue to be covered. This is about whether or not a woman can be charged more for the same procedure as a man. This is about people’s healthcare in the middle of a pandemic,” Biden said.Biden repeated his call that the winner of the presidential election should get to appoint the new justice.Trump said on Twitter on Sunday that if the Supreme Court strikes down the health law, “Obamacare will be replaced with a MUCH better, and FAR cheaper, alternative.”Trump failed in attempts to repeal Obamacare when Republicans controlled the Senate and House of Representatives, and Republicans have yet to say what they would replace the law with.‘FULFILLING THAT PROMISE’Democratic senators on Sunday echoed Biden’s message, saying it would be a focus of questions Barrett will face during a mutli-day confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee due to start on Oct. 12.“I want to ask her point blank ... whether or not her position is that we should end the Affordable Care Act providing health insurance for 20 million Americans and protections for Americans from one coast to the other from pre-existing conditions being used against them to buy health insurance,” Democratic Senator Dick Durbin said on ABC’s “This Week.” Republican senators have made it clear they plan to have a final vote on Barrett before the election, with Senator Mike Lee saying on ABC that he did not expect a backlash at the polls because Trump had campaigned in 2016 on appointing conservative justices.“This is exactly what he promised to do and he is fulfilling that promise,” Lee said.Lee said he believes Obamacare is unconstitutional but that it would be up to Barrett to vote as she saw fit.Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, who chairs the Judiciary Committee, said on Fox News Channel that the Democratic base is “going nuts” about the court vacancy and that activists are putting pressure on senators to “destroy” Barrett. Trump has urged Republicans, who hold a 53-47 Senate majority, to confirm Barrett, a federal appeals court judge and a favorite of religious conservatives, before the election. He has said he expects the justices to have to resolve the election, which has prompted Democrats to say Barrett should recuse herself from such cases.The only time in U.S. history that the Supreme Court has had to resolve a presidential election was in 2000. Barrett is expected to begin meetings with individual senators on Tuesday. Like Trump’s two other appointees, Neil Gorsuch in 2017 and Brett Kavanaugh in 2018, Barrett is young enough that she could serve for decades in the lifetime job, leaving a lasting conservative imprint. Barrett, a devout Roman Catholic who earned her law degree and taught at the University of Notre Dame in Indiana, was appointed by Trump to the Chicago-based 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in 2017. An emboldened Supreme Court conservative majority could shift the United States to the right on hot-button issues by, among other things, curbing abortion rights, striking down gun control laws, halting the expansion of LGBT rights, and endorsing new restrictions on voting rights.  (Reporting by Lawrence Hurley and Steve Holland; Additional reporting by Joseph Ax, Valerie Volcovici and Humeyra Pamuk; Editing by Tim Ahmann, Daniel Wallis and Bill Berkrot)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-fellow-democrats-focus-on-healthcare-in-supreme-court-fight/story-aR9TiTvq2DpX8RUVwRjeqN.html
28-09-2020||World||Nearly 1 million who died of Covid-19 also illuminated treatment||The nearly 1 million people around the world who have lost their lives to Covid-19 have left us a gift: Through desperate efforts to save their lives, scientists now better understand how to treat and prevent the disease — and millions of others may survive.Ming Wang, 71, and his wife were on a cruise from Australia, taking a break after decades of running the family’s Chinese restaurant in Papillion, Nebraska, when he was infected. In the 74 days he was hospitalised before his death in June, doctors frantically tried various experimental approaches, including enrolling him in a study of an antiviral drug that ultimately showed promise.“It was just touch and go. Everything they wanted to try we said yes, do it,” said Wang’s daughter, Anne Peterson. “We would give anything to have him back, but if what we and he went through would help future patients, that’s what we want.” Patients are already benefiting.Though more deaths are expected this fall because of the recent surge in coronavirus infections in the U.S. and elsewhere, there also are signs that death rates are declining and that people who get the virus now are faring better than did those in the early months of the pandemic.“Some of the reason we’re doing better is because of the advances,” Dr. Francis Collins, director of the U.S. National Institutes of Health, told The Associated Press. Several drugs have proved useful and doctors know more about how to care for the sickest patients in hospitals, he said.We’re in the “stormy adolescence” phase of learning what treatments work — beyond infancy but not “all grown up either,” Collins said.The nearly 1 million deaths attributed to the coronavirus in nine months are far more than the 690,000 from AIDS or the 400,000 from malaria in all of 2019. They’re trending just behind the 1.5 million from tuberculosis.Wealth and power have not shielded rich countries from the awful power of the virus. The United States “has been the worst-hit country in the world” with more than 6 million coronavirus infections and more than 200,000 deaths, reflecting “the lack of success that we have had in containing this outbreak,” Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease specialist, told a Harvard Medical School audience earlier this month.More than 40 per cent of U.S. adults are at risk for severe disease from the virus because of high blood pressure and other conditions. It’s not just old people in nursing homes who are dying, Fauci stressed.Dr. Jesse Goodman, a former U.S. Food and Drug Administration chief scientist now at Georgetown University, agreed.“Nobody should make a mistake about this” and think they’re not at risk just because they may not personally know someone who has died or haven’t witnessed what the virus can do firsthand, he said.Optimistic signsAlthough cases are rising, death rates seem to be falling, said Dr. Cyrus Shahpar, a former U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention scientist now at the nonprofit group Resolve to Save Lives.The virus’s true lethality — the infection fatality rate — isn’t yet known, because scientists don’t know how many people have had it without showing symptoms. What’s often reported are case fatality rates — the portion of people who have tested positive and then gone on to die. Comparing these from country to country is problematic because of differences in testing and vulnerable populations. Tracking these within a country over time also carries that risk, but it can suggest some trends.“The U.S. cumulative case fatality rate in April was around 5 per cent. Now we’re around 3 per cent,” Shahpar said.In England, researchers reported that case fatality rates have fallen substantially since peaking in April. The rate in August was around 1.5 per cent versus more than 6 per cent six weeks earlier.One reason is changing demographics: More cases these days are in younger people who are less likely to die from their infection than older people are.Increased testing also is playing a role: As more people with mild or no symptoms are detected, it expands the number of known infections and shrinks the proportion that prove fatal, Shahpar said.Better treatmentsIt’s clear that treatments also are affecting survival, many doctors said. People who have died from COVID-19, especially ones who took part in studies, have helped reveal what drugs do or do not help.Dexamethasone and similar steroids now are known to improve survival when used in hospitalised patients who need extra oxygen, but might be harmful for less sick patients.An antiviral drug, remdesivir, can speed recovery for severely ill patients, shaving four days off the average hospital stay. Two anti-inflammatory drugs, one used in combination with remdesivir — the drug Wang helped test — also have been reported to help although results of those studies have not yet been published.The jury is still out on convalescent plasma, which involves using antibody-rich blood from survivors to treat others. No large, high-quality studies have tested this well enough to know if it works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nearly-1m-who-died-of-covid-19-also-illuminated-treatment/story-QmW8Vfq4HCaCQqDrDuSRJO.html
28-09-2020||India||One more dies in Assam floods, over 3 lakh people affected in 13 districts||As the third wave of floods hits Assam, nearly 3.18 lakh people across 13 districts have been affected. One more person died due to drowning on Monday taking the total number of deaths this week to two. According to a bulletin by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 389 villages in 23 revenue circles have been affected by flooding due to heavy rainfall in the past few days. One person drowned at Raha in Nagaon district on Monday. Earlier, another person had drowned in Kampur area of the same district on Saturday. Also read: Assam’s only woman CM Syeda Anwara Taimur passes away in Australia at 83The flood-affected districts include Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Biswanath, Kamrup, Morigaon, Hojai, Nagaon, Majuli, Jorhat, Sibsagar, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia and West Karbi Anglong. A total of 13,463 hectares of crop area has been affected due to flooding and 117 people are taking shelter at two relief camps in Nagaon districts, the ASDMA bulletin mentioned. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), Brahmaputra river was flowing above the danger level at Nematighat and Tezpur while Jia Bharali and Kopili rivers have crossed the red mark at three places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-more-dies-in-assam-floods-over-3-lakh-people-affected-in-13-districts/story-ypYX294jx1CDwFhiOpEu6J.html
28-09-2020||India||At UNHRC, India takes on Pak over rights’ violations||New Delhi India rejected on Monday Pakistan’s criticism of the human rights situation in the country and called on Islamabad to do more to tackle issues such as the persecution of minorities, enforced disappearances and influx of outsiders in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Exercising its “right of reply” at a discussion in Geneva on situations requiring the attention of the UN Human Rights Council, India also pointed to Pakistan continuing to be a “safe harbour for terrorists” and said more training camps and launch-pads for terrorists had come up in PoK. “None of Pakistan’s vile accusations against India could stifle the voice of the minorities and the people under its subjugation. The fate of religious and ethnic minorities is well known when beheading is the only option in Pakistan in exchange for freedom of religion,” India said in its response delivered by Pawan Badhe, first secretary in the permanent mission in Geneva. “It should be a matter of concern for the Council that Pakistan has been continuously misusing this august forum for malicious propaganda against my country,” he added. Different international organisations had described Pakistan as the “killing field for minorities” and the Ahmadi community continues to be the most persecuted community in Pakistan. “Hundreds of Christians are persecuted every year while maximum of them are subjected to violent deaths in Pakistan,” Badhe said. Pakistan had also “institutionalised enforced disappearance as a tool of subjugation against dissent and criticism” against individuals and the entire society, the Indian response said. “Children as young as 12 years old in Balochistan, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Sindh are normally abducted and trained to be suicide bombers. In a chilling reminder to what Pakistan is capable of, ministers of Pakistan proudly call for another full-scale genocide against [the Baloch people] to resolve the political crisis in Balochistan,” it added. Badhe also said Pakistan’s “deceit and hypocrisy” is reflected in the “orchestrated mass influx” of outsiders to the Pakistan-occupied parts of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh through “discriminatory domicile laws”. “It’s baffling that there are three outsiders for every four [people] in the Pakistan occupied parts of Indian union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. While civil, political and constitutional rights are non-existent in Pakistan occupied parts of Indian union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, deliberate economic policies have also subjugated them to a life of extreme poverty,” he said. At the same, “full scale training camps and launch pads of terrorists are being escalated in Pakistan occupied parts of Indian union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh at great expense for sustaining cross-border terrorism against India. It’s not without reason that Pakistan remains a safe harbour for terrorists. While the world is busy combating the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan hoodwinks the world to allow delisting more than 4,000 proscribed terrorists to sustain its terror ecosystem,” he added. The Indian repose said nothing can change the fact that the “entire territory of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh is an integral part of India”, and Pakistan should see the reality and “stop coveting territories of other countries”. Statistics and data from international organisations have demonstrated that Pakistan is a “minefield for journalists and human rights defenders”, who are often subjected to murder, harassment and assault, the response further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-unhrc-india-takes-on-pak-over-rights-violations/story-QcogjxkttkHIb0hHblxryJ.html
28-09-2020||India||BJP’s Tejasvi kicks up row with ‘terror hub’ remark||Tejasvi Surya, the newly appointed national president of the BJP’s youth wing, has stirred up a political storm over his remark that Bengaluru has become the “epicentre of terror activities”, with the opposition Congress calling for his removal.“In last few years, Bengaluru, the Silicon Valley of India, has become epicentre of terror activities. It has been proved through many arrests and sleeper terror cells busted by the investigative agency in the city,” Surya said on Sunday, citing the August riots in the city. Violence broke out in the city on August 11 over an offensive Facebook post, allegedly by the relative of a Congress MLA. Three persons were killed in police firing and 60 policemen were injured during the clashes at DJ Halli and KG Halli areas in the eastern part of Bengaluru. The MP, who represents Bengaluru South in Lok Sabha, said he has asked Union home minister Amit Shah to open a cell of the National Investigation Agency in the city. “For a long time there was a demand that there must be a full-fledged NIA office in Karnataka,” he said, pointing out that the Central agency currently has their base in Hyderabad. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar condemned the Surya’ remarks, saying that Bengaluru had been known as a city of technological innovation. “GDP growth has crashed. With such statements, who will come and invest in Bangalore and Karnataka? Will the PM and FM answer?”The social media in-charge of JD(S) Prathap Kangal, too, hit out at Surya. “Dear Bengaluru South, you elected this clown! Now sit back relax and enjoy his circus!,” he tweeted.Chief minister Yediyurappa,however, extended support to the MP. “He said in the sense that in Bangalore terror activities these days are more.” The CM added that the government had been demanding an NIA division for the state and said that the new division would help in curbing terror activities. “I congratulate the PM for agreeing to this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-tejasvi-kicks-up-row-with-terror-hub-remark/story-86WF1ikL0eG4sjpOMX5aMP.html
28-09-2020||India||Maha govt frames SOPs for reopening of restaurants: CM Uddhav Thackeray||With the present lockdown in Maharashtra coming to end on September 30, the state government has framed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of restaurants and a decision will be taken once these guidelines are finalised, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Monday.The chief minister interacted with representatives of associations of restaurateurs from Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and Nagpur via video conferencing, an official statement said.“The state government has framed SOPs for reopening restaurants and those have been sent to the people concerned.“A decision about reopening restaurants will be taken once these (SOPs) are finalised,” the statement quoted Thackeray as saying.The chief minister said that given the Covid-19 threat, his government was taking steps cautiously and SOPs have been framed accordingly.The SOPs are not for putting restaurateurs in trouble, he added.Thackeray laid emphasis on wearing masks, cleaning hands and maintaining physical distance while living with Covid-19 and added these precautions need to be taken when restaurants are reopened.“It will be important to take care of the health of chefs and other staffers in restaurants. They must wear masks, clean hands and ensure safety and cleanliness in restaurants,” the chief minister said.He also spoke about the state government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative and urged restaurateurs to join it.He also asked all the stake-holders to sit together and finalise SOPs.Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sitaram Kunte said the SOPs will be finalised after holding another round of meeting with representatives of restaurants, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-govt-frames-sops-for-reopening-of-restaurants-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-90koDq2l80eoYuLPOGLe5N.html
28-09-2020||India||India gets a national Covid-19 registry for real-time hospital data||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday inaugurated the National Covid-19 Registry and a vaccine web portal aimed at collecting quality real-time clinical data on the Coronavirus disease (Covid19) patients from hospitals and laboratories. It will also document India’s efforts towards developing vaccines against the disease.The need for maintaining a registry was felt as documentation and description of the cases infected by Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and their course of illness is imperative for obtaining useful information regarding the illness, its behaviour in various groups of patients and the natural history of the disease.Context specific information in patients with tuberculosis or malnutrition as comorbidity is also pertinent to document as it may particularly influence clinical decision making and policy updates in the Indian setting. The registry will follow a hub and spoke model with primary data being collected in the electronic data capture form by satellite centres that are dedicated Covid-19 hospitals that are being trained, mentored and supervised by medical institutes of national repute chosen region-wise.The registry is being rolled out in phases, and the duration of the registry is at least for a year.In the first phase, 50 satellite centres and 14 registry sites have been included. The Central Implementation Committees have been constituted to provide supportive supervision, along with a steering committee of experts that has been put in place to provide overarching guidance.Among the 14 registry sites, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh is chosen to coordinate with states such as Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, and Himachal Pradesh. All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, will handhold Delhi and Bihar, and Rajasthan respectively. King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, will take care of Uttar Pradesh.In the Western part of the country, NHL Municipal Medical College, Ahmedabad, will handle Gujarat, Daman & Diu and Dadra & Nagar Haveli; and Armed Forces Medical College, Pune, is handling the state of Maharashtra and Goa.In the east, Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research, Kolkata, will be the mentor for West Bengal; and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar, will collect data from Odisha.Data from south Indian states of Karnataka, and Telangana, Andhra Pradesh will be collected by National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru, and Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad, respectively.Central India— Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, will be handled by All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhopal, and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Raipur.All eight north eastern states will be handled by the North-Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences, in Shillong. Data management for the registry, including the development of the electronic data capture form, is being done by ICMR’s National Institute of Medical Statistics. There will be full confidentiality maintained as patient identifiers are not being collected as part of the process.The vaccine web portal that was also launched alongside has a detailed information on development of Covid-19 vaccine candidates, especially the three candidates that are currently under advanced stages of human trials in India. “The portal provides useful and important information related to vaccine development, ongoing clinical trials and progress made in this area locally and globally at regular intervals. Today, in the times of Covid, vaccine development is watched very closely. Thus, it becomes important to showcase the status of vaccine development in the country,” said Harsh Vardhan, during the launch.Apart from Covid-19, the portal also has information on other vaccines such as those against Cholera, hepatitis, HPV, Shigella etc.“Both the Clinical Covid-19 Registry and Vaccine portal are live and functional,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gets-a-national-covid-19-registry-for-real-time-hospital-data/story-Pj5l9e329khje8cZ6DfMKL.html
28-09-2020||India||India, Denmark elevate ties to ‘green strategic partnership’, PM Modi calls for resilient supply chains||India and Denmark on Monday elevated their relations to a “green strategic partnership” that will focus on expanding economic ties, green growth and cooperation on global challenges such as climate change. The decision was made during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first virtual summit with a counterpart from a European Union nation, Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen. The two leaders also agreed to expand their cooperation on ways to combat Covid-19 and future pandemics, including the development of vaccines. However, the issue of Danish national Kim Davy, the main accused in the 1995 Purulia arms drop case – which had taken India-Denmark ties to an all-time low in 2012 – also figured in the meeting and both sides agreed that concerned officials will work for an early resolution of the matter. In his opening remarks at the meeting, Modi said the events of the past few months have highlighted the necessity of like-minded countries such as India and Denmark, which share a rules-based and democratic value system, to work together. The Covid-19 pandemic has also shown it is risky for global supply chains to rely heavily on any single source, he said. “We are working together with Japan and Australia for diversification and resilience of supply chains. Other like-minded countries can join this effort,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi. A joint statement said the new “green strategic partnership” will build on an existing Joint Commission for Cooperation, created in 2009, for cooperation in politics, economics and commerce, science and technology, energy, environment and education. It will also complement existing joint working groups on renewable energy, urban development, agriculture, innovation, shipping, labour mobility and digitisation. Joint secretary (Central Europe) Neeta Bhushan told reporters that the partnership is expected to lead to joint ventures and technology transfers, and help expand cooperation in renewable energy, environment, circular economy, water and waste management and air pollution. A time-bound action plan would be drawn up with specific targets for the next few years, she said. Danish companies with niche technologies and expertise have offered to help India in meeting its air pollution control targets, including in the key area of tackling the problem of burning crop stubble, she added. Asked whether the matter of Kim Davy had figured in the meeting, Bhushan said the extradition of the main accused in the Purulia arms drop case was mentioned and the two sides agreed that the concerned officials will be in “touch with each other and both sides will work for the early resolution of the issue”. In 2012, India had scaled down diplomatic ties with Denmark to signal its displeasure with the refusal of Danish officials to appeal in the Supreme Court against a lower court’s order barring Davy’s extradition. The two countries finally put their ties back on an even keel in 2018, when they decided to separate the Davy issue from the overall relationship. With more than 140 Danish companies having a presence in India, Modi proposed the creation of “India-Denmark energy parks” in areas with large numbers of Danish firms and a “India-Denmark skill institute” to train Indian manpower. Frederiksen, who was invited to visit India by Modi, offered to host the second India-Nordic summit in Copenhagen. “With India and Denmark joining hands together today, I am confident that we [will be] able to overcome both the situation when it comes to Covid-19 [and] climate change,” she said. The joint statement said the two sides also agreed to hold regular consultations on climate change and renewable energy and to cooperate in water efficiency and water loss, with the Jal Shakti ministry and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and Danish environment ministry being tasked to develop a work plan for 2021-23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-denmark-elevate-ties-to-green-strategic-partnership-pm-modi-calls-for-resilient-supply-chains/story-BSEH0JLuzm5SoXlM5NuJ0M.html
28-09-2020||India||‘Stubble burning can spike Covid-19 deaths’: Petition in SC||Pollution caused by stubble burning in Delhi’s neighbouring states can exponentially increase the mortality rate due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), claimed a petition filed in the Supreme Court seeking total ban on stubble burning.The plea has been moved by two young environmental activists – a Class 12 student, who under his own initiative of “Plant A Million Trees”, has planted 1.5 lakh trees in Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR), and a third-year law student who is an active campaigner against the use of single-use plastic.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde has listed the petition for hearing on October 6 along with the batch of MC Mehta matters pertaining to Delhi pollution. The petition was mentioned by senior advocate Harish Salve who is assisting the Court as amicus curiae (friend of Court).Also read: Covid-19 vaccine portal launched, all data linked to research on it“The consequence of allowing any stubble burning to take place in the times of this pandemic will be catastrophic,” the petition by the two young environmentalists said. Citing international medical studies, the plea stated that medical studies have found that people with weak respiratory system or living in polluted areas are at serious risk of contracting Covid-19 leading to death in some cases.“Any increase in air pollution levels in Delhi-NCR this year while the Covid-19 pandemic is spiralling out of control, will exponentially increase the mortality rate due to Covid-19 by compromising the respiratory system of the citizens, particularly in the case of senior citizens and children,” the petition stated. Further, it stated that enhanced pollution level can offer “direct pathway for airborne transmission” of Covid-19 virus.Salve told the Court that the petition raised an important issue and requires to be heard. Delhi witnesses an exponential rise in air pollution levels around this time of the year due to stubble burning by farmers in Punjab, Haryana Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Last year, the air quality index (AQI) crossed the 1,000 mark as stubble burning releases suspended particulate matter in the air and emits harmful gases such as carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide and methane.Farmers have to prepare the fields for sowing of the rabi crop after harvesting the Kharif crop. As the period between the two events is short, the remains of the Kharif crop cannot be manually plucked out and to remove it, they are set on fire. As a way out, the petition suggested that stubble removing machines should be either provided at affordable rents by state governments to small and marginal farmers. It recommended daily wage workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MNREGA) scheme. The petition has even recommended putting strict curbs on construction activities and polluting industries in Delhi-NCR if AQI crosses 150.In the MC Mehta case, the Supreme Court has been monitoring the stubble burning issue by asking respective state governments to inform progress made on setting up biomass plants and providing stubble removal machines to small farmers. Alternatively, the Court has directed setting up of a smog tower in Delhi on an experimental basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stubble-burning-can-spike-covid-19-deaths-petition-in-sc/story-8ErNjDNtAbazZ08J3vbZQP.html
28-09-2020||India||PD Vaghela appointed new TRAI chief||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Monday appointed 1986-Gujarat cadre IAS officer PD Vaghela to lead the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India. Vaghela was the secretary, pharmaceuticals, since August 2019. He played a crucial role in regulating prices of medicines and medical goods. Vaghela is also considered one of the foremost bureaucrats to have rolled out the goods and services tax (GST) in 2017. Vaghela’s term as chairperson of the telecom body will last for three years or until he turns 65. Vaghela will succeed RS Sharma, whose tenure as chief of TRAI lapses on September 30. Prior to TRAI, Sharma led the creation of Aadhaar as the director general and mission director of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) during 2009-2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pd-vaghela-appointed-new-trai-chief/story-VSvDexRaEw4JtfGOgxVEyL.html
28-09-2020||India||Amid a political storm, CM Yediyurappa downplays Tejasvi Surya’s ‘terror hub’ remark||The controversial statement of newly appointed Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya on Sunday that Bengaluru had ‘become the epicentre of terror activities’ and that is the reason why the home ministry had agreed to sanction a new National Investigative Agency office in the city, has kicked off a political storm.KPCC President D K Shivakumar hit out at Surya saying that while Bengaluru had been known as a city of technological innovation responsible for export of 34 per cent of the country’s IT services, Surya’s statement that it was an epicentre of terror was condemnable. “GDP growth has crashed. With such statements who will come and invest in Bengaluru and Karnataka? Will PM and FM answer?” he asked.However, chief minister Yediyurappa chose to downplay Surya’s comment saying, “He said in the sense that in Bengaluru terror activities these days, are more.” The CM went on to add that the government had been demanding an NIA division for the state and said that the new division would help in curbing terror activities. “I congratulate the PM for agreeing to this.”Surya had made the statement citing the recent Bengaluru riots in DJ Halli and KG Halli in which three people were killed and several people including policemen had been hurt after violence due to an alleged insult to the prophet of a religion. Investigations are ongoing in the case and nearly 370 people have been arrested in the violence with more than 65 FIR’s registered.The social media in-charge of JD(S) Prathap Kangal too hit out at Surya tweeting, “Dear Bengaluru South, you elected this clown! Now sit back relax and enjoy his circus!” Kangal was referring to the fact that Surya represents the Bengaluru South Lok Sabha seat in Parliament.The Congress has demanded that the BJP sack Surya from the party for besmirching Bengaluru and Karnataka’s reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-a-political-storm-cm-yediyurappa-downplays-tejasvi-surya-s-terror-hub-remark/story-BuCJtfp8FzaJIifyTFcDnM.html
28-09-2020||India||Journalist associations press for strict action in Chhattisgarh scribe attack case||Journalist associations set a deadline - October 1 - for the administration to take action against the accused who attacked senior journalist Kamal Shukla. Failing which, they said, they will go on an indefinite dharna from October 2 in front of the chief minister’s house in Raipur. A senior journalist working with a local daily in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region, Shukla was beaten up publicly and allegedly threatened with dire consequences when he went to a police station to register a case against people who had beaten up another journalist allegedly over some news report on Saturday.Shukla has alleged Jitendra Singh Thakur, a former president of Kanker Nagar Palika; Gaffar Memon, a representative of local Congress MLA; Shadaab Khan, a corporator; local scribe Ganesh Tiwari and others roughed him up. One of the accused, said Shukla, also brandished a pistol during the attack and the accused were Congress leaders and workers. Journalists of Chhattisgarh have also demanded that the accused be booked under more stringent sections of the IPC. “Journalist associations, including me, are demanding the charge of attempt to murder (section 307 ) be added in the FIR. We are also demanding that the collector and superintendent of police (SP) of Kanker district should be removed,” Kamal Shukla told HT. “The journalists of Chhattisgarh will gather on October 2 in Raipur and start a dharna in front of CM house,” Shukla added. A memorandum was also submitted by journalists to Governor Anusuiya Uike in which the journalists sought action. Meanwhile, Sunderaj P, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range), told HT the investigation is underway. “We are investigating the case from all angles,” the IG said. On Sunday, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel assured strict action against the accused. “What has happened is wrong. Irrespective of party affiliations, the action has been taken against the accused persons. It is a matter of investigation whether the accused had brought a pistol. If it is found to be true, further sections (of the IPC) will be included in the case,” the CM said while answering reporters on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-associations-press-for-strict-action-in-chhattisgarh-scribe-attack-case/story-o6BrqdVW9wY8tIKa0r93QN.html
28-09-2020||India||Assam’s only woman CM Syeda Anwara Taimur passes away in Australia at 83||Assam’s first and only woman chief minister Syeda Anwara Taimur passed away in Australia on Monday reportedly due to cardiac arrest. The 84-year-old was staying with her son in Australia for the past four years. Taimur was in the news in 2018 when her name didn’t appear in the Assam National Register of Citizens. She later informed that her family members may not have applied to get her name included in the list. “Condolences to the family and well-wishers of former Assam CM Syeda Anwara Taimurji. Her contribution towards Assam’s development will be remembered. May her soul rest in peace,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. A four-time Congress MLA beginning with her first election in 1972, Taimur held portfolios like education before becoming chief minister for a brief period from December 6, 1980 to June 30, 1981. She was nominated for a Rajya Sabha term in 1988. Taimur joined the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in 2011. “Saddened to know about the death of former CM Syeda Anwara Taimur-a veteran mass leader who championed the cause of politics with an undertone of people’s development. I convey my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members,” Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi said in a statement. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal also expressed condolences on the death of the veteran leader, offered condolences to the family and prayed for the departed soul. “An able administrator and affable people’s person, Syeda Mam was the only woman CM of Assam. A 4-term MLA, she had an illustrious political career spanning over 4 decades. My prayers and condolences,” Assam health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted. Congress Assam unit president Ripun Bora and the party leader of opposition in the Assam assembly Debabrata Saikia also expressed condolences at the death of Taimur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-only-woman-cm-syeda-anwara-taimur-passes-away-in-australia-at-83/story-FYokGRyun9lOBbkP8FgqaI.html
28-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre drops offset clause in govt-to-govt deal in new weapons buying policy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre drops offset clause in govt-to-govt deal in new weapons buying policyThis overrides the offset policy that required foreign vendors to invest in the country to boost indigenous capabilities at least 30% (it could go up to 50%) of the value of all contracts worth more than Rs 300 crore awarded to them. Read moreSonia Gandhi urges Congress-ruled states to override Centre’s farm lawsThe opposition party is citing the BJP government’s move in 2015 when it asked party-ruled states to bring their own laws to override the land acquisition act of 2013 passed during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) tenure for boosting infrastructure development. Read moreChandrababu Naidu told to move out of riverfront Amaravati bungalow, served noticeFor the second consecutive year, the residence of Telugu Desam Party president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on the Krishna riverfront at Vundavalli in Amaravati is facing a submergence threat due to heavy inflow into the river from upstream. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He’s a captain in the making’ - KXIP co-owner Ness Wadia’s huge praise for star performerKings XI Punjab captain KL Rahul showcased his talent with the bat when he hammered an unbeaten 132 runs in 69 balls against Royal Challengers Bangalore last week. Read moreNokia 5.3 review: This phone has a lot of catching up to doNokia 5.3 is the latest offering from HMD Global in India. But the phone faces stiff competition from its growing rivals. Read moreJeff Daniels interview: The Comey Rule star discusses if the show can sway the US elections, spell doom for Donald TrumpJeff Daniels, who plays former FBI director James Comey in the miniseries The Comey Rule, discusses if the show can have an impact on the mind of American voters ahead of the US presidential elections. Read moreWill Covid-19 pandemic normal become just plain normal?One feature of the Covid-19 Era is how much the standard ways of seeing and doing things have been remixed and turned upside down. The obvious question is then whether people will decide to make these new arrangements permanent or return to the old. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-drops-offset-clause-in-govt-to-govt-deal-in-new-weapons-buying-policy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dIysqgmLiZJjJ8di7XVSxJ.html
28-09-2020||India||India, Bangladesh foreign ministers to hold virtual meet to review ties||Connectivity and development projects and sharing of river waters are expected to be on the agenda of a meeting of the India- Bangladesh joint consultative commission (JCC) to be held on Tuesday, people familiar with developments said.The creation of a new mechanism to review the progress of bilateral development projects is also expected to figure in the virtual meeting to be chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Bangladeshi counterpart AK Abdul Momen, the people said on condition of anonymity.The Bangladeshi side is likely to raise the repatriation of Rohingya refugees to Myanmar and trade issues such as the recent Indian ban on onion exports. Other issues that are likely to come up are irritants in border management and creation of an air bubble, they added.Also read: Top Afghan negotiator in Taliban talks meets Pakistani leadershipThe sixth meeting of the JCC is being held at a time when bilateral ties have been affected by a string of irritants, including concerns in Bangladesh over comments by BJP leaders about the deportation of illegal migrants from Assam, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the ban on onion exports.The JCC meet will prepare the ground for a virtual meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina in December. The Bangladeshi foreign minister announced this meeting while interacting with reporters in Dhaka on Monday, though the date is yet to be finalised.“It will be a virtual meeting… but if the pandemic situation improves, it could be in person (in December),” Momen said. He indicated some agreements could be signed during the meeting between the premiers.Referring to the JCC meeting, Momen said, “India is our neighbour and our best friend. We have many things to discuss.” The JCC meeting will provide both sides an opportunity to clear the air on issues that have impacted the overall relationship. New Delhi took the initiative to put ties back on an even keel by sending foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to Dhaka in August when he delivered a message from PM Modi to Hasina.Shringla had also discussed the creation of a high-level mechanism to regularly review the progress of development projects funded by India during his meeting with Hasina. At least five key projects, including an oil pipeline and three cross-border rail links, are set to be completed in 2021. The monitoring mechanism will be jointly chaired by the Indian envoy in Dhaka and the Bangladeshi foreign secretary and will be on the lines of a similar mechanism India has created with Nepal.Also read: Centre drops offset clause in govt-to-govt deal in new weapons buying policyThe JCC meeting is also expected to decide the date for holding a meeting of the Joint Rivers Commission (JRC) which has not met since 2010. Bangladesh had called off a meeting of the JRC scheduled for December last year when concerns in Dhaka about the CAA and National Register of Citizens (NRC) were at a peak.The foreign ministers are expected to discuss a draft framework for water-sharing agreements on six rivers - Manu, Muhuri, Khowai, Gomti, Dharla and Dudhkumar - the people cited above said.The JCC meet will also discuss programmes to be organised during “Mujib Borsho” or the birth centenary of Bangladesh’s “Father of the Nation” Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and to mark the 50th anniversary of the creation of Bangladesh in 2021.The 5th JCC meeting was held in New Delhi in February last year wherein the two sides had signed four MoUs to strengthen multifaceted cooperation. However, Momen said no agreements were expected to be signed during Tuesday’s meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-foreign-ministers-to-hold-virtual-meet-to-review-ties/story-WV1nwKCAHmOb7zdJDTuOaI.html
28-09-2020||India||‘Funds cut, might serve only black tea’: Bengal Guv attacks Mamata Banerjee||Throwing a volley of charges against West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar alleged on Monday that she has breached the Constitution, turned Bengal into a police state and ordered electronic surveillance on politicians, businessmen and the media. Dhankhar, during a 90-minute speech at a media conference, also alleged that fund allocation for the Raj Bhawan has been cut to such extent that guests might be served only black tea in future. Though he had made some of these allegations in the recent past, Dhankhar went a step ahead and took the acrimonious relationship between the Raj Bhawan and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government a notch higher. He said that by not replying to his repeated queries on several issues, the chief minister has breached the Constitution. “Despotic tendencies can be seen prominently,” he said. Dhankhar also shot off a long letter to Banerjee, who was in north Bengal on a three-day tour. The letter was in connection with an earlier one in which he had asked Virendra, the director general of police (DGP) to give him a report on the law and order situation. Dhankhar said the DGP did not reply but the chief minister sent him a long letter on September 26, questioning his authority. “Sadly, Madam Chief Minister, you have chosen to take untenable alibi of Constitutional provisions, calling the Governor executive nominee, a mere spectator, to explain abdication of core police responsibilities by the DGP. This was least expected from you on such sensitive aspect. As Governor I am neither a post office nor a ‘rubber stamp’. I am stakeholder not in politics but surely in governance, to ensure it conforms to constitutionalism. State of affairs concerning law and order, health and finance could not have been more alarming as of now…”, the governor wrote in a letter to the CM. “To shield those, who need to be held accountable, signals death-knell of democratic governance - a situation staring us in the face, and now for long. Surely Madam Chief Minister, this is not in consonance with your oath that ordains you to ‘bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established,” Dhankhar wrote. “While contention of Governor’s role under the Constitution can and should be debated, Madam Chief Minister, is it appropriate for the Chief Minister, answerable to her own people, to so justify her DGP’s inactions and omissions ! Your defence of DGP vindicates my stand that governance in the State is on ‘police crutches’ and signals public admission of this by you,” the letter said. “….what is amiss if the Governor wants the DGP to elaborate and explain the deteriorating law and order in the wake of political violence, political vendetta, ruthless quelling of opposition, incessant extortion by the syndicates on free run and frequent hurling of bombs. Maoism raising its head and terror outfits making state their haven add to our worries,” he added. The governor requested that he be provided with facts on all police cases registered since 2016. “Your favouring me with facts on all the FIRs registered since 2016 provided to the NCRB would be eye opener ! Since DGP is not imparting details of the crimes in the State, I will rely on NCRB data on the State crime, and come point by point on political violence, false cases under POSCO, NDPS, Arms Act etc. against political opponents, electronic surveillance on anyone who dares against powers that be, tolabazi (extortion), corruption cases and systematic santras (terror). I will also come point by point how and why a case was registered or not registered, with manipulated incriminations, under the dictate of powers that lack legal authority or sanction,” wrote Dhankhar. Suggesting that electronic surveillance had made people feel insecure, Dhankhar wrote, “People now prefer to speak on FaceTime. If they do not, then are advised to. Our state has become a FaceTime state. Does this indicate safe and secured environment? Answer is obvious- No. If not DGP, who then will answer to it? Fact is no response is forthcoming from both sides.” “The biggest question, Madam Chief Minister, in our State is: Whether the police are doing their duty as prescribed by the law? And, if the political executive itself is seen as forcing the police to behave like party worker, then who should decide, whether the police are right or wrong? Can the chief of the police of the state hide behind his Chief Minister for his inactions, omissions and failure to conform to law and conduct? Can or should it be allowed? Would it not be a ‘murder of democracy?’ I am not in doubt - all this cannot be countenanced in a system accountable to Constitution,” Dhankhar continued. The governor spoke of the “alarming ground reality” and urged the chief minister to travel incognito to experience it first hand. “There can be no denying the explosive decline in situation of law and order in the State. Going by the recent revelations of terror modules functioning, the situation is now even beyond ‘cliff hanging’. Just for a change get into objective mode, open your window and traverse State incognito, you’ll find that every reflection by me is authentic mirroring of pathetically alarming ground reality,” wrote the governor. Seeking a meeting with Banerjee, Dhankhar wrote, “Sensitive issues, that I do not seek to put in print, for fear of sensationalism, as indicated to you, will be shared once you, conforming to constitutional prescriptions, spare time to brief me. I have as a matter of fact underplayed the glaring enormity that ridicules democratic governance.” Moving to arrest the narrative, TMC leaders and ministers refuted Dhankhar’s statements. “Dhankhar referred to Article 167 of the Constitution at the media conference, saying its provisions had been breached by the chief minister. Article 167 says the governor can seek information from the government but does not specify any deadline for the chief minister to reply. The constitution says that executive powers of the governor shall be executed through the officers of the state. The governor does not have any executive power of his own,” said Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson. “The governor is distorting the spirit of the Constitution for his own convenience to satisfy the party in power at the Centre. He could have done the same as state president of the BJP,” quipped panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee. CPI(M) lawmaker and leader of the Left parties in the assembly, Sujan Chakraborty, however did not criticise Dhankhar. “He was speaking on behalf of the people of the state,” said Chakraborty. Congress legislator and leader of the opposition in the assembly, Abdul Mannan, also supported Dhankhar. “Banerjee is questioning the governor’s authority because an autocratic leader cannot tolerate criticism,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despotic-tendencies-seen-prominently-bengal-guv-targets-mamata-banerjee/story-M2OvOX9wLwEObFDC0uDmoK.html
28-09-2020||India||Covid: Arunachal may reopen for tourists after October, says CM Pema Khandu||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu on Monday hinted that the state will reopen for tourists after October.Attending a virtual programme organised by the central government, Khandu said that the tourism sector has suffered a lot in the last six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic which affected the livelihood of thousands of people and dented the state’s revenue.“Tourism is one major source of revenue and employment. Keeping all considerations in mind, we will be re-opening the sector. If everything goes well, after October we will be open to visitors,” he said at the Destination North East programme.Destination North East is a calendar event of the Ministry of Department of North Eastern Region (DoNER) showcasing the region’s rich heritage, diversity and tourism potentials. Union Home Minister Anit Shah inaugurated the four-day programme on Sunday.Khandu lauded the DoNER ministry and the North East Council (NEC) for organising the virtual event and said that it would boost tourism in the region post-pandemic.He said that Arunachal Pradesh with its diversity of geographic and demographic profiles can become a centre of rural, cultural and adventure tourism.The chief minister said that in the last six years, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, North East has witnessed a paradigm shift in its infrastructure development.“Thanks to Modiji’s love and concern towards the region, today we have railways, roads and airports. Several projects are under implementation while several are in the pipeline,” he said.Endorsing DoNER Minister Dr Jitendra Singh’s prediction that North East would be next tourism hub of post- Covid-19 India, Khandu said “We are committed to preserve our culture while walking the path of development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-arunachal-may-reopen-for-tourists-after-october-says-cm-pema-khandu/story-nJIcC98Iz5v21IHs8mNDbN.html
28-09-2020||India||Kerala CM Vijayan calls for all-party meeting amid surge in Covid cases||As the Covid-19 case graph continues to go up, the Kerala government has called an all-party meet on Tuesday to discuss ways to contain the pandemic. In last one week, the state has reported more than 41,000 cases and the test positivity rate has also gone up to 12.59 but mortality rate is 0.4 per cent, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The national test positivity rate is around 8 per cent. The government has also decided to implement virus control measures stringently. Fine for those who failed to wear a mask will be doubled and in marriage parties, the number of invitees cannot exceed 50. At cremations, only 20 people will be allowed. The CM said strict action will be taken against shops and business establishments if they flout norms.“Situation is really serious and it is time to step up our containment efforts. There is no room for any laxity and all will have to rise up to the occasion,” the CM said. He said some of the cured patients were showing many post-Covid complications and special clinics will be opened for them. In view of rising cases, Congress-led United Democratic Front has stopped its ongoing stir against higher education minister KT Jaleel, who was questioned by the National Investigation Agency and Enforcement Directorate in connection with the gold smuggling case. Earlier state health minister KK Shailaja had blamed opposition parties for the recent surge in cases. The state had witnessed violent protests. On Monday, the state reported 4538 cases; 1,21, 268 people have recovered and there were 57,979 active cases. With 20 deaths, the toll has gone up to 698. Among new cases, 67 are health workers and Kozhikode district has overtaken Thiruvananthapuram with most Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-vijayan-calls-for-all-party-meeting-amid-surge-in-covid-cases/story-WLogCdd6k7LVpmzrk68kkO.html
28-09-2020||India||Land acquisition matter: Some clarity needed on larger bench verdict, says SC||The Supreme Court Monday said some clarity was required on a judgement delivered by its five-judge constitution bench on the issue of land acquisition and payment of fair compensation as it creates some confusion.A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian observed that there were “some questions” which were required to be discussed.“There are some questions in my mind. I want to discuss it with my brothers (judges on the bench). The constitution bench judgement, I think, creates a confusion,” said the CJI.The bench observed, “Suppose, there is a property of which the government has not taken possession and has not paid compensation, then the acquisition will lapse.” “If the government has taken over possession but not paid compensation, the five-judges says the acquisition will not lapse,” it said.“For how long, is the question,” the bench said, adding, “For how long if the government does not pay compensation, the acquisition will continue?”. A five-judge bench of the apex court had on March 6 this year delivered a verdict and held that disputes over land acquisition and payment of fair compensation to owners cannot be re-opened under the 2013 Act if the legal processes have been completed before January 1, 2014.The constitution bench had interpreted section 24 of the ‘Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013’ as there were two conflicting verdicts by different benches of the apex court on the issue.Section 24 of the Act deals with situations under which a land acquisition proceedings shall deemed to have been lapsed.The provision said that if no award of compensation has been decided in a land acquisition case by January 1, 2014, then the provisions of 2013 Act will apply in determining the compensation for acquisition of land.“We will discuss it and take up the matter,” the bench said.“We have certain questions. There is something which we want to be clear about,” it said adding that it will hear the matter after two weeks. In its verdict, the constitution bench had said that under the provisions of Section 24(1)(a) of the Act, if the award is not made as on January 1, 2014, there is no lapse of proceedings and compensation has to be determined under the provisions of 2013 law.It had said the deemed lapse of land acquisition proceedings under section 24(2) of the 2013 Act takes place where due to inaction of authorities for five years or more prior to commencement of the law, the possession of land has not been taken nor compensation has been paid. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench that these matters, which concerned section 24 of the Act, were kept pending as the issue was referred to the constitution bench.He said several such matters are pending in the apex court as well as different high courts.“The judgement of the constitution bench would operate differently based on the facts of each case,” Mehta told the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/land-acquisition-matter-some-clarity-needed-on-larger-bench-verdict-says-sc/story-1C9aUu5jmVnjFjmRsUigPI.html
28-09-2020||India||Defence ministry clears military purchases worth Rs 2,920 crore, rifles from US among them||India’s defence acquisition council (DAC) on Monday cleared the decks for the purchase of military hardware worth Rs 2,290 crore, including assault rifles for frontline troops from the United States and the smart anti-airfield weapon, a defence ministry spokesperson said. The Indian Army is laying the groundwork to buy an additional 72,000 Sig Sauer assault rifles from the US, officials said. These rifles will cost Rs 780 crore, the spokesperson said. This proposed purchase follows an order for 72,400 assault rifles placed with the US last year. India signed the previous order worth Rs 700 crore in early 2019 and the deliveries of all the rifles have been completed. The DAC, headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, also cleared the purchase of the smart anti-airfield weapon at a cost of Rs 970 crore to add to the firepower of the navy and the air force, the ministry said in a statement. “The DAC approved procurement of static HF transceiver sets…The HF radio sets will enable seamless communication for the field units of army and air force and are being procured at an approximate cost of Rs 540 crore,” it added. The Sig Sauer rifles are being bought to meet the army’s requirement of a total of eight lakh assault rifles. The new assault rifles will gradually replace the flaw-ridden 5.56mm INSAS (Indian Small Arms System) rifles inducted around 22 years ago. The remaining requirements of the army will be met through a Make in India project for the local production of AK-203 assault rifles at Amethi’s Korwa, and this procurement is in its final stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-clears-military-purchases-worth-rs-2-920-crore-rifles-from-us-among-them/story-RYz3ghrd3l6zJrO6DofMHP.html
28-09-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi urges Congress-ruled states to override Centre’s farm laws||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday advised party-ruled states to explore the possibilities to pass legislations under Article 254(2) to negate the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government’s “anti-agricultural laws” and prevent the “grave injustice” being done to farmers.The opposition party is citing the BJP government’s move in 2015 when it asked party-ruled states to bring their own laws to override the land acquisition act of 2013 passed during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) tenure for boosting infrastructure development.“Congress president has advised Congress ruled states to explore the possibilities to pass laws in their respective states under Article 254(2) of the Constitution which allows the state legislatures to pass a law to negate the anti-agriculture central laws encroaching upon state’s jurisdiction under the Constitution,” Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal said in a statement.“This would enable the states to bypass the unacceptable anti-farmers’ provisions in the three draconian Agricultural laws including the abolition of MSP and disruption of APMCs in Congress-ruled states,” he added.The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government pushed three bills to deregulate agricultural trade, which were passed controversially by Parliament, overriding demands by the Opposition for greater scrutiny and voting. Big farmers’ groups, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, are protesting the bills, fearing deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful corporate agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before.The reforms have cost the BJP one of its oldest allies, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which has quit the ruling alliance. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 seek to liberalise farm trade, enable modern supply chains, allow agribusinesses and farmers to enter into contracts, break interlocked markets and create a seamless commodities trade, currently fragmented. The ‘Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020’ allows barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade of primary agricultural commodities, bypassing notified markets under the agricultural produce market committees. The bill will enable food traders to buy farmers’ produce from any market, rather than bind them to the specific markets where they are licensed to operate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-urges-congress-ruled-states-to-override-centre-s-farm-laws/story-cG0aRIINWnyLHKDTeO1t3N.html
28-09-2020||India||Make realistic budget estimates, ministries told over unused funds issue||The government will ask ministries and departments to provide realistic estimates of their annual outlays to avoid accumulation of huge unspent money at the end of the financial year even as the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) last week pointed at Rs 4.72 lakh crore unspent amount in FY-19 due to injudicious formulation of budget, two government officials said. About Rs 4.72 lakh crore could not be spent in the financial year ended March 2019 due to various reasons, including regulation of spending, short transfer against budget estimate, reversal of expenditure and shortfalls in performance, they said requesting anonymity.A recent CAG audit report on the Union government’s account for 2018-19 pointed at the discrepancy. The report was tabled in Parliament on September 23. The government draws specified sums from the Consolidated Fund of India (CFI) for identified activities and functions as approved by Parliament. Authorisations by Parliament are based on budget estimates (BE) prepared by ministries and departments as directed by the budget division of the ministry of finance.“These instructions envisage that the BEs are prepared realistically to meet all expenditure requirements and ensure that unspent balances are avoided,” the CAG report said. The appropriation accounts of the government for 2018-19 cover approved provisions aggregating to Rs 97.58 lakh crore. The total expenditure that fiscal year, however, amounted to Rs 92.91 lakh crore, it said.The finance ministry did not respond to email queries on this matter.The Public Accounts Committee (PAC), a panel of members of Parliament to audit the revenue and the expenditure of the government, had also raised the issue of large savings in the grants of ministries. According to the CAG, the committee had said that savings of Rs 100 crore or above are indicative of “defective budgeting” as well as “shortfall in budget performance” and such savings are a result of “injudicious formulation” of budget, which could be significantly reduced by making realistic budgetary projections.According to the audit report, savings of Rs 1.31 lakh crore in 2018-19 were on account of regulation of expenditure both at revised estimate (RE) stages and thereafter. It included Rs 69,889.71 crore due to withdrawal of food subsidy to Food Corporation of India (FCI), Rs 35,725 crore due to short transfer of Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess to GST Compensation Fund, Rs 5,000 crore due to reversal of expenditure on defence pension, Rs 6,842.64 crore on regulation of capital expenditure for railways and reduction in provisions at RE stage of Rs 4,953.05 crore due to lesser receipts, the report said.There was a saving of Rs 22,039.83 crore on account of less than budgeted transfer of funds to Madhyamik and Uchhattar Shiksha Kosh (MUSK). Savings of Rs 43,104.51 crore occurred due to reasons like finalisation of fewer spending proposals, non-receipt of viable proposals from states, non-receipt of utilisation certificates, schemes not being formulated and delays in grant of approvals.Savings of Rs 1,43,999.12 crore occurred due to factors such as unspent balances not being considered, revision in funding decisions and fund requirements after BE stage, gaps in cash flow forecasting, inaccurate assessment of internal resource generation and budgeting of funds under wrong section of grant. “These indicate gaps with respect to budget formulation and assessment,” the report said.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said some of the savings were because of accounting issues and also due to restraint by some ministries as the year was preceding the general election. “The Department of Agriculture Co-operation and Farmers Welfare has clearly stated the operation of the Model Code of Conduct as one of the reasons for short spending/savings,” he said. He, however, said the focus of the government is often on “fiscal consolidation rather than quality spending”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-realistic-budget-estimates-ministries-told-over-unused-funds-issue/story-OHQMmdxlhoXPFzc37D402I.html
28-09-2020||India||Elephant dies of electrocution in Chhattisgarh, 3rd incident in 6 days||An elephant died due to electrocution after coming in contact with live wire hanging low in the field in Gariaband district on Monday.This is the third elephant death reported in the last six days in the state and eleven in the last four months.“The incident took place in a field in Paragaon village under Dhawalpur forest range when a herd of 22 to 25 elephants was passing. In the early hours, one elephant came in contact with an 11 KV power transmission line, which was hanging at a low height above the field and died,” Arun Pandey, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) (wildlife) told HT. Pandey further said that villagers had earlier complained to power department officials that high tension lines were lying at a low height in the area but nothing was done.Earlier, on Friday night, an elephant died of electrocution after coming in contact with a live wire laid by poachers to trap wild boar in Mahasamund district.Another jumbo died after it came in contact with an electric wire laid illegally at a farm by a cultivator in Raigarh district on September 23.In June, six elephants died in four districts of the state. While the carcasses of two tuskers were recovered from the Pratappur forest range in Surajpur district, another elephant was found dead in neighbouring Balrampur district. Two elephants were electrocuted in Dharamjaigarh under Raigarh district and a calf died after getting stuck in a marshland in Dhamtari district. One elephant died in July in Jashpur district of the state. Following the fatalities, the state forest department in July issued orders to divisional forest officer (DFO) of Dharamjaigarh in Raigarh district, where maximum elephants have been electrocuted in the last ten years, to take necessary steps to contain such incidents.The order said the forest department should ensure that the 11 KV electric lines, which have caused the recent deaths, should be 7.5 meters above the ground-level and insulated electric wires be used in these areas. The department has also directed the forest officers to coordinate with Chhattisgarh state power corporation to find out each and every illegal connection or live wire in these areas frequented by the elephants. In the last decade, the state has recorded an increase in its wildlife population including elephants, whose number rose from 225 to 290, as per the state forest department. North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in plains of the state. Several reports of human-elephant conflicts have surfaced in the last few years in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-dies-of-electrocution-in-chhattisgarh-3rd-incident-in-6-days/story-GXkHrWZgU9envwOtlR5oFJ.html
28-09-2020||India||Chandrababu Naidu told to move out of riverfront Amaravati bungalow, served notice||For the second consecutive year, the residence of Telugu Desam Party president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on the Krishna riverfront at Vundavalli in Amaravati is facing a submergence threat due to heavy inflow into the river from upstream. As a result, the Krishna district administration on Sunday night served a notice to Naidu to move out of the bungalow to a safer place by Monday when the river would receive more water. The authorities pasted the notice on the gates of his residence. Apart from Naidu, 32 others whose residences and properties were located on the banks of the Krishna River were also served notices. According to state relief commissioner Kanna Babu, around six lakh cusecs of flood water is expected to reach Prakasam barrage in Vijayawada, which is likely to inundate all the residences along the flood bank located hardly two kilometres away from the barrage. However, Naidu, along with his family members, had already left for Hyderabad on Friday itself. The bungalow was originally a guest house constructed by prominent realtor Lingamaneni Ramesh who leased it to Naidu in 2015. Since then, Naidu had been using it as his official bungalow. In June 2019, the newly-formed Jagan Mohan Reddy government served eviction and demolition notice to Ramesh, stating that it was an unauthorized construction falling within 100 metres of the riverbank. The building has so far escaped demolition after the owner moved the high court against the government’s notice. YSR Congress party on Monday demanded that the TDP chief vacate his riverfront residence at least now, in view of the flood threat. “Krishna River is in spate due to floods. At least now, you should respect the law of the land and move out of the guest house. In the past, you might have got protection from the courts and tried to stall the government. But floods won’t spare you or protect your house from inundation,” senior YSRC leader and advisor to the chief minister Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-told-to-move-out-of-riverfront-amaravati-bungalow-served-notice/story-JYpH54ZsJb87WbDJl1dStM.html
28-09-2020||India||Clean sweep, almost! UP bags 8 of 11 awards for max community toilets, cleanliness||Uttar Pradesh bagged eight of the total eleven awards instituted by the ministry of water and sanitation for cleanliness and constructing maximum community toilets.Among states, UP won the first prize in ‘Swachh Sundar Samudayaik Shauchalaya (SSSS). Among districts, all three prizes were swept by UP districts - Prayagraj, Hardoi, and Fatehpur. These prizes were bagged under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojna (GKRY). In the ‘Gandagi Mukt Bharat’ category, the state bagged the second prize for maximum shramdaan (public voluntary work) in cleanliness.Kinjal Singh, mission director, Swachh Bharat Mission, Uttar Pradesh, said, last year the centre had selected 116 districts countrywide, including 31 in Uttar Pradesh, for improving the community toilet scenario under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojna (GKRY).Also read: Another virus from China has potential to cause disease in India - ICMRUnder the non-GKRY districts, Bareilly won the first prize, Aligarh stood second and Aligarh won a special prize for saturating all its gram panchayats with community toilets.“It is a big feat on the part of UP to perform so well despite Covid-19 and lockdown,” said a state government official.The department of water and sanitation had launched three campaigns last year. Campaign SSSS was launched from November 1, 2019, and went on till April 30, 2020. The second one was ‘Samudayik Shauchalaya Abhiyan’ (SSA) which started from June 15, 2020, and ended on September 15, 2020. The campaign mobilises districts and villages to construct and maintain community toilets.“The third one was ‘Gandagi Mukt Bharat’ from August 8 to August 15, 2020, to free India of garbage and waste,” said Singh. The awards will be given in a virtual ceremony on October 2 by central and state jal shakti ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clean-sweep-almost-up-bags-8-of-11-awards-for-max-community-toilets-cleanliness/story-2xrx1ePnVzotWHLn2wGViP.html
28-09-2020||India||Jagan writes to Centre, recommends SP Balasubrahmanyam’s name for Bharat Ratna||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday requested the Centre to confer the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award, on renowned playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who passed away in Chennai on Friday due to post-Covid-19 complications. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recommending the name of Balasubrahmanyam, popularly known as SPB, for the highest civilian award of the country. Stating that Andhra Pradesh was fortunate to be the birthplace of the great singer, Jagan said the untimely demise of SPB had caused a lot of distress to millions of fans across the country and also the international music fraternity. “SPB’s immense popularity and the deep impact he had left on the global music industry in his 50 years of legacy can be gauged by the continuous flow of rich tribute from music aficionados all over the world,” Jagan said. The chief minister said SPB’s achievements had gone beyond music and he had lifted compositions to sublime levels. He has sung over 40,000 tracks in his mother tongue Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam and Hindi and had won innumerable awards including six national film awards, 25 Nandi awards of Andhra Pradesh and numerous other awards. He was a recipient of the Padma Shri (2001) and Padma Bhushan (2011) from the Government of India. He reminded the Centre that in the past, music stalwarts like Lata Mangeshkar, Bhupen Hazarika, M S Subbulakshmi, Bismillah Khan and Bhimsen Joshi, were conferred with the Bharat Ratna award by the Government of India. “As a tribute to the legendary singer for his outstanding contribution in the field of music and art, I request you to confer the Bharat Ratna upon SPB. This will be the highest recognition to his remarkable work which lasted for 5 decades and will stay in our memory forever,” Jagan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-writes-to-centre-recommends-sp-balasubrahmanyam-s-name-for-bharat-ratna/story-hGCJuv5lhHQYaXhXl6WKdK.html
28-09-2020||India||Jagan govt launches scheme to drill borewells free of cost for farmers||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday launched yet another welfare scheme of sinking agriculture borewells for small and marginal farmers belonging to arid and upland areas of the state free of cost.Named as YSR Jala Kala, more than three lakh borewells would be drilled at a cost of Rs 2,340 crore in 144 rural assembly constituencies and 19 semi-urban assembly in a span of four years. “The scheme would benefit around two lakh farmers and bring an additional five lakh acres into cultivation,” chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said, after launching the scheme through video conferencing from his camp office at Tadepalli.He said the drilling of borewells would be on the basis of the feasibility report given after the hydro-geological and geo-physical surveys. The farmers can also avail a second chance, in case of a failure to draw water in the first attempt. “All the eligible farmers can avail of this initiative by applying either online or through the village secretariats and the status of their application can be monitored at every stage,” Jagan said.He said all these borewells would also be provided with motors free of cost. This would cause an additional burden of Rs 1,600 crore on the state exchequer.Referring to the recent decision of the state government of installing meters for all agricultural power connections in the state, the chief minister said the meters would cause no burden on the farmers. “They are meant only for collecting data on the actual consumption of power and measure the load on feeders. It will help the government bring in transparency into the system. The amount billed for the power consumed by the farmers would be transferred into their bank accounts directly and they could, in turn, pay the same to power distribution companies,” he said.Jagan said in order to sustain the free agriculture power supply scheme for at least another 30 years, a 10,000 MW solar energy plan was coming up in the private sector. “The free farm power supply scheme was launched by my father late YS Rajasekhara Reddy and it would be continued forever,” he said.Describing his government as farmer-friendly, Jagan said the government had already introduced Rythu Bharosa Kendras to facilitate farmers with seeds, fertilisers, and also being developed as warehouses and crop procurement centres. The government is also providing Rs 13,500 every year for farmers under Rythu Bharosa, he said.Panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, minister for roads and buildings M Sankara Narayana, district collectors and representatives of farmers took part in the programme.Opposition Telugu Desam Party described YSR Jala Kala scheme as bogus and a fraud being played on the farmers by the Jagan government. “The government is already cheating the farmers in the name of installation of meters to agriculture pump sets which is only a plan to deprive them of free power supply,” senior TDP leader and former minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said.He alleged that the installation of meters for farm power connections would cause an additional burden of over Rs 4,000 crore on tax payers and now, the government wants to spend another Rs 2,340 crore in the name of drilling new borewells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-govt-launches-scheme-to-drill-borewells-free-of-cost-for-farmers/story-mttsQKYgGTaG4IAikJ4YKL.html
28-09-2020||India||Suspected Maoist killed in encounter in Bijapur, combing operation still on: Bastar Police||A suspected Maoist was killed in an encounter with security forces in Bijapur district of Bastar division on Monday. According to the police, the Maoist is yet to be identified and the body has been taken to the district headquarters. Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P, told HT that the team of District Reserve Guard and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were in the jungles of Gangaloor when the incident took place.“We had specific inputs about the gathering of Maoists in the jungle hence a team was sent there. At around 9.30 am the encounter started between Maoists and security forces and continued for about 30 minutes Pedapal and Pidiya villages,” the IG said. After the encounter was over, the body of a Maoist was recovered from the spot. “Combing operations in the forest is still on and more details are awaited,” the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-maoist-killed-in-encounter-in-bijapur-combing-operation-still-on-bastar-police/story-1YEoexSSeEW6fmI7WPKFeN.html
28-09-2020||India||Rajnath Singh unveils new Defence Acquisition Procedure||Defence minister Rajnath Singh unveiled on Monday a new Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP) that features steps to turn India into a global manufacturing hub of military platforms, reduce timelines for procurement of defence equipment and allow purchase of essential items by the three services through capital budget under a simplified mechanism.Under the new policy, the offset guidelines have also been revised to give preference to defence majors offering to manufacture products in India instead of meeting the offset obligations through other means, officials said.The DAP also incorporates new chapters on information and communication technologies, post-contract management, acquisition of systems developed by the state-run defence entities like the DRDO and Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs), they said.In what is seen as a significant move, the DAP featured measures to reduce delay in procurement of essential items by the three services as it proposed a new enabling provision to acquire them through capital budget under a simplified procedure in a time-bound manner.Singh said the DAP has also included provisions to encourage foreign direct investment (FDI) to establish manufacturing hubs both for import substitution and exports while protecting the interests of Indian domestic industry.“The offset guidelines have also been revised, wherein preference will be given to manufacture of complete defence products over components and various multipliers have been added to give incentivisation in discharge of offsets,” the defence minister tweeted.He said the DAP has been aligned with the vision of the government’s ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) initiative and to empower Indian domestic industry through ‘Make in India’ projects with the ultimate aim of turning the country into a global manufacturing hub.The policy also provides for single-stage accord of AoN (Acceptance of Necessity) in all cases up to Rs 500 crore to cut delays in approval of acquisition proposals.The DAP also mentioned measures to reform pre-induction testing of defence equipment.“Scope of trials will be restricted to physical evaluation of core operational parameters. Other parameters may be evaluated based on vendor certification, certification by accredited laboratories, computer simulations of parameters etc,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-unveils-new-defence-acquisition-procedure/story-fJuUZXYIP1a80mqglZ1foL.html
28-09-2020||India||Jharkhand HRD minister tests positive for Covid-19, state tally to cross 80k||Jharkhand’s human resource development (HRD) minister Jagarnath Mahto tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. This comes when state Covid-19 tally is all set to cross the 80,000-mark.The minister was moved to Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for treatment after he complained of health complications. Taking to Twitter, Mahto shared that he tested positive for the virus.“My Covid-19 test report returned positive. I got myself admitted at RIMS for treatment. I appeal those who came in my contact in recent times to get themselves tested,” said Mahto.Mahto, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha legislator from Dumri assembly constituency, is the fourth minister in chief minister Hemant Soren’s cabinet to have tested positive for the disease. Earlier, cabinet ministers Mithilesh Thakur, Banna Gupta and Badal Patralekh had contracted the disease and successfully recovered from it.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine portal launched, all data linked to research on itWith Mahto’s addition, over 22 percent of the current 79-member Jharkhand assembly tested positive for the respiratory disease so far. Till now, 18 legislators including four cabinet ministers tested positive. However, a majority of them have recovered from the disease.According to state health department’s bulletin released on Monday morning, Jharkhand reported 974 new Covid-19 cases from across the state in the last 24 hours that pushed the tally close to the 80,000-mark. The state also witnessed the death of nine Covid-19 patients.With the discovery with these cases, the tally climbed to 79,909 cases including 12,433 active cases, 66,797 recoveries and 679 deaths.Since August 25, the state has been reporting more than 1,000 cases with exceptions on September 11 and 27 when 961 and 974 cases were detected.State capital Ranchi, which topped the list of Covid-19 cases, is all set to cross the 18,000-mark on Monday. It had reported 214 cases in the last 24 hours that pushed the district’s tally to 17,985 including 4,015 active cases, 13,865 recoveries and 105 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-hrd-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19-state-tally-to-cross-80k/story-qVS23uyUK6aZW87ovCjsYL.html
28-09-2020||India||What’s your life expectancy? This tool lets you find out||A child born in India could expect to live for nearly 69 years if the current mortality trends in the country were to continue, according to the latest Sample Registration System data released by the government.This is an average, of course, and the actual number of years a person could expect to live for depends on a range of socio-economic factors, health conditions, climate, etc.Because these factors significantly vary across states, the life expectancy is bound to differ across states as well. For example, a child born in states such as Kerala and Delhi could expect to live for nearly 10 years more than a child born in states such as Chhattisgarh or Uttar Pradesh.Whether a person lives in a rural or urban area also has an impact on life expectancy. For example, a child born in an urban area of Assam could expect to live for nearly eight years more than a child born in a rural area of Assam.Life expectancy also varies with gender and current age. Women on average live longer than men. The latest life expectancy data is for the period 2014 to 2018. A person born in this period could live around 10 years longer than a person born about two decades ago.Use the following interactive tool to know a person’s life expectancy. This data is available for only 22 states (including undivided Jammu and Kashmir).If you are reading this on a mobile device and are unable to see the interactive tool below, try opening this page in a normal mobile web browser such as Google Chrome. Women born in urban areas of Himachal Pradesh have the highest life expectancy at birth – 80.6 years. This figure is the lowest at 62.9 years for men born in rural areas of Chhattisgarh. This is a difference of nearly 18 years in life expectancy for two children born in two different parts of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-s-your-life-expectancy-this-tool-lets-you-find-out/story-U4Zlwwv5QOZ6IZU2Hs8wrM.html
28-09-2020||India||No trace of eminent Akhara Parishad seer even after 3 years, saints demand CBI probe||Exactly three years ago, prominent seer Mahant Mohandas, the pontiff of Shri Panchayati Akhara Bada Udasin went missing while on his way to Mumbai from Haridwar on a personal visit. He was last seen at Meerut railway station and his mysterious disappearance led to major resentment among the saint community.Saints and Akhara Parishad even went on to stage a sit-in protest to pressurise the police and state government for speedy tracing of the seer. Mahant Mohandas also held the post of the spokesperson of the Akhara Parishad.Now, even after three years, the police have not been able to trace or get a clue about Mohandas’ whereabouts.An aggrieved Akhrda Parishad has once again raised this case demanding the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe the matter.Also read: Online portal about Covid-19 vaccine launched, clinical trial data on it“We have been fully cooperative with the police but it’s quite disheartening that three years have passed and there is no clue or evidence about what happened to Mohandas. We hope the state police again mobilise their resources and trace out the prominent seer,” said Akhara Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj.Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad is also being accused by some seers of not raising Mohandas’ case as effectively as it should have been.An Akhara insider, on condition of anonymity, said, such mysterious disappearance of a prominent saint should be among the foremost concerns of Akhara Parishad executive working committee but now it seems their focus is on getting best of facilities for Mahakumbh 2021.While the police said that a mass search and tracing operation has been initiated for Mohandas but after Meerut, where he was last seen, no clue or spotting of seer was noticed.“State police have been seriously working in this case to trace Mohandas. After Meerut, no further spotting of the seer has been reported as per the investigation. It is also possible that the seer had gone somewhere on his own,” said Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order), Uttarakhand police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-trace-of-eminent-akhara-parishad-seer-even-after-3-years-saints-demand-cbi-probe/story-STv4W0iGLN3YZfiQXUkt4L.html
28-09-2020||India||BJP’s Uma Bharti, Covid-19 positive, admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh. She gives 3 reasons||Two days after testing positive for Covid-19, senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader Uma Bharti was shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh. The BJP leader took to Twitter and informed that she had been shifted to AIIMS on Monday morning from Vande Mataram Kunj in Pauri Garhwal district where she was under home-isolation. Bharti tweeted, “I have been admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh. There are three reasons for this; firstly Harsh Vardhan (Union health minister) was worried about my health condition. Secondly my fever spiked last night and if I get good response from doctors at AIIMS after observation then I want to appear in the CBI court in Lucknow day after tomorrow.” Bharti is supposed to appear in court in connection with the Babri Masjid demolition case. Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh said that Bharti was admitted to the hospital around 11 am on Monday. “She has been admitted to our hospital and has been kept under observation. As per protocol, we have sent her sample for an RT-PCR test. Till then, the doctors are taking care of her and she is being treated. The further course of action will be decided after we get her test results,” Thapliyal said. Bharti tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday night after which she had isolated herself at an ashram in Pauri Garhwal district. She tested positive after visiting the Kedarnath shrine on September 21, where she offered prayers following all safety norms. She had visited the Badrinath shrine in Chamoli district on September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-uma-bharti-covid-19-positive-admitted-to-aiims-rishikesh-she-gives-3-reasons/story-bFb1SxsKVq0Tt9YamB5RML.html
28-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Health ministry says first Covid vaccine to be available in India by early 2021 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.First Covid-19 vaccine to be available in India by early 2021, says health ministryAs the world races to develop a potential vaccine against coronavirus (Covid-19), the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Monday said that the first vaccine in India will most likely be available by early 2021. The health ministry said the research to develop a Covid-19 vaccine is being “done expeditiously”. Read moreIn Karnataka, bandh against farm bills evokes mixed response; protesting farmers detainedThe Karnataka Bandh on Monday called by a clutch of farmers, labour, Left, pro-Kannada and Dalit organizations spearheaded by the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and supported by the main opposition party Congress as well as others like SDPI evoked mixed response in the state. Read moreNavjot Singh Sidhu is an asset for Congress, says party’s Punjab affairs in-charge Harish RawatPunjab Congress legislator and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu was conspicuous by his absence at the dharna led by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh at Khatkar Kalan against the Centre’s farm laws on Monday but the party still considers him an asset. Read moreMike Pompeo pledges US support to ease Greece-Turkey disputeUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Monday the United States will use its diplomatic and military influence in the region to try to ease a volatile dispute between NATO allies Greece and Turkey over energy rights in the eastern Mediterranean. Read moreIPL 2020, RCB vs MI: Rohit Sharma 10 runs away from joining Virat Kohli, Suresh Raina in 5000 clubMumbai Indians captain Rohit Sharma is on the cusp of joining Royal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli and veteran Chennai Super Kings batsman Suresh Raina in the list of players with 5000 or more runs in the Indian Premier League. Read moreMercedes EQC to launch in India on October 8 as EV enters luxury spaceMercedes-Benz on Monday announced EQC, its first-ever all-electric vehicle, will be officially launched in the Indian market on October 8. This will mark the entry of EVs into the luxury car segment with Mercedes looking at seizing the first movers’ advantage with the EQC. Read moreKerala bride misses her wedding, patients at Covid care home make it memorable with special celebrationA Covid-19 care home in Kochi witnessed an unusual wedding celebration on Thursday and a video of the ceremony has gone viral on social media. A day before her wedding, 19-year-old P Faziya tested positive and was shifted to a Covid care centre in Mattancherry. Upset, she was confined to a room at the centre. Read moreMilind Soman balancing his body weight in a complex but ‘simple enough’ manner is flexibility goalsAt 54, Indian model and actor Milind Soman is giving all the fitness professionals a run for their money and his social media has enough pictures and videos of his intense workout sessions to back our claim. Making fans’ jaws drop in awe with his latest video, Milind raised the bar of flexibility goals as he moved his body weight in a complex position but effortlessly. Read moreWatch| ‘NCB forced me to implicate Karan Johar’: Arrested producer Kshitij Prasad||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-health-ministry-says-first-covid-vaccine-to-be-available-in-india-by-early-2021-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5GmyCIzPFcmV4gAVZjvogJ.html
28-09-2020||India||In Karnataka, bandh against farm bills evokes mixed response; protesting farmers detained||The Karnataka Bandh on Monday called by a clutch of farmers, labour, Left, pro-Kannada and Dalit organizations spearheaded by the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and supported by the main opposition party Congress as well as others like SDPI evoked mixed response in the state.Thousands of farmers marched in the state capital Bengaluru and around 300 of them were detained including KRRS leaders Kodihalli Chandrashekar and Kurburu Shanthkumar, Congress leaders including leader of opposition Siddaramaiah, KPCC President DK Shivakumar, national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and other leaders who were protesting near the Congress office in the city.The protesters were asking for the withdrawal of changes in the land reforms act - permitting non-agriculturists to buy farm land - and amendments in the APMC Act which now permits farmers to sell their produce to anybody of their choice. They are also demanding that changes made in the Essential Commodities Amendment Bill be withdrawn.ALSO READ | Karnataka bandh: KSRTC buses ply in Mangaluru despite bandh called by farmersSiddaramaiah speaking at the protest said that the proposed changes were the ‘death knell’ to the farming community. “I challenge the CM to resign and let there be polls on these issues and we will see what the outcome will be,” he said. KPCC president DK Shivakumar demanded that the ‘three black laws’ be withdrawn or repealed. Later, a Congress delegation also submitted a memorandum to the Governor on this issue.Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa addressing a press conference reiterated that the farm bills passed in the just concluded assembly session were in the interests of the farmers. “As a farmer’s son, I will never do anything against their interests. The Opposition is trying to misguide the farmers and it is a conspiracy. Even now anybody buying irrigated agricultural land cannot use it for any other purpose. They cannot buy land of SC/ST or small farmers.”Yediyurappa also said that allowing farmers to sell their produce to anybody of their choice rather than only through APMC’s was an “achievement after a 25-30 year struggle”. Stating that he was open to discussion with farmer leaders he said results of the changes made could be seen in the next six months. The CM also said that he would tour the entire state to explain the benefits of the farm bills.Across various districts too, several farmers, Congress, SDPI and Karnataka Rakshana Vedike activists were detained when they obstructed traffic including in Mysore, Hassan, Kodagu, Gulbarga and a few other places but later let off. The bandh evoked poor response in coastal and northern parts of the state which have been battered by heavy rainfall. Also bus and other essential services, commercial establishments, government and private offices functioned normally in most places across the state. Congress and farmer organisations though have said that they will continue the protests till their demands are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-karnataka-bandh-against-farm-bills-evokes-mixed-response-protesting-farmers-detained/story-R2GbXay0accNEkkihRH0GL.html
28-09-2020||India||PM Modi holds virtual summit with Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen held a virtual summit on Monday to strengthen the bilateral relations between the two countries.Earlier, the external affairs ministry issued a statement which said that an MoU in the field of intellectual property cooperation between the two countries will be signed on the occasion.As the virtual summit began, Prime Minister Modi firstly thanked Frederiksen for taking out time for this interaction and also congratulated her on her wedding. “I congratulate you on your wedding. I hope that soon after Covid-19 situation improves, we will get a chance to welcome you and your family to India. I am sure your daughter must be eager to visit India again,” Modi said.  I congratulate you on your wedding. I hope that soon after COVID19 situation improves, we will get a chance to welcome you and your family to India. I am sure your daughter must be eager to visit India again: PM Modi to Denmark PM Mette Frederiksen pic.twitter.com/5KVFkxaLGyHe also highlighted that the events of the past several months have made it clear how important it is for like-minded countries like India and Denmark, which share a rules-based, transparent, humanitarian and democratic value-system, to work together. Modi mentioned that the Covid-19 pandemic showed that excessive dependence of global supply chains on a single source can be risky. He said that India is working with Japan and Australia towards diversification and resilience of supply chains adding that several like-minded nations can also be a part of this effort. Meanwhile, Danish Prime Minister Frederiksen began her address by thanking PM Modi for his greetings and added that she and her family would love to visit India once again. Frederiksen further said,“ Today’s summit marks for Denmark a milestone on our bilateral relations, and our forward-looking agreement on green strategic partnership. We are proud that India looks at Denmark when it comes to the climate changes.”(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-virtual-summit-with-danish-counterpart-mette-frederiksen/story-D7mABLyqnaRPTDRDHcBYhP.html
28-09-2020||India||Sterling Biotech Group promoters Sandesara brothers, accused of bank fraud and money laundering, declared fugitive economic offenders||A Delhi court on Monday declared Sandesara brothers, promoters of Gujarat based Sterling group, fugitive economic offenders. The action has been taken on a petition by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).The Sandesara brothers - Nitin and Chetan - along with latter’s wife wife Dipti have been declared fugitives under the Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEO) Act.They left India in 2017 after allegedly swindling several banks of Rs 14,500 crore through bank loans. Their last known location, according to investigating agencies, is Nigeria.Only Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi have been declared fugitive economic offenders before them. The FEO act gives powers to the ED to attach assets of accused anywhere in the world.The ED had registered a criminal case in the alleged bank fraud scam based on a Central Bureau of Investigation FIR and charge sheet.The Sandesaras are being probed by multiple agencies, including the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the income tax department.In June 2019, the ED attached moveable and immovable properties worth Rs 9,778 crores belonging to the Sandesaras including four oil rigs and oil fields in Nigeria and several ships apart from a Gulfstream aircraft and flat in London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sterling-biotech-group-promoters-sandesara-brothers-accused-of-bank-fraud-and-money-laundering-declared-fugitive-economic-offenders/story-nLTR8SsCqdDgKV8sROwWIN.html
28-09-2020||India||UP gangster killed in road accident in police car. It is Vikas Dubey redux||A gangster from Uttar Pradesh being brought back to the state was killed in a road accident when the police car he was travelling in overturned in Guna district, 214 km north of Bhopal, on Sunday night, said the Madhya Pradesh police. The incident had a striking resemblance to the manner in which UP police’s car overturned near Kanpur while bringing back gangster Vikas Dubey. He was subsequently killed in an encounter when he tried to flee. The gangster identified as Feroz Ali, a resident of Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh, was being taken to Lucknow along with his relative in a car from Mumbai by a team of UP police when the car met with an accident on national highway 46 in Guna district, according to police. He was 65.Ali was rushed to a hospital in Biaora town of Rajgrah district where doctors declared him “brought dead”. In the accident, two police personnel - assistant sub-inspector of police (ASI) Jagdish Pandey and a constable Sanjeev Singh from UP police - driver Sulabh Mishra and Feroz Ali’s relative Afzal Khan were also injured and admitted to the hospital in Biaora where their condition is stated to be stable, said Rajesh Kumar Singh, superintendent of police, Guna. Jagdish Pandey informed the Rajgarh police in the hospital that Feroz Ali was wanted in certain cases lodged with Thakurganj Police station of Lucknow under UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, said Pradeep Sharma, Rajgarh SP. “UP Police got information that Feroz was living in Nala Sopara area in Mumbai. A police team from UP arrested Feroz’s brother-in-law Afzal and then Feroz in Mumbai. The police team was taking them to Lucknow from Mumbai when the accident took place,” said Sharma. In a statement given to police from the hospital, the driver Sulabh Mishra said a cow suddenly came on the road, he turned the car sharply to save the animal but lost control in the process and the car overturned. Earlier, UP gangster Vikas Dubey, who was detained from Mahakaal temple in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh, was killed in, what the UP police said, an encounter after the car in which he was travelling overturned near Kanpur. Dubey had been handed over to UP police at UP-MP border near Lalitpur after he was detained at Mahakal temple by MP police. After the encounter, UP police said Vikas Dubey made an attempt to flee the spot after snatching the revolver of a police officer when he was killed in the encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-gangster-killed-in-road-accident-in-police-car-it-is-vikas-dubey-redux/story-QKRwa0zSKZsGx4KdFCuicM.html
28-09-2020||India||NIA court sentences IS recruit from Kerala to life imprisonment||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi on Monday sentenced a former Islamic State terrorist who had returned from Iraq to life imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 2,10,000.Subahani Haja Moideen (34) was found guilty under Section 125 of the Indian Penal Code for waging war against a friendly country and Section 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) by the court on Friday. This is the first time a person has been convicted under Section 125 of the IPC, legal experts said. The court also lauded the investigating team for carrying out a thorough probe. The NIA had arrested Moideen in October 2016 from Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu where he was living discreetly after his return to the country. During investigation the NIA found Moideen, a resident of Thodupuzha in Idukki district, had left for Saudi Arabia in 2015 and later reached Turkey. He was taken to the Syrian border by his handlers and was later shifted to Raqqa (Syria) where he underwent intense arms training before being deployed in Mosul (Iraq) under a team led by a French-speaking leader. During a battle, Moideen saw a fellow IS fighter burn alive and fled the scene but was captured by other IS militants. He told investigators that he was let off only after assuring the IS leadership that he would carry out terror activities in India.The prosecution said when he was arrested he was planning attacks against some judges and senior political leaders. It also found that he had made several trips to Sivakasi, a Tamil Nadu town famous for its crackers, to collect explosives.While in custody he was also questioned by French intelligence agencies in connection with the Paris attacks. He told interrogators that in Iraq he worked with Abdel Hamid Abaaoud, a Belgian-Moroccan terrorist, who was the mastermind behind the November 2015 Paris attacks.During the probe, the NIA found that after leaving IS-ruled areas he came to Turkey and gave a false affidavit in the Indian Embassy saying that his travel papers were stolen during a religious trip.But Moideen was not originally on the NIA’s radar. The agency came to know about him while it was investigating an IS recruit from Maharashtra - Areeb Majeed, who is now under judicial custody.The NIA found that Moideen had recruited 15 people for IS through social media for carrying out terror activities in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-court-sentences-is-recruit-from-kerala-to-life-imprisonment/story-ONT15LC50hUUkiBbxb6T9M.html
28-09-2020||India||First Covid-19 vaccine to be available in India by early 2021, says health ministry||As the world races to develop a potential vaccine against coronavirus (Covid-19), the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Monday said that the first vaccine in India will most likely be available by early 2021.The health ministry said the research to develop a Covid-19 vaccine is being “done expeditiously”. During a media briefing, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said, “Research to develop a vaccine is being done expeditiously. There ar at least 3 viable such vaccine candidates that are in the phase of clinical trials right now in the country. We’re hopeful that within 1st quarter of 2021 it will be available”, as quoted by ANI.Also read | Online portal about Covid-19 vaccine launched, all R&D, clinical trial data on it, says Harsh VardhanWith a spike of 82,170 new coronavirus cases in last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 60-lakh mark on Monday, according to the data provided by health ministry. The health ministry on Monday also released the 100-year timeline history of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) .“Today’s a historic day for ICMR. It’s an honour for me to release the 100-year timeline of the history of ICMR within its premises today. The contribution of scientists associated with it is commemorated and serves as an inspiration to upcoming scientists,” Dr Vardhan told media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-covid-19-vaccine-to-be-available-in-india-by-first-quarter-of-2021-says-health-ministry/story-XhMGOvy9Zp8rqFbsTW44gM.html
28-09-2020||India||Amid fight against Covid, another virus from China has potential to cause disease in India: ICMR||Amid the country’s ongoing fight against Covid-19, scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have discovered another virus called ‘Cat Que Virus’ (CQV) which has the potential to cause disease in the country. Falling under the category of Arthropod-borne viruses and found in pigs and culex mosquitoes, CQV has been largely reported in China and Vietnam.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicScientists at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), ICMR, Pune discovered antibodies for the virus in two out of the 883 human serum samples tested across states. The testing of samples further indicated that these two people were infected with CQV at some point of time. These two samples from Karnataka were found to be positive for presence of anti-CQV IgG antibodies in 2014 and 2017.According to Livemint, ICMR scientists stated that availability of vector, primary mammalian host (swine) and confirmation of CQV from the jungle myna bird signifies the potential of this orthobunyavirus as a public health pathogen in India.The ICMR added that Anti-CQV IgG antibody positivity in human serum samples tested and the replication capability of CQV in mosquitoes indicated a possible disease causing potential of CQV in India.Due to this, scientists developed molecular and serological tests for CQV, screening of host populations and its replication kinetics in mosquitoes.Also read: Study suggests dengue fever may provide immunity against Covid-19The replication kinetics and susceptibility experiments were conducted using three different species of mosquitoes to understand its behavior in Indian mosquitoes.The ICMR study showed that Indian mosquito breeds- Ae. aegypti, Cx. quinquefasciatus and Cx. Tritaeniorhynchus were vulnerable to CQV.CQV has been isolated and reported from mosquitoes, which is its natural host. The role of birds as a host for CQV transmission and reports of human infection with CQV are not yet documented. Domestic pigs are the primary mammalian host and antibodies against the virus have been found in swine reared locally in China.(With inputs from Livemint)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-fight-against-covid-another-virus-from-china-has-potential-to-cause-disease-in-india-icmr/story-3rDXucfymhluAiT8DFHedJ.html
28-09-2020||India||Govt accountable to people, shocking it said no data was available: Mamata Banerjee||Asserting that every citizen has the right to information, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday hit out at the central government for not providing answers to “most questions” during the recent Parliament session.Taking to Twitter, Banerjee, on the occasion of International Day for Universal Access to Information, said that the government is “answerable and accountable to people”.“Today is International Day for Universal Access to Information. It is shocking how GOI got exposed during the recent Parliament session.“Most answers said ‘no data available’. Every citizen has a right to information. The government is answerable and accountable to the people,” the chief minister tweeted.The Union government, during the monsoon session of Parliament earlier in the month, said many states and Union Territories have not provided details of farmer suicides and hence the national data on the causes of suicide in the farming sector is “untenable”.The Centre also said that it had no data regarding the number of migrants who died or were injured during migration to their native places due to the lockdown.The 74th UN General Assembly, on October 15 last year, proclaimed September 28 as the International Day for Universal Access to Information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-accountable-to-people-shocking-it-said-no-data-was-available-mamata-banerjee/story-xo52E8h6SbuVjxZwwa9xuO.html
28-09-2020||India||Days after Sushant Singh Rajput’s lawyer questioned CBI probe, agency says all aspects are being looked at||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday said that the probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death is still on and the agency is investigating all aspects.Rajput’s lawyer had recently questioned the central agency’s investigation into the actor’s death, saying that the probe was drifting away in a different direction. “All attention is being diverted towards the drugs case. Today, we are helpless as we don’t know which direction the case is going in. Till today, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has not done a press briefing on what they have found out,” Vikas Singh, Rajput’s lawyer was quoted as saying by ANI on Friday.In its reply, the CBI assured that the probe was on and nothing was yet ruled out. “The Central Bureau of Investigation is conducting professional investigation related to death of Shri Sushant Singh Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date,” the agency said in a statement.On June 14, the 34-year-old actor was found dead at his residence in Mumbai’s Bandra. Rajput’s father KK Singh on June 25 had lodged a complaint with Patna Police against Rhea Chakraborty, her parents and her brother Showik. The late actor’s family has also named Rajput’s then manager Shruti Modi and his house manager Samuel Miranda in the complaint.The FIR was later transferred to CBI. Apart from CBI, the case is also being investigated by two other central agencies -- Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). While ED is looking into the money laundering allegations, the NCB is probing the drug link into the case. On September 8, the NCB had arrested Rhea Chakraborty for allegedly procuring drugs for Sushant. Chakraborty was arrested along with several others including her brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-sushant-singh-rajput-s-lawyer-questioned-cbi-probe-agency-says-all-aspects-are-being-looked-at/story-PtQEuPwaZtU0t4xydijtpI.html
28-09-2020||India||Assam Police seize 5 kg heroin worth Rs 25 cr in state’s biggest drug bust||In the biggest drug bust in Assam till date, the police have seized 5 kg of smuggled heroin valued at Rs 25 crore. One person has been arrested in connection with the incident. “This is the single biggest seizure of illicit heroin in Assam. The value of the contraband is nearly Rs 25 cr. The recovery is part of our ongoing drive against illegal drugs launched in June this year,” Director General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta told journalists on Monday. The heroin was seized on Sunday night by police in Karbi Anglong district on the Assam-Nagaland border from a truck which was on its way to Guwahati from Imphal in Manipur. One person, Ismail Ali, a resident of Jogighopa in Bongaigaon district of Assam, has been arrested for his involvement in smuggling the contraband. “The seizure shows that our drive against drive is yielding results. The quality of the seized heroin is stated to be of very high grade. I commend the people involved in the seizure,” said Mahanta. This is the fourth seizure of heroin by Karbi Anglong police since August. On August 5, police seized 649 gm of heroin valued at nearly Rs 20 lakh. On September 1, 936 gm of heroin valued at Rs 6.5 cr was seized and on September 15 police seized 1 kilo 40 gm of heroin and arrested three persons||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-seize-5-kg-heroin-worth-rs-25-cr-in-state-s-biggest-drug-bust/story-08N5grtYXOfemf8TsjsQeL.html
28-09-2020||India||Delhi airport’s T2 to resume flight operations from October 1||Flight operations are set to be resume from the Delhi Airport’s Terminal 2, or T2, from October 1 after its six-month closure, the airport operator said on Monday. Only Terminal 3, or T3, of the airport, has been functional given the low frequency of flights since they resumed in May two months after their suspension on March 25 as part of sweeping measures to enforce social distancing to check the Covid-19 pandemic. Terminal 1 is undergoing expansion and remains closed.Also read: Air traffic up at IGI by 21%, says DIAL dataThe Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), the operator, said the resumption of flight operations from T2 will be with 96 air traffic movements--48 departures and 48 arrivals--daily. The movements are expected to increase to 180 by October end.“The terminal [T2] will resume operations with IndiGo’s 2000 series flights and entire operations of GoAir in the initial phase. About 27 counters--11 for GoAir and 16 for IndiGo--have been created to cater to the passengers... The first flight scheduled from T2 after reopening of this terminal would be Srinagar bound Indigo flight, which will depart at 6:25 AM,” the airport operator said in a statement.It said added to start with, IndiGo will cater to 20 destinations from T2. The destinations include Ahmedabad, Amritsar, Bhubaneswar, Bhopal, Bengaluru, Cochin, Guwahati, Indore, Jammu, Lucknow, Chennai, Patna, Srinagar, Thiruvananthapuram, and Visakhapatnam.“In the next phase, from October 8, [flights to] at least 12 more destinations, including Mumbai, Kolkata, Coimbatore, Dehradun, Goa, Hyderabad, Madurai, Jaipur, and Nagpur, will start operating from T2,” the statement said.DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar assured the passengers of a safe and healthy environment. “We have implemented several measures at the airport to ensure passenger safety without compromising their comfort and experience. Our teams have worked round-the-clock to sanitise the vast terminal. DIAL will continue its awareness drive by educating and encouraging passengers to maintain social distance while at the airport.”An airport official said measures like adequate seating arrangements with social distancing markings, sanitisation of high contact surfaces, and contact-less retail outlets have been made to ensure the safety of passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-s-t2-to-resume-flight-operations-from-october-1/story-Y0eCHA07PNsbKiXw9lBpbP.html
28-09-2020||India||IPS officer thrashes wife, pins her down on video. He calls it ‘family matter’||The Madhya Pradesh government on Monday relieved Director General of Police, in charge of Directorate of Public Prosecution, Purushottam Sharma, after a video clip in which the officer is seen beating his wife went viral on social media. According to an order issued by the Home department, the 1986 batch IPS officer Sharma was relieved of his charge at the directorate “with immediate effect”. There is no mention in the order about his new posting. Sharma, however, denied charges of domestic violence against him reportedly made in a letter written to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, home minister Narottam Mishra and director general of police Vivek Johari, by Sharma’s son.In the video clip of less than five minutes that went viral on Sunday, Sharma is seen pushing, hitting and pinning down his wife while two other men, probably from his staff, are seen not interfering at all. Sharma’s wife is seen reacting to her husband’s act and later Sharma is seen showing his hands and complaining that she had injured him. Watch: MP cop’s video thrashing wife goes viral, he says it’s a ‘family matter’ Hindustan Times cannot vouch for the authenticity of the video.After he was relieved from his post, Sharma told reporters that he had not indulged in any violence.“I have not indulged in any violence. This is a matter between my wife and myself. She complained against me earlier too in 2008. We have been married for 32 years. She is living with me and enjoying all the facilities and even travelling abroad on my expense. The point is if she is upset with me, why she is living with me.” The MP State Women’s Commission said it will take suo motu cognizance of the incident.“We are going to take suo motu cognizance of the incident based on the video. The state government should take strict action against the IPS officer,” the Commission’s chairperson Shobha Oza said,Home minister Narottam Mishra said, “I have come to know about this matter through the media only. If there is any complaint, I will look into this.” Despite efforts, Sharma’s wife and son could not be reached for their comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-relieves-top-cop-after-video-of-him-beating-wife-goes-viral/story-Yypm4RCHlbR0lgSVOCGF5I.html
28-09-2020||India||Pakistan should tackle influx of outsiders in PoK, India tells UN rights body||India on Monday rejected Pakistan’s criticism of the human rights situation in the country and called on Islamabad to do more to tackle issues such as the persecution of minorities, enforced disappearances and influx of outsiders in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Also read: Surgical Strike Day: How army soldiers destroyed terror launchpadsExercising its “right of reply” at a discussion in Geneva on situations requiring the attention of the UN Human Rights Council, India also pointed to Pakistan continuing to be a “safe harbour for terrorists” and said more training camps and launch-pads for terrorists had come up in PoK. “None of Pakistan’s vile accusations against India could stifle the voice of the minorities and the people under its subjugation. The fate of religious and ethnic minorities is well known when beheading is the only option in Pakistan in exchange for freedom of religion,” India said in its response delivered by Pawan Badhe, first secretary in the permanent mission in Geneva. “It should be a matter of concern for the Council that Pakistan has been continuously misusing this august forum for malicious propaganda against my country,” he added. Different international organisations had described Pakistan as the “killing field for minorities” and the Ahmadi community continues to be the most persecuted community in Pakistan. “Hundreds of Christians are persecuted every year while maximum of them are subjected to violent deaths in Pakistan,” Badhe said. Pakistan had also “institutionalised enforced disappearance as a tool of subjugation against dissent and criticism” against individuals and the entire society, the Indian response said. “Children as young as 12 years old in Balochistan, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Sindh are normally abducted and trained to be suicide bombers. In a chilling reminder to what Pakistan is capable of, ministers of Pakistan proudly call for another full-scale genocide against [the Baloch people] to resolve the political crisis in Balochistan,” it added. Badhe also said Pakistan’s “deceit and hypocrisy” is reflected in the “orchestrated mass influx” of outsiders to the Pakistan-occupied parts of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh through “discriminatory domicile laws”. “It’s baffling that there are three outsiders for every four [people] in the Pakistan occupied parts of Indian Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. While civil, political and constitutional rights are non-existent in Pakistan occupied parts of Indian Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, deliberate economic policies have also subjugated them to a life of extreme poverty,” he said. At the same time, “full scale training camps and launch pads of terrorists are being escalated in Pakistan occupied parts of Indian Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh at great expense for sustaining cross-border terrorism against India. It’s not without reason that Pakistan remains a safe harbour for terrorists. While the world is busy combating the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan hoodwinks the world to allow delisting more than 4,000 proscribed terrorists to sustain its terror ecosystem,” he added. The Indian response said nothing can change the fact that the “entire territory of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh is an integral part of India”, and Pakistan should see the reality and “stop coveting territories of other countries”. Statistics and data from international organisations have demonstrated that Pakistan is a “minefield for journalists and human rights defenders”, who are often subject to murder, harassment and assault, it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-should-tackle-influx-of-outsiders-in-pok-india-tells-un-rights-body/story-kiGiuch6cktCn4XcC7w7MP.html
28-09-2020||India||Delhi airport to resume flight operations at T2 terminal from October||The Delhi airport will resume flight operations at the T2 terminal from October 1, said its operator DIAL on Monday.The airport has been operating flights from the T3 terminal only since March 23, when flight operations in India were curtailed drastically due to the coronavirus pandemic.“The resumption of operations at T2 will be with 96 air traffic movements (48 departures and 48 arrivals) per day and increase progressively up to 180 by end of October,” said a DIAL press release.Also read: Unlock 5.0: Economic activities, cinema halls and other likely relaxationsFrom October 1, IndiGo will operate all its flights with call signs between 6E2000 and 6E2999 from the T2 terminal. Moreover, entire flight operations of GoAir will be conducted from the T2 from October 1, said the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL).“About 27 counters – 11 for GoAir and 16 for IndiGo - have been created to cater to passengers of respective flights,” the DIAL noted.India suspended scheduled international passenger flights from March 23 and scheduled domestic passenger flights from March 25 due to the pandemic. However, medical evacuation flights and special flights permitted by the aviation regulator DGCA have been allowed to operate.Also read: Mumbai likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases todayIndia resumed scheduled domestic passenger flights from May 25 but in a curtailed manner. Airlines are allowed to operate not more than 60 per cent of pre-Covid domestic flights currently.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country. However, special international passenger flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat mission since May and under the air bubble arrangements formed with various other countries since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-to-resume-flight-operations-at-t2-terminal-from-october/story-QokIlaSp2MZtNKa555dowN.html
28-09-2020||India||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh holds sit-in protest against farm bills at Bhagat Singh’s village||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh held a sit-in protest against the farm laws at Khatkar Kalan in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. He also paid tribute to Bhagat Singh on the latter’s birth anniversary and said we were indebted to his “supreme sacrifice”. Khatkar Kalan is the ancestral village of the freedom fighter. The three farm bills - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - have been passed by Parliament and received the assent of President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday.Captain Amarinder Singh said that most farmers in Punjab were marginal and they will be severely impacted by these legislations.“I along with my colleagues from @INCPunjab held a protest against Centre’s Anti-Farmer Laws at Khatkar Kalan in SBS Nagar. Most of our farmers are small & marginal who will be severely impacted by these legislations. We stand by Punjab’s farmers & will do everything to oppose it,” Singh tweeted.In Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country, protests against the three bills have been going on for the past few weeks. In New Delhi, Congress’s youth wing members on Monday set a tractor on fire at Rajpath in protests against the law.“Our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers. From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation’s backbone. On [freedom fighter] #BhagatSingh’s birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the govt’s anti-farmer bills,” the Youth Congress said in a tweet.Meanwhile, according to a Congress leader, former party president Rahul Gandhi is likely to lead a protest in Punjab this week. He is also expected to address a rally. “After Punjab, he may join the protesting farmers in Haryana. But we are not sure if the BJP government in Haryana will allow him to enter the state,” said the leader quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-holds-sit-in-protest-against-farm-bills-at-bhagat-singh-s-village/story-Q21z4mKpcpeq6Dawcjs3gL.html
28-09-2020||India||G20 Leaders’ Summit to be held virtually in November||The G20 Leaders’ Summit, to be held virtually during November 21-22 and chaired by Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, will focus on protecting lives and restoring growth by tackling vulnerabilities uncovered by the Covid-19 pandemic. This will be the second virtual G20 Leaders’ Summit since March, when Saudi Arabia, the current chair of the grouping, had convened a meeting following a suggestion from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss ways to counter the pandemic and its economic impact. India is set to take over as the G20 chair in 2022. The upcoming summit will also build on the outcomes of more than 100 virtual working group and ministerial meetings, said a statement from the G20 secretariat. Also Read: Quad senior officials discuss efforts to ensure open, inclusive Indo-PacificThe G20 has contributed more than $21 billion to support the production, distribution and access to diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines, and injected $11 trillion to safeguard the global economy as part of the fight against the pandemic. It has also launched a debt suspension initiative for least developed countries that will allow beneficiary nations to defer $14 billion in debt payments due in 2020 and to use these amounts for financing their healthcare systems and social programmes. “The upcoming G20 Leaders’ Summit will focus on protecting lives and restoring growth, by addressing vulnerabilities uncovered during the pandemic and by laying down the foundations for a better future,” the statement said. “The summit will also focus on fostering international action to realise opportunities of the 21st century for all, by empowering people and protecting our planet, whilst harnessing the potential of innovation to shape new frontiers,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/g20-leaders-summit-to-be-held-virtually-in-november/story-Is2aFit4q1FfjYKMJkX4jK.html
28-09-2020||India||Brahmos, Akash and Nirbhay: India rolls out its missiles to counter Chinese threat||The 500 km-range Brahmos cruise missile, 800 km-range Nirbhay cruise missiles along with Akash surface-to-air missile (SAM) with a capability to target aerial threats 40 km away are at the core of India’s stand-off weapon deterrence to People’s Liberation Army (PLA) missile deployment in Xinjiang and Tibet regions.While the PLA’s western theatre command has deployed stand-off weapons up to 2,000 km range and long-range SAMs in Tibet and Xinjiang after the Ladakh stand-off started, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times that the supersonic Brahmos, subsonic Nirbhay as well as Akash have been deployed to counter them by India in the worst-case scenario. The Chinese deployment is not limited to occupied Aksai Chin but is located in depth positions from Kashgar, Hotan, Lhasa and Nyingchi along the 3,488 km Line of Actual Control (LAC).India’s main stay in the stand-off weapons is the Brahmos air-to-air and air-to-surface cruise missile with its 300 kilogramme warhead which can take care of airstrips in Tibet and Xinjiang, or a warship in Indian Ocean.The Brahmos missile has been deployed in sufficient numbers in the Ladakh sector with the option to deliver the stand-off weapon from a Su-30 MKI fighter. Besides, the Brahmos can be used to create choke points in the Indian Ocean using the Car Nicobar air base in India’s island territories. The IAF’s Car Nicobar air base is the advanced landing ground for SU-30 MKI’s which can use air-to-air refuellers to protect against any PLA warship threat coming from the Strait of Malacca to Sunda Strait across Indonesia, a senior government official said.While a limited number of Nirbhay subsonic missiles have been produced and deployed, the stand-off weapon system has a range that can reach up to 1,000 km, and has both sea skimming and loitering capability. This means that the missile is capable of flying between 100 metres to four km from ground and pick up the target before engaging it. The Nirbhay missile has only a surface-to-surface version.The third stand-off weapon used by Indian military is the Akash SAM, which has also been deployed in sufficient numbers to counter any PLA aircraft intrusion across the LAC in Ladakh sector. The PLA Air Force fighter activity in occupied Aksai Chin continues albeit at a reduced level. However, there is concern over PLA air activity across the Daulet Beg Oldi sector near Karakoram pass.The Akash missile with its three-dimensional Rajendra, a passive electronically scanned array radar that has the capacity to track 64 targets at a time and simultaneously engage 12 of them. The missile has the capacity to engage all aerial targets including fighter planes, cruise missiles and ballistic missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brahmos-akash-and-nirbhay-india-rolls-out-its-missiles-to-counter-chinese-threat/story-USsylwt4wxOaXzrml07DgJ.html
28-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases todayWith the majority of Covid-19 cases reported in the month of September, Mumbai is likely to cross 0.2 million Covid-19 cases on Monday. Over 50, 000 cases were reported in September so far, the highest number of cases recorded in a month. Read more.Farm bills: Protesters from Youth Congress burn tractor at Rajpath, raise slogansThe Congress’s youth wing on Monday said a group of its members set a tractor on fire at Rajpath, which connects the India Gate to the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi, in protest against the new farm laws as the party planned to intensify protests against the legislation. Read more.PM Modi to hold virtual summit with Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi and his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen will hold a virtual summit on Monday to strengthen the bilateral relations between the two countries, the Ministry of External Affairs said. Read more.Irrfan Khan’s son Babil pours his heart out in moving note: ‘I’d give every cell in my presence to remember your skin’Babil Khan, the son of late actor Irrfan Khan, penned an emotional note in his memory. Babil said that he would give everything just to feel Irrfan’s presence: ‘My spinal cord will rotate and my soul can implode, in a search to feel you close’. Read more.IPL 2020: ‘He’s the best of the best when it comes to batting’ - Former England captain backs Virat Kohli to hit form soonFormer England cricketer Kevin Pietersen has backed an under-fire Royal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli, saying that it will be interesting to see how he comes back after a heavy defeat. Read more.Use your phone in car but only for these reasons: Motor Vehicle rules updatedA blanket ban on using mobile phones in vehicles is a thing of the past as the Union Ministry of Road Transport & Highways (MoRTH) has recently issued notifications regarding various amendments in Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989. Read more.Watch: Tractor set on fire at Delhi’s India Gate to protest against farm lawsA tractor was set on fire near Delhi’s India Gate on Monday morning to protest against the farm laws. The protest was being held by Punjab Youth Congress workers. Around 15 to 20 people had gathered at India Gate and set the tractor on fire. Police said that the incident took place at around 7.15-7.30 am. Watch full video here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-likely-to-cross-0-2-million-covid-19-cases-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-K1mrwIAuRMtTKGA41tLIzN.html
28-09-2020||India||Karnataka bandh: KSRTC buses ply in Mangaluru despite bandh called by farmers||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses continue to ply on roads in Mangaluru despite a statewide bandh being observed by various farmers’ organisations on Monday against the amendments to the agricultural produce market committee (APMC), land reforms ordinances and labour laws introduced by the B S Yediyurappa government.Similarly, normal traffic movement was seen in Shivamogga. However, the police force has been deployed in Kalaburagi in the wake of a statewide bandh.While protesters tried to stop a bus in Hubli by blocking road amid a statewide bandh today. However, passengers arrived at Majestic Bus Station, Bengaluru to board a bus. Meanwhile, All India Kisan Sabha and other organisations protest in front of Hemavathi statue in Hassan and held a bike rally.On the other hand, some farmers’ organisations offer flowers to shopkeepers in Hubli, requesting them to support the statewide bandh.The bandh has been called in to protest against Farm Bills that has now become acts, land reform ordinances, amendments to Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and labour laws.The Bills that have now become acts are- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.On September 27, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi warned that acts of damaging public property, if any, will be dealt with strictly and assured the public that there will be no disruption in transport services in the state.As per media reports, on September 22, the state government tabled “The Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020” in the assembly, to replace the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Ordinance, 2030. The new bill will further ease restrictions on buying agricultural land, and ceiling on the extent of land one can hold. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bandh-ksrtc-buses-ply-in-mangaluru-despite-bandh-called-by-farmers/story-DnUGg04QJaN6FukTVa9NfN.html
28-09-2020||India||Marble, granite to adorn Rs 800-cr Kashi Vishwanath Corridor||The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, an expansion and beautification project for the Kashi Vishwanath temple which will ensure visibility of the temple directly from the ghat, will be embellished with Baleshwar stones, Makrana marble, Kota granite and Mandana stones, officials said Monday. The construction of the corridor is underway across an area of 5 lakh sq ft area. A number of facilities for the devotees are coming up.The Public Works Department (PWD) is the executing agency of the Rs 800-crore project.“Construction work of the KV Corridor is in progress. Its structure is being built. Red sandstone of Chunar is being used in making the pillars,” said Sanjay Gore, executive engineer of the PWD. Baleshwar stone will also be used in the Kashi Vishwanath corridor after four or five months, when the wall of the corridor takes shape. Likewise, Makrana marble will be required for the flooring of the corridor while the designing of the corridor would be done with Kota granite. Mandana stone, which looks like the red sandstone of Chunar, would be used on the stairs to be built at the ghat, said officials. Stones of various sorts will add to the grandeur to the corridor that has started taking shape gradually with work on at full pace. “At present, 900 workers are engaged in the central government’s flagship project for Varanasi. The workforce will be increased to 2,500 in October,” said Deepak Agarwal, divisional commissioner. He said officials of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board and PWD would ensure completion of the project by the deadline of October 2021. As many as 290 buildings were acquired and demolished to create space for the project.The Adityanath government had formed the Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board to ensure completion of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marble-granite-to-adorn-rs-800-cr-kashi-vishwanath-corridor/story-Fki2kKeKbIzjpmo8jH6tmI.html
28-09-2020||India||PM Modi to hold virtual summit with Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen will hold a virtual summit on Monday to strengthen the bilateral relations between the two countries, the Ministry of External Affairs said.According to a statement issued by the ministry, an MoU in the field of intellectual property cooperation between the two countries will be signed on the occasion. Another major outcome will be the joining of the International Solar Alliance (ISA) by Denmark.“The virtual bilateral summit will give an opportunity to the two leaders to comprehensively review the broad framework of the bilateral relationship in the context of the time-tested friendly ties between the two countries and give broad political direction for a strengthened and deepened collaborative partnership on key issues of mutual interest,” the statement said.Also read: PM Modi, Rajapaksa meet: India extends $15mn to promote Buddhist ties, discusses bilateral currency swap and tradeIn Denmark, around 25 Indian companies are operating in IT, renewable energy and engineering sectors. Nearly 5,000 Indian professionals are working in major Danish companies, while 20 Indian IT companies are operating in Denmark for decades, according to official data procured by news agency PTI.Denmark has been an important development partner, contributing to India’s ‘White Revolution’ and growth of wind energy, the news agency said. Bilateral trade between the countries has also grown by 30.49 per cent between 2016 and 2019 as the trade volume rose from USD 2.82 billion to USD 3.68 billion, PTI said.Carrying the tradition of bilateral cooperation forward, major Danish companies such as Grundfos, Danfoss, Vestas, LM Wind, Novozymes, Rockwool, Haldor Topsoe, etc. have set up manufacturing facilities in India under the ‘Make in India’ scheme, it added.According to PTI, India and Denmark are also cooperating in fighting climate change by exporting wind turbines. Danish companies like Babcock&Wilcox have set waste-to-energy facilities in Punjab and Haryana to fight air pollution. Meanwhile, Danish companies RAMBOLL & COWI are engaged in engineering and design for the trans-harbour sea-link in Mumbai which will link Mumbai with Navi Mumbai. (with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-virtual-summit-with-danish-counterpart-mette-frederiksen-today/story-8U7Y685N9ABgchLL2cyJgI.html
28-09-2020||India||PM Modi pays tribute to Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary, saying his valour will inspire people for ages.Singh was born on this day in Punjab in 1907. His defiance of the British rule from a very young age, his revolutionary acts to target the empire and his hanging when he was only 23 have made him one of the more notable heroes of the Indian Independence movement.  “Tributes to the immortal martyr Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary. His saga of bravery and valour will inspire the countrymen for ages,” the prime minister tweeted.  He also attached a clip of his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast made on Sunday in which he had paid rich tributes to Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-bhagat-singh-on-his-birth-anniversary/story-Kf1k0ZLmZy4Yr9yQhAUMxN.html
28-09-2020||India||4 Bangladeshi contract killers arrested from Santiniketan in south Bengal||Six people, including four Bangladeshis, were arrested along with firearms and explosives from Santiniketan area in south Bengal on Sunday, police said. After preliminary investigations police said that the four were contract killers who were hired to assassinate a politician in Birbhum district. Further investigation is on. “We have seized some sharp weapons, at least five country made firearms and some explosives from them. The explosives are being sent for forensic analysis. The six would be produced in the court on Monday,” said a senior officer of Birbhum district. The house in which the accused had gathered and were arrested from, is located less than three kilometres from Visva Bharati. “While four of the accused are Bangladeshi, two are from Birbhum district, preliminary investigation has revealed. We are investigating,” said Shyam Singh, superintendent of police of Birbhum district. This comes in less than 10 days after the National Investigation Agency arrested six alleged Al Qaeda operatives from the adjoining district of Murshidabad on September 19. One more was arrested on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-bangladeshi-contract-killers-arrested-from-santiniketan-in-south-bengal/story-9G5gU03cvMWCFbiv25p1KO.html
28-09-2020||India||Unlock 5.0: Economic activities, cinema halls and other likely relaxations||India is nearing the conclusion of the fourth stage of nationwide Unlock, which will come to an end on September 30. Unlock 4, which began on September 1, saw the central government give various significant relaxations like resumption of Metro services for the first time since late March, and partial reopening of schools for classes 9-12.Now, with the fifth stage of Unlock set to begin from October 1, speculations are mounting over new relaxations that the Centre may allow. Last week, in his virtual meet with chief ministers of seven worst-affected states, prime minister Narendra Modi suggested steps be undertaken for implementation of the idea of ‘micro-containment’ zones.With festive season round the corner, there are expectations Centre would open up more activities for Unlock 5. Here’s what to expect:Economic activities: While the Ministry of home affairs (MHA) had allowed public places like malls, salons, restaurants and gyms to open with restrictions, more economic activities are likely to be allowed from October with physical distancing. In his meeting with the chief ministers, PM Modi had stressed on reassessing containments and lockdowns in a way that curbs Covid-19 spread. However, he had further said because of this, economic activities should not face problems.Also Watch l Covid-19: India crosses 6 million mark, last million in just 11 days Cinema Halls: Despite fervent appeals by the Multiplex Association of India, the MHA had given permission only for open-air theatres to resume operations, from September 21.However, in August, Amit Khare, secretary, Information and broadcasting ministry, had given the home ministry a sitting arrangement formula for movie theatres. As per the plan, alternate seats in the first row and the next were to be kept vacant in order to maintain social distancing.Also, on Saturday, West Bengal became the first state to allow theatres and cinema halls to open from October 1.Tourism: The sector, one of the worst-hit due to the Covid-19 lockdown, recently witnessed some recovery with the reopening of tourist destinations, including Taj Mahal. It is likely to see more recovery during Unlock 5 as more tourism centres and tourist places may open their doors for travellers. Recently, the Uttarakhand government gave tourists permission to enter the state without any institutional quarantine.Schools, colleges reopening: Several schools and colleges across the country reopened from September 21 for students from class 9-12, on voluntary basis, and it is expected to continue for the next month. However, according to people aware of developments, primary classes will continue to stay closed for a few more weeks. Universities and colleges, meanwhile, have already started their admission tests and the new academic year may begin via online classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-0-economic-activities-cinema-halls-and-other-likely-relaxations/story-UQvMzxf6GmO1cZvW0SGoUN.html
28-09-2020||India||Environment ministry seeks legal status for elephant reserve, states ask for the draft||The Union environment ministry has proposed an amendment to the Wildlife Protection Act to protect elephant reserves and corridors on the lines of those of the tiger and sought responses of states to a proposed Comprehensive National Elephant Action Plan (NEAP), officials aware of the matter said. State forest departments have been asked to come up with management plans and provide forest staff and strategies to protect elephants, they added.The Wildlife Protection Act bars mining and industrial activity around tiger reserves. It says boundaries of tiger reserves cannot be changed unless the National Board of Wildlife approves them. The law provides statutory status to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). NTCA is the regulatory body for around 50 tiger reserves with around six percent of the country’s total wildlife and also home to around one-third of the protected species.With the amendment, the ministry proposes to have a similar legal framework for 30 elephant reserves across 15 states and statutory status to Project Elephant for the protection of the species. India has about 30,000 elephants, which account for 60% of the Asian elephant population.Also Read: West Bengal proposes to set up rail fences to rein in elephantsDS Srivastava, a former member of Project Elephant’s steering committee, said they have been fighting for legal status to elephant reserves for over a decade but no state was ready for this. “Once the legal right is given, several restrictions would come in place. Then, the states will not be able to allow mining and other activities in these areas, which could cause huge monetary loss to state exchequers.”Prajna Panda, the national coordinator of the ministry’s Elephant Cell, said India has no action plan whereas countries like Bangladesh and Nepal have much smaller elephant populations but have developed their own action plans. Panda added a committee formed in 2019 held its first meeting for NEAP.An amendment to the Wildlife Protection Act to provide elephants legal status similar to tigers is among the committee’s suggestions.Jharkhand’s chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Vishwa Nath Shah, who attended the meeting, said, “We are studying it. Besides, we are also evaluating the status of the elephant reserve in Jharkhand.”Shah said they do not know in which form the legal status would be introduced. “Until a legal framework is [finalised]... it will be too early to say anything.”Also Read: Elephant electrocuted in Chhattisgarh, 9th death in last four monthsWest Bengal forest minister Rajib Banerjee said they have taken several steps to protect elephants. “We will respond to the proposed changes in the law when the draft is presented.”The rising human-elephant conflicts and loss of habitats and corridors are other key issues discussed with states for the action plan. Officials said they want coordinated efforts to reduce human-animal conflict through mitigation works in elephant corridors.The government told Parliament last week that elephants killed 2,300 people from 2015 to 2019. The number is 10 times the people killed by tigers. Also, 400 elephants have been killed or poisoned as a result of conflict with humans.Raman Sukumar, an elephant expert, backed the proposal for legal status to elephant reserves. He said states need to ensure that the elephants stay within the reserves and do not stray outside in search of food and water to reduce the conflict. “The states also need to remove hurdles from the elephant corridors. If necessary, some elephants can be relocated to reserves having lesser elephant populations.”The first meeting for the action plan was held with forest officials from the south zone on September 15. “Various issues related to mitigating man-elephant conflict are being discussed,” said Panda. Panda added it has been decided that instead of state-specific plans, the national plan would include division or region-specific plans as the country’s elephant population is concentrated in four zones.India’s first elephant reserve was created in Jharkhand in 2001 as part of Project Elephant. Spread over 4,529 square kilometers, it had around 280 elephants, as per a 2017 census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-ministry-seeks-legal-status-for-elephant-reserve-states-ask-for-the-draft/story-8Gyio5nDJS8fsDSZDzVh3N.html
28-09-2020||India||Farmers across India protest against farm bills. In photos||Famer organisations across India are up in arms against the farm bills notified by the government on Sunday after President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent.The three bills - The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - have now become acts.According to the opposition parties, the bills were passed “unconstitutionally” in “complete disregard” of parliamentary norms and are anti-farmer and corporate-friendly. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parted ways over the issue of farm bills. SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from the Union Cabinet earlier.The government claims that the bills will ensure a higher profit for the farmers as they would be able to sell their produce to whomever and wherever they want .“They have the power to sell their fruits or vegetables to anyone, and anywhere. It is this power which is the foundation of their growth, now the same power has been given to farmers across the country. They have got the freedom to sell not only fruits and vegetables but grains, sugarcane, mustard and anything that they grow, they can now sell to anyone and anywhere they like,” PM Modi said while addressing the 69th edition of his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme.The farmers fear that the bills would render the current Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement system ineffective, leaving them at the mercy of “big farmers” and they would be forced to make distress sales to private companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-across-india-protest-against-farm-bills-in-photos/story-cQBssQF5wg7Cc5AhgJPxQM.html
28-09-2020||India||Expedition to Gartang Gali retraces ancient trade route to Tibet in Uttarakhand||A 40-member team in five vehicles started its expedition to Gartang Gali in Nelong Valley in Uttarakhand’s Uttarkashi district near Indo-China border on Sunday on the occasion of World Tourism Day. Gartang Gali bridge is said to be an ancient trade route to Tibet. The famous 105-metre wooden bridge in the area is believed to have been built by Peshawar Pathans. Gartang Gali bridge is at a distance of 90 km from Uttarkashi. The expedition members will also visit Jadung village, another 60 km away and are expected to return to Uttarkashi Monday afternoon after a 300-km round trip.The bridge has been damaged over the years after it fell into disuse following the Indo-China war in 1962 when it was declared off-limits. Since 2015, restricted tourism under special permission from the Centre has been allowed in the area. The 40-member team which also includes people from communities that lived in Gartang Gali area but were displaced and rehabilitated after the bridge was declared off-limits, left for Nelong and Jadung villages on Sunday morning in sunny weather. The expedition was organized by adventure sports company Where Eagles Dare, Uttarkashi district hotel association and the Anagha Mountain Association. The expedition was flagged off by circle officer of Uttarkashi police station, Dewan Singh Mehta. The three orgainsations sought permission from the district administration, forest department and tourism department for the expedition. Only after that, the expedition members were allowed to visit till Nelong valley and the starting point of Gartang Gali during the day. Ajay Puri, convenor of the Anagha Mountain Association, said that Gartang Gali is a unique engineering specimen. “Gartang Gali was the main route of Indo-Tibet trade. It is said that during the Indo-China war in 1962 locals from the Jad community from the areas of Nelong and Jadung were displaced and shifted to Bagori and Dunda villages of Harsil valley. Through this expedition, we are trying to bring in the forefront the culture of the Jad community,” said Puri. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat during a virtual round table discussion on the topic of ‘Tourism & Rural Development’ organized by the Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board on the occasion of World Tourism Day, said that theme-based tourist spots will be developed in every district in the state. “Tourism in Uttarakhand has a lot of employment potential, which is why theme-based tourist spots are being developed in every district in the state. This will help in bringing tourism opportunities back on track after the slowdown due to Covid-19 epidemic,” said Rawat. Satpal Maharaj, state tourism minister said that the tourism sector has contributed significantly to the GDP of Uttarakhand. “We are moving towards eco-tourism. Efforts are being made to increase the livelihood of the local people through tourism and pilgrimage. Our effort is to turn disaster into an opportunity. Along with rural development, several efforts are being made by the state government to promote tourism in the mountainous regions. In the coming days our overall efforts will again change the picture of Uttarakhand with tourism activities improving people’s livelihood,” said Maharaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expedition-to-gartang-gali-retraces-ancient-trade-route-to-tibet-in-uttarakhand/story-BW2PcVjpakhFq01k8gCY4K.html
28-09-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi likely to join farmers’ protest in Punjab||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is likely to lead a protest in Punjab this week in support of farmers agitating against the government over three farm laws passed by Parliament last week, people familiar with the development said. Gandhi is also expected to address a rally, the date and venue of which is being finalised, a Congress leader said. “After Punjab, he may join the protesting farmers in Haryana. But we are not sure if the BJP government in Haryana will allow him to enter the state,” said the leader quoted above. The protest rally is part of the Congress party’s ongoing two-month-long nationwide agitation programme against the government over the three farm laws. Also Read: PM Modi reaches out to farmers amid angerThe Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 were cleared by both the Houses of Parliament last week, triggering widespread protests, especially in Punjab and Haryana. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave his assent to the three contentious bills, despite the Opposition urging him to return them and only sign once they were passed after proper rules and procedures were followed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has termed the laws a “watershed moment” in the history of Indian agriculture, which will empower millions of farmers. In his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast on Sunday, he said a large number of farmers have benefited since fruits and vegetables were brought out of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) Act in some states a few years ago, and asserted that grain-producing peasants will now have the same freedom. Also Read: ‘Great to see Akali Dal holding flag of farmer’s rights aloft’: Farooq Abdullah on NDA exitHowever, the move saw the exit of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), one of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s oldest allies, from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Its Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal also resigned from the Modi government. Gandhi, after returning on Tuesday from the United States where he had accompanied his mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi for a routine health check-up, did not attend the proceedings or join the Opposition’s protests in Parliament on the last day of the monsoon session on Wednesday in view of the protocols being followed during the Covid-19 pandemic. However, he has been repeatedly raising the issue on the social networking site, Twitter. In a video message as part of the Congress party’s ‘Speak up for Farmers’ campaign on Saturday, Gandhi told farmers that they were being persistently attacked. “First demonetisation, then GST, then you were not given a single rupee at the time of coronavirus, attempt was being made to kill you (farmers), you are being made a slave of corporates, and now these three deadly bills,” he said. “We are standing with you (farmers) and together we will stop these bills. I want to say to the government—you have made a very big mistake. If farmers hit the streets, it will result in tremendous damage. Don’t waste time, withdraw these laws immediately and give guarantee on MSP (minimum support price) to farmers,” Gandhi said. On Thursday, the Congress launched its “mass movement” against the government over “anti-farmer, anti-poor and black laws”. The party has also decided to collect two crore signatures from protesting farmers against the proposed legislations. By announcing nearly two months of protests, the principle Opposition party is seeking to regain some of the political space it has lost over the years by targeting the farmers of the country. India has about 146 million farmer, going by operational land holdings, according to an agriculture census of 2015-16. The Congress is also seeing the issue as a 2015 moment when Sonia Gandhi played a key role in bringing 14 Opposition parties together against the proposed land acquisition bill that forced the BJP-led government to withdraw the controversial ordinance and shelve the idea of bringing a new legislation to replace the 2013 Act. As part of the programme, the Congress will hold several press conferences across the country. On Monday, senior leaders from states will walk to the respective Raj Bhavans and submit a memorandum on the farms bills to governors to be handed over to the President. On October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the Congress will observe ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas (Save Farmers and Farm Labourers Day)’. There will be protests and demonstrations in every district across the country demanding the immediate withdrawal of the laws. On October 10, state-level conferences will be held, and from October 2 to October 31, the party will collect signatures from 20 million farmers from all parts of the country. On November 14, the birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, a memorandum, along with signatures of 20 million farmers, will be submitted to the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-likely-to-join-farmers-protest-in-punjab/story-M8hK04yBEJ12o6RjVGl7mK.html
28-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India crosses 60 lakh-mark, latest million added in 11 days||India on Monday recorded 82,170 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (in the last 24 hours), which pushed the nationwide tally to above 60 lakh, according to Union health ministry update on Monday morning.The latest million cases came in just 11 days.Out of the 60,74,703 cases, 9,62,640 are active cases while 50,16,521 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals, the health ministry data showed.At least 1,039 people succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours which pushed the death toll to 95,542.Delhi, meanwhile, recorded 3,292 new cases of the disease which pushed the number of infections in the national capital to 2,71,114. More than 40 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in Delhi for the second consecutive day on Sunday. With this, the number of deaths in the national capital has gone up to 5,235.The health ministry, meanwhile, said on Sunday that India recorded 10 lakh recoveries in the last 11 days.“India’s total recoveries cross the landmark milestone of 50 lakh. The rise from 1 lakh in June ‘20 has been steep. The last 10 lakh recoveries were added in just 11 days,” the health ministry said on Twitter.It added that recovered cases have outpaced active cases by over five times.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the cumulative total samples tested up to September 26 is 7,12,57,836. The number of samples tested on September 26 is 9,87,861.India is the second-worst hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases after the US, while it is in the third spot in terms of fatalities globally after the US and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-crosses-60-lakh-mark-latest-million-added-in-11-days/story-96r2jlNgJMGLHOFu6wtlQJ.html
28-09-2020||India||India needed labour law reform. Now implement them | Opinion||Nobel laureate Douglass North wrote that institutions are made up of formal rules and informal norms of behaviour, and their enforcement characterise and shape human conduct and create incentives and disincentives for people to behave in a particular manner. The government of the day is supposed to create required institutions , incentives and structures for economic growth. Hence the need for laws, constitution and regulations. The evolution of laws over a period of time are not only essential but mandatory for growth in all spheres of human life. Any law made by the government needs to be implemented in letter and spirit by the system created for that purpose. One may call them inspectors or officials as per one’s own way of looking at the environment around themselves. Success or failure of the law in achieving its objectives depends on the integrity, efficiency and level of commitment of the implementing agency towards performance of duty. No law exists in isolation, its efficacy , utility and success depends upon the prevailing environment in which the implementing agencies operate. This is true for all laws including the plethora of labour laws enacted over a period of several decades. There is another truth: That any law or regulation enacted in the past needs to be revisited and updated with changing times and requirements of the society.The three labour laws passed by Parliament, in the recently-concluded session, have been under discussion for decades. Since labour is in the concurrent list, the central and respective state governments have been enacting laws from time to time. With a plethora of laws in vogue, a need was felt to simplify the labour laws and make them in tune with the current economic environment. The three bills passed by Parliament relate to occupational safety, health and working conditions, industrial relations and social security. Along with the earlier enacted Wage Act, these four codes subsume in the 44-odd central laws enacted during the past several decades.The labour reform bills that replace archaic labour laws with codes have been pending for a long time. The current three bills were presented in Parliament in December 2019 and were referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee for examination. After holding detailed consultation with stakeholders, the committee submitted its report to Parliament making several recommendations. The government accepted 174 of the 233 recommendations of the standing committee on labour and incorporated them in these three codes. These codes not only reduce the multiplicity of labour laws but include several reforms which are supposed to be beneficial to both sides.Also Read: Understanding the new labour codesThe most contentious of all the codes, the Code on Industrial Relations seeks to consolidate and amend laws relating to trade unions, conditions of employment in industrial establishments or undertaking, investigation and settlement of industrial disputes. The Industrial Relations Code has raised the threshold for requirement of a standing order — rules of conduct for workmen employed in industrial establishments — to over 300 workers. Interestingly in the earlier Industrial Disputes Act of 1947, Chapter V-B was introduced by an amendment in 1976, requiring firms employing 300 or more workers to obtain government permission for layoffs, retrenchments and closures. A further amendment in 1982 (which took effect in 1984) expanded its ambit by reducing the threshold to 100 workers. Meanwhile, during the past few years, 16 states have already increased the threshold for closure, lay off and retrenchment in firms with up to 300 workers without the central government permission. The Code on Social Security, 2020, consolidated laws relating to social security and ensures extension of social security to all employees and workers both in the organised and the unorganised sector. The Social Security Code enables the creation of a National Social Security Board which will take on the responsibility of formulating suitable schemes for unorganised workers, gig workers and platform workers. Under the Code on Occupational, Safety, Health and Working Condition code, the government has provided for a full-fledged survey for migrant workers for which the Centre will source data from various agencies and states. It also brings these sections of workers under the ambit of social security schemes that include life and disability insurance, provident funds, health and maternity benefits and skill upgradation. The codes also provide for issue of appointment letters to workers, digitising payment of wages and their free annual medical checkup.In any democracy, people are entitled to have their own opinion and all opinions need to be considered and weighed upon to arrive at the most beneficial piece of legislation to take the country forward. Every law has to aim to maintain the best possible balance between competing interests and should try to give as much comfort to the weaker of the two sides, as much possible in the larger interest of our nation. Ultimately these laws will be as good as their implementation, mere letters of law have no meaning. The government has to ensure that they are implemented with honesty and integrity, then only the country will be able to achieve the desired goal of speeding up economic growth and unleashing the untapped potential of thousands and thousands of our industries, businesses and entrepreneurs to take the nation to new heights.(VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needed-labour-law-reform-now-implement-them-opinon/story-mZlT5RM1x90ySCeoZpeiEK.html
28-09-2020||India||Supreme Court to hear today petition seeking postponement of civil services exam||The Supreme Court will on Monday hear a petition filed by aspirants of civil services examination seeking postponement of exam, conducted by Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and floods in the country.The petition will be heard by a bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna.On Thursday last week, the petitioners’ lawyer had told media that notices have been issued to respondents (UPSC and Centre). But in the order which was later uploaded on the court’s website made it clear that the judges only agreed to hear the matter without issuing any notice.The petition has been filed by 20 UPSC aspirants against conducting of the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination on October 4.“Conducting the aforesaid examination across India at such perilous time, is nothing else but putting lives of lakhs of young students (including Petitioners herein) at utmost risk and danger of disease and death,” they have said in the plea.It further said that the civil services exam, being a recruitment examination, is altogether different from an academic examination and in the event of its postponement, there would not be any question of delay or loss of any academic session.The aspirants have pleaded that due to non-availability of exam centres in their hometowns, many of them are facing “unimaginable” hardship due to non-availability of or unsafe health conditions in, the PG accommodation/ hostels/ hotels etc, where they are forced to stay with their family members, once they are travelling to an outstation examination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-today-petition-seeking-postponement-of-civil-services-exam/story-RmogHMfFZsjZIyrHOKF3PO.html
28-09-2020||India||Saarc museum conceptualised in 2005 yet to be operational: CAG||A South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) museum, envisaged by India in 2005 to reflect the living tradition of member nations, is yet to take off, even though the government has already spent over Rs 18 crore on the project, according to a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report tabled in Parliament earlier this week. The CAG has come down heavily on Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) for not being able to complete the project in time. The Saarc Museum of Textiles and Handicrafts was proposed by India during a summit held at Dhaka in November 2005 to preserve various crafts and related traditions, train artisans and crafts persons, foster design skills, hold promotional events and undertake research. Also Read: Cross-border terror among key challenges for Saarc: JaishankarThe museum was to be established on the lines of Saarc Regional Centres where the capital costs are borne by the host country and the operational costs are shared by all the member states. In the first inter-governmental meeting of Saarc in February 2007, it was decided that the museum will be established in India and in the second meeting; Dilli Haat, Pitampura (Delhi) was decided as the venue for the museum. After the approval, MEA leased the space for the museum from Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC) in November 2009, for which it paid rent of Rs 15.59 crore for two exhibition halls in January 2010 upfront. India’s share of the maintenance charges was Rs 4.74 crore for the subsequent 13 years and the project cost was Rs 25.18 crore. CAG said the design of museum was circulated to all Saarc member nations—Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Maldives and Nepal. Also Read: How to make Saarc useful in the times of Covid-19 pandemicA public sector unit—Handicrafts and Handlooms Export Corporation of India Limited (HHEC)—was selected as the implementing agency for setting up, developing, managing and maintaining the halls for the museum at a total cost of Rs 4.85 crore, for which an advance of Rs 50 lakh was released in March 2013. According to CAG, the museum was expected to be operational from March 31, 2015. Till September 2019, MEA had already released Rs 18.87 crore for the museum, which included Rs 13.88 core to DTTDC for lease rent and Rs 4.59 crore to HHEC for development of the museum, according to the CAG report. “Though the Museum Project was to be completed by 30 March 2015 and made operational by 31 March 2015, the project is still not complete and operational as of December 2019,” CAG added. “…deficient systemic approach in monitoring of the project by MEA resulted in non-completion of the project of establishment of SAARC Museum which was envisaged as a vibrant centre reflecting the living tradition of the Saarc and to provide a catalyst approach to the SAARC preferential trading agreement process despite incurring an expenditure of Rs 18.47 crore and a delay of over 10 years,” CAG said. The ministry informed the CAG during the audit that the project is stuck as ministry of textiles is contemplating the closure of HHEC. MEA didn’t respond to HT’s query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saarc-museum-conceptualised-in-2005-yet-to-be-operational-cag/story-8YvAOzv44Q3NJaTqPoJhAM.html
28-09-2020||India||‘R value’ in 5 states with high Covid-19 infection rate dips||The states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have seen a dip in the R value or the reproductive number during the last week, according to a recent study.Reproductive number is the number of people getting infected by an already infected person on average.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 millionThis value has gone below 1 in these high-burden states in the week starting September 19, according to the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, and this has helped flatten India’s Covid-19 curve. However, the R value in Maharashtra and Karnataka has begun creeping up again, said Sitabhra Sinha, a researcher at the institute.India’s R value dropped from 1.1 to 0.9 during the same week, the study indicated, adding that the durability of this trend depends on the infection rate in the cities of Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru. “India’s Covid-19 tally is dependent on how Maharashtra is doing as the state accounts for a large number of active cases.Therefore its contribution to the national average is significant. It will also depend on the magnitude of the R value and the state continues to dominate the R value of India,” said Sinha.Also read: Covid-19: India inching closer to 1% death rateCentre needs to come up with a plan to contain spread of infection in states with a high R value, even if they have a low number of infections currently, as they may easily end up replacing those with highest R value currently, he added.Among the states with a high number of Covid-19 cases, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have R value below 1. In Chennai, Bengaluru and Kolkata, the value has gone above 1 after a slight dip earlier, the study added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/r-value-in-5-states-with-high-covid-19-infection-rate-dips/story-gGTOl5S89C8TqAUdkZ3S1I.html
28-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Karnataka bandh against state farm bills today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka Bandh: Farmers to protest against state farm bills todayFarmers’ organisations in Karnataka called for a state-wide bandh on Monday in protest against the amendments to the agricultural produce market committee (APMC) and land reforms acts introduced by the B S Yediyurappa government. Read moreSurgical strike day: How army soldiers destroyed terror launchpadsThe government is celebrating the fourth anniversary of the surgical strikes on Monday. The strikes against the terror groups were carried out in response to the deadly attack on an army camp in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri in September, 2016. Read moreTrump’s ban on TikTok temporarily blocked by federal judgePresident Donald Trump’s ban on TikTok was temporarily blocked by a federal judge, dealing a blow to the government in its showdown with the popular Chinese-owned app it says threatens national security. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘That was the worst first 20 balls that I have ever played’: Rajasthan Royals hero Rahul Tewatia on slow startVillain one moment, hero the next. The phrase ‘two sides of the same coin’ could not be exemplified by anyone other than Rahul Tewatia. On Saturday, chasing a record total, the Rajasthan Royals batsman walked out at No. 4 after the dismissal of Steve Smith with the team still requiring a mountain to climb. Read moreSuchitra Krishnamoorthi on Bollywood drugs investigation: ‘Aghast that no men were named and called for NCB probe’Singer and actor Suchitra Krishnamoorthi talked about the ‘culture of misogyny’ amid the escalating investigation into an alleged drug racket in Bollywood after Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. She questioned why only women were being named and ‘shamed’ in the probe being conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Read moreHonda showcases electric SUV concept in major show of intent for futureHonda has finally shown some intent of taking not just the demand for SUVs in global markets by the horns but also stepping strongly into a world of electric mobility by recently showcasing its electric SUV concept at Beijing Auto Show. Read moreFarmVille, one of the most popular Facebook games, is shutting down this yearIf you’re an early user of Facebook you must have played or still play games such as FarmVille on the platform. After a crazy run of 11 years, Zynga has announced that FarmVille will be shutting down on December 31 this year. Read moreAmid IPL 2020 and ‘crazy heat’ of Dubai, Preity Zinta misses ski trip and this throwback picture is proofCurrently in Dubai to support her team Kings XI Punjab at the Indian Premier League 2020, Preity Zinta set fans relating as she shared a cool throwback picture from her earlier ski trip. Read moreIPL 2020: Rajasthan Royals chase record total to beat KXIP by 4 wicketsRahul Tewatia(51 off 31 balls) hit five sixes in an over after Sanju Samson(85 off 42) and Steve Smith(50 off 27) hit sparkling fifties as Rajasthan Royals chased down the highest ever total of IPL to beat Kings XI Punjab by 4 wickets in Sharjah. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-karnataka-bandh-against-state-farm-bills-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Eqa1TkgNbOh4FqBbcUIkKM.html
28-09-2020||India||Bhim Army chief demands treatment of Hathras rape survivor at Delhi’s AIIMS||Bhim Army Chandrashekhar Azad dodged the Uttar Police police on Sunday and reached JN Medical College in Aligarh to meet the Hathras gang rape survivor.He demanded that she be shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in New Delhi and a compensation of Rs one crore be paid to her family.The girl in Chandapa village of Hathras district had gone to a farm on September 14 where she was molested by a youth from the same village. Later, she named three others and a case of gang rape was registered. All four were arrested and Kotwali in-charge in Hathras was removed and sent to police lines. The Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) was deployed at the house of the survivor.BSP chief Mayawati tweeted about the incident and Azad announced he would meet the victim at JN Medical College of Aligarh and traveled by bus and motorcycle despite elaborate police arrangement to check his entry. He was stopped by the police when he insisted on meeting the victim. Azad was finally allowed to talk through video conferencing. The supporters of Bhim Army had reached Ghabana toll plaza despite barricading by police. However, their leader Chandrashekhar Azad reached JN Medical College at 4 pm on Sunday on a motorcycle. “The victim girl should be shifted to AIIMS in Delhi for better treatment. Nobody is allowed to meet her. We demand a government job to her family member and Rs one crore to her family as compensation,” Azad said. Earlier in the day, BSP chief Mayawati had targeted the state government over the gang rape of the girl from Hathras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhim-army-chief-demands-treatment-of-hathras-rape-survivor-at-delhi-s-aiims/story-7jSFS7c3LwOpk2LVUDdb0H.html
28-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India inching closer to 1% death rate||India’s positivity rate of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may have been hovering around 8% for a while now, but the death rate has been declining gradually, highlighting the fact that India is losing fewer people to the viral disease as compared to most of the developed countries in the world.Also read: Fatality rate lower than 1% over last 10 days, says Delhi health minister Satyendar JainAs on today, India’s case fatality rate (CFR), the proportion of people who have died among the confirmed cases, at 1.5% is nearly half of the global average of 3.2%. The Centre is aiming at bringing down the CFR to 1% or below.Government mortality analysis data shows that men are far more likely to die from Covid-19 in India than women, with the former accounting for 69% of all fatalities, which is in line with the global scenario and based on the evidence currently available. The analysis of mortality data by the Union health ministry also shows that a majority of deaths were among those above 50 years of age. It showed that 1% of those who succumbed to the viral infection were below 17 years; another 1% between 18 and 25 years; 11% deaths among 26- and 44-year-olds; and 36% among people in the 45 and 60 years age group. People with comorbidities and elderly are at high risk, as almost 70% of those who die have one or more comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac, renal or liver disease.The data collated by government’s integrated disease surveillance programme based on the information received from various hospitals across the country shows that about 77% of those hospitalised had some form of underlying medical condition. Many of those who succumbed to disease had been suffering from more than one condition.Hypertension and diabetes are the most common comorbidities found in these patients, with 5.63% and 5.10% hospitalised patients suffering from it respectively. Liver disease is a close third with at least 1.82% of the patients being diagnosed with it.The other common health conditions included heart disease, asthma, chronic renal disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), low immunity, malignancy, bronchitis and chronic neuromuscular disease.India’s cumulative Covid-19 cases as on date stand at 6,073,310, and the number of patients who have died of the viral disease since the first death on March 12, is 95,567.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-inching-closer-to-1-death-rate/story-CXFqVxOIIJaRaqK4WlsbdJ.html
28-09-2020||India||SAD-NDA: Farm bill was final nail in the coffin. Here’s a look at other reasons for split||There is a long history behind the decision by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to sever ties with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, SAD was upset over being ignored by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre. There are close to half a dozen instances where SAD didn't get the expected sport from its long-time ally.The most recent one was the move by the Centre to make Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi the official languages of Jammu and Kashmir. SAD wanted Punjabi to be included in the list, since there is a substantial chunk of Punjabi speaking people in the region. The party’s chief Sukhbir Singh Badal even wrote a letter to Prime Minister Minister Narendra Modi, but the the request was not taken into account, said Hindustan.SAD leader and Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral told Hindustan that it was not a big issue, and logical too, but the party’s request was ignored.Similarly, the Lok Sabha passed the interstate river water dispute (Amendment) bill despite SAD being opposed to it. The bill seeks to resolve river water disputes within a stipulated time period. SAD feels it that the water meant for Punjab can go to other states. However, the bill has to still receive Rajya Sabha nod.Another reason for the split, according to Hindustan, is lone SAD lawmaker in Haryana Balkaur Singh joining the BJP. The party blames the BJP for it, and feels the rules of the alliance were broken.There were differences between the two during last year’s Lok Sabha elections also. SAD wanted to contest on Amritsar and Hoshiarpur seats, but the BJP didn’t agree to it. The SAD has also complained that the Centre never took advice from party patron Parkash Singh Badal, who it says is the tallest farmer leader.The leaders in SAD have also said that though they were the oldest constituent of the NDA, they were never consulted on important issues in the last few years. The SAD also said that NDA parties meet before a Parliament session, but those meetings are strictly about the agenda of the session, according to Hindustan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bill-move-was-final-nail-in-the-coffin-here-are-other-reasons-for-sad-nda-split/story-nbpYO36Ake00xII4Pz7PCP.html
28-09-2020||India||Monsoon to begin withdrawal today||Southwest monsoon is likely to begin withdrawing from west Rajasthan on Monday, according to scientists at India Meteorological Department (IMD), who said that conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from some more parts of Rajasthan and Punjab and some parts of Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in the next two or three days. . Most of northwest India will witness dry weather hereafter. The commencement of monsoon withdrawal is 11 days late, compared to the new normal date set by IMD this year. As per the new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates issued by IMD in April, the normal date for commencement of monsoon withdrawal from northwest India is September 17 and for complete withdrawal from the country is October 15 . Till last year, the normal date for commencement of withdrawal was September 1 and October 15 for complete withdrawal. IMD’s new onset dates were calculated by scientists in IMD Pune based on analysis of monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal dates are based on data from 1971 to 2019.Also Read: Air quality on the decline in Delhi, expect worse in coming week“For the past five years we have been documenting monsoon withdrawal only after September 15. So the dates have changed, which is why new dates were issued by IMD,” said senior scientist Sunitha Devi, IMD, while presenting the weekly weather report on Friday.Last year monsoon started withdrawing only on October 9 against the normal date of September 1, and the prolonged rain brought a deluge in parts of Maharashtra, Kerala and Bihar in August. Monsoon withdrew completely in only eight days by October 17. There is a cyclonic circulation over east Bihar and adjoining sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim and a trough (area of low pressure) from the cyclonic circulation to west central Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh coast across Gangetic West Bengal and coastal Odisha. There is another cyclonic circulation is over south Andhra Pradesh and its neighbourhood. Under the influence of these systems, widespread and heavy rain is very likely over Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya and coastal Andhra Pradesh during the next 24 hours. Very heavy rain is also likely over parts of Meghalaya in the same period. Dry weather is likely over most parts of northwest India, IMD’s Sunday night bulletin said.Monsoon rain over the country is 9% in excess since June 1, with 30% excess over south peninsula; 16% excess over central India; a 15% deficiency over northwest India and 7% excess over east and northeast India.Three main synoptic features are considered for declaration of monsoon withdrawal from the western parts of northwest India—there should be no rain in the region for at least five days, there should be an anticyclonic wind pattern and a considerable reduction in moisture content as inferred from satellite water vapour imageries.Further withdrawal from the country is declared based on reduction in moisture as seen in the water vapour imageries and prevalence of dry weather for five days, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-begin-withdrawal-today/story-AqZ3faW45cnsHI2QV8sfeI.html
28-09-2020||India||14-year-old boy killed by big cat in UP’s Kheri forest||A big cat, suspected to be a leopard, killed a 14-yar-old boy in Sahabdin Purwa village of Kheri forest division in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. The deceased, Chandan, had gone to fetch fodder from the fields when the animal, hiding in the bushes, attacked him, said villagers. Hearing his screams, villagers in the adjacent fields rushed to the spot, after which the animal fled. Some villagers said the animal was a tiger while others identified it as a leopard. The village is located across Ghaghra river, under Isanagar police limits of Dhaurahra tehsil. Since the movement of a leopard was reported in this area earlier also, the spotted cat is now suspected to have attacked the boy.On September 19, a leopard was captured on cameras installed up by the forest authorities in Chakdaha village area where a big cat had killed a 13-year boy, Brijesh on September 14. Since then, the forest authorities had set up cages to trap the big cat. But it has so far evaded the trap. Anil Kumar Patel, divisional forest officer (DFO), north Kheri. confirmed Sunday’s killing but said it was yet to be confirmed if the animal was a leopard or a tiger. However, indicating possibilities of its being a leopard, Patel said the forest department field staff had been sent to the spot to collect pugmarks and match them with those of the leopard sighted earlier in the area. A 12-year-old girl in the same village had a miraculous escape after she was attacked by a leopard on Saturday. According to villagers, Reena was carrying food for her father in the fields, when a leopard pounced on her. The girl raised an alarm, after which villagers rushed to her rescue and chased the leopard away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-year-old-boy-killed-by-big-cat-in-up-s-kheri-forest/story-LdjJKzsBqWFQqyJMh963eO.html
28-09-2020||India||Surgical strike day: How army soldiers destroyed terror launchpads||The government is celebrating the fourth anniversary of the surgical strikes on Monday. The strikes against the terror groups were carried out in response to the deadly attack on an army camp in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri in September, 2016.During his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reminded the nation about the strikes.“Four years ago, around this time, the world witnessed the courage, bravery and valour of our soldiers during the surgical strike. Our brave soldiers had just one mission and goal - to protect the glory and honour of mother India at any cost. They did not care for their lives, at all. They kept moving on the line of duty and we all witnessed how they returned victoriously. They made mother India proud,” PM Modi had said.The strikes were carried out by Indian Army’s special forces which crossed the Line of Control (LoC) on the night of September 27-28, 2016, and destroyed the terror pads in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). This was in response to the suicide attack carried out by Pakistan based terrorists on an army base in Uri north Kashmir’s Baramulla district o September 18 that year. Nineteen soldiers were killed in the attack.PM Modi had said that the attackers will not go “unpunished” and that they will not be forgiven and the sacrifice of 18 jawans will not go in vain.The army’s build-up for the strikes began on September 24. The special forces squads set out for the mission armed with night-vision devices, Tavor 21 and AK-47 assault rifles, rocket-propelled grenades, shoulder-fired missiles, Heckler and Koch pistols, high explosive grenades and plastic explosives. The teams were 30-strong each and had specific targets.Civilians living close to border in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab were evacuated started at 10 pm on September 27, before Indian soldiers went across.These terror camps were meant to serve as launchpads to send terrorists into the Indian territory. Sentries at these launchpads were neutralised by snipers before the troops went in and finished the nearly five-hour-long operation.The army had said that Indian soldiers razed six launchpads to the ground and gunned down 45 terrorists at various locations. These launchpads were under surveillance for over one week before the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surgical-strike-day-how-army-soldiers-destroyed-terror-launchpads/story-BQvXFBImvr5ODkjIfwnhAJ.html
28-09-2020||India||India far from any kind of herd immunity against Sars-CoV-2: Govt||Early indications from the second nationwide sero surveillance conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) show the Indian population is still far from achieving herd immunity against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday.“Even the soon-to-be-released second sero survey indications are that we are far from having achieved any kind of herd immunity which necessitates that all of us should continue following Covid-appropriate behavior,” the health minister said in response to queries from social media users.  Herd immunity is used to describe the indirect protection conferred to a population in which the majority of people have natural or acquired immunity to an infection. This is possible either through a large proportion of the population getting infected or vaccinated.Taking part in the interaction titled Sunday Samvad (dialogue) with social media users wherein he answers their questions on Twitter, Harsh Vardhan said the results of the second sero survey will soon be made public, but cautioned that people should guard against a sense of complacence.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“ICMR’s sero survey report should not create a sense of complacency in people as usually herd immunity is achieved when about 60-70% of a country’s population has developed antibodies against the virus. Since that is not the case for us yet, we must know that a significantly large population in India is susceptible to getting infected, which is why it is extremely important to observe Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” the minister added.The blood samples for the sero survey are tested for the presence of IgG (Immunoglobulin G) antibodies that determine if a past infection is due to the virus. Close to 24,000 samples that were lifted around the end of August and early September have been tested across the same 70 districts in 21 states, which were covered in the first sero survey.Sero surveys are important also to determine whether the disease has entered the community transmission stage or not.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 million“All the parameters for collecting samples were the same around this time also, including the sample size,” the health minister said.According to ICMR officials, the Phase 2 sero survey is a follow-up of the first, and the process is a repeat of what was done in May, when the movement of people was restricted.“We have to see how much difference has lifting of lockdown made to the disease prevalence in the country. Same areas/clusters will be covered this time also, but samples will be lifted of different people,” said an ICMR official, requesting not to be identified.ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai (Tamil Nadu) is the nodal agency to supervise the survey and is processing the samples and analysing results.Experts in epidemiology also say India has a long way to go in achieving herd immunity.Also read: Why adequate testing is crucial to saving lives“We are way off the mark as far as herd immunity is concerned; however, the goal shouldn’t be to achieve it faster, rather in a graded manner so that our health care system is ready to manage those whose disease progresses to serious levels. Not taking measures to curb transmission, like the way Sweden did, is not an option for us,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, professor, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.The first sero survey that was conducted by ICMR in May 2020 revealed that the nationwide prevalence of the coronavirus infection was about 0.73%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-far-from-any-kind-of-herd-immunity-against-sars-cov-2-govt/story-oqn2kH8LazgJMNtCpO5EdP.html
28-09-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The number of Covid-19 tests carried out in India continues to fluctuate wildly. On Saturday, only 987,861 tests were carried out in the country, 26% lower than the 1.34 million tests carried out the previous day. A day before, on September 24, India carried out 1.49 million tests; on September 23, the number was 1.15 million; and on September 22, 953,683.As Dispatch 168 pointed out on September 26, this doesn’t help anybody — simply because there has been no pattern in India’s until then highly predictable Covid-19 numbers since September 10. That column added that because of this, the fact that the seven-day average of daily new cases fell by around 7,000 in the week to September 24 meant nothing.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 millionOn Saturday, Kerala’s positivity rate was 11.8%. The positivity rate is the number of people testing positive expressed as a percentage of those being tested. Karnataka’s positivity rate the same day was 12.9%, Madhya Pradesh’s 10.04%, Chandigarh’s 10.22%, Chhattisgarh’s 20.6%, Goa’s 25.3%, Maharashtra’s 21.3%, and Puducherry’s 10.8%. Together, these states and one Union territory accounted for almost one in every two cases of Covid-19 recorded on Saturday. Add Andhra Pradesh, which had a positivity rate of 9.6% on Saturday, to this group, and it emerges that almost 60% of the daily cases in India that day came from states with relatively high positivity rates.This is another indicator that the infection isn’t really slowing in India (as much as I wish it were).Some of these states (which are following the right testing strategy) are on a long plateau of positivity rates (more on this shortly), which means they are unlikely to see a sudden dip in cases, although, eventually, they will see a fall.This is why I used the term relatively high to describe a positivity rate of around 10% — because a rate between 8% and 12% can actually be a good thing in states testing adequately and following the correct testing protocol. For instance, for weeks together, Tamil Nadu’s positivity rate ranged between 8% and 12%. The state was testing heavily and adequately, and its dependence on the highly unreliable rapid antigen tests was low to non-existent, yet its positivity rate didn’t fall. The state’s positivity rate trajectory was on a long plateau that’s typically seen in the case of cities, provinces and countries following the correct testing approach. It is only in recent weeks that the state’s positivity rate has fallen. On Saturday, for instance, it was 6%.Also read: Why adequate testing is crucial to saving livesBut other states (which are not following the right strategy) are not testing adequately. Positivity rates are complex and need to be understood in the correct context — in some cases, a moderately high positivity rate (10%) may be a sign of adequate testing; in other cases, a low rate or a high one may be sign of inadequate testing; and in still others, a low rate may well mean the infection in the region is in control. To resort to one of this writer’s oft-used refrains, it’s important to track the trajectory of positivity rates to understand them. Once again, Tamil Nadu’s trajectory is a text-book pattern — a rise with increased testing, then a plateau, and finally, a fall.But positivity rates can also be skewed by the choice of tests — an inaccurate one, such as the rapid antigen test (it identifies many infected individuals as uninfected) can artificially push down the positivity rate. Dispatch 156, published on September 12, details the math of how this happens.The worrying thing in Saturday’s numbers, from this writer’s perspective, is that Bihar’s positivity rate was less than 1% (actually 0.97%), and Uttar Pradesh’s 2.74%. Both states have high populations, poor public health systems and social indicators, and depend heavily on rapid antigen tests.October and November is when India’s annual festive season peaks. It is a time for celebration (and people tired from months of lockdowns and restrictions are waiting to exhale) and consumption (something the flagging Indian economy badly needs).Simultaneously, with half the school-year over, there is a growing clamour in certain quarters to reopen schools.Decisions on what kind of celebrations can be allowed at this time, and whether schools should reopen need to be made on the basis of data and science — and there are far too many inconsistencies in recent data.India’s apex medical research body ICMR and the Union health ministry need to investigate why data for the past few weeks has been inconsistent — not tout recovery percentages as a sign of success. After all, with a case fatality rate of 1.6%, ultimately 98.4% of people infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus will recover. It’s just math.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-EAxdM2T5lPmPPc0kGeYvZL.html
28-09-2020||India||Farm fires set to continue as subsidy may not encourage shift to tech||The harvest season has already begun in many parts of northwest India, and even as most farmer groups agitate against the farm bills, community leaders said crop stubble burning may continue this year too, saying subsidies on straw management machinery is not enough for small farmers to switch to machines.Satellite images released by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) have shown an increasing number of stubble burning incidents in Punjab over the past five days, especially in Amritsar district. Nasa also warned that with plumes of smoke being seen over Delhi, the city’s air quality may also deteriorate in the coming weeks. Delhi government data shows that stubble burning accounted for 44% of the city’s air pollution last year.Also read: Current approach not helping cut farm fires, says Kejriwal in letter to JavadekarA silver lining, however, is that the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) will in certain farms this year test its microbial consortium, which helps decompose stubble quickly, thereby removing the need for any straw management machinery. But it may not be scaled up to all of northwest India immediately, officials said.“We had been working on the microbial consortium for a couple of years after the happy seeder (for straw management) was introduced. Last year, it was tried in Uttar Pradesh and it had worked. So, after the crop is harvested with a combine harvester, it needs to be chopped so that the straw is short and the microbial consortium can be used. The money for straw management machinery to be subsidised has also been released to Punjab and Haryana so farmers can access that. I think there will be a further reduction in crop stubble burning this year compared to last year,” said Trilochan Mohapatra, director, Indian Council for Agricultural Research.But farmers are not aware of the microbial consortium’s effectiveness. “We have heard about the solution. If it works, nothing like it. The only worry is that if straws from paddy don’t decompose , it will delay the sowing for the Rabi season. They should do a trial,” said Dharmendra Kumar, spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union. Also read: Air quality on the decline in Delhi, expect worse in coming week“No machine can remove the straw effectively and farmers end up spending on the machines and fuel. So there was talk of giving direct subsidy to farmers of about Rs 100 per quintal. But that has not happened. Instead they have used that money to subsidise straw management machinery,” he added.Harvesting started a week early this time, according to Rattan Singh Mann, chief of the BKU’s Haryana unit. “I have seen small farmers are already setting fire to their farms after harvesting. That’s because it was very warm this month which prepared the crop for early harvest. Small farmers who do not have access to machinery will continue to burn stubble this year. But the Haryana government has made both cooperative societies for renting machines and is also offering subsidies to those who need to buy it,” Mann said.BKU general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said a large number of farmers have not received subsidies to buy straw management machinery this year, so obviously they will burn stubble. “Farmers are extremely disturbed about the farm bills also. It’s a crisis,” said .Besides causing pollution, burning also affects the soil’s fertility. Burning one tonne of straw accounts for loss of 5.5kg nitrogen, 2.3kg phosphorus, 25kg potassium and 1.2kg sulphur. Heat from burning straw penetrate into the soil up to 1 cm. Repeated burning permanently diminishes the bacterial population by more than 50% according to an analysis by Centre for Sustainable Agriculture.Centre under its in-situ management of crop residue scheme has allocated Rs 1,151.80 crore for subsidising straw management machinery from 2018-19 to 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-fires-set-to-continue-as-subsidy-may-not-encourage-shift-to-tech/story-2NjHD8p7eBmURKK5DimsuL.html
28-09-2020||India||Air traffic up at IGI by 21%, says DIAL data||Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport — between May 25 (when domestic flight operations began in the country) and August 25 — handled around 37% of the country’s total air traffic movements, data shared by airport operator DIAL showed. DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) said this number was at least 21% higher than the domestic air traffic the Delhi airport handled during the pre-Covid period.Air traffic movement in the country was suspended on March 25 this year to contain the spread of Covid-19. After two months of complete lockdown, the government resumed flight operations in May. While international flights continue to remain restricted and are being operated on select routes only under the Vande Bharat Mission within an air bubble agreement, movement of all domestic flights on all routes has been allowed.Data from Delhi airport further states that during the first nine weeks of resumption of service, the airport recorded a significant rise in the number of domestic fliers compared to pre-Covid traffic. The airport used to cater to 18% of the country’s domestic air traffic passenger share before the lockdown. The number shot up to 26%, in the nine weeks after the lockdown on air travel was lifted.In terms of footfall, Delhi International Airport Ltd said, while domestic passenger footfall increased from 8,93,000 (per month average during pre-Covid period) to an average footfall of 9,99,000 between May 25 and August 25, the international section saw an increase in passenger footfall from 1,15,000 to 2,15,000 during the same period.Explaining the hike, an official from the airport said the 21% raise in domestic traffic was primarily because Delhi has better domestic connectivity to other parts of the country. Also, when air space was opened, a lot of international passengers flew in to Delhi and then continued on to their onwards domestic journeys from IGI, thereby raising the footfall in Delhi drastically. The official further said, many airports, due to their state policies or other reasons, could not resume flight operations immediately from May 25, shifting their passenger loads to other airports. This also resulted in many passengers booking their departing or arriving flights from or to Delhi airport, he said.Delhi International Airport Ltd added, that Delhi airport also catered to 36% of the country’s total international passengers traffic, under Vande Bharat Mission, raising the IGI airport’s international traffic by 9%. Prior to the Covid-19 lockdown, Delhi airport was handling 27% of India the country’s total international passengers.An official from the Delhi Air Traffic Control said the domestic air traffic has recovered by up to 50-60% in August as compared to the pre-Covid lockdown period. “Earlier, an average of 1,300 flight operations were handled by the ATC at Delhi airport in a day. After May 25, when airspace was reopened, traffic had slowed down and the ATC handled only about 20-30% of the daily pre-Covid flights. But that is changing and the aviation sector is slowly regaining its pace and the per day air traffic is back to almost 50-60% (of pre-Covid times),” the official said.With increasing domestic traffic, the Delhi airport has also decided to reopen Terminal 2. At present, only Terminal 3 is in service. Starting October 1, GoAir will shift all its flight operations back to T2. IndiGo will also partially shift back some of its flights to T2. Terminal 1, that is undergoing expansion, will continue to remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-traffic-up-at-igi-by-21-says-dial-data/story-WLw8GryYEROWBaq7OoFDaO.html
28-09-2020||India||Tourism likely to flourish post-Covid-19||NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant has said that India is uniquely placed to provide experiential tourism, which will be the hallmark of the post-Covid-19 era, considering the wealth of cultural diversity and heritage sites in the country.Describing the crisis in the global tourism sector as temporary, he predicted that it will bounce back with a vengeance and flourish :because of the human desire to explore”. “Post-Covid there will be a massive opportunity for India, once it builds seamless travel experience,” Kant said at the second HT Tourism Conclave. “The world of tourism will move towards experiential and shorter trips. People will focus on unique experiences. India’s wealth of culture, heritage, archaeology and nature uniquely place it to provide such experiences for people to rediscover themselves.” Kant added that tourism will move towards technology, which will be a driver and determinant of the success of many of the stakeholders in the sector. “Technology will become a key player, as even now eight of the companies growing and expanding are technologically driven,” Kant said. “It will also be key dividing factor and a driver of growth. Tour operators and travel agents will have to adapt to a new business model to survive as people will depend more and more on mobile and digital mediums.” The tourism ministry has cited Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) estimates to suggest that the loss of revenue to tourism can range between Rs 72,000 crore and Rs 1.58 lakh crores in 2020-21. The United Nations World Tourism Organization is predicting a fall within the range of $910 billion to $1 trillion in international tourism spending. But Kant said he believes that the impact of the pandemic is temporary. “The pandemic has only altered the progress, and the industry will need a phased recovery,” he said.He added that the sector needs support, but will bounce back. Initially, Kant said, in the short to medium term, the focus has to be inward, and domestic tourism will be the first driver of recovery. “This provides an opportunity to build great infrastructure and an inward-looking Incredible India 2.0 states,” Kant said. “States can create top class products. Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka have an incredible tourism potential. As it is, the Udaan scheme offers connectivity to remote locations now, as the travel will shift from far away locales to less urban destinations closer to people’s homes,” he added. According to Kant, the sector will bounce back. “The human spirit will conquer Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-likely-to-flourish-post-covid-19/story-6hh7nIVlkeb1Dv83RRAwkJ.html
28-09-2020||India||BJP may be able to offset the impact of Akali exit||Perception management will be the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) biggest challenge in Punjab and other agrarian states after the Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) decision to end their 24-year-old alliance on the controversial farm sector reforms.The BJP wouldn’t be that badly off without the SAD if it manages to set up a negotiating table with the agitating farmers to limit the bushfires. That’ll set the stage for it to exercise the alliance options it has and the Akalis do not in the sensitive border province.Given the history of the Khalistan Movement of the 1980s, the Centre’s initiative to find a middle ground should come sooner than later. Punjab is the key as much to the country’s food security as to its national security imperatives. The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance can achieve the twin objective by reaching out to the restive peasantry without standing on prestige. Also read: President Kovind gives his nod to all 3 farm bills, government notifies themFor its part, the SAD, derided as a fief of the Badal family, has apparently broken free of the NDA in search of its lost glory as a party of struggle and agitation. It had earned the spurs in the post-Independence Punjabi Suba movement and the way it fought Indira Gandhi’s Emergency. Its 1975-77 court arrest campaign ran for 19 months when its top leadership was in jail. That was also the phase when the SAD boasted of such tall leaders as Master Tara Singh, Sant Fateh Singh and Giani Kartar Singh (in the vanguard of the Punjabi Suba stir), Gurcharan Singh Tohra, JS Talwandi, HS Langowal and a much younger Parkash Singh Badal. The parallel Prime Minister Narendra Modi drew a few years ago between Badal and Nelson Mandela was a tribute in fact to his SAD moorings, the years its leadership spent in jails for the causes to which they were committed. Also read: Farm stir set to intensify as Punjab CM plans sit-inAll that is part now of the folklore the SAD inherited but failed to preserve. In its traditional support base of Jat Sikhs, the Dal has today a challenger in SS Dhindsa’s SAD (Democratic). The other breakaway faction that went by the name of the Taksali group has since faded out with many among its prominent faces teaming up with Dhindsa.Having served as a minister under Atal Behari Vajpayee, Dhindsa gained proximity to the BJP at the cost of his mother party. The Padma Bhushan the Modi dispensation conferred on him in 2019 had taken the Badals by surprise.Little wonder then that Dhindsa is widely seen as a substitute for the Badals in the NDA’s scheme in Punjab. A political observer who said it in as many words is former Rajya Sabha MP Tarlochan Singh, who had set up a meeting between Vajpayee and Badal to bring the SAD and the BJP together in 1996. Also read| ‘Their reasons for quitting alliance weren’t sufficient’: Punjab BJP on SAD’s exitThe Akalis then had spurned the Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader HS Surjeet’s efforts to get them to back HD Deve Gowda. The latter became PM when Vajpayee couldn’t show the numbers he needed in Parliament after being in office for 13 days.The other reason why the BJP could be confident of ploughing the furrow without the Badals is the inroads the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) has made in Punjab through its frontal organisation with the same acronym, the Rashtriya Sikh Sangat. Its activities have riled the Sikh clergy but on the ground, it’s believed to be making headway. From its standpoint, the SAD has come to see the BJP’s crisis of perception over the farm laws as an opportunity for the image makeover it direly needs. In the last assembly polls, the Dal lost the principal Opposition slot to the Aam Aadmi Party. That was after the 2014 parliamentary polls that saw it winning as many seats (two seats each) as the BJP.Also read: Farm bills get President’s assent amid protests, SAD’s exitThe ground, therefore, is slipping from under the SAD’s feet. While it fights to recover its lost appeal, the Dal’s historical proclivity to show itself as the sole defender of the Sikh cause could divide on communal lines what’s essentially a farmers’ movement for economic rights. The possibility of such an eventuality in the state bordering Pakistan lends extra urgency to a dialogue between the Centre and the organisations leading the farmers’ stir.A helpful template from the past could be the civil society interface that came about in the aftermath of the events of 1984. The group comprised such men of gravitas as Marshal of the Indian Air Force, Arjan Singh, Lt Gen JS Aurora, Ambassador Gurbachan Singh and Inder Gujral. A panel with matching eminence grise could be the bridge even now between the Centre and the leaders of the farm community. That could help prepare ground for direct talks — and a mutually agreeable accord.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-may-be-able-to-offset-the-impact-of-akali-exit/story-kkg1YZ0KywNJg9MsE9ajgM.html
28-09-2020||India||In Manipur, newly inducted ministers allocated cabinet portfolios||Three days after induction as ministers in the council of ministers of the three-and-half year-old BJP-led coalition government in Manipur, chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Sunday allocated portfolios to the five new ministers in his cabinet.Chief Secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar issued a notification in this regard on Sunday.As per the notification, chief minister N Biren Singh will continue to hold Home, Personnel, Planning, Revenue portfolios and any other department not allocated specifically.On the other hand Sorokhiabam Rajen has been allocated Education, Fisheries Command Area Development Authority; Vungzagin Valte has been assigned Tribal Affairs & Hills, Transport, and General Administrative Department while Oinam Lukhoi has been given the charge of Agriculture, Veterinary & Animal Husbandry, Tourism.Thokchom Satyabarta has been allocated Consumers Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, and Law & Legislative Affairs & Employment while Okram Henry has been given Municipal Administration Housing and Urban Development, Social Welfare, Cooperation. On Thursday, three BJP MLAs Sorokhiabam Rajen Singh (Lamsang), Vungzagin Valte (Thanlon), Thokchom Satyabarta (Yaiskul) and two ex-MLAs Oinam Lukhoi (Wangoi) and Okram Henry (Wangkhei) were sworn in as cabinet ministers after six ministers were dropped. Lukhoi and Henry were Congress MLAs who had resigned and joined BJP.The six minister who were dropped from the council of ministers include V Hangkhalian (Agriculture and Animal Husbandry), Nemcha Kipgen (Social Welfare and Cooperation) and Th Radheshyam (Education, Labour and Employment), L Jayantakumar (Health & Family welfare), N Kayisii (Tribal Affairs & Fisheries) and K Shyam (Consumers Affairs Food & Public Distribution).While Hangkhalian, Nemcha Kipgen and Radheshyam are from the BJP, Jayantakumar and Kayisii are from the National People’s Party. Shyam is from Lok Janshakti Party.On Friday, women folk of Kangpokpi, the native constituency of BJP legislator and former social welfare minister Nemcha Kipgen, staged a sit-in demonstration against dropping her from the council of ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-manipur-newly-inducted-ministers-allocated-cabinet-portfolios/story-UIwcvugGbaMaHYuUVXb5iN.html
28-09-2020||India||Jaswant Singh: Bidding adieu to a political stalwart||Jaswant Singh, a founding member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who served as the external affairs, defence and finance minster at different points of time in the government of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee (1998-2004), passed away on Sunday after a prolonged illness. He was 82.Tributes for Singh, an army officer-turned-politician, poured in from top the brass of the BJP, with whose leadership he had a bitter falling-out in 2014 when he was denied a party ticket to contest the Lok Sabha election from Barmer in Rajasthan. He contested the election, which was his last, as an independent candidate and lost. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote in a post on Twitter that Singh served the nation diligently, first as a soldier and later during his long innings in public life. “…During Atal Ji’s Government, he handled crucial portfolios and left a strong mark in the worlds of finance, defence and external affairs. Saddened by his demise,” the PM wrote. Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and former PM Manmohan Singh penned letters to former MP Manvendra Singh expressing grief over the demise of his father Jaswant Singh. A former Major in the Indian Army, Singh’s four-decade-long political journey traversed through highs and the lows. His stature in the party, his scholarship and erudition as a parliamentarian secured him a position in the Vajpayee cabinet despite the reservations the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological fount of the BJP, harboured about him. In 1998, the Sangh put up stiff resistance to two Vajpayee picks -- Brijesh Misra as the National Security Advisor, and Singh as the possible finance minister. Eventually, Singh was given the defence portfolio.A nine-time member of Parliament, elected four times to the Lok Sabha and five times to the Rajya Sabha, he was the minister for external affairs minister when an Indian Airlines flight headed to New Delhi from Kathmandu was hijacked to the Afghan city of Kandahar on December 24, 1999. Singh had to escort Maulana Masood Azhar and two other terrorists to Kandahar to secure the release of the passengers and crew who had been held hostage. After India conducted the nuclear tests in 1998 and the US imposed sanctions on India, Singh was the lead negotiator for talks with the then US deputy secretary of state, Strobe Talbott. The two-year-long negotiations paved the way for the visit in March 2000 of then US President Bill Clinton, which was considered a turning point in India-US relations. He was first expelled from the party in 2009 when the BJP parliamentary board, following an uproar, took a dim view of his book Jinnah - India, Partition, Independence. When he was expelled from the party, he did criticise the BJP for turning sycophantic, but rejoined the party after 10 months of being out in the cold. He faced a second expulsion in 2014 for six years, when he chose to defy party orders and challenged the BJP’s decision to not field him as its candidate from Barmer.The deftness and political acumen he showed as the leader of the party in Rajya Sabha helped him forge connections with the opposition leaders and was counted as the moderate face of the Vajpayee-era BJP. Supporting his candidature for the Vice President’s post, the then AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa with whom he shared a rapport had said there were two reasons for backing Singh. The first being her “personal regard” for Singh and the second being the “association that goes back 28 years”. Singh, who was a leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha and chairman of the Public Accounts Committee of Parliament, which oversees government spending, was upset by the party sidelining him, yet chose not to join the political adversaries of the BJP. In May 2014, when he was constantly asked about his political future outside the BJP, he said the Samajwadi Party “was very kind” and that he had received calls from Mulayam Singh and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, but he was not looking forward to joining any other party.Veteran BJP leader L K Advani described Jaswant Singh as a dear friend, and said he was an “outstanding parliamentarian, astute diplomat,and above all, a patriot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaswant-singh-bidding-adieu-to-a-political-stalwart/story-MMyf96l7TtKRdpbgZ8xw1J.html
28-09-2020||India||3 including 7-year-old killed as van collides head-on with bus in UP’s Kannauj||Three persons, including a seven-year-old boy, were killed while seven others seriously injured on Sunday evening when their van collided head-on with a bus in Uttar Pradesh’s Kannauj district, police said. After colliding with the van, the bus fell in a roadside ditch. Eighteen passengers of the bus received minor injuries, the police said.According to Kotwali police station SHO, Vikas Rai, the accident took place on the GT Road at Jalalpur village of the district. The seven people, who were seriously injured, were in the van, police said.Among the deceased, one was Ayush, the son of a man named Sonu, who was returning with his family members to Kanpur from Farrukhabad after attending the last rites of his brother-in-law.The van’s driver Ajit Kumar (30) and Shakuntala (35) also died in the incident, police said. Three of the seriously injured, whose condition was critical, were referred to the Medical College and Hospital in Tirwa.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the loss of lives, and directed that the injured persons should get adequate treatment, a statement issued by the UP government said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-including-7-year-old-killed-as-van-collides-head-on-with-bus-in-up-s-kannauj/story-EUCwh5HS8zoxbthHp90L1I.html
28-09-2020||India||Unused rural funds hint migrants may be back at work in cities||With just one month left for the plan to wind up, the Narendra Modi government has so far spent just 56% of the funds on a special initiative to provide employment to migrant workers who returned home during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the lockdown enforced to prevent its spread. The Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan was launched on June 20 by Prime Minister Modi from Bihar’s Telihar village. Under the scheme, works worth Rs 50,000 crore were to be provided to the migrant workers for 125 days — a little more than four months. An analysis of government data shows that at the end of 95 days, only Rs 28,138 crore has been spent.Official data also shows that 300.69 million days of work — in other words, just about 10% of the total Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) mandays for this year — have been generated through the special intervention.Also read| Covid-19 to flood: Tracing issues that may impact Bihar pollsAs millions of migrant workers started returning home after the lockdown was enforced on March 25 amid a jobs crunch in the big cities, the government devised the Rozgar Abhiyan to provide jobs to skilled and unskilled workers. The Centre announced that a “focused campaign” will run in mission mode for 125 days across 116 districts in six states. “In 125 days, nearly 25 schemes will be brought together to reach saturation. These will include Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, Gram Sadak Yojna, Jal Jeevan Yojna, PM Gram Sadak Yojna, etc,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said. As the programme enters its last month, Indian Railways emerged as the top employer, generating one in every 3 mandays under the scheme.“The Indian Railways has generated 10,66,246 mandays of work till 25 September 2020 under Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan in 6 States viz. Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh,” the ministry stated on Sunday. Also read| Data on migrant deaths being collected from states: Govt to ParliamentConstruction of rural houses has driven maximum number of projects with 377,000 units, followed by 121,000 water conservation and water harvesting works and 92,158 projects of laying fiber optic cables under Bharat Net. Former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra is not worried about the slow pace of expenditure. “If you see, for the last few months, the demand for jobs under MGNREGS has dipped. Since a large number of programmes under the this rozgar scheme comes under MGNREGS, the demand under this programme must have slowed down.” “But I think the government must continue with the scheme beyond its stipulated 125 days as more people are expected to demand work after the agricultural season is over,” said Mohapatra.The government didn’t earmark any extra funds, but front-loaded 25 existing schemes to back the project that aimed to boost livelihood opportunities in rural India and also “create durable infrastructure along with boosting employment opportunities”. The programme has covered 116 districts across Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. All these districts received more than 25,000 migrant workers each who returned home during the lockdown. “We are pooling resources from these 25 projects. There are some works which may get affected by monsoon such as laying of roads. But we want to front load the money allotted for these for those 116 districts and ensure that all those workers in these districts are given employment,” said Sitharaman.Some experts, however, said the trend did not necessarily mean the workers were back to gainful employment in cities.“If the government is unable to spend its money quickly, its is definitely a problem. It basically means people are seeking jobs but there is a problem the way money is being spent or allocated in projects. I don’t agree with the argument that migrant labourers are returning to cities in large numbers and therefore the demand for this Rozgar Yojna has slumped. Remember, the first quarter GDP [gross domestic product] was minus 23.9%, so where is the revival?” said Himanshu, associate professor with Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unused-rural-funds-hint-migrants-may-be-back-at-work-in-cities/story-TPfglgFsFJQElnzoljVQxK.html
28-09-2020||India||PM Modi reaches out to farmers amid anger||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday came out strongly in defence of the three contentious farm bills enacted by his government, saying the legislation would benefit both farmers by giving them the freedom to choose where they wanted to sell their produce as well as consumers by taking middlemen out of agricultural trading.Amid protests by some farmers groups against the legislation, Modi said in his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, that farmers had benefitted when fruits and vegetables were brought out of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) system in some states a few years ago, allowing them to sell the produce outside of the mandis that once functioned as monopolies. Grain producers will now gain the same freedom, the prime minister said, illustrating the theme with examples from states. The speech came a day after the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost its Punjab ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, which walked out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) after protesting against the new laws. SAD had pulled its lone representative in the Modi government, food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, from the cabinet on September 17. Modi cited the example of a farmer, Kanwar Chauhan, in Haryana’s Sonipat district,who told him about how he could not sell his fruits outside the mandi system at one time. In 2014, fruits and vegetables were excluded from the APMC Act and the farmers benefitted from the move.Farmers like Chauhan produce sweet corn and baby corn and supply the produce directly to Delhi market and earn Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh per acre per year. Also read: On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi focuses on storytelling; hails passage of farm bills“What is different that these farmers have? They have the strength to sell their produce where they wish. Now the other farmers of the country have also got this strength. They have got the freedom to sell their produce, not just vegetables and fruits, where they want to,” Modi said.Modi also referred to a group of farmers in Maharashtra who sold their produce directly to consumers. He also alluded to Theni district of Tamil Nadu where farmers had formed a group that would buy vegetables from the members of their community and sell them elsewhere in Tamil Nadu.“This benefitted not just the farmers but also the consumers by excluding the middlemen,” said the prime minister.Modi referred to similar groups in Lucknow, Manipur and Banaskantha. He said a farmer, Ismail Bhai, grew potato in Gujarat which he is selling directly to food companies and earning well.The PM’s monthly radio address came as President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday signed into law the three contentious farm bills, which the government says will widen market access to farmers and which opposition parties say are anti-farmer and corporate-friendly.The three bills — the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 — have become acts of law with the President’s signature .The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price. And the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potato from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits.The government, which has said that these laws will make farmers self-reliant, has notified them. More than a dozen opposition parties had urged President Kovind not to sign the contentious bills, alleging that they were passed “unconstitutionally” in “complete disregard” of parliamentary norms. Opposition parties and farmers groups have expressed concern that the new laws could pave way for an end of the minimum support price (MSP) regime. The PM recalled landmark events that will be observed in the coming days, including the Bhagat Singh Jayanti on Monday, the birth anniversary of Mahatama Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on October 2. He took a swipe at the Congress party, saying that f the essence of Mahatma Gandhi’s economic philosophy was followed by successive governments, there would not have been any need for the Aatmanirbhar Bharat (Self-Reliant India) campaign his government has launched because India would have become self-reliant much earlier.He said the farm sector is playing a major role in efforts to build a self-reliant India. Modi paid a tribute to farmers. “In this difficult time affected by Covid-19, the farm sector has shown its strength,” he said, adding that the stronger it is, the stronger will be the foundation of a self-reliant India.The Congress, meanwhile, likened the laws to cancer and slow poison that will kill farmers and agriculture. At a joint virtual press conference, Congress’s Haryana chief Kumari Selja and Punjab president Sunil Jakhar urged all parties to come together and oppose the farm Bills, which they said will make farmers “slaves of big businessmen”.Selja and Jakhar said NDA allies should support the opposition, the same way they extended support against the Land Acquisition Bill, which the BJP-led Union government was forced to withdraw.On the Shiromani Akali Dal’s exit from the NDA, Jakhar said the party did not quit the ruling coalition on its own. It was forced to do so by farmers, who made it difficult for the Akalis to enter Punjab without doing so, he said.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also termed the Akali Dal’s decision to quit the NDA as a case of “political compulsion” for the Badals, who were left with no other option after the BJP’s public criticism over the farm bills.Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday congratulated the leadership of SAD for its decision to quit the NDA. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the decision to snap ties with the NDA on Saturday night amid farmers protests in Punjab.“Congratulations to Shri Sukhbir Badal, president of Akali Dal and the party MP Harsimrat Badal who under the leadership of Prakash Singh Badal pulled out of the NDA in protest against the farmers Bills. Thanks for firmly standing with the farmers!” Pawar tweeted.With SAD’s exit, the BJP has lost its by far two most dependable and ideologically bound allies within a year. Last year, the BJP lost the support of the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, where the Sena formed a government with the NCP and the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-reaches-out-to-farmers-amid-anger/story-1MHpfr7HzKsR58EBVb00NP.html
28-09-2020||India||To attract tourists and revive economy, Odisha launches road campaign amid Covid-19||In a bid to woo tourists back to Odisha amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Odisha government on Sunday launched ‘Odisha by Road’ campaign through which tourists can explore the state’s tourist circuit through its network of quality roads as people are less likely to travel by air or train during the pandemic.Odisha tourism minister Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi who launched the ‘Odisha By Road’ campaign flagging off a 25 km bike rally consisting of 80 superbikes from 9 super biker groups in Bhubaneswar said the state has opened up its tourism sector for travellers. “We plan to woo tourists to hill-stations, tribal hinterlands, beaches and let them experience the cuisine, heritage, adventure, ethnic encounters, arts and handicrafts, leisure, wildlife and ecotourism. We are encouraging tourists to visit eco-tour nature camps, OTDC properties and spend nights at such places that would help kickstart the economy,” Panigrahi said.The minister also announced a campaign for promotion of Odia cuisine through a chain of authentic Odia cuisine restaurants named “Nimantran”. The restaurants to be run by state-owned OTDC will promote and popularize Odia cuisine.State tourism secretary Vishal Dev said the ‘Odisha by Road’ campaign aims at letting the tourists from neighbouring states go beyond the temples and beaches circuit and allow them to explore several other destinations such as Chilika lagoon, Bhitarkanika National Park and lesser known sea beaches like Chandipur, Udaypur-Talasari and Dagara.“We hope people will travel in small groups so as to remain safe during the pandemic. Tourists from Andhra Pradesh can come to Odisha driving through the valleys and mountains on the Odisha-Andhra border. Similarly, tourists from Chhattisgarh and Bengal too can visit the state to explore several other tourist destinations,” he said.The tourism department has finalised 15 itineraries including hill-stations and tribal hinterlands for the Odisha by Road campaign.Tourism department officials said the tourism activities will get more fillip from October 1 with Eco Retreat camps being planned at 5 places including Konark where it began last year. The tourism department secretary said Eco-retreat camps will be held at Satkosia, Bhitarkanika, Darnigibadi and Hirakud apart from Konark.Last year, Odisha had started eastern India’s first ‘Glamping’ festival or Glamorous Camping at the Marine Drive-Eco Retreat on a kilometre-long stretch of Ramchandi Beach in Konark attracting high-end tourists through a mix of luxurious accommodation coupled with adventure and water sports activities. “We plan to open 42 ecotourism destinations in the state that is managed by more than 600 forest dependent community members. Covid-19 norms will be strictly followed at the tourist places after the reopening,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-attract-tourists-and-revive-economy-odisha-launches-road-campaign-amid-covid-19/story-uTx5zFx5DqV2igMd0ascuL.html
28-09-2020||India||Bhopal railway engineers jailed on gang rape charges, suspended by authorities||Two railway engineers posted in Bhopal railway division were arrested on gang rape charges by police on Saturday night and were sent to jail on Sunday. The engineers were produced before the court while they were placed under suspension by the railway authorities, police and railway officials said. The victim, a 22-year-old woman who hails from a town in Bundelkhand region in Uttar Pradesh, was allegedly gang raped on Saturday in railways’ VIP guest house at Bhopal railway station, according to police. Superintendent of Police (Railways), Bhopal, Hitesh Chaudhary said, “Both the accused, Rajesh Tiwari - who is in his late 40’s and is a junior engineer (carriage and wagon) - and Alok Malviya who is in his early 50’s and is a senior section engineer (electrical), confessed to have committed the crime during interrogation. Both are married. We collected evidence and produced them before the court from where they were sent to jail under a judicial remand.” He said, “So far, there is no information about the two having been involved in any other heinous crime in the past. Tiwari had faced some criminal cases relating to fracas etc.” Also read: Woman gangraped by ex-army personnel, his friend in MeerutAccording to police, the woman - who is class 12 pass - in her FIR said she got acquainted with Rajesh Tiwari through social media. When she wanted help from Tiwari in getting a job given his position, he asked her to come to Bhopal. She reached Bhopal railway station by Bhopal Express on Saturday morning. Later, she was accommodated in room no. 2 of railways’ VIP guest house at Bhopal railway station by Tiwari. She further alleged that Rajesh Tiwari called the other accused Alok Malviya in the room around noon where they both had a drink and offered her a glass of cold drink laced with some drug. When she fell unconscious they gang raped her which she realised on regaining consciousness. They were not in the room when she regained consciousness. She came out of the room and reached the government railway police (GRP) station to lodge the FIR. Meanwhile, divisional railway manager (DRM) of Bhopal division Uday Borwankar suspended the two engineers and ordered shifting of the guest house custodian who had booked the room for the woman in violation of rules. DRM Bhopal in his tweet on Sunday said, “Railway administration suspended both the railway employees on Saturday night after they were booked under sections 376D, 323 and 328 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and has initiated a departmental enquiry (against them).” The DRM also tagged railway minister Piyush Goyal in his tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-engineers-jailed-on-gang-rape-charges-suspended-by-authorities/story-0CJkySkXABOy4bsApihcyH.html
28-09-2020||India||Order in House must, says Rajya Sabha Dy Chair after quick passage of two farm bills||Breaking his silence for the first time after he supervised the quick passage of two farm bills last Sunday amid ruckus in the Upper House, its deputy chairman Harivansh said in order to have a division, order of the House is equally important as the demand for voting. “As per rules and practice, in order to have a division, two things are essential. Firstly there should be a demand for division and its is equally important that there should be order in the house,” he said in a statement. Harivansh’s clarification comes after a section of the media referred to a video footage to show how MPs were in their seats while demanding division or voting on the farm bills but their pleas were ignored. The Rajya Sabha officials also released an official transcript of the minute-by-minute account of the entire ruckus that showed how Opposition leaders such as Derek O’Brien, Tiruchi Siva, Jairam Ramesh repeatedly violated rules and rushed to the chair, came down to the Well, snatched papers and misbehaved with marshals. Also read: Farm stir set to intensify as Punjab CM plans sit-inThe transcript claims Trinamool’s O’Brien tore the rulebook, AAP’s Sanjay Singh invited others to join protest in the well, Congress MP Ripun Bora threw books from secretary general’s bookrack, DMK’s Tiruchi Siva snatched away face shield of a marshal while 3 MPs plucked microphone from chairman’s table. CPIM’s KK Ragesh tampered books, registers and TRS MP K Kesava Rao started recording the incidents in his camera till a marshal stopped him. In his clarification, Harivansh also pointed out that KK Ragesh’s resolution to refer the bill to select committee “was rejected by voice vote by the House at 1.07 pm as Sri Ragesh was in the Well of the House and not on his seat in the gallery at that point of time.” Also read: President Kovind gives his nod to all 3 farm bills, government notifies them“It is true that Tiruchi Shiva demanded a division on his amendment for reference of his bill to select committee from his seat at 1.10 p.m. You will see from the same video that around 1.09 p.m, one member was tearing the rule book and throwing it on me. Besides, I was surrounded by some hostile members, who were trying to snatch papers from me,” Harivansh stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/order-in-house-must-says-rs-dy-chair-after-quick-passage-of-two-farm-bills/story-5qjEp9qlWOpRhA9C2RXSRM.html
28-09-2020||India||Farmers to intensify stir; Punjab CM to stage sit-in protest today||Farmers groups and political parties plan to intensify protests against the three farm bills that were signed into law on Sunday by President Ram Nath Kovind, who ignored demands that he withhold his assent to the legislation that the opposition has described as anti-farmer and corporate-friendly. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will stage a sit-in protest against the contentious laws on Monday at Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of freedom fighter Shaheed Bhagat Singh, on his birth anniversary. Others participating in the protest are state affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, all state Congress MPs and MLAs, said the Congress party’s Punjab unit chief Sunil Jakhar on Sunday.This will be Amarinder Singh’s first protest against the farm bills. Former Uttarakhand chief minister and Congress general secretary Rawat will also be visiting Punjab for the first time since taking charge of state affairs.Punjab cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh visited a Bhagat Singh memorial on Sunday to oversee arrangements for Monday’s sit-in. Channi said the Congress was on the verge of launching a long-term campaign against the Central government over the farm bills from Bhagat Singh’s village, with more plans expected to be announced by the CM to compel the Centre to withdraw the legislation.Also read| ‘Their reasons for quitting alliance weren’t sufficient’: Punjab BJP on SAD’s exitShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said President Kovind’s assent to the three bills marked a “dark day for democracy and farmers.”“Extremely sad that @rashtrapatibhvn refused to heed farmers & Punjabis’ cries & has signed #FarmBills and J&K bill excluding #Punjabi as official language. Hopes that President will act as nation’s conscience & return Bills to Parliament dashed,” Badal tweeted.  SAD had on Saturday snapped ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre to protest against the bills that farmers say put the interests of corporate entities above their own. Farmers groups have also expressed concern that the laws may pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system. Also read: Farm bills get President’s assent amid protests, SAD’s exitThe Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, seeks to give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside of the notified Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market yards.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, will give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price.The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, will remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potato from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits.On Sunday, farmers squatted on the Amritsar-Delhi railway track on Sunday, continuing their rail blockade protest against the contentious farm bills. People from nearby villages brought cooked food and other items for the demonstrators. Community kitchens were organised at the protest site by local gurdwaras.Also read: Sharad Pawar lauds SAD’s Badals for their strong pro-farmer stanceWomen wearing saffron dupattas also joined the protest, raising slogans against the Centre, and said they would not allow the implementation of the three legislations.Farmers, under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, have been staging a sit-in on the rail track in Punjab since last Wednesday.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher demanded that all the sitting 13 MPs from Punjab resignation their seats with immediate effect in support of the farmers’ demands. He asserted that BJP leaders would not be allowed to enter the villages of Punjab.The committee has announced an extension of its campaign against the bills till September 29. Trains services have been suspended in the state because of the protests.Farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm reforms would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big companies.The Trinamool Congress came out in support of the Shiromani Akali Dal for quitting the NDA government at the Centre. In a tweet on Sunday, TMC national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’ Brien offered the party’s support to SAD, which received a positive response from the Punjab party’s president Sukhbir Singh Badal.“We support Sukhbir Singh Badal and Akali Dal’s stand with the farmers. Fighting for farmers is part of Trinamool DNA. In 2006, Mamata Banerjee risked her life on a historic 26 day fast for farmers’ rights. We oppose #FarmBills2020 as they endanger States’ role, MSP, PDS and procurement,” O’Brien said on Twitter. “Derek - your stand against the #AgricultureBills in parliament is well known. Appreciate your support,” Badal said on the micro-blogging website in response to the TMC leader’s tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-stir-set-to-intensify-as-punjab-cm-plans-sit-in/story-b7BhYV6WhPanzhQMap9KsM.html
28-09-2020||India||Covid-19 still biggest challenge: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Six months into his fourth term as Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan is not only fighting to limit the spread of Covid-19 but also to boost the state’s economy. This comes at a time bypolls are to be held in 28 assembly seats, which might decide the fate of his government. Edited excerpts from an interview to Ranjan Six months ago, you assumed office at a time Covid-19 had started spreading in the state. How tough has this challenge been? It was the biggest challenge and it remains one. When I came, Covid-19 had spread its tentacles. There was no arrangement to tackle the disease. I was busy for three months in putting in place all arrangements for testing and treating Covid-19 patients like laboratories, hospitals, beds and beds with oxygen, PPE [Personal Protective Equipment] kits, hand gloves, masks, sanitiser, medicines etc. However, lockdown imposed by the Prime Minister with a great vision gave us time to raise the infrastructure and make required arrangements. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage But don’t you think Covid-19 is still spreading at an alarming pace across the state? Till there was lockdown, the situation was under control but the lockdown couldn’t go on forever. The economy has to be brought back on the right track. Hence, the decision to unlock. But it’s also true that when people started moving out and mingling, the number of Covid-19 cases grew and it’s a big challenge for us.How do you plan to control the situation? We strengthened our health infrastructure. We are further strengthening it while increasing the number of beds and beds with oxygen in all government hospitals and hospitals associated with medical colleges. We added two super-speciality hospitals in Rewa and Indore recently. We are having a tie-up with several private hospitals and permitted other private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients but they have to display the charges for everything. We are treating asymptomatic patients in their homes with effective monitoring of the treatment. Also read: India’s Covid-19 recoveries close to 5 million, 76% come from 10 states, UTsBut don’t you think there is more dependence on private hospitals? There are a lot of complaints against private hospitals regarding malpractices? Private hospitals are mainly at divisional headquarters. In other districts, the district hospitals are treating such patients and we continue to upgrade the facilities over there for treatment. As far as complaints against private hospitals are concerned, we have to have a balanced approach in dealing with the same. Where there are complaints, we will take action but we also have to see that doctors are risking their life in treating patients. We have to encourage such doctors too. The government used to say earlier that the death rate was high due to Covid-19 patients reporting to hospitals late but what do you say of the number of deaths shooting up now when there is more awareness among the people? There is movement of people now and they are meeting and interacting with one another in the unlock period. If there is contact and you are not aware, then the virus will spread. So, the number of deaths has gone up but the remedy is constantly creating awareness among people and people following all Covid-19 protocols strictly. But the fact remains that Madhya Pradesh is in a far better position, whether it’s death rate or number of patients, in comparison to many other states. Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 millionIs it not true that the number of Covid-19 tests in Madhya Pradesh is less than that in many other states? There is no check on Covid-19 tests. There are fever clinics. Anyone can go there and get himself tested. But the testing that we used to do earlier while visiting each and every house has been discontinued. The reason is that it was effective when we had to do the contact tracing to know who came in contact with whom. But contact tracing is not possible now when people are moving in markets during the unlock period. For instance, if a person is moving in the market, it’s not possible to know how many people he came in contact with. That’s why the arrangement of fever clinics is there. Now, we have introduced the concept of mobile fever clinics too. Which areas suffered due to Covid-19’s impact on the economy? Covid-19 affected us in two ways. First, it ruined our economy and second, there was and is more expenditure required on the infrastructure for identifying and treating patients. Given the impact, our non-essential projects have slowed down. For instance, we have decided not to construct buildings. All non-essential expenditure will be cut as much as possible. But development projects that are necessary will go on. At the same time, we have not compromised with any welfare scheme whether it’s for farmers, students, labourers, street vendors, poor and others from the weaker section of society. What is your plan to increase the revenue in the state and bring the economy back on track? Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave us the mantra of Atmanirbhar Bharat [Self Reliant India]. We have chalked out an Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh road map for the next three years. This road map has measures in it to be undertaken to increase the revenue. I will present the same to the Prime Minister in the next few days and then make it public. However, I am not hesitant in borrowing loans in meeting the expenditure for Covid-19, essential projects and welfare of people. Don’t you expect a special package from the Centre? The Centre has extended enough assistance to Madhya Pradesh despite the fact that it is facing a financial crisis due to Covid-19 situation. Is this the toughest challenge of your political career? Challenges do come but a leader is who accepts the same and finds the way out of it. Otherwise, why should he be a leader? I will take Madhya Pradesh ahead despite this challenging situation. Recently, the government admitted in the state assembly that then Congress government waived the loans of 2.7 million farmers. Don’t you think this goes against the stand of the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] so far and won’t it be a big poll issue for the Congress? They (Congress) only believed in telling a lie. Having made the promise to waive the loans of all farmers up to Rs 2 lakh per head, then Congress government’s entire focus was on how to exclude a large number of farmers from the list of beneficiaries on some pretext or the other. For instance, their first rider was waiving of only short-term loans, then cooperative banks loans, then setting the deadline of March 31, 2018, then talking of waiving loans taken from just one bank etc. Then government waived loans worth Rs 6,000 crore only. As far as bypolls are concerned, we are going to win the same comfortably on the issues of development and welfare of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-still-biggest-challenge-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-mfzq19RopkxGxgyw9dYyqJ.html
28-09-2020||India||LAC: Army ready for winter endurance test||At a height of 5,800 metres on the Finger Four mountainous spur, an endurance test is set to take place this winter, with Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) poised face-to-face, and the first short snow already falling on the Karakoram and Kailash ranges of Ladakh.While the winter is expected to worsen after Diwali in November, the situation on all the friction points in the sector is a stalemate with the PLA accusing the Indian Army of upping the ante south of Pangong Tso on August 29-30, as a result of which its claimed withdrawal plans were scuttled. The Indian Army troops are geared for the winter with specialized Alaskan winter clothing being imported from the US to handle temperatures 25 degrees below zero celsius at these heights. At present, the day temperatures are around 10 degrees with sunshine, with the night temperatures dropping to minus 10-15 degrees celsius.The situation along the 1,597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh continues to be tense but under control with a small detachment of the Indian Army facing off a PLA detachment on Gogra-Hot Springs or patrolling point 17 A. The situation on the north bank of the Pangong Tso is that a small number of troops on both sides are at the Finger Four height with PLA stationed behind Finger Six and Indian Army on Finger Three. There is no PLA presence on ground level of Finger Four or Finger Five but it is on the dominating height of Finger Four.On the southern bank of Pangong Tso, the Indian Army is dominating the Rezang la-Rechin La ridgeline on Kailash ranges with strong positions to defend the LAC despite PLA’s presence on Black Top and Helmet with the Indian troopers in between the two at the saddle.“The situation is that both sides are defending their positions, but the ridgeline in the area is with the Indian Army,” said a military commander familiar with the postures of the two armies.Although the Indian Army will have a new Ladakh Corps Commander in Lt Gen P G K Menon in place of Lt Gen Harinder Singh in October, the former is a colonel of the Sikh Regiment who dishes out the choicest Punjabi cuss words despite being from Kerala. He has vast experience of the LAC as he was the brigade general staff (operations) of the XIV Corps in Ladakh before commanding a division in Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh.While the PLA has deployed a brigade strength of mechanized infantry around Tien-Wien Dien across the Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) near the LAC, Indian Army troops are patrolling the Depsang bulge area within the patrolling limits despite the Chinese efforts to block them. The PLA air activity in this area is more than in south of the DBO sector due to close proximity of the Hotan air base in Tibet.As another round of Indian and Chinese military-diplomatic dialogue for total Ladakh disengagement will soon take place, the Indian Army commanders are prepared for the long winter ahead. From November onwards, it will be the endurance power of a volunteer army (India) against a conscript (PLA) army that will be on display. Sitting on the glaciated heights of the Saltoro ridge since 1984, the Indian Army will surely give a run for their money to the adversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-army-ready-for-winter-endurance-test/story-4cHfvqJw7cCuL9NaLO0soK.html
28-09-2020||India||Court asks why three former CBI chiefs not questioned in graft case||A Delhi court has questioned the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) why it had not questioned its ex-CBI directors Ranjit Sinha, AP Singh and Alok Verma in connection with a bribery case registered in February 2017 against millionaire meat exporter Moin Qureshi. In the first information report (FIR), the CBI had alleged that Qureshi, apart from his day job of a meat exporter, also worked as a middleman for “certain public servants” and was helped by Singh, who retired as CBI chief in 2012. CBI special court judge Sanjeev Aggarwal posed a set of questions to the agency seeking to know from it as to “why CBI is dragging its feet in a case involving the roles of two of its Ex-Directors”, which may lead to an inference that it is not very keen to pursue investigations with respect to them . “….it is apparent that in fact in this case, role of two of its ex-Directors is under scanner i.e. AP Singh and Ranjit Sinha along with alleged middleman Moin Akhtar Qureshi, which needs upfront i.e. frank and honest investigations,” the judge said on September 26 in an order seen by HT. The image of CBI as a premier investigating agency is redoubtable, said the judge, adding that at the same time, it has to rise to occasion to investigate the allegations against two of its ex-bosses. When any institution or organisation finds itself at a crossroads, it has to take the right path, he said.The court also sought to know from the agency why it did not bring investigations in the case to a logical end by using tried and tested methods of investigation like searches and custodial interrogation of potential suspects.It asked the CBI as to whether the alleged role played by Verma in stalling the investigation had been investigated.The judge asked the agency whether in the absence of a definitive timeline, “investigations will go on for indefinite period of time, so that FIR may die its own death, as reply to all the questions in this regard are most ambivalent and evasive”. The court’s poser came after the agency replied to nine questions posed by the CBI judge on an earlier occasion when he had frowned at the snail’s pace of investigation in the case. It had sought to know about the details of the witnesses questioned and whether an arrest had been proposed with respect to the suspects. In its reply, the CBI told the court on September 26 that so far 544 documents had been collected and 63 (including three named as accused) witnesses had been examined. It said that the previous investigating officer Devinder Kumar, deputy superintendent of police, had submitted a proposal to arrest Moin Akhtar Qureshi, Pradeep Koneru, Aditya Sharma and Sathish Babu Sana. During the pendency of the arrest proposal, a case was registered against former CBI special director Rakesh Asthana and the proposal could not be processed. On the final timeline for the completion of investigation in the case, the agency said the documents collected were voluminous and a number of prospective witnesses are yet to be examined.The case against Asthana was part of a feud he was engaged in with Alok Verma, which led to the exit of the two top officers of the CBI from the agency. “The investigation of the case may, therefore, take substantial time. Hence, at this stage, proposing of a definitive timeline would neither be feasible not conducive for thorough and impartial investigation in the present case. However, all efforts shall be made to conclude the investigation of the case at the earliest,” the agency said. The matter would be now heard on October 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-asks-why-three-former-cbi-chiefs-not-questioned-in-graft-case/story-ip9IfRsLOFXxSC4PUxtBcN.html
28-09-2020||India||Bihar assembly election 2020: Ruling, Opposition alliances locked in tough seat-sharing parleys||The ruling and Opposition alliances in Bihar are locked in hard negotiations on seat sharing for the October-November assembly elections, the first major election in India during the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), and its partner, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), are in seat-to-seat talks to decide which partner will contest how many seats and which in the 243-member assembly.Voting will be conducted in three phases beginning on October 28. The results will be declared on November 10.“Discussion on seat-to-seat basis is taking place. Announcements would be made by the end of this month,” said a senior leader of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Also read: JDU appoints Ashok Choudhary as working president, inducts former DGPTheir main rival, the Grand Alliance comprising the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and smaller parties, are yet to finalise their deal as well. A senior Congress leader said on condition of anonymity that the party was unwilling to accept anything less than 70 seats.The Congress is driving a hard bargain with state screening committee chairman Avinash Pande saying on Sunday that the party might be forced to tie up with other parties if its demand was not met -- a statement other party leaders described as a pressure tactic to convince the RJD to part with more seats. NDA NEGOTIATIONS  In the NDA, Bihar BJP in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP Bhupendra Yadav has had talks on seat-sharing with JD (U) MPs Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh and RCP Singh. One of the key reasons for a delay in stitching up the seat-sharing agreement, people familiar with the development said, is the division of 51 seats between the BJP and the JD (U) which both parties contested against each other in the 2015 assembly polls when the JD (U) was part of the grand alliance with the RJD and Congress.“The JD (U) had won 28 seats and the BJP 23. Both are staking claims by virtue of vote share, traditional seats and other logic,” said the NDA leader cited above. Having fought the 2015 elections with the RJD and the Congress in 2015, Nitish Kumar returned to the NDA fold in 2017 after differences with his former partners. Also read| Bihar assembly election 2020: Too many glitches and hitches in NDA’s seat-sharingAnother reason why seat-sharing has become complicated or the ruling dispensation is that seven RJD legislators joined the JD (U) recently. All seven had won seats contested by the BJP or the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in 2015. The constituencies they represent are Patepur, Gaighat, Parsa, Keoti, Sasaram, Teghra and Paliganj. “Under these circumstances, the 2010 results are most likely to become the basis of contesting the 2020 polls. Some of these seats will go to JD (U) and JD (U) will forgo some,” said a NDA leader. With the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) led by.Jitan Ram Manjhi joining the ruling alliance and amid speculation that former union minister Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) may also join it, the partners have a challenge on their hands in trying to accommodate so many interests.“There is no confusion in NDA with regards to seat sharing. As far as RLSP is concerned, there have been no talks with them so far,” clarified BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal on Sunday. People in the BJP familiar with the developments said party leaders have been put under pressure by MPs from the state who have urged it to negotiate an equal number of seats as are allotted to the the JD(U). Of the 40 Lok Sabha in Bihar, both JD (U) and the BJP had contested on 17 seats each, leaving six for the LJP. The BJP and the LJP won all its seat while the JD (U) lost one. “The BJP was gracious enough to part with 13 of the seats it had contested in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections to accommodate the JD(U) in the 2019 elections. Now it is the turn of the JD (U) to reciprocate the gesture,” said a senior BJP leader, requesting anonymity. The JD (U) contested 101 assembly seats in 2015 and won 71 when it was part of the alliance with the RJD and Congres. The BJP won t 53 seats and the Chirag Paswan-led LJP two seats. In the 2010 assembly polls, the JD (U) contested on 141 seats and won 115; the BJP contested 102 and won 91.GRAND ALLIANCE TALKSNegotiations between the RJD and Congress have deadlocked over the past couple of days with the latter refusing to budge from its demand of 70 seats, said the senior Congress leader quoted above. “The RJD is unwilling to give more than 60 out of 243 seats, which is not anyway a reasonable share in keeping with a national status of the party,” he said, asking for anonymity. Pande -- who is not involved in seat sharing negotiations and was in Patna to receive applications for tickets from party workers -- said on Saturday and Sunday that the party was ready for any eventuality if the RJD refused to offer a “reasonable and honourable” share of seats. His statement followed a two-day marathon meeting with senior leaders of the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) at the party office on Sunday on candidate selection.A second Congress leader said Pande’s statement was aimed at giving a strong message to the RJD and added that both parties needed each other to unseat the ruling coalition. “In 2015 assembly polls, Congress won 27 out 41 seats allotted under the GA with 66% success rate. The RJD had won 80 out of 101 and won 79% seats,” added the leader. Congress general secretary and former Union minister Tariq Anwar on Friday clarified that the party wanted 101 seats -- the same number contested by the JD (U) in 2015 as an erstwhile partner of the Grand Alliance. “Being a big partner, RJD has every right to claim the chief ministerial candidate. But the Congress expect a respectable that seat sharing deal with the RJD,” said Anwar, adding that the party might compromise on some seats to accommodate allies. Bihar Congress spokesman Harkhu Jha said Pande was given the mandate to identify potential seats and candidates. “So far as the alliance is concerned, only the party high command and in-charge [Shaktisinh Gohil ] are authorised to decide on it,” said Jha, adding that the seat-sharing exercise would be complete in the next few days.People aware of developments said the RJD is keen to allot 20-25 seats to Left parties comprising including the Communist Party of India-Marxist-Leninish (Liberation), the Communist Party of India, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist); the Vikassheel Insaan Party ( VIP) led by Mukesh Sahni would be allotted eight to ten seats.“ Once the screening committee submits its report on eligible candidates after holding discussions with state leaders to the Congress top leadership, a final decision on seat sharing would be taken by the party president Sonia Gandhi,’ said a third senior Congress leader, wishing not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruling-oppn-alliances-locked-in-tough-seat-sharing-parleys/story-os3H6gkI50OTel9XmW9XOO.html
28-09-2020||India||Jaswant Singh’s life encapsulated evolution of India||From his birth in rural Jasol in 1938, the six years he served as minister of all portfolios with the first Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government and his eventual seperation from his own party, Jaswant Singh’s life encapsulated the evolution of today’s India. However, Singh strode through these years with a gentlemanly demeanour that disarmed even his worst adversaries.Singh served as foreign, defence and finance minister during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. They were among the most tumultuous periods in India’s recent history, encompassing the Pokhran II nuclear tests, the Lahore peace process and Kargil, 9/11 and the war on terror. Singh’s most lasting legacy was to use the shock of the nuclear tests to force Washington to hold a dialogue with New Delhi, and then use those talks to turn around decades of contentious relations between the two countries.It helped that the Americans were impressed with him. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, who cold shouldered Singh over Pokhran II, told him later, “A masterly handling of the Kargil crisis, You did not put a foot wrong.”Singh saw the Vajpayee regime’s purpose as ending Nehruvian stagnation, being prepared to take bold and risky steps. His transformation of the US relationship has proved to be an overwhelming success – a generation of Indians barely remember how estranged the two capitals once were. However, his repeated attempts at finding some common ground with Pakistan left little impact, though this can be blamed more on Islamabad’s flawed nature.Those who worked with Singh say he was a minister with a genuine sense of the strategic, who sought to derive first principles from long studies of history and the experience of power. He would say that for every problem -- military, diplomatic or domestic – there was a “core” that had to be identified and addressed. Singh felt independent India’s lack of a territorial consciousness, an easy willingness to accept undemarcated and undefended borders, was an invitation for trouble with neighbours like China.Singh’s personal study of history, independent of the sangh parivar, led him to conclude it was the common Indian’s faith that had allowed Indic society to survive for so many millennia. The BJP had to be a proponent of a self-confident Indian nationalism, though one with “pronounced emphasis on the civilizational and cultural identity of India as being Hindu”. But his view of Hindutva was civilizational more than religious, one that encompassed everyone who claimed Indian origin.Some of this derived from his early life on the Rajasthan border, a place where Muslims were, “just as much our kin as any other.” A sense further strengthened by his nine years in the Indian army and his enormous appetite for reading, a habit he took up in earnest while at Mayo to bolster his English but was to be lifelong passion. The Babri Masjid demolition and “the loss of state control” in Godhra were, for him, two black marks on the BJP’s record. He found it difficult to reconcile all this with Narendra Modi’s rise and precipitated his break with the BJP.Another set of experiences, including the humiliation of watching India being defeated by China in 1962 even as his tank regiment was stranded south of the Brahmaputra, led him to sour of Congress rule. Ironically, for a man whose first government job was deputy chairman of the planning commission, he despised five-year plans and their ilk. As finance minister, he sought to “free the productive capacities and the creative genius of India from quibbling bureaucratic tangles”. He told the then Reserve Bank of India governor, YK Reddy, that he wanted to “start the process of a reverse economic imperialism” and the central bank needed to support Indian businessmen “conquer the world”.Singh could not avoid responsibility for a number of the Vajpayee government’s worst moments, including the failed Agra summit and the freeing of terrorists to rescue the passengers of the hijacked Indian Airlines Flight 814. He permanently kept a small field binocular from Kandahar on his mantel to remind himself of the humiliation. In his post-political life, Jaswant Singh often wrote and spoke about the need to redress what he saw as the weakest point of India’s national security: the decision going back to 1947 to “reject the centrality of strategic culture”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaswant-singh-s-life-encapsulated-evolution-of-india/story-P3qBClnbEzm40nvqOOUaoM.html
28-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6 million||Cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed six million on Sunday, with the latest million infections coming in 11 days and the number of deaths from the disease approached 100,000, even as the number of those who have so far recovered surpassed the five-million mark.Even though India’s case fatality rate (CFR), the proportion of people who have died among the confirmed cases, of 1.6% remains nearly half of the global average of 3.1%, the number of deaths reported in the country per million population has seen a jump of 42% in September alone — from 50 deaths per million to 71.On September 1, a total of 50 people had died for every million residents in the country. This number increased to 62 by September 15, and, as on September 27, this stands at 71 deaths per million residents, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The seven-day average of daily deaths (commonly known as the death trajectory) has increased from 984 deaths per day for the week ending September 1 to 1,096 for the week ending September 27.As on Sunday, India’s Covid tally was 6,073,310 cases and 95,567 deaths, with 82,824 new cases and 1,028 new deaths being reported in the last 24 hours. India has had the worst Covid outbreak in the world since August first week, accounting for more than a quarter of all recorded infections since then. In the past week, nearly one in every three (29.9%) new infections reported in the world and one in every five deaths (20.9%) have come from India.Epidemiologists, however, said the rise in deaths was not unexpected keeping in mind the rise in overall cases in the country. “As the number of cases keep on increasing there will also be increase in the number of deaths; it is directly linked. Also, it is linked to efficient reporting of cases and deaths in the long run as some states that were lagging earlier in terms of case reporting are now catching up,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, professor, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.Also read: Why adequate testing is crucial to saving livesGlobally, India is among the countries that have fared relatively better in terms of saving lives. The worldwide average for deaths per million population is 129. Russia reports around 139; South Africa is at 275; France has an average of 485; the United States is at 631; United Kingdom at 618; and Brazil reports 665 Covid-19 deaths per million of its population. All figures are from worldometers.info.Meanwhile, government data shows that men are far more likely to die from Covid-19 in India than women, with the former accounting for 69% of all fatalities.The analysis of mortality data by the Union health ministry shows that a majority of deaths were among those above 50 years of age. It showed that 1% of those who succumbed to the viral infection were below 17 years; another 1% between 18 and 25 years; 11% deaths among 26- and 44-year-olds; and 36% among people in the 45 and 60 years age group.People with comorbidities and elderly are at high risk, as almost 70% of those who die have one or more comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac, renal or liver disease, the data shows.“Deaths are being reported in the age group of 60 and above because this age category generally suffers from some form of underlying medical conditions that hamper the recovery process. It is important, therefore, for this age group to take extra precautions and also keep their disease under control,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, consultant, department of medicine, Moolchand Hospital.Overall, there is a good chance of recovery among Covid-19 patients, with the country’s recovery rate being about 82% currently. The number of active patients has been below one million for several days. The active caseload is 15.96% of the total positive cases.“This high rate of daily recoveries has sustained India’s leading global position as the country with maximum number of recovered cases. As India records more recoveries than the new cases, the gap between percentage of recovered cases and the percentage of active cases is continuously increasing. The gap currently is nearly 4 million,” the health ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-tally-crosses-6mn/story-cY2wlOzpbM1UoDTGJOwgAN.html
28-09-2020||India||Why adequate testing is crucial to saving lives||A higher proportion of the population is dying from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in states and union territories that test poorly despite a widespread outbreak, and thus have a higher positivity rate, according to data analysed by HT.This would mean that adequate testing, especially when the positivity rate in a region starts rising, forms a very crucial aspect of saving lives from the virus.States with high positivity rates, also have high deaths !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Most of the country’s worst-hit areas in terms of deaths all have high positivity rates. In Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state in the country, 20.7% of all tests done have come back positive for Covid-19 — the highest in India. In terms of people who have lost their lives, the state again ranks among the worst with 288 deaths per million residents — only Puducherry (332 deaths per million and positivity rate of 15.2%) has seen a larger proportion of its population die.On average, 71 people have died across the country for every million residents and 8.4% of tests have come back positive.Other badly hit states, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, also have overall high positivity rates – 12.3% and 12.1% respectively. Both again have seen a high number of deaths — 129 deaths per million in Karnataka and 108 in Andhra Pradesh. Tamil Nadu has seen 122 deaths per million residents, but it has fared relatively better on testing and has a positivity rate of 8.2%.In Delhi, 9.3% of all samples tested had come back positive till Saturday — again higher than the national average. The state has seen 262 people die for every million residents —the third highest of all states and UTs in the country.Some states do fare better. Bihar has a positivity rate of 2.6% (more on this later), in Jharkhand this is 3.9%, in Rajasthan it is 4.2% and in Assam it is 5.4%. Only seven people per million residents have died of Covid-19 in Bihar. Only 18 have died in Jharkhand and Rajasthan and 19 in Assam.The relation between positivity rate and deathsThe statistical measure to understand the strength of the relationship between two variables is a concept called ‘correlation coefficient’. It is measured in values between -1.0 and 1.0. A correlation coefficient of 1.0 shows a perfect positive correlation, which means that every time one variable increases, there is also a proportionate increase in the other. A correlation of -1.0 shows a perfect negative correlation, where increase in one variable means a proportionate drop in the other. A zero means changes in the variables do not affect the other — they just aren’t related.For the above analysis of deaths per million and positivity rate, the correlation coefficient comes to 0.77, which can be considered a strong positive correlation. This means that increase in positivity rate has a strong influence on the deaths in a state.Why are testing (and positivity rate) crucial? !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Positivity rate — the fraction of tests that return positive — shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and over time it gives us an idea of whether a region’s testing strategy is adequate. The World Health Organisation recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();This means that any region that is seeing a rising positivity rate over a period of time (say a week), needs to improve its testing in order to track and isolate people with infections. Once this number drops under 5% and remains there, we can assume testing in the area is sufficient. In India, the positivity rate on average remains fairly high (mostly due to some major states still reporting high positivity rates). Unless this number drops to under 5%, the threat of rising deaths remains high.But can this metric be skewed?In simple words: yes. A Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (or RT-PCR) test is the gold standard in Covid-19 testing because it has a very low chance of missing cases and thus tends to result in a higher positivity rate. A rapid antigen test, meanwhile, may throw up false negatives for people who are infected with a low viral load. A greater share of rapid antigen tests in a region may lead to a lower positivity rate there. This is why there must be a caveat when we look at the positivity rates from states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, all of which have recently boosted their testing numbers and rely largely on antigen tests – around 70% of all tests in these three states have been antigen over the past 2-3 weeks.What experts sayExperts said it “makes sense” that if the positivity rate is high then it will mean a larger number of deaths in a state, but added that the true picture may be hidden by variables like unreported cases and deaths. “The true fraction of reported-to-unreported deaths and reported-to-unreported cases are the lurking variables here. It could also be that where you have a smaller number of cases you indeed have a smaller infection fatality rate because the healthcare system is not overstretched, it is easier to test, contact trace and isolate so it could be that the fatality rate is truly different” said Bhramar Mukherjee, the head of biostatistics at University of Michigan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-adequate-testing-is-crucial-to-saving-lives/story-yDm0fYlg9K8wy7GH9jT4xO.html
28-09-2020||India||Govt to celebrate fourth Surgical Strike Day on Monday||The central government will celebrate the fourth anniversary of 2016’s surgical strikes against terrorist camps in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir by the Indian army on September 28.The strike on the night of September 27-28 in 2016 was in response to an attack by Pakistan-based terrorists on an army base in Kashmir’s Uri on September 18 in which 19 soldiers were killed.Here is all you need to know about Surgical Strike Day:• The terrorists from Pakistan launched a deadly attack on a military base in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri, killing 19 Indian soldiers on September 18, 2016.• The army responded by conducting surgical strikes against terror pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.• The attack was carried out under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Manohar Parrikar and National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval. “India will neither forgive nor forget,” PM Modi had declared less than a week after the Uri attack.• The army’s build-up for the strikes began on September 24. The special forces squads set out for the mission armed with night-vision devices, Tavor 21 and AK-47 assault rifles, rocket-propelled grenades, shoulder-fired missiles, Heckler and Koch pistols, high explosive grenades and plastic explosives. The teams were 30-strong each and had specific targets.• The plan was such that teams with distant targets left early on September 27 evening so that all strikes would be coordinated. The instructions were that all teams would engage the terrorists simultaneously so that none could rescue another.• Civilians living close to border in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab were evacuated started at 10 pm on September 27, before Indian soldiers went across.• Sentries at the launchpads were neutralised by snipers before the troops went in and finished the job.• All teams returned to their bases by 9 am on September 28. One Indian army soldier lost his life in the operation.• Army said Indian soldiers razed six launchpads to the ground and gunned down 45 terrorists at various locations.• In 2018, two years after the attack, the government decided to celebrate September 28 as ‘Surgical Strike Day’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-celebrate-fourth-surgical-strike-day-on-monday/story-eTjSKqkK4cEYX4xTonHYSJ.html
28-09-2020||Today's||The Taste with Vir: Elizabeth Kerkar’s contributions to Taj Hotels created new school of Indian interior design||In the 1950S and the 1960s, the big American hotel companies looked as though they would take over the world. Such chains as Hilton (owned by the eponymous family and then by TWA), Intercontinental (owned by Pan Am) and a little later, Sheraton (owned by the multinational conglomerate ITT), opened in many of the world’s capitals.Some of these hotels were not bad looking structures (though it later became fashionable to dismiss them as ugly skyscrapers) but it is fair to say that they had no sense of place about them. There may have been a few token nods to the city they were located in, but most days, if you suddenly woke up in a Hilton or an Intercontinental, it was hard to tell which city you were in.That began to change a little from the 1970s onwards but it continues to be a problem for many global chains even today. They use the same service model, the same systems and often, the same architects and designers no matter where they build their hotels. So there is very little to distinguish one property from another. Nor is there much sense of art or aesthetics.Indian hotels have always been different much to the bemusement of foreign chains. I have heard it said that when the Tatas did not know what to do with the Taj Mahal Hotel in the 1950s, they asked Hilton if the chain would run it. Hilton said it would. But the existing building was too awkward and had to be pulled down. A huge new skyscraper would be constructed in its place.The Tatas said goodbye to Hilton and decided to run the Taj themselves. They were up against the Oberois, India’s leading hotel chain who had collaborated with Intercontinental in Delhi and were about to collaborate with Sheraton at a brand new hotel in Mumbai. It should have been a no-contest. But against the odds, largely thanks to the genius of JRD Tata and the team he entrusted the Indian Hotels company (which owned the Taj) to, the Taj brand grew from one Mumbai hotel to rival the Oberois as a national chain.Though the Oberois worked with the great American chains, they retained an Indian sensibility. Such great Indian artists as Krishan Khanna and Satish Gujral created works of art specially for Oberoi hotels and Rai Bahadur MS Oberoi, who built the chain, was keen to imbue it with an air of Indian-ness.At the Taj, JRD Tata and Ajit Kerkar, the man who turned the Taj into an all-India chain, worked to a similar brief. Their combined efforts helped create the Indian hotel industry: one reason why India is probably the only non-Western country where the top hotels in each city are still run by Indian companies and not by foreign chains.At the Taj, at least, a key element of the planning of each hotel was the design. Kerkar had worked in London before he was headhunted by the Tatas and brought back to India. He had a Swiss wife called Elizabetha (“Liz”) and in the early days of the Taj she worked closely with the great American designer Dale Keller (who designed both the new Taj and Oberoi hotels in Mumbai) and with Rodabeh Sawhney, JRD’s sister, who was involved in design at the original Taj.Liz Kerkar took the American model and Indianised it so thoroughly that if a guest suddenly woke up in the middle of the night at a Taj hotel, he would never think he was at a Hilton or a Sheraton; he would know that he was with the Taj.Even at the early Taj hotels of the 1970s, the Taj Coromandel in Chennai and the Taj Man Singh in Delhi, where the architects worked on the then current American pattern of relatively small guest rooms, she managed to create an Indian paradigm. Her stunning design for the Taj Mansingh lobby and for Haveli, its Indian restaurant, using works by contemporary Indian artists like Anjolie Ela Menon left you in no doubt that you were at an Indian hotel. Many years later, after she had retired, the Taj hired the well known international design firm of Hirsch Bedner Associates to redesign the lobby and they did such a bad job (almost like they were playing a practical joke on the company), that it reminded guests of what a brilliant job Liz Kerkar had done.The Fort Aguada was the first five star hotel in Goa. Liz Kerkar’s mixture of modern fittings with Portuguese motifs and sea-shells and other beach symbols created the template for the modern Goan resort and has been copied again and again.Though this is not widely recognized, much of what the Taj did in the Seventies was re-invention and re-imagination. Few people realize that a whole extra floor was added to the old Mumbai Taj building in the Sixties. Many of the so-called ‘historical’ suites were actually created during that era.Similarly, the Indian palace hotel is largely a Taj invention. Yes, the Rambagh in Jaipur and the Lake Palace in Udaipur had been run as hotels through the 1960s, but they were feeble, terrible operations, run sloppily by their owners. When the Taj took them over on management contracts in the early Seventies, the group created entirely new spaces. They practically doubled the capacity of the Lake Palace by building a new wing that merged so perfectly with the rest of the palace that today, nobody even remembers that there are old and new parts to the hotel.At the Rambagh, the ground floor (or basement, depending on your perspective) had no accommodation. The Taj cleared it out and created new rooms, fitted out in a palace style that Mrs Kerkar had created.Even the historical suites in those properties were in disrepair. Liz Kerkar lovingly recreated and restored each of them, finding craftsmen and artisans who knew all the old techniques and could recreate the rooms that the maharajas and maharanis must once have lived in.As for most of the palace rooms, they were created by Mrs Kerkar, based on her own imagining of what life in a palace should be like. The structures themselves were conceived decades ago (in the case of the Rambagh) or centuries ago (in the case of the Lake Palace) but the interiors of the hotels as they now exist sprang largely from Liz Kerkar’s imagination.And then, there was the art. In that era, hotels all over the world did not spend huge sums on art. The Taj had always been an exception because of the Tata tradition of patronising the arts. In the early sixties the Taj even had an art gallery (Rupa Art Gallery) run by an outsider and then later, its own gallery (Taj Art Gallery) which lasted --- I think – into the 1980s.Mrs Kerkar spent a large part of her design budget on buying contemporary art. Partly, this was to encourage the contemporary art scene and partly it was to ensure that the art in all of the Taj suites was real and valuable. For the early part of the 1990s, I used to stay in small corner suites in the old wing of the Mumbai Taj (the 31/34 series) and though the rooms in the suites were all of the same size, each had been decorated so distinctively that it seemed totally different from the others. On the walls were Hussains and Ram Kumars —with no attempt being made to draw attention to them. That’s just the small suites --- the fancy suites had works of art worth crores, all bought by Mrs Kerkar when prices were low.A decade or so ago, when I still liked to stay at the Mumbai Taj, I did a TV show on the hotel’s art collection. Mortimer Chatterjee walked me around the hotel, pointing to each important piece. It was a mind-blowing experience and though Chatterjee said he wasn’t allowed to say what the Taj art collection was worth, I reckon it must be worth more than say, a whole hotel like The President or the Fort Aguada.Liz Kerkar died last week, after a longish illness and I wondered how many people recognized what she had achieved. Her contribution to the Taj is, of course, enormous. But I think her achievements went beyond a single group and encompassed the whole Indian hotel industry. She created an Indian paradigm for hotel design which has, in one way or the other, influenced all the other chains.And I would argue that it has gone beyond hotels. For many rich Indians, good taste is what they see in hotels and it is that look that they try to copy in their homes. So, without ever intending to, I suspect Liz Kerkar created a whole new school of Indian interior design.To read more on The Taste With Vir, click hereFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-with-vir-elizabeth-kerkar-s-contributions-to-the-taj-mahal-hotels-and-beyond-created-a-whole-new-school-of-indian-interior-design/story-EWc9m16ODBGrdC2QpjQD9M.html
28-09-2020||Today's||Greenpiece: Covid tourism lessons from Canada’s Banff national park||The Banff National Park of Canada has a Covid-19 lesson for the world — keep tourism at iconic spots at current levels to make it sustainable.Tourists like novelty, convenience and value for money. But fragile landscapes can’t take it beyond a point. I travelled to the Banff, and was blown away by the natural beauty. The tourism industry said it was a terrible business year. They missed the financial fortunes the glut of Chinese and Japanese tourists brought. Meanwhile, environmental groups believe that the habitat has been fragmented by highways and travelling tourist cars, not to mention the man-animal conflict. For example, grizzlies come in conflict with people and, in the past, have been put down. The park authority has made plans to reduce pressure on the ecosystem. Still, there is strong demand to restrict the number of tourists and the use of private transportation by making buses more tourist-friendly. There is also the issue of restricting the residents in Banff town itself. If this is the challenge at one of the best governed parks in the world, what about the rest?Of course, tourists and vehicular movement should be restricted — the Galapagos already does that. Fewer tourists should become the post-pandemic norm, because tourism otherwise forces loss of habitat, a key reason for species decline. Globally, governments and ecotourism leadership have to develop new economic models where visitors take to slow tourism, and fewer people are allowed to enter the temples of wilderness. There is no other way.(The writer is the founder and director of the Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/greenpiece-covid-tourism-lessons-from-canada-s-banff-national-park/story-etQsdxyaw55vJqGoWXOt6N.html
