30-09-2020||News||To tackle Covid-19, CSOs and the State must join hands||Civil society organisations (CSOs) have immersed themselves in responding to Covid-19 and the humanitarian crisis it has unleashed across India. In contrast to the localised responses required of disaster relief, this pandemic has demanded mobilisation on a national scale. Rising to the occasion, although their own teams have had to navigate the challenges of Covid-19 in addition to the complex regulatory frameworks overseeing their efforts, CSOs have increased access to essential services — scaling up to serve larger populations and wider geographies. This ability to achieve impact at scale while maintaining exemplary ground operations has enabled CSOs to reach millions of people, including those often left behind in standardised relief efforts.Akshay Patra has distributed more than eight crore meals and 7.6 lakh grocery kits in 17 states; Goonj and its partners have aided tomato farmers in Karnataka, leprosy communities in Bihar, commercial sex workers in Mumbai and more.A more robust ecosystem, enabling regulatory landscape, and diverse funding pool — including domestic and international donors and philanthropies, government grants, and corporate social responsibility funds — would increase the ability of more CSOs to accomplish such models of response at scale.Scaling CSO operations requires effective investments, meticulous planning and execution, and efficient supply chains with a clear sight of where services are most needed. The past few months have also demonstrated a universal need for greater digital capacity, innovative fund-raising platforms, and collaborative models. Online crowd-funding efforts by Milaap, Ketto.org, ImpactGuru, Fuel A Dream, Freedom Fund and others have increased the rate and speed of donations reaching vulnerable communities; GiveIndia’s India Covid Response Fund has disbursed over ₹135 crore to more than 200 non-profit partners, reaching more than 43.8 lakh Indians. Omidyar Network India’s Rapid Rural Community Response to Covid (RCRC) has brought together 67 CSOs, working to empower more than 9,000 gram panchayats in 12 states through the mobilisation of resources for direct relief, generate knowledge for optimal ground-level action, and build capacities of frontline workers. This consortium is creating a sustained infrastructure for civil society response in the months ahead and a post-pandemic future.Platforms that facilitate cross-sector collaborative efforts among CSOs, industry, and government have also emerged. From Niti Aayog’s outreach to thousands of CSOs, to the Kerala government’s enlisting of private hospitals to secure more than one lakh beds for quarantine and treatment, public-private partnerships have emerged as a significant way to achieve greater social impact at scale. Working together, the Kudumbashree network and CSOs have coordinated food distribution, increasing access to community farming systems, providing mental health counselling, and crowd-sourcing computers and tablets so that all children could access online education while schools remained closed. These models are improving access to health care, education, and livelihoods for the longer term.  Unfortunately, the recent amendments made to the Foreign Contributions Regulations Act (FCRA), including a ban on re-granting funds to other FCRA- registered organisations, are poised to limit such platforms and collectives — at a time when the need to continue scaling operations is greater than ever.While the pandemic has brought to the fore this indispensable role of civil society, it has also highlighted the need for greater investments — time, talent, and treasure — in India’s social sector ecosystem itself, beyond support for immediate relief and short-term impact with quick turnaround results. This includes: One, channelling funds towards crisis-preparedness funding, data-enabled decision-making and capacity-building initiatives to equip organisations for immediate and long-term challenges. Two, reimagining the regulatory and policy environment to facilitate access to resources for CSOs for agile adaptation and maintaining accountability to communities. Three, embracing technology and building local technological infrastructure that fosters co-creation of inclusive spaces and enhances transparency in governance and operations. Four, creating and supporting collaborative platforms where samaaj, sarkar, and bazaar (civil society, the state, and the markets) come together with defined mandates, each bringing their distinctive strengths. Those of us with seats at policymaking or grant-making tables have a responsibility to speak up and amplify the work of others. With the imminent shrinking of resources, there is a greater urgency for government, industry, CSOs and citizenry to work as collaborators with shared goals and innovative approaches. We must strengthen the platforms and collective models to create lasting solutions and enhance our collective preparedness and resilience for future crises. Only when we empower civil society as a whole, with every voice lifted, can we make a lasting positive impact.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-tackle-covid-19-csos-and-the-state-must-join-hands/story-ydQUzitS4diI7bg8WB2CDO.html
30-09-2020||City||HSVP to soon hand over 75 acres land for rapid rail depot at Dharuhera||Gurugram: In a boost for the Delhi-Gurugram Regional Rapid Rail project, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has decided to hand over 75 acres of the 182 acres of land required for the construction of a crucial rail depot at Dharuhera. Senior HSVP officials from Gurugram, who were in Chandigarh on Wednesday, said the matter was discussed in detail and it was decided that part of the land that is litigation-free would be handed over to National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), which is developing the regional rapid rail transport (RRTS) corridor. The remaining land, which is around 107 acres, is still in arbitration as the previous allottee had raised some objections. A decision in this regard will be taken later, officials said. According to the RRTS project plan, NCRTC requires 182 acres of land at Dharuhera to build a maintenance and logistics depot for the 106-km corridor connecting Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan. The Dharuhera depot will be a crucial facility, as it will serve both as an operational and maintenance centre. Geotechnical testing for the project is already under way. This depot will also be used in future for freight services, and for cargo and logistics operations, the detailed project report says.Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, Gurugram, said after a detailed discussion with officials on Wednesday, it was decided that a part of the land, which is free of legal encumbrance, should be handed over to NCRTC. “It was decided that the estate officer would write to the agency and initiate the process of handing over this land for the construction of a rail depot. The remaining land is still in arbitrage and a decision would be taken later,” he said. The corridor will be elevated for about 71km (11 stations). The remaining 35km (five stations) will be constructed underground, mostly in Delhi and Gurugram. RRTS stations in Gurugram will be located at Udyog Vihar, Sector 17, Rajiv Chowk, Kherki Daula, Manesar, Panchgaon, Dharuhera, MBIR, Rewari and Bawal. Sudhir Sharma, spokesperson, NCRTC, said a rail depot at Dharuhera is crucial for the network. “The decision to transfer land is a very positive development as Dharuhera is located in the middle of the corridor and the entire system that will serve large industrial and population clusters in three states will be operated from this depot. The maintenance of trains, rescue operations and other related matters will be centred at this depot,” said Sharma. Asked about the proposal to align the rapid rail station at Kherki Daula with the proposed interstate bus terminal being developed by th Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, Sharma said the RRTS project is based on the concept of integrating multi-modal transport systems wherever these have been designed. “We are doing this in all other corridors and efforts would be made to integrate this corridor with the bus stand,” he said. The RRTS project starts from Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi and will pass through Aerocity from where it will enter Gurugram along the Old Delhi Road on an elevated track. It will move along this road and take a left from Atul Kataria Chowk towards Signature Tower, then right towards Rajiv Chowk and onwards to Kherki Daula, Manesar, Dharuhera, Rewari and Bawal and terminate at SNB (Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror), the project report says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hsvp-to-soon-hand-over-75-acres-land-for-rapid-rail-depot-at-dharuhera/story-9atvP9mvvLVN8b2WdrkAzO.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Nine succumb to Covid, 376 test +ve in Chandigarh tricity||Nine more people succumbed to Covid-19 while 376 tested positive in the tricity on Wednesday.Chandigarh recorded four deaths and 129 fresh cases. Meanwhile, 215 patients were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 9,813. The UT’s total tally has reached 11,938, of which 1,963 are still active. The death toll stands at 162.All those who died were men, and included a 30-year-old from Dhanas. Others were aged 48, 49 and 61 and belonged to Manimajra, Sector 41 and Sector 50, respectively.5 succumb, 134 test +ve in MohaliMohali district reported the maximum number of deaths and cases. While five people succumbed, taking the toll to 194, 134 tested positive, with which the count reached 10,387.Bulk of the fresh cases (101) surfaced in Mohali city. Also 240 patients were discharged, taking the number of recoveries and active cases to 8,469 and 1,724, respectively.Those who died included a 70-year-old woman from Phase 3 and a 75-year-old woman from Dasmesh Nagar in Kharar.Other were two men, aged 61 and 66, from Cholta village and Sector 78, respectively, and a 52-year-old woman from Dappar in Lalru. All had comorbidities. No death in P’kula, 113 cases surface Panchkula reported no casualty while 113 new cases surfaced.The total stands at 5,992, while the toll remained 86. As many as 774 cases are still active while 5,132 patients have been discharged after recovering from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-succumb-to-covid-376-test-ve-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-STNvIzCkuIhaMILDOsoFgK.html
30-09-2020||City||Ludhiana man, wife booked for usurping aunt’s property||A man and his wife were booked on Wednesday for forcing his aunt out of her house and usurping her property.The accused has been identified as Ravinder Singh and his wife Harpreet Kaur, both residents of Nirmal Nagar in Dugri.Balvir Kaur, a resident of Purana Bishan Nagar, Patiala, stated in her complaint that she owned a 225 square yard house at Avtar Nagar Market in Dugri and was fighting a case against her tenant.She added that she sought her nephew’s help to deal with the property dispute, and gave him the power of attorney to handle the case. Investigating officer Rajandeep Singh said that a case has been registered under Sections 420, 427, 454, 380 and 120- B of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-wife-booked-for-usurping-aunt-s-property/story-UGQzRd6yxFKEOrNCRJ9mIM.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Painter found dead in forest area of Chandigarh’s Sector 54||A painter residing in Palsora was found dead under mysterious circumstances in the forest area of Sector 54 here on Wednesday morning.The deceased has been identified as Sonu of Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. His body was spotted by a passerby, who then informed the police.Police said that on receiving the information around 7am, they rushed to the spot and shifted the body to the mortuary at Government Multi-speciality Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16. They said there were multiple injuries on Sonu’s head, neck and back, hinting at murder.After the news of a body being found in the forest area was shared among local residents, the deceased’s wife, carrying her 18-month-old daughter, approached the police. She told the cops that Sonu, who would normally come home from work by 9pm every day, did not return on Tuesday night. Later, she identified her husband’s body.As per the police, no mobile phone or wallet was found on the body, indicating that the murder may have been the result of loot. While no documents for identification were found either, an empty tiffin box and a few blood-stained stones were recovered from the murder spot.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered at Sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/painter-found-dead-in-forest-area-of-chandigarh-s-sector-54/story-44ejMlbAN1kpLTa0CqJxKN.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Nine illegal establishments sealed in Ludhiana||The municipal corporation (MC) on Wednesday sealed nine illegal commercial establishments in the residential area of Model Town Extension A block (BCM school Road) including eateries, grocery stores and a clinic.As per information, a resident of the area had established two shops on the road, which the locals opposed and filed a complaint with the MC. Following this, the civic body did not allow the resident to open the shops. Then, the resident filed a complaint against the other shops running on the same road, and also filed a complaint in court, following which the MC sealed the other shops as well. Building inspector Jagdeep Singh said, “The department had received a complaint against illegal commercial activities in the residential area, following which the shops were sealed on Wednesday.” Tenants of kiosks issued last warning to pay rent The civic body has issued a last warning to the tenants of over 200 MC kiosks near Cheema Chowk to submit pending rent, failing which they will be sealed.As per MC officials, the tenants have not submitted the rent for years, and an amount of over Rs 1 crore is pending. Tehbazaari inspector Naresh Bobby said, “We had issued notices to the tenants around a month ago, and an announcement has been made in the area that the kiosks will be sealed if the tenants fail to submit the amount in the coming few days. Few of the tenants submitted the pending amount on Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-illegal-establishments-sealed-in-ludhiana/story-67BHLlLav6ZrEJslnuAWuO.html
30-09-2020||City||Masked duo loots man at gunpoint in Panchkula||Two masked miscreants looted ₹20,000 from a 52-year-old man at a milk booth in Sector 28 here on Wednesday.The incident took place around 4pm. A police official said, “Kuldip Singh was manning the Vita Booth, located near the diving road of sector 27/28, owned by his brother, who was away at the time. Soon, two youths came on a bike and asked for a milk packet. As Kuldip turned to get the milk, the suspects barged in and attacked him.”According to Kuldip, one of the masked robbers pointed a gun at him and the other stole ₹20,000 from him and both sped away.Kuldip sustained some minor injuries in the incident, police said adding that an FIR will be registered under Section 394 of the IPC and relevant provisions of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/masked-duo-loots-man-at-gunpoint-in-panchkula/story-hUjAH5P7y3qLA7zvA1ci9H.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 5: Cinema halls, multiplexes to open at 50% capacity in Chandigarh from October 15||Cinema halls and multiplexes are set to open in the city from October 15 after a gap of more than seven months.The UT administration will be following the ‘Unlock 5’ guidelines issued by the Union home ministry which mandate opening of cinema halls at 50% capacity from October 15. The decision to open educational institutions like schools has been left with states and Union Territories.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “We will allow opening of cinema halls and multiplexes as per the MHA guidelines. Regarding the opening of schools and colleges, a decision will be taken in Thursday’s war room review meeting and discussions will be done with different stakeholders on the issue.”Apart from this, business-to-business (B2B) exhibitions, opening of swimming pools, entertainment parks and similar places will be permitted, for which the standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be issued by the central ministries concerned.Re-starting schools up to UT admnThe Centre has given flexibility to the UT take a call on opening schools, colleges and coaching institutions after October 15 in a graded manner. The decision shall be taken in consultation with the respective school/ institution management, based on their assessment of the situation.States and UTs will prepare their own SOPs regarding health and safety precautions for reopening of educational establishments based on the guidelines to be issued by the Union education ministry, keeping local requirements in view.100-guest bar on gatherings relaxedSocial, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations have already been allowed with a ceiling of 100 persons outside the containment zones only. Now, the Centre has granted states and UTs the flexibility to permit such gatherings beyond the limit of 100 persons, but only outside containment zones, after October 15.In closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser will be mandatory. For open spaces, size of venue will be considered to fix the guest limit, besides strict observance of all Covid norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unlock-5-cinema-halls-multiplexes-to-open-at-50-capacity-in-chandigarh-from-october-15/story-xIRYDkhdcGbqO5oGjsQHiM.html
30-09-2020||City||AAP demands CBI probe in Hathras case, FIRs against Delhi cops over ‘assault’ on MLA||New DelhiDelhi cabinet minister Rajendra Pal Gautam and MLA Ajay Dutt on Wednesday demanded a CBI probe in the Hathras gang-rape case and said FIRs be registered against the local SHO, ACP, DCP and other Delhi Police officials for allegedly manhandling and assaulting AAP MLA Ajay Dutt at Safdarjung hospital on Tuesday night. Gautam said the police manhandled and used caste slurs against AAP MLA Ajay Dutt at Safdarjung hospital when they had gone to provide help to the family of the rape victim.“AIIMS, which proactively gives admission to the politicians and other influential people, denied admission to the survivor. She was admitted to Safdarjung hospital and on Tuesday, she lost her life. While waiting outside Safdarjung hospital, we suddenly found a car without a number plate at the spot. This car was there to carry the dead body of the survivor,” Gautam said. “Objecting to this act, Ajay Dutt intervened and questioned the police. Thereafter, the DCP manhandled Dutt who is an elected representative from Delhi. If the attitude of the police is such towards the elected representatives of Delhi, then we can imagine what it could be with the common people,” he said. The party requested home minister Amit Shah and the police commissioner to suspend the DCP, ACP and SHO in this case with immediate effect and said the CBI should investigate the entire case.Speaking on the allegations, Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal said, “The site of protest was a hospital where no sloganeering is permitted as it disturbs patients. Moreover, ambulances move off and on bringing patients. Protesters were time and again reminded to maintain order so that patients are not disturbed. They were repeatedly advised to wear masks and maintain social distancing in the interest of their safety and safety of others and also not to crowd the area particularly the passage for ambulances.” “...It is quite possible some persons may not have followed the advice of police and entered into an argument. No pushing or physical force was used. Announcements were made on public address systems to maintain social distancing. No other group present at the site of protest has complained of any manhandling. As soon as the family of the deceased departed,the protestors dispersed on their own. No use of force was resorted to against anyone,” Singhal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-demands-cbi-probe-in-hathras-case-firs-against-delhi-cops-over-assault-on-mla/story-Ja6nTB69ybOCAelcu7CDCO.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC team visiting Indore to learn source segregation policies||For the implementation of 100% source segregation, a team of officials of the Ludhiana municipal corporation on Wednesday visited Indore, the city having the tag of the cleanest city fourth time in a row.The team will observe the working of the Indore civic body and residents for three days.While the MC is struggling with solid waste management and facing the heat of the National Green Tribunal over the same, Indore had secured the tag of the cleanest city for the fourth time in a row in Swachh Survekshan 2020. The MC was ranked at 34th position of the 47 cities with over 10 lakh population.The visit aims at improving the ranking of Ludhiana in Swachh Survekshan 2020-21.The MC team comprises councillors Parvinder Lapran, Baljinder Bunti, Pankaj Kaka, councillor Sunita Rani’s son Deepak Sharma, MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon and senior assistant engineer Harpal Aujla.Lapran said, “The team would be observing the techniques adopted for segregation and disposing of waste in Indore. Also, we will visit the residential areas to know about the model adopted for the door-to-door collection of segregated waste. The aim of the visit is to improve the working of Ludhiana civic body by taking lessons from the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-team-visiting-indore-to-learn-source-segregation-policies/story-CzT6p34zoC5hRz485CO6qJ.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER Chandigarh to intensify blood and plasma donation drive||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here is going to intensify its plasma donation drive in the region.The institute will also mark National Voluntary Blood Donation Day on October 1.“Plasma Bank, PGIMER, plans to intensify its donor outreach as one of the key challenges is motivating the Covid-recovered patients to donate plasma. We request the public to come forth for donations and ensure full safety at our end,” said Prof Ratti Ram Sharma, head of transfusion medicine department.The Covid pandemic brought an unprecedented challenge of recruiting blood donors, but with the help of voluntary organisations and the committed blood donor pool in the region, the institute was able to meet the blood component demand, revealed PGIMER director Prof Jagat Ram.“The transfusion medicine department overcame this challenge through tireless efforts and a well-coordinated approach. Not only do we continue to achieve an adequate number of blood donations, but have also taken a step ahead by starting the ‘Covid-19 Convalescent Plasma Bank’ facility in the region, in line with the instructions of UT administrator VP Singh Badnore,” the PGI director said.The theme for this year’s National Voluntary Blood Donation Day is ‘Let’s donate blood voluntarily and contribute to the fight against Corona’ as released by National Blood Transfusion Council (NBTC) of the Union health and family welfare ministry.“In sync with the theme, we started the plasma bank and have been motivating the recovered Covid warriors to come forward to help the current patients,” said Prof Ratti Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-chandigarh-to-intensify-blood-and-plasma-donation-drive/story-q5q7e5WsE4TTYdZv6t1ucM.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||5,100 property owners pay tax on last day to avail rebate in Ludhiana||Municipal corporation’s suvidha kendras saw heavy rush on Wednesday, as it was the last day to submit property tax and water-sewer user charges for 2020-21 with 10% rebate.The civic body had to deploy staff for maintaining social distancing and restrictions were imposed on entry to avoid crowding.MC officials said over 5,100 property tax returns were filed by residents on the last day, including online payment, helping MC recover over Rs 5.5 crore. Further, Rs 1.5 crore were recovered as water-sewer charges.Now, no rebate will be given for payment of tax till December 31, and after that 10% penalty will be imposed for payments till March 31. However, water-sewer charges can be cleared till March 31 without penalty.Superintendent, property tax, Vivek Verma said, “Residents can clear their dues online at MC’e website mcludhiana.gov.in. Over 50,000 property owners have yet to submit the tax for the current year.”The defaulters include various malls, and MC will commence a drive from next week to recover the dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-100-property-owners-pay-tax-on-last-day-of-rebate/story-wwG14Zi0jtEZjZVpEgxwJK.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||ATM fraud: 2 men held for duping migrant labourers, elderly in Ludhiana||Police arrested two men on Tuesday for duping elderly people and migrant labourers visiting ATMs on the pretext of helping them to withdraw cash. The accused have been identified as Sunil Kumar alias Kala, 37, a resident of Gurpal Nagar and Mohit Kumar, 36, of Vijay Inder Nagar, Daba Road.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP detective) SPS Dhindsa said nine ATM cards of different banks and Rs 90,000 have been recovered from the possession of the accused. He added that the accused are school dropouts and drug addicts and were active in Rahon Road, Jamalpur, Tibba and Sherpur for the last six months.“They used be on the lookout for elderly people and migrants labourers looking to withdraw cash from ATMs in these areas. They entered the ATM booth along with the victims and offered to help them withdraw cash. After taking the secret pin, they told the victim that the ATM card was not working, and swapped it with a fake one. Once the victim left, they withdrew cash from the account,” Dhindsa said. On September 26, the accused conned Jaspal Singh of Labour Colony in Jamalpur in a similar manner and withdrew ₹5,500 from his account. Police scanned CCTV footage of the area and also got the physical description of the accused from Jaspal Singh. On the basis of a tip- off, the duo were nabbed from a police naka on Tuesday evening. During questioning, the duo confessed to duping many migrants who were returning home during the lockdown. A case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/atm-fraud-2-men-held-for-duping-migrant-labourers-elderly-in-ludhiana/story-cYLthReeaYOIhAJqf8uCUO.html
30-09-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad in September: ILI/SARI symptoms, random testing had highest share in positive Covid-19 cases||According to Ghaziabad district health officials, 98% of fresh Covid-19 cases in September were of those who had symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), or were contacts of positive patients, or those who randomly arrived for testing. The other categories -- domestic travellers, health care workers, suspected field activities, pre-surgical activities, among others-- formed less than 2% of the 5,416 fresh cases in September, which increased by 53% over August.Of the 5,416 fresh cases, 2404 were those who tested positive after they were symptoms of ILI/SARI and detected. In August this was around 1,700. Likewise, about 2,314 persons who were tested at different testing booths turned positive in September compared to 1,309 in the previous month, and 595 were contacts of positive patients, compared to 413 in August. “The increase in number of Covid-19 cases has been due to our strategy of early detection and increased testing. For early detection we have been focussing on surveillance in which teams are tracing people having ILI/SARI symptoms and getting them tested. Likewise, the number of testing locations, 20, has been witnessing more incoming of people who are willing to take up testing,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “Since the use of rapid antigen kits is increasing and takes less time, more people are coming to the centres to get themselves tested. We are also focussing on speedy tracing of contacts of positive patients and our contact tracing is bout 98% at present. This has also yielded results and we have been able to find more positive cases. The idea is for early detection, testing and referral to Covid facilities so that treatment can start immediately,” he added. “During the surveillance and household surveys, the teams are focussing on people having symptoms of ILI/SARI as these are Covid-like symptoms. Further, the home isolation facility has also helped people as they can stay in comfort of their homes and get treatment. So, people are more willing to come out and get themselves tested. This is why we have also increased our testing which is about 5000 in past two days,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named. According to the official records, the Ghaziabad district for the first time collected more than 5000 samples, 5124, on September 28 and collected 5802 samples on September 29. The officials have also been directed to take up the total testing per day to minimum of 6000 per day. The overall testing in the district till September 29 stood at 304810 which includes 180995 tests done through the use of rapid antigen kits.Dr Gyan Bharti, senior pulmonologist from Columbia Asia Hospital at Ghaziabad said during the months of August and September there has been increase in cases having symptoms of ILI and SARI. “Since the symptoms are Covid-like, there is narrowed approach to prioritize test of people having ILI/SARI symptoms and many of these have tested positive. With opening of activities after lockdown, people who wish to go to offices and undertake travel also need tests. So, there is increase in number of people who are getting themselves tested at the centres. Since there is spread of infection, those walking in randomly are also turning positive although majority are asymptomatic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-in-september-ili-sari-symptoms-random-testing-had-highest-share-in-positive-covid-19-cases/story-qRIMqnPrYbmnQ4HiFVEjBK.html
30-09-2020||Noida||UP government scraps hotel isolation facility||After a lacklustre response and the popularity of home isolation for asymptomatic patients, the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday scrapped the option of semi-paid isolation facilities at hotels for those who contracted Covid-19.  In Ghaziabad, about 34 hotels with 1,090 rooms had shown keen interest in the semi-paid hotel isolation scheme introduced on July 17, but backed out after home isolation was allowed three days later. Since then, only two hotels in Bajaria remained open. “In all we have about 106 patients who are in semi-paid facilities. They can complete the period of isolation, but the district officials have been directed that henceforth no new patients will be allowed. Since the response of the home isolation scheme is encouraging, the scheme of semi-paid facility in hotels has been discontinued,” said UP additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad. “New patients will be either admitted to home isolation or to government Covid facility.” In Ghaziabad, the two hotels in Bajaria had no patient. “No patient opted for hotel isolation scheme in Ghaziabad in view of the home isolation scheme. They found it more convenient to stay comfortably at home. The two hotels in Bajaria were instead used as paid quarantine facility for people who arrived from foreign countries under the ‘Vande Bharat’ scheme and also completed their quarantine period,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Under the hotel isolation, asymptomatic patients were allowed to stay in hotels with daily rental of ₹2000 on double occupancy and ₹1500 on single occupancy. According to the official records, the home isolation was permitted to 4,043 asymptomatic patients in Ghaziabad alone. Of these, till September 29, 3,216 already completed their term of 10 days isolation, while 827 are still active. Overall in UP, there are 50883 active cases according to the state control room figures of September 30, and 24,026 of these are in home isolation, besides 3727 in paid private hospitals and 106 in semi-paid hotel isolation. Niti Aayog reviewsThe officials of the Ghaziabad health department on Wednesday also attended a meeting convened by Niti Aayog member Dr. V K Paul in Delhi on the preparedness of the districts in the national capital region (NCR) with respect to administration of a Covid-19 vaccine in the future. “During the meeting we were told that age group over 50 years will be the first ones who will receive Covid-19 vaccine when it is rolled out. In such a case we were asked about our preparedness and availability of infrastructure for storage. We gave our inputs saying that we have a central vaccine storage unit at MMG Hospital and 27 other storage units where our vaccines for other diseases are stored,” said Dr. NK Gupta, Ghaziabad, chief medical officer. “So, we will need to develop storage infrastructure for Covid-19 as it will be administered twice in a gap of one month. We also told that we will need to identify people aged over 50 years and more teams will be needed to be formed for the purpose. Dr Paul said that more meetings will be held in future date.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-government-scraps-hotel-isolation-facility/story-CLDkDcPmwVlybnIUxOFSmN.html
30-09-2020||Noida||Admin identifies 15 as land mafia, directs for FIRs against them||Based on reports submitted by the Uttar Pradesh special task force (STF), a high-level committee headed by the district magistrate identified 15 persons in Gautam Budh Nagar as land mafia on Tuesday and directed revenue officials to lodge FIRs against them at police stations concerned. The anti-land mafia task force, in its report, has mentioned that these people have allegedly encroached or grabbed 25.257 hectares of land in different areas of the district. District magistrate Suhas LY said that the names of these mafias will soon be uploaded on the ‘Anti-Bhoo Mafia’ (anti-land mafia) portal, which was set up by the chief minister in 2017 to identify people and companies that illegally acquire land. “These criminals have either sold out government or private land belonging to some other persons, or they have carved out colonies and sold it to unaware persons,” he said.He added that most of them are accused in a number of cases related to non-cognizable offences. “While the Gangsters’ Act is already lodged against Kavindra Bhati, Mukesh Kumar, Omi (single name) and Dheeraj (single name), all of whom are members of the notorious Sunder Bhati gang operating in the district, Shailesh Kumar is the main accused in five criminal cases registered at Ecotech police station,” he said. Suhas further said that very soon, more unauthorised properties of land mafias in the district will be pulled down. “While some of them have been found to have made unauthorised constructions in flood plain areas, a few of them have even encroached upon public and government land. The structures erected by these culprits will soon be demolished. In the next meeting in this connection, the action taken report will be analysed. Revenue officials of the areas concerned have been asked to inform the matter to their respective police stations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/admin-identifies-15-as-land-mafia-directs-for-firs-against-them/story-8SuyQJUjGxM4buD1HpxBHN.html
30-09-2020||Noida||Security guard assaulted for stopping men from drinking in public||As 33-year-old night security guard working in Sector 51 was allegedly assaulted by five men when he tried to stop them from drinking alcohol publicly in the neighbourhood.The incident was reported from gate number 4 of the sector where the guard was on duty along with two other staff.According to the victim, who wished to remain anonymous, the incident was reported at 1.15 am when a red Swift car, bearing a Delhi registration number, stopped at the gate.“They started questioning me asking why the other gates of the sector were closed. It seems they had been driving for a while in the area and wanted to go to the main road. They were drinking in the car,” the guard said.When they were told that the gates remain closed at night, the men started abusing the guard. They searched him, hoping to find keys and assaulted him with a stick.“The guard then told them that they were under CCTV surveillance. From the footage, it is clear that after that, they backed off while threatening him and two other guards who came to help him,” said Sanjeev Kumar, general secretary, residents welfare association, Sector 51.He said the cameras captured the vehicle number and the owner’s details had been found.“The security system in the city shows a huge lapse that needs to be addressed. It was only the threat of CCTVs that had the men leaving the area without causing too much damage. People are not safe in residential areas. Senior police officials should take cognisance of the matter and improve police patrolling,” said Kumar.A complaint was filed with police.“We will look into the case and take necessary legal action,” said Sudhir Kumar, station house officer, sector 49 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/security-guard-assaulted-for-stopping-men-from-drinking-in-public/story-CTt2ijlhw0HpunqxkhTyOJ.html
30-09-2020||Noida||Noida: ‘Trash to Treasure’, ‘Bin to Beauty’ scheme to celebrate Gandhi Jayanti||The Noida Authority has decided to start ‘Trash to Treasure’ and ‘Bin to Beauty’ initiatives in order to celebrate the Gandhi Jayanti and Rashtriya Swachhta Divas on October 2.Under the scheme, teams will produce art works that include sculptures, plastic waste utilization structures and other innovative items from waste. The authority has invited the residents’ welfare associations, apartment owners’ associations and other social groups for this campaign, which is aimed at generating awareness about the need to recycle waste and to treat it scientifically.“Teams will make and install artworks out of all kinds of waste, including plastic, at city parks, green belts and other recreational areas. We have requested them to join this initiative so that people can be engaged in waste handling to make the city a clean and better place to live in,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.On October 2, 2019 the authority had started the ‘plastic-free city’ campaign to rid the city of plastic waste and had engaged residents for the same. It had also made a large spinning wheel out of plastic waste and installed the same at the Mahamaya flyover on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.Similarly, the authority has, for this year’s October 2 celebrations, started this initiative to work on ‘kabad se jugad’, said Noida authority officials.The authority has requested residents to register at https://forms.gle/TBkQdQvrUafGLNt58 in order to participate in this initiative, latest by 4pm on October 1, so that the teams can be formed for this drive.Residents will be able to register themselves via the portal and share their location, where they will make art works. They can also make videos of the crafts and send them to the same portal later. They can display their art work at the location mentioned during registration. On October 2, a jury will visit the locations and see the art works put up on display. The authority will also give prizes to the winners whose artworks are the most unique, said officials. Participants will be called to the Indira Gandhi Kala Kendra on October 2 and given prizes, where the best art pieces selected by jury members shall be awarded, officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-trash-to-treasure-bin-to-beauty-scheme-to-celebrate-gandhi-jayanti/story-YAGMp0FEq8j71IilnZRjyL.html
30-09-2020||City||Best-before date must for loose sweets from today: Mohali admn||All confectioners will have to mandatorily declare the expiry or best-before dates of the sweets being sold in their shops across the district from Thursday onwards.While announcing the order, Mohali district health officer Dr Subhash Sharma said to ensure availability of quality and hygienic sweets for the people, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has issued these directions. In case of non-packaged/loose sweets, the container/tray holding the same should display the best-before date of the product mandatorily with effect from October 1, 2020, Sharma said, adding that the seller in this case may also mark the date of manufacturing, but that shall be voluntary and non-binding.The health officer said the confectioners shall decide and display the best-before date of sweets depending upon the nature of the product and the local conditions. An indicative list of shelf life of various types of sweets is given in the guidance note on safety of traditional milk products which is available on the FSSAI website.Sharma said the purpose of displaying the said information is to protect the health of consumers as they would be able to know whether the sweets they are buying are expired or up to what date they are edible. He asked the people to prefer pure food items and ask shopkeepers to pay special attention to cleanliness.The new norms are not meant to harass shopkeepers, but to ensure that clean and quality food items are made available to the people, he said while seeking their cooperation in implementing the new guidelines for a healthy society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/best-before-date-must-for-loose-sweets-from-today-mohali-admn/story-Spo78OJuZhfSGBvm99qs5M.html
30-09-2020||Noida||To control pollution in Ghaziabad, DME, RRTS sites to be monitored for dust emission||Ghaziabad: The two major transport infrastructure projects in Ghaziabad – the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) and the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) – are to be brought under the eye of the district administration, who will ensure that there is no dust emission at the sites of the respective projects, failing which heavy environment compensation costs will be levied. The decision came after Bhure Lal, the chairperson of the Environment (Pollution and Control) Authority (EPCA), held a review meeting with Ghaziabad officials on Wednesday, wherein he scrutinised the status of several pollution hot spot areas which were indicated during his visit to the district September 19. “The EPCA chairperson has directed special attention to DME; it is to be ensured that there is no dust emission. We have also directed the state pollution board officials to keep tabs on under-construction activities at RRTS site as they are also likely to have dust emissions,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. Presently, the 19.2km phase two and 32km phase four of DME are under construction from UP-Gate to Dasna, and Dasna to Meerut, respectively. On the recommendation of Lal, the Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) officials said that they had levied a penalty of Rs 5 lakh against the National Highways Authority of India and have also imposed Rs 50,000 penalty against the RRTS project, which had been reported by HT.“The two penalties were levied for dust emission at sites of DME and RRTS projects. An additional penalty of Rs 50,000 was also imposed against NHAI for violation of construction and demolition norms. Overall, we have imposed a total penalty of Rs 1,50,000 in 13 instances, which includes penalty for different violations,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB. “As a result of the DME project, there is dust emission and it directly affects our two monitoring stations at Indirapuram and Vasundhara. Likewise, RRTS construction also affects air quality, and monitoring stations at Vasundhara and Sanjay Nagar are affected,” he added. Officials of the NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC), the agency which is taking up the RRTS project, said that they will be directing their contractors to be more vigilant when it comes to pollution abatement measures. “The contractors are already using water sprinklers and anti-smog guns to tackle dust emissions at the sites. We will ask them to be more careful as NCRTC has always maintained high standards when it comes to managing construction sites,” said Sudhir Sharma, chief PRO of NCRTC. At present, NCRTC is taking up construction of the 17km priority stretch, from Sahibabad to Duhai, and another 33km, from Duhai to Shatabdipuram in Meerut, for RRTS. NHAI said it has deployed 18 water tankers and three anti-smog guns at their construction sites. “We are ensuring that there are no dust emissions at the sites and contractors have also been asked to be more careful during construction activities in wake of the approaching winter season,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. Apart from special focus on the two major projects, the EPCA chairperson appreciated cleaning activities which were taken up outside the Sahibabad vegetable market by agencies. “The issue of dumping of solid waste and garbage at Bulandshahr Road Industrial Area is almost resolved and we will take up heavy plantation at the site. Further, all respective agencies taking up other projects in the city have been asked to inform their contractors to take precautions, otherwise their contracts will be cancelled,” the DM said. During the review, Lal also directed Ghaziabad officials to take up pending works within one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/to-control-pollution-in-ghaziabad-dme-rrts-sites-to-be-monitored-for-dust-emission/story-tMYW1YaHYhnfPdsmINDdUO.html
30-09-2020||City||Man who blackmailed nearly 100 women after befriending them on social networks held||A 28-year-old man was arrested Wednesday on charges of blackmailing numerous women, nearly a 100 of them, after befriending with them on social media platforms, police said. The suspect, Ravi Singh, hails from Etah district and lives in Greater Noida, police said. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said they detained him after receiving an alert about a suspicious looking person moving about near City Park in Beta 2 on Wednesday. “A police team reached the spot and found the person sitting under a tree. He was chatting with people using multiple mobile phones. The police apprehended him and recovered five mobile phones, 25 SIM cards, nine fake IDs, six debit cards and a fiction novel – World’s Best Boyfriend – from his possession.”Police said the suspect was later brought to Sector Beta 2 police station for questioning. The police sifted through his bag and found a diary that contained the phone numbers of over 50 women. “The names against these phone numbers were written in codes that only he understood. During questioning, he told us that he has been conning women since the past two years,” Pandey said. “He claimed to be a graduate. He said the novel helped him in understanding what women would like in a friendship/relationship. He had subsequently memorised certain dialogues from the book and used them to ensnare women he met on social media. Singh used to call these women to a meeting place and seek money or sex from them. He also blackmailed them by threatening to make their chats and photos/videos public,” Pandey said. Police also recovered a gold chain and a branded wristwatch from his possession. Sujit Upadhyaya, SHO, Beta 2 police station, said the suspect blackmailed some women into giving him their credit and debit card number and used the same for online shopping. “A scan of his mobile phone shows that he has cheated and blackmailed over 100 women for money or sex,” he said. Police said the suspect had no FIR registered against him in the past even though he was involved in this criminal activity for over two years.Pandey said subsequently an FIR was registered against him under Section 420 (cheating), Section 467 (forgery of valuable security), Section 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), Section 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine) and Section 67 of the IT Act, 2008. Singh was produced in court and later sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-who-blackmailed-nearly-100-women-after-befriending-them-on-social-networks-held/story-ebmX4qDhUrKp1513rzOyaI.html
30-09-2020||City||Missing 3-year-old boy found dead inside steel trunk at relative’s home||A three-year-old boy who was visiting his maternal grandparents’ house in Bhanota village of Surajpur was found dead in a steel trunk of the house, just hours after he was reported missing on Tuesday afternoon.The victim Bhavyansh was a resident of Sirsa village in Greater Noida. His mother and he had gone to Bhanota village, 10 kms away, last week.Sewaram, the victim’s grandfather, said, “The child had gone missing while playing in the afternoon. We launched a search but failed to trace him. We then informed police at 1:30pm about the incident.”Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that a team from Surajpur police station reached the spot and launched a search for the child. “The police team searched the house and the neighbourhood but could not find the child. Police the registered a case on the grandfather’s complaint against unknown persons under Section 363 (abduction) of the Indian penal code (IPC),” he said. Chander said that at around 9:30pm, someone informed the police that the boy was found inside a steel trunk on the first floor of the same two-storey house. “The police swiftly reached the spot and found the boy wrapped in a cloth inside the box in his maternal uncle’s room,” he said. Bhavyansh was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. “Prima facie, it is unlikely that the boy himself fell in the box. The fact that he was wrapped in a cloth also casts suspicion. We have questioned the family members and we suspect role of some insiders in the crime,” Chander said. Pradeep Tripathi, SHO Surajpur police station said that the boy had no visible injury on his face or body. “The post-mortem report revealed that the body died due to suffocation. We are interrogating the child’s two maternal uncles – Amit and Sumit – in this case. We will take actions based on evidence,” he said. No one was arrested till the filing of this report. Amit was the first to find the body, police said.The child’s maternal uncles refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-3-year-old-boy-found-dead-inside-steel-trunk-at-relative-s-home/story-KfbE3SODgpYo50RKr6nWyH.html
30-09-2020||City||Three men booked for snatching ₹5,000 from labourer||Three men were booked on Wednesday for snatching Rs 5,000 from a migrant labourer after threatening him with a sharp-edged weapon. The accused has been identified as Arjun Singh, a resident of Salem Tabri, Baljit Singh, a resident of Baddi Jagir village and Happy from Bindra Colony. The victim, Harish Kumar, a resident of Subash Nagar, said that on September 27 at around 2pm, he was returning home from Bindra Colony when the accused intercepted him and threatened him with a sharp-edged weapon. He added that one of the accused took Rs 5,000 kept in his pocket and fled the scene. The trio has been booked under Section 379- B (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to the committing of snatching) of the Indian Penal Code.Police said that a hunt is on to nab the snatchers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-men-booked-for-snatching-5-000-from-labourer/story-gkqqFFJaYjCCsRE2XqjcsM.html
30-09-2020||City||Nagar Van to come up over 37 acres in Mullanpur forest area||A plantation drive was held in the Mullanpur forest area on Wednesday to mark the 71st state-level Van Mahotsav. Forest and wildlife preservation minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot presided over the event and inaugurated the development work of a Nagar Van in the forest area. He said that the Nagar Van will be established over 37 acres of land. The GMADA had given the designated land to the forest department in lieu of the land given by the department for the construction of Mullanpur-Siswan road. “The entire stretch was barren hence, the forest department tried and tested various types of plantation there and is now finally establishing the Nagar Van,” he said. “The area will be fenced with chains and paths to walk through it will be constructed so that people can visit and enjoy the beauty of the forest,” he added. “A sandalwood cluster has also been established over 2.5 acres of land in the forest,” informed the minister, adding that the experiment had been successful with a satisfactory rate of growth of trees. “This new cluster is evoking nation-wide interest and, botanists from the Wood Institute, Bengaluru even visited the site recently,” he added. STATE-WIDE PLANTATION CAMPAIGN LAUNCHED A campaign, to plant 400 saplings per village to mark the 400th Prakash Utsav of Guru Teg Bahadur, was also launched on occasion. The forest minister informed that as per the directions of the chief minister, 400 saplings would be planted in every village to mark the Prakash Utsav. The campaign is being implemented under the Greening Punjab Mission and around 52 lakh saplings will be planted in 12,986 villages of the state under the initiative. The minister also revealed that as per a satellite assessment done by the forest survey of India, the green cover in Punjab had increased from 900 square kilometers to 1,800 square kilometers in the past two years. He further informed that the forest department had proposed to carry out plantation works on an area of about 5,237 hectares during the year 2020-21 through various schemes. The department is also facilitating plantation of 24 lakh saplings by farmers on their respective land, under the agroforestry scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nagar-van-to-come-up-over-37-acres-in-mullanpur-forest-area/story-OhrOMG9VK8BqNjK0gC3wIK.html
30-09-2020||City||Development work: Balbir Sidhu gives ₹11 lakh grant to Mohali villages||To expedite the ongoing development works in the villages of Mohali constituency, Balbir Singh Sidhu, minister of health and family welfare and labour, Punjab, on Wednesday gave cheques worth ₹11,10,000 to the panchayats of Dharamgarh and Chaumajra villages. Sidhu said that the development work of the villages was his top priority. He added, “My main aim is to make villages of Mohali an example for others and to accomplish this, I have released crores of funds to the villages of the constituency. Efforts are on to provide all facilities, whether educational or health-related, within the villages.” “Numerous works of development have been completed in the constituency. Ongoing projects will also be completed in the stipulated time,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/development-work-balbir-sidhu-gives-11-lakh-grant-to-mohali-villages/story-YWjyQHQBvgnPdaWaVv94QK.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Stray dog sterilisation resumes after a year in Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents can expect some relief from the problem of stray dogs with the municipal corporation starting the sterilisation programme after a gap of more than a year.The city has been witnessing a rapid increase in the stray dog population, and according to the MC, the number of dog bite cases has also gone up by 35% in the past five years. According to the latest animal census, conducted by the UT animal husbandry and fisheries department, the number of stray dogs reached 12,900 in 2019, up from 7,847 in the last census conducted in 2012.In September last year, the firm carrying out dog sterilisation ended its contract with the MC. Since August last year, the MC had floated three tenders, inviting private companies to undertake the project. In the tender floated in August, the MC got no response. In the subsequent tenders, floated in December 2019 and February this year, the MC received just one bid and due to the single-bid tender norms, the work could not to allotted.Dr MS Kamboj of the medical officer of health department said the work for sterilisation of dogs has been finally awarded. “In addition to sterilisation, stray dogs will be vaccinated for diseases such as rabies. At least 150 dogs per month will be sterilised under the programme. ₹870 fee has been fixed per dog,” said Kamboj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stray-dog-sterilisation-resumes-after-a-year-in-chandigarh/story-ihCA6I14CvF3TxJOoDUjNP.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Smart City Limited to install water ATMs across UT||Chandigarh Smart City Limited will install water ATMs in different locations across the city to provide drinking water to the public at cheap rates. In the first phase, these machines will be installed at 10 locations and, if successful, then they will be installed at other places too. These machines will be installed under a public-private partnership, for which applications have been sought from qualified companies. “Under the project, people will have to pay only Rs 2 for 200ml of water at the vending machine. The private agency providing the water will not be given any amount from Smart City Limited, but will only be allowed to collect revenue from the sale of water,” said a Smart City official. “In the first phase, these vending machines will be installed in Sector 35 market, 43 and, district courts. Later, vending machines will be installed at other places including, Sector 22, 17, Sabzi Mandi,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-smart-city-limited-to-install-water-atms-across-ut/story-0aw9LYGVxU4beBAoqhvcIJ.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||PU scraps PG entrance tests this year||Panjab University has decided to scrap the postgraduate entrance tests this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Apart from the PU-CET (PG), Panjab University Lateral Engineering Entrance Test (PULEET), Panjab University Migration Engineering Entrance Test (PUMEET), and MBA (executive) entrance tests have also been scrapped by the varsity. In an official statement issued on Wednesday, the varsity stated, “This is for the information of the candidates in particular and public in general, that due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation PU has scrapped all the entrance tests which are PU-CET (PG), MPhil/ PhD, PULEET, PUMEET and MBA (executive).” Moreover, all the registered candidates for PU-CET (PG) have to fill the admission form by October 15, 2020, for consideration in the admission process. The candidates have been requested to keep visiting the concerned websites for more information and further schedule. PU had already scrapped the entrance tests for UG courses this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-scraps-pg-entrance-tests-this-year/story-024As1ny5xF9d5CD8cAjrK.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Probe ordered after Tihar prisoners shown posing with knives, talking about murder||The Delhi prisons administration on Wednesday initiated an enquiry after videos and photographs allegedly taken inside Tihar jail number 1, purportedly showing prisoners holding knives, smoking cigarettes, and speaking about a murder in the jail premises, started doing the rounds of social media.In the video, some men — believed to be undertrials are seen alleging that an inmate, Sunny Dogra, was murdered in jail number 1 on September 24. They allege the role of the jail superintendent in the killing.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the videos and photographs circulating on social media. An order issued on Wednesday by Mukesh Prasad, additional inspector general (prisons) for conducting an enquiry, mentions the viral video clips and photographs. “The viral video clips and photographs were purportedly made in Jail No 1, Tihar. It also makes several allegations against the superintendent of jail No. 1 that are of serious nature,” Prasad said in his order, directing DIG (prisons) Rajesh Chopra to conduct a “detailed enquiry” into the alleged allegations.Director general (DG) of Delhi prisons Sandeep Goel and additional IG Mukesh Prasad were not available for a comment on the issue and calls and text messages sent to them remained unanswered.The order also directed Chopra to enquire how the alleged videos and photographs were filmed inside Jail No. 1 despite the fact that mobile phones are prohibited inside Delhi prisons. Prasad asked Chopra to make recommendations with regard to corrective measure that can be taken to prevent such incidents inside the jail.On September 24, a 29-year-old inmate, identified as Sikander alias Sunny Dogra, of Tihar jail was killed allegedly by four other prisoner, who attacked him with a sharp object outside the barrack. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. Dogra was jailed after being caught in an Arms Act case, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/probe-ordered-after-tihar-prisoners-shown-posing-with-knives-talking-about-murder/story-b9XjrEl1RGZIWGBNRpImiL.html
30-09-2020||City||PPCB conducts checks at dyeing units in Ludhiana, collect samples||A team of Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) officials conducted surprise inspections at dyeing units situated in the Focal Point area on Wednesday to check the working of effluent treatment plants (ETP). During the visit, the ETP installed at one of the units namely M/S Perfect Dyeing, Phase 8, Focal Point was found non-operational and untreated waste was being dumped in the sewer lines illegally.Senior environmental engineer, Sandeep Bahl said, “The effluent samples were collected by the team and have been sent for analysis. The action would be taken against the owner under Section 33-A of the Water Act, 1974.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ppcb-conducts-checks-at-dyeing-units-in-ludhiana-collect-samples/story-gsIW1iHMvGkxPK7zgc6bFM.html
30-09-2020||City||Adopt straw management: PAU experts to farmers||During the live programme of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Wednesday, the agricultural experts urged farmers to shun the practice of stubble burning and adopt its management measures.Senior soil scientist Dr RK Gupta advised farmers to incorporate paddy straw into the soil and curtail expenses on fertilizers. The adoption of paddy straw management practices enhances soil health as well as crop productivity, he said. Dr Gupta also suggested making judicious use of fertilizers in wheat.Dr Manpreet Singh, scientist, Farm Machinery and Power Engineering, appealed farmers not to indulge in stubble burning and instead use different machines, such as PAU super straw management system (SMS), happy seeder, super seeder, rotavator, baler, mouldboard plough, etc. for its management. He also discussed the economics of the machinery.Kulbir Singh, principal olericulturist, spoke about the household kitchen garden model and explained the agronomic practices to be adopted for the successful cultivation of onion and pea. He also talked about the vegetables to be grown using low tunnel technology. Dr Singh said the department of vegetable science was organising webinars on the cultivation of vegetables in order to equip the farmers with the technical know-how of vegetable cultivation. KK Gill, assistant agrometeorologist, called upon the farmers not to burn paddy straw as straw burnt during dry weather could turn into smog, thus, affecting human as well as animal health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/adopt-straw-management-pau-experts-to-farmers/story-CZIfPThI1A10Newkx11DSJ.html
30-09-2020||City||Ludhiana administration appoints nodal officers to check farm fires||To prevent crop residue burning during Kharif season especially amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration has appointed nodal officers for paddy growing villages where stubble was being traditionally put to fire.Seeking support and cooperation from farmers, Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday, appealed them to refrain from burning paddy straw especially amid the pandemic, which can further lead to serious implications in aggravating the health issues of those who are already suffering from several diseases. The DC said that the state government has decided that there is a need to pull out all stops and fully involve administrative machinery for “on the ground’ activities at the village-level. Therefore, nodal officers have been appointed for each village where the paddy is grown and its stubble is being burnt.Sharma also mentioned that these nodal officers would perform their duties in the concerned villages to control stubble burning during the harvesting period till November 15. The staff of municipal cooperation, revenue, rural development and panchayats, agriculture, horticulture and soil conservation departments and Punjab Pollution Control Board besides guardians of governance would closely coordinate to further intensify efforts to stamp out the unhealthy practice of stubble burning in the state.Sharma added that these officers have been assigned the task to ensure that harvester combines operate in the villages only with the super SMS system properly installed on them. They will also prepare the list of owners who have given their land on rent and then inform each landowner to ensure that no paddy straw is burnt on their land, otherwise, the red entry shall be made in the land record.These officers will also identify those farmers who are likely to put fire to the paddy residue and to convince them by the way of one to one contact. They would also get to know the farmers who have burnt the residue and ask the revenue patwari of the village to make a relevant entry in revenue records as per separate instructions issued by the department.Apart from these steps, the nodal officers will create awareness in villages by way of holding meetings with farmers, to help arrange CRM machines in the village, to distribute pamphlets/leaflets, etc, to make announcements in gurdwaras or by other modes, to interact with village schools for awareness lectures to students so that these students can further create awareness among their parents.The DC said that various sites have been identified/ earmarked in the district for collection of residues in common lands/cattle ponds and gaushalas, where farmers or any entrepreneur will be able to store paddy straw. This stored basmati residue can be transported to places where they can be used as cattle fodder. Notably, the paddy has been grown in 27 lakh hectares of land in the state which includes cultivation of basmati on seven lakh hectares and paddy residue of 16.50 million tons shall be produced out of paddy crop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-administration-appoints-nodal-officers-to-check-farm-fires/story-encvKrzdPIfAvF8IiQF4BJ.html
30-09-2020||Pune||Local trains to resume operations in Pune region||According to the latest Unlock 5.0 guidelines issued by the state government on Wednesday, local trains have been allowed to resume operations in Pune region. Since the countrywide lockdown began on March 23, all the train operations in the Pune railway division had stopped operations. Now, almost after six months the local trains are resuming service in Pune which is a major transport mode for working people between Pune and Lonavla. The Unlock 5.0 guidelines stated, “Local trains in Pune region to be resumed as per the protocols and procedure followed in MMR region. The commissioner of police, Pune, will be the nodal officer to coordinate for the same.” Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta, said, “We will have to get it clarified. I will discuss it with stakeholders; railways, public demand, and health officials. I think it maybe about deciding the frequency, working and timings.” Currently, there are eight local trains running between Pune and Lonavla in 42 schedules. In these schedules, 21 are from Pune to Lonavla and 21 are from Lonavla to Pune starting from 5 am to midnight. Daily 30,000 passengers, including students and officer-goers, used the route. Pune divisional railway manager Renu Sharma said, “We have got the notification and according to it, the Pune police commissioner is the nodal officer for starting the local trains, so we will have a meeting with him tomorrow (Thursday). Also, I will have a meeting with our senior officials about starting of the local train operations. We will ensure the safety and security of passengers while starting the train operation on the Pune -Lonavla route. It will be decided later whether we want to start the train operations phase-wise or all together.” Regular passengers on this route have welcomed this decision, Vasudha Kulkarni, an office-goer, said, “I live in Chinchwad and my office in Pune at JM road, earlier we used to daily travel by local trains, but now it had been difficult to travel to my office as local trains were not operating. So, I used to travel via PMPML buses but it would take a lot of time. We are happy that local trains are restarting now for public keeping all the safety precautions in mind.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/local-trains-to-start-back-in-pune-region/story-KPnci2L14B2QzwX1WTmSGK.html
30-09-2020||Noida||From one lab that tested 100 samples, we crossed the 1-crore Covid-19 test landmark: UP additional chief secretary||On Wednesday, Uttar Pradesh crossed 10-million Covid-19 tests, a first in the country. State additional chief secretary for health Amit Mohan Prasad spoke about the initial hurdles in containing the pandemic and the way forward. Excerpts: What was the state’s plan of action when the Covid-19 outbreak started? Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state of the country with a very high population density. We were aware, right from the beginning, that we cannot let the epidemic grow unchecked in such a vast state. Test, track and treat has been the strategy of choice. The Chief Minister took the reins from the beginning and has been chairing a Covid-19 review meeting with all the senior officers of the state continuously for the last six months. This has kept the motivation level of the workforce high. The focus has been on expanding the capacity of the state to track the suspected and susceptible population early, test them quickly and treat wherever necessary. As a result of the continuous efforts of doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and personnel from other departments like revenue, police, urban local bodies and panchayati raj institutions we have seen that the cases have remained controlled. Recently, we are witnessing a continuous reduction in positivity rate and cases of new infection. In a period of two weeks, the number of active cases has gone down by almost 25%. Testing was a concern in the initial days. How did you manage and enhance it? When Covid-19 broke, we just had one laboratory with a capacity of less than 100 samples per day and then we used to send samples to NIV, Pune for the confirmatory test. We started expanding our capacity quickly with medical colleges setting up RT-PCR laboratories across the state. UP was the first state to introduce pool testing in the country. We also equipped all district hospitals with TruNat machines very early. Once rapid antigen test was introduced, we quickly expanded our testing capacity to more than 1.5 lakh tests per day with a healthy mix of 1:2 ratio for RT-PCR and antigen tests, respectively. Today, we crossed the landmark of 10 million Covid-19 tests, a first in the country. Out of this, RT-PCR is about 3.5 million, while the remaining is antigen tests. We are making preparations to double the number of RT-PCR tests also. A proper and better infrastructure and increasing the number of labs are needed for this and we have already started looking for that. Through testing on a very large scale, we have been able to keep the positivity rate below 5% in the state. How do you analyse the action taken reports from all the districts of the state? And, what are the grey areas where more focus is needed? UP has used digital technology very well for data collection and analysis. With the help of UP Technical Support Unit, we have developed a portal which provides end to end solution for Covid-19. Govt of India also recognized this later when it gave us the go ahead to send data on their portal directly from our portal. We analyse the data for surveillance, testing, home isolation, hospital treatment, Covid-19 deaths, etc. from the portal. This has helped us to analyse the performance of the districts quickly. Chief Minister has been reviewing the performance of the districts on a regular basis through video conferencing. We keep them on their toes but also handhold them. This has been a collaborative affair which has resulted in great team work and exceptional results. Every district in UP has an Integrated Covid-19 Control and Command Centre, which works as the nerve centre of Covid-19 battle in the district. It is manned by people from health and other departments and is equipped with modern equipments for communication and decision making. We are continuously focussing on improving our surveillance and contact tracing as that is the key for early detection of cases and containing the pandemic. What will be government’s next step in terms of containment and surveillance? Though continuous monitoring of efforts of districts’ efforts in the containment zones and outside, we will try to keep the number of cases and the positivity rate low. Surveillance has been a key focus area and this will be further ramped up for early detection of cases, particularly the more vulnerable ones. Till a vaccine arrives, we have to focus on non pharmaceutical interventions like enforcement of social distancing norms, hand washing practices and wearing of masks by the people. Effective communication for behaviour change remains a key priority. As things open up more and more, it is necessary that people understand and voluntarily adopt Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. How did the state reduce case fatality rate (CFR)? A. CFR has been kept low by focussing on patient care and adopting the right treatment protocol by the Covid-dedicated hospitals. Virtual ICU has helped treatment centres across the state to get the benefit of expert advice of doctors from eminent institutes like SGPGI and KGMU. Government has deputed senior nodal administrative officers and doctors as nodal officers for each and every district, who analyse the deaths on a continuous basis. CFR is a statistical tool; however every death is unfortunate and we must try to avoid every avoidable death. Government provides free of cost treatment to patients coming to its facilities through more than 1.5 lakh beds including oxygen supported beds and ICUs and all drugs and consumables, howsoever expensive. We are trying to bring the CFR below the level of 1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/from-one-lab-that-tested-100-samples-we-crossed-the-1-crore-covid-19-test-landmark-up-additional-chief-secretary/story-eh7H7JVzszbN6kQ9jl6PTO.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 1, 625 new infections, 26 deaths||Haryana reported 1, 625 new Covid infections, 2, 063 recoveries and 26 deaths on Wednesday. Six districts-- Gurugram (282), Faridabad (155), Hisar (142), Kurukshetra (134), Sonepat (119) and Panchkula (113) -- reported more than 100 new infections. Significant numbers were also reported from Rewari (82), Rohtak (77), Sirsa (76), Ambala (73), Karnal (68) and Yamunanagar (57). The fresh infections pushed the cumulative number of cases to 1, 28,599. As per a medical bulletin, 2, 603 patients recovered from the virus on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 1, 12, 877. The recovery rate increased to 87.77% and the fatality rate stood at 1.07%. Among the 26 who succumbed to the respiratory illness on Wednesday, four were from Panipat, three each from Jhajjar and Yamunanagar, two each from Faridabad, Gurugram, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad and one each from Ambala, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra. The medical bulletin said there were 340 critically ill patients, including 48 on ventilator support. Among other districts, Mahendergarh reported 42 new infections followed by Panipat (41), Fatehabad (36), Palwal (31), Jhajjar and Bhiwani (25 each), Kaithal (20), Nuh (15) and Charkhi Dadri (12). No fresh case was reported from Jind district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-records-1-625-new-infections-26-deaths/story-2lDW2rq4EPjbQ6WLcDPsFN.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai tops cybercrime frauds in 2019, Bengaluru ranks 2nd: National Crime Records Bureau||Mumbai recorded the maximum number of cyber crime cases after Bengaluru in 2019, shows the National Crime Records Bureau data (NCRB).Bengaluru recorded 10,555 cases in 2019, while Mumbai saw a steep rise in cyber crime cases in 2019 with 2,527 cases being registered, reported the NCRB. Mumbai had recorded 1,362 cybercrime cases in 2017 and it had marginally increased to 1,482 in 2018, data showed. Mumbai had 146 cases of cyber stalking and bullying, 28 data thefts, 154 sexual exploitation cases, 15 cyber blackmailings, 100 credit/debit card frauds, 276 ATM frauds, 248 online banking frauds, 37 OTP frauds and 26 forgery cases, it said.Although the cases in Mumbai exceed 2,527, experts believe that the number should be much more but the complaints filed by the victims do not get converted into FIRs. According to advocate Vicky Shah, in the past five months, he has received over 50 calls from people who have lost money due to cyber crime but only 2 of these 50 have been able to convert into FIRs.“Cyber criminals are extremely innovative and although the police, RBI and the bank’s spread awareness, these fraudsters invent new ways to rob people online as it is the easiest way to commit crime,” said Shah.Maharashtra also recorded a rise in cyber crime compared to 2017 and 2018. Although the cases decreased from 3,604 cases in 2017 to 3,511 in 2018, the number of cyber crimes shot up to 4,967 in 2019.The NCRB shows that cyber crime cases were maximum in Karnataka with 12,020 cases being registered followed by Uttar Pradesh 11,416 and Maharashtra with 4967 cases.Of the 4967 cases, 1698 cases were of ATM, online banking and OTP fraud, while 409 cases registered were those of cyber stalking and bullying of women and children.According to the NCRB statistics, defrauding people was the motive behind 3,551 of the 4,967 cases registered. When contacted, Balsing Rajput, superintendent of police, Maharashtra cyber police, said, “The reason for rise in numbers in Maharashtra is due to the increasing number of people using mobile phones and making online transactions as Maharashtra is a commercial hub.”Rajput further said that they have been conducting awareness campaigns, “In lockdown specially we have conducted campaigns on fake news and hate speeches and we regularly make sure to generate awareness among women and youngsters as they are the main targets of cyber bullies and criminals. We have also made audio and visual campaigns which are shown in theatres and put on hoardings to alert people about cybercrime and how to prevent it,” added Rajput.A senior police officer said, “We are in a continuous process of training officers with the changing trends of committing online crimes. There is a cyber-lab and a cyber-police station in all districts fully equipped to register and investigate these crimes.”Cyber experts believe that online crimes are committed as people are impatient and do not read the entire message, “People get confused between collecting money and receiving money which the cyber fraudsters take advantage of. Another method is payment by links which is now frequently being used by criminals to confuse the users,” added Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-tops-cybercrime-frauds-in-2019-bengaluru-ranks-2nd-national-crime-records-bureau/story-EoJsHPMsNtXxftEJm1K1rI.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till October 31, Mumbai local to allow dabbawalas||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday said that the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease has been extended till October 31. However, hotels, food courts, restaurants and bars will be allowed to operate from October 5 with 50% capacity, the state government added.The Central Railway is set to introduce eight additional services in Mumbai, including two ladies special trains from October 1 in order to reduce overcrowding.Four of the new special trains will run on the main line, including two ladies specials between CSMT-Kalyan stations, while four services would run on Thane-Vashi Trans- harbour line.Apart from this, Dabbawalahs will be allowed to board local trains and all trains within the state will start services with immediate effect.Maharashtra, which is one of the states in India worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic has registered nearly 1.4 million cases and 36,662 deaths till now. The active cases in the state are over 260,000 while 1,088,322 people have recovered.Maharashtra is the highest contributor to the country’s Covid-19 tally in terms of both active and recovered cases.Meanwhile, the Union home ministry on Wednesday issued guidelines for re-opening of economic activities across country amid the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Although there is a surge in Covid-19 cases, further relaxations have been offered by the Centre.Cinema halls, multiplexes will be allowed to open from October 15 while for re-opening of schools and coaching institutions, state/ UTs have been given the flexibility to take a decision after October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-october-31-mumbai-allows-relaxations-on-local-trains/story-nJUGKQUuV40cv9V2L70dCM.html
30-09-2020||Dehradun||24-year-old man lets friend rape wife for Rs 10,000, arrested: Cops||A 24-year-old man was arrested for allegedly letting his friend rape his 22-year-old wife in lieu of Rs 10,000 in Rudraprayag district, said police. The accused friend is absconding, officials added. The incident took place on September 22 but came to light on Tuesday after the woman filed a complaint against the two accused, said police. A police officer privy to the developments of the investigation said, “The woman in her complaint informed police that her husband came home drunk for three straight days - from September 19 to 21. He used to also argue with her when she objected.”“On September 22, her husband again came home drunk but with a friend. His friend then raped her in the house in his presence before leaving. Later, she came to know that he had allowed him to rape her in exchange of Rs 10,000,” said the police official. Confirming the incident, superintendent of police, Rudraprayag district, Navneet Singh said, “Based on the woman’s complaint, a case was immediately registered under relevant sections of the IPC and investigation is underway.”Singh said, “The police arrested her husband on Tuesday and produced him before the local court which later sent him to jail. Investigation is on to nab his friend who is absconding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/24-year-old-man-lets-friend-rape-wife-for-rs-10-000-arrested-cops/story-GlppfGIBZA9I2rfba22sDM.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||1985-batch IAS officer Vijai Vardhan is Haryana’s new chief secretary||The Haryana government on Wednesday appointed 1985-batch IAS officer, Vijai Vardhan as the chief secretary. Vardhan replaced 1983-batch woman IAS officer, Keshni Anand Arora who retired on Wednesday. As chief secretary, Vardhan will hold the charge of general administration, personnel, training, parliamentary affairs, vigilance and administrative reforms department. He will also be secretary in-charge of plan coordination. A 1986-batch IAS officer, Sanjeev Kaushal was appointed as additional chief secretary (ACS), revenue, disaster management and consolidation departments replacing Vardhan. Kaushal will continue to hold the charge of ACS, cooperation. ACS, health, Rajeev Arora was given the additional charge of ACS, home, jails, criminal investigation and administration of justice departments. The charge of home department was earlier held by Vijai Vardhan. ACS, irrigation and public health, Devender Singh was given the additional charge of ACS, agriculture, replacing Kaushal. ACS, medical education and research, Alok Nigam was given the additional charge of ACS, public works (B&R), replacing Rajeev Arora. Yamunanagar municipal comissioner Dharamvir Singh was posted as Charkhi Dadri deputy commissioner, replacing Shiv Parshad who retired on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1985-batch-ias-officer-vijai-vardhan-named-haryana-s-new-chief-secretary/story-GNrmwZiEIpW36CwigQxz1J.html
30-09-2020||City||SAD asks Rahul Gandhi to tell farmers why he supported abolition of APMC Act||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday asked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to tell farmers of Punjab why he had supported the abolition of the APMC Act and why didn’t he protest against the three agriculture Bills when they were tabled in Parliament for ratification. In a statement here, party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said the Punjab Congress after failing on all fronts and even betraying farmers by amending the State APMC Act in 2017 was now trying to win the sympathy of farmers by indulging in cheap publicity stunts. “Getting Rahul astride on a tractor in Punjab is nothing but a photo op designed to befool farmers. The Congress has always adopted an anti-farmer stance, be it the party’s 2019 election manifesto calling for abolition of the APMC Act or the amendment to the State APMC Act in Punjab in 2017 which includes all the provisions contained in the new agriculture laws,” he said. The SAD leader said before coming to Punjab, Rahul Gandhi should come clean and tell the farmers of Punjab as to where he was when the Bills were tabled in Parliament. He said Rahul should also explain why no top leader of the Congress party spoke against the Bills in Parliament and why the party did not even issue a whip to ensure all its MPs voted against the Bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-asks-rahul-gandhi-to-tell-farmers-why-he-supported-abolition-of-apmc-act/story-bdTZVZlS9sdUQ9898svlKO.html
30-09-2020||City||Bajra procurement in Haryana from October 1||Bajra procurement in Haryana will start from Thursday, officials said. The state government has announced that a minimum support price of Rs 2,150 per quintal will be offered for the crop. Hisar divisional commissioner Vinay Singh has directed officials to keep an eye on bajra from outside the state being brought for sale in mandis across Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Hisar districts. A district official in Bhiwani, seeking anonymity, said they will check the entry of vehicles carrying bajra from Rajasthan. “The traders purchased bajra in Rajasthan at Rs 1,475 to Rs 1,500 per quintal and sell it in Haryana mandis for a higher MSP,” he added. Kisan Sabha state secretary Dayanand Punia said the procurement process will start from Thursday but the government is yet to send gunny bags to the mandis. “No roster plan of procurement was issued by mandi officials and farmers are eagerly waiting for their turn,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bajra-procurement-in-haryana-from-october-1/story-efMNMJEOKoMANrWkSfgZyM.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi reports 3,390 fresh Covid-19 cases, 41 related deaths||The national capital reported 41 Covid-19 fatalities on Wednesday, taking the toll to 5,361, while 3,390 fresh cases pushed the tally to over 2.79 lakh, authorities said. The fresh cases reported on Wednesday came out of the 59,807 tests conducted the previous day.On Tuesday, 48 deaths were reported, the highest single-day fatalities since July 16, when 58 patients had succumbed to the viral disease. On September 26, Delhi had recorded 46 deaths, while the figures for the next two days were 42 and 37 respectively. According to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department, 41 new fatalities have been recorded, taking the death toll to 5,361.The active cases tally on Wednesday dropped to 26,908 from 27,524 from the previous day.The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 5,320 on Tuesday.The Wednesday bulletin said, the total number of cases has climbed to 2,79,715.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-reports-3-390-fresh-covid-19-cases-41-related-deaths/story-ZMbT4Wklo36yQylnVbwaWI.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayor recovers from Covid-19||Chandigarh mayor Raj Bala Malik was discharged from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research after recovering from Covid-19 on Wednesday. Malik had tested positive on September 16 and was being monitored for oxygen saturation at home. As it dropped to 92%, she was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali for three days before being shifted to the dedicated Covid hospital at the PGIMER on September 24.“Currently, she is asymptomatic and has been off oxygen for three days. She is being advised home quarantine till October 4 and to take rest for seven more days till October 11 for full recovery,” said GD Puri, dean (academics) and head, department of anaesthesia and intensive care, PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-recovers-from-covid-19/story-0svCECIznKhWpGq2JvgsTO.html
30-09-2020||Pune||Two doctors get 10-yr jail term for culpable homicide||Two doctors were convicted while one was acquitted on Tuesday by a court in Pune in a case of death caused by medical negligence at a hospital in Dehuroad in 2012. The deceased woman was identified as Rajashree Jagtap who was 22 years old at the time of her death. The convicted doctors were identified as Dr Jitendra Suresh Shimpi and Dr Sachin Hari Deshpande while the acquitted doctor was identified as Dr Vijay Agarwal. The order was issued by additional sessions judge VR Jagdale. Eight doctors were examined during the trial. The two doctors were sentenced to 10 years of simple imprisonment with ₹2.5 lakh fine each to be paid to Anil Jagannath Jagtap, husband of the deceased woman. He works as an ambulance driver at a private hospital in Lonavala and lives on Sinhagad road. “In 2012, Dr Shimpi was in jail for 10 days and Dr Deshpande and Dr Agarwal were never in jail as they had an anticipatory from court. Dr Deshpande has an MS in general surgery but he had no specialisation and had no qualification. He was using that as the defence. However, a report from a three-member committee of BMS faculty at Indian Medical Association, Mumbai (January 20, 2014) and a report from a five-member committee at Sassoon Hospital (December 11, 2012) declared that the doctors had no qualification to perform the surgery,” said advocate Rajesh Kavediya, assistant public prosecutor, Pune. A case was registered at Dehuroad police station against the three men on January 12, 2013 under Sections 304 and 34 of Indian Penal Code. The Jagtap couple had a 2.5-year-old daughter when the 22-year-old fell pregnant again. She was consulting with doctors at Athashri Hospital in Adarshnagar in Kiwale run by the doctor couple Jitendra Suresh Shimpi and Anupama Jitendra Shimpi. On June 1, 2012, she was taken for a caesarean operation conducted by surgeon Dr Sachin Hari Deshpande in presence of Dr Jitendra Shimpi and anaesthesia specialist Dr Vijay Agarwal. She underwent C-section and family planning procedures and was brought out of the operation room by 4:30pm. However, she was taken to Adhar Hospital in Dehuroad that night in Dr Deshpande’s car after she started bleeding heavily, according to the complainant’s husband. On the morning of June 2, 2012, she was declared dead. The case of the doctors was sent to Sassoon hospital and a case of accidental death was registered at Dehuroad police station. After inquiry, Sassoon General Hospital report claimed that among the doctors who performed the faulty procedure, none were qualified to perform the surgery. It also claimed that the ignorance of the doctors in the procedure led to the death of the mother. Eventually, a case was registered at Dehuroad police station and the doctors were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-doctors-get-10-yr-jail-term-for-culpable-homicide/story-oOJy4aBle0nqR30yyYSYvO.html
30-09-2020||Pune||Anticipatory bail of actor Vikram Gokhale rejected in cheating case||The anticipatory bail application of actor Vikram Gokhale in a cheating case in a realty project in Pune was rejected by a local court. The application was rejected by additional sessions judge Madhuri Deshpande on Friday. “It appears that the complainant and others have been executed sale deed for wrong survey numbers. There is a huge appropriation of the amount of ₹96,99,000. The offence is serious in nature. The documents executed by the accused persons are yet to be verified. The investigation is in its preliminary stage. Prima facie involvement of the accused appears in offence in question,” reads a part of the order issued by the court while rejecting the anticipatory bail application. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 464 (making a false document), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 447 (punishment for criminal trespass), 34 (common intention) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Paud police station in Pune rural police jurisdiction. The actor was booked along with a lawyer couple who had allegedly bought the land and sold it to various people claiming it to be a government-approved project. The actor had advertised for the project and had earlier claimed that he was simply the brand ambassador. The complainant claimed that the couple assured buyers that the project did not have legal shortcomings. However, in 2016, the couple started opposing owner plans to undertake a government land measurement initiative claimed the complainant. As the buyers got the land measurement done independently, they found that documents provided to them were of pieces of land that did not match the land on which their houses stood. There were other loopholes in the land-related documents provided by the couple. Along with the complainant, 13 other buyers have levied the same allegations against the lawyer couple. The total amount of cheating of these 14 buyers is estimated to be around ₹96,99,000, according to the police. The complainant had claimed there were others who have suffered but chose to not come forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/anticipatory-bail-of-actor-vikram-gokhale-rejected-in-cheating-case/story-I8OnzNaLEKZ8MMcmW8OS9N.html
30-09-2020||City||Former Radaur MLA Shyam Singh Rana quits BJP ‘to stand with farmers’||In a setback to the Bharatiya Janata Party in Haryana, its former MLA from Radaur assembly seat, Shyam Singh Rana left the party, alleging neglect of farmers in the state.Announcing his resignation in the presence of his supporters and media at his residence, Rana said he left the party because he could no longer bear to see the miseries of farmers. “Farmers have been protesting for a long time. Tonnes of paddy have reached the mandis but so far, no procurement has been done. Had the government paid attention to the farmers’ issues, the present situation (agitations) could have been averted,” he told Hindustan Times. On being asked on his future plans, Rana said, “I’ve sent my resignation to state party president OP Dhankar. I’ll talk to my supporters and then decide the next course of action. But let me assure you, I will stand with the farmers in every possible way.”Hours after the resignation letter was sent, Dhankar accepted the resignation but in a harshly worded reply, accused Rana of not supporting the BJP candidate in the previous election due to his vested interests. “The party treated you with respect by appointing you as the district chief, giving you an election ticket and elevating you to the post of chief parliamentary secretary. But you failed to support our candidate during the previous elections. It seems you personal interests are weighing you down and you are left with no option but to resign. Therefore, your resignation is accepted,” wrote Dhankar. Randeep Ghanghas, co-incharge of the state media cell of BJP, confirmed that the resignation had been accepted by the state president.Rana, who belongs to Pehowa of Kurukshetra district, had served as the MLA on the seat from 2014-19, but was denied ticket in the 2019 assembly elections. In his place, former minister Karan Dev Kamboj was fielded from the seat as the Kamboj community has a considerable vote-share in the Radaur segment. However, Kamboj lost to Congress’ Bishan Lal Saini by a thin margin and later accused Rana of campaigning against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-radaur-mla-shyam-singh-rana-quits-bjp-to-stand-with-farmers/story-ynLHF1lx6L7M1yQcqaBXuL.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||NGT denies nod to Delhi Police for construction on Yamuna floodplains||The National Green Tribunal Wednesday junked a plea by the Delhi Police seeking permission to raise construction for accommodation of the trainees in the flood plains of river Yamuna.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the project is located right on the flood plains and thus cannot be allowed.It refused to agree with the submission of the Delhi police that the Principal Committee, formed to oversee Yamuna rejuvenation, made recommendations in favour of the Delhi Police.“The present project is right on the flood plains and has potential for generating solid waste and sewage, unlike the project which was earlier allowed,” the bench said.The tribunal said activities which may be beneficial for the rejuvenation of the river like bio-diversity parks, artificial wetlands, afforestation etc. are required not the constructions.  “Idea of semi-permanent or temporary construction for utilization of the Police officials may not be a very germane idea. Such requirement is not temporary. Alternatives for viable permanent constructions may need to be explored,” the bench also comprising Justice S P Wangdi said.The tribunal was hearing an application filed by the Delhi Police for permission to raise construction for accommodation of the Police trainees in the flood plains of river Yamuna.The NGT in its 2015 order prohibited any construction activity in the demarcated flood plain and directed the Principal Committee to identify all existing structures as of today which fall on the demarcated flood plain.  “Upon identification, the Principal Committee shall make its recommendations as to which of the structures ought or ought not to be demolished, in the interest of environment and ecology, particularly, if such structures have been raised in an unauthorised and illegal manner,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ngt-denies-nod-to-delhi-police-for-construction-on-yamuna-floodplains/story-AsKDvT93wer5BAkzVVocON.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra stays August order issued for implementation of farm reform laws||The Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government on Wednesday rescinded a notification issued in August for the implemention of the contentious farm ordinances, which were replaced by three laws passed in Parliament this month. The move came after the coalition’s key ally, the Congress, threatened to boycott a state Cabinet meeting later in the day if this was not done. The notification dated August 10 directed local authorities governing Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees to implement the three central farm ordinances issued in June. Also Read: Babri Masjid demolition case verdict: Shiv Sena welcomes acquittalThe Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) representatives were likely to raise the issue of the implementation of the newly-enacted farm laws at the Cabinet meeting. The two parties have opposed the laws as “anti-farmer” and their implementation in the state. The Maharashtra government is yet to take a decision over implementing the laws. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Monday advised the states ruled by her party to explore the possibilities of legislation under the Constitution’s Article 254(2) to negate the “anti-agricultural laws” and to prevent the “grave injustice” being done to farmers. The Congress is in power in Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh, and Puducherry. It is part of coalition governments in Maharashtra and Jharkhand. The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government pushed three farm bills to deregulate agricultural trade. They were passed controversially in Parliament, overriding demands for greater scrutiny and voting. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.2 million mark with 80,472 fresh cases, 1,179 new fatalitiesBig farmers’ groups are protesting against the laws saying the deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in a weaker negotiating position than before. Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar last week said the farm laws will not be implemented in Maharashtra. Revenue minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat said all the ruling parties are against the laws and the decision on not implementing them in the state will be taken collectively after due deliberation. The Congress has organised #SpeakUpForFarmers on social media to garner support against the laws. It also held a virtual farmer rally and gathered signatures from 10 million farmers opposing the laws. A delegation of Congress leaders met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari demanding the withdrawal of the legislation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-stays-august-order-issued-for-implementation-of-farm-reform-laws/story-nZwE88mPz3ryY5rYReejhK.html
30-09-2020||City||Religious tourism may get boost as Uttarakhand eases curbs||With Covid-19 test reports no longer mandatory for Char Dham pilgrims, the hotel and travel industry is expecting the return of normalcy in the sector that has been hit by restrictions related to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Bringing reports of Covid-19 negative tests conducted 96 hours [prior to the arrival] was a major deterrent due to which pilgrims and tourists were refraining from coming to Uttarakhand. But now, it is not compulsory. Visitors from many states like Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and even Maharashtra are booking rooms in Haridwar hotels,” said hotelier Neeraj Kumar.Also read: Uttarakhand Congress president booked for violating Covid norms during protest against farm billsUday Ram Semwal, the manager of another hotel, said they are preparing for the arrival of tourists. “Past five months have been quite bad... Now, we are hoping for revival going by online bookings and telephonic inquiries...”Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha said they welcome easing of norms as this will attract pilgrims and tourists and provide a major boost to the livelihood of priests and related religious tourism industry.Cabinet minister Madan Kaushik said the Char Dham pilgrimage sites are the backbone of the state’s economy. “Barring Badrinath shrine, the state government ensured rest of shrines--Kedarnath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri--opened on pre-announced dates amid the pandemic in April. Religious, tourism, and adventure activities are being allowed which will lead to normalcy in related sectors affected for the past five months.”He asked tourists to wears face masks, adhere to social distancing norms, and other standard operating procedures and guidelines.Haridwar alone has two thousand odd hotels, resorts, guest houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/religious-tourism-may-get-boost-as-uttarakhand-eases-curbs/story-PvREwWXLXcl6jaiskW9cyK.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Bodies of 3 Rajouri youngsters killed in Shopian encounter to be exhumed, handed over to families||The bodies of the three youngsters killed in the Amshipora encounter in Shopian district on July 18 will be exhumed and handed over to their families in Rajouri. “Since their DNA samples have matched with the family, the bodies of the youngsters will be exhumed and handed over after due process of law,” inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said on Wednesday. While the army initially said the three were “terrorists”, it later admitted that its men exceeded the powers vested under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (Afspa) and contravened the dos and don’ts of the chief of army staff (COAS) as approved by the Supreme Court. The three Rajouri families identified the youngsters from their pictures on social media and alleged the army had killed them in a “fake encounter” in Shopian where they had gone to work as labourers. Director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said on Tuesday that two civilians have been arrested in connection with the killings. The two are residents of south Kashmir and have been remanded in custody for eight days. Police sources said they are believed to be informers of security forces. The DNA samples of Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohd Ibrar, who were gunned down on July 18 in Shopian, matched with their family members in Rajouri on September 25, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bodies-of-3-rajouri-youngsters-killed-in-shopian-encounter-to-be-exhumed-handed-over-to-families/story-aPdB41UiPELruUwv08FtYL.html
30-09-2020||Pune||Two BJP leaders swerve party line to PMC oppose amnesty scheme||Two senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have objected to their party’s decision to waive off the fine for property tax defaulters and even warned to challenge this decision legally. BJP leaders Ujwal Keskar and Suhas Joshi wrote a letter to the Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and objected to the civic body’s decision. Keskar and Joshi said, “It is wrong to waive off the money for the defaulters. Instead of giving relaxation to the citizens who are paying tax regularly, the civic body is giving relief to the defaulters. If the decision would not be withdrawn, they warned to file a complaint with either the Lokayukta or the high court.” The BJP is the ruling party in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). BJP president Jagdish Mulik, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne and leader of the house Dheeraj Ghate jointly held a meeting and decided to give a relief in the property tax for defaulters. Earlier, the parties in opposition, Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena had opposed this decision and forced the BJP to give a cap for this decision and give the benefit of the amnesty scheme only for those citizens whose dues are below ₹50 lakh. The ruling BJP with the help of the opposition parties approved the amnesty scheme and announced to give 80 per cent relief in property tax fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-bjp-leaders-swerve-party-line-to-pmc-oppose-amnesty-scheme/story-AkAVxeDmjUukc05sgtas8J.html
30-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Mukundra reserve left with one injured tigress||Kota’s Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR), populated only two years back, and with four tigers and three cubs till July this year, has hardly any tigers left now. All it is left with is an injured tigress codenamed MT-4 but that too has been shifted to Abheda Biological Park for treatment. In the past two months, two tigers and a cub have died, while three, including two cubs, have gone missing. There are apprehensions that the missing tiger, MT-1, has left the MHTR enclosure. It was the last camera trapped (captured on camera) on August 19. The MHTR search team, and that sent from Ranthambore Tiger Reserve, has failed to locate the big cat. The cub of dead tigress MT-2 has been missing since August 3 and that of MT-4 was last seen on camera trap on May 22. The chances of their surviving without their mothers are low, said a forest official on the condition of anonymity. As far as tiger deaths are concerned, two adult tigers died within a span of 10 days – male tiger MH-3 died on July 23 due to cardiac arrest and female MT-2 on August 3 because of a territorial fight. MT-2 had delivered two cubs in June, of which one died during treatment and the other went missing. A team of National Tiger Conservation Authority has visited MHTR to investigate the deaths and inspect the management; and another team would be coming shortly. Conservator of forest and MHTR field director Sedu Ram Yadav said a search operation is on for the missing tiger, MT-1. The neighbouring forest divisions, such as Bundi, Baran, Jhalawar and even Ranthambore Tiger Reserve, have been informed to keep a check in their respective areas. Yadav said after being camera-trapped on August 19, indirect evidence, such as pugmarks, was found on August 25. “The possibility of MT-1 having left the reserve cannot be ruled out,” said Yadav. On the health of injured tigress MT-4, currently under treatment at Abheda Biological Park, Yadav said the big cat’s condition was improving. Once fully recovered, MT-4 will be shifted to a soft enclosure before being released in the wild. Retired IFS officer Sunayan Sharma said the missing tiger is a result of administrative failure, especially the dearth of skilled personnel, from forest guard to ranger level. The monitoring and follow-up were not effective, he alleged. “The big cats had accepted this reserve as they got disturbance-free area and they started to breed,” he said. No rangers have not been recruited in the past 25 years, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-mukundra-reserve-left-with-one-injured-tigress/story-nRMw8bV1Kth2XWX72OQdmL.html
30-09-2020||Pune||Dabholkar murder accused’s request to visit family for third time rejected||An application made by Dr Virendra Tawade, an accused in the murder of Dr Narendra Dabholkar to perform concluding funeral rituals for his father was rejected by a court in Pune on Monday. In the order made available on Tuesday, the judge observed that the application was rejected as Tawade has already been allowed to visit home after his father’s death twice. He was last released conditionally from jail on September 26 to attend the 10th day Hindu religious rituals for his father who died on the night of September 15, one day before the court had allowed Dr Tawade to visit him, according to advocate Virendra Ichalkaranjikar representing Dr Tawade. “Whenever it was absolutely necessary, this court has allowed the request of the applicant, particularly for the funeral and post-funeral ceremony of his father. So far as ‘’Nidhanshanti’’ ritual is concerned, it cannot be said that presence of the applicant is absolutely necessary for that purpose,” read a part of the order issued by additional sessions judge SR Navandar on Monday. In an order issued on September 15, the court had allowed him to visit his terminally ill father on September 16. “But he had passed away on the previous night. We had to get another order on September 16 when we reached there and found that his father had passed on the previous night. The funeral grounds were merely 100 meters from where he was allowed to visit. However, he was not allowed to move without a court order,” said Ichalkaranjikar. In conclusion, the court observed that it “is not a very easy task” to allow the accused to be taken back home as it “creates a burden on the law executing machinery”. Dr Tawade, an ear-nose-throat surgeon and a member of the Sanatan Sanstha has been in jail since June 2016 when he was arrested from Panvel for being the mastermind in the murder. Dr Dabholkar was shot dead on the morning of August 20, 2013, on the Omkareshwar bridge in Pune. The accused in the case have been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dabholkar-murder-accused-s-request-to-visit-family-for-third-time-rejected/story-ujgLtSBF76EjAJ94xRWiGO.html
30-09-2020||Pune||SPPU final year exams postponed||Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) administration on Tuesday announced that final year examinations will be postponed. Ongoing strike of non-teaching staff, clash of exam dates with other competitive exams and delay in appointment of an agency which will be working on exam conducting programme are among some reasons which have led to this decision.“There are several other exams scheduled like UPSC, MPSC and NET during the same period and many final year students have applied for such examination. Hence, we have decided to postpone the examination schedule to October 12,” said Mahesh Kakade, director of SPPU’s board of examination and evaluation.Examinations for backlog students, which were supposed to start from October 1 have also been postponed. As per the earlier schedule declared by SPPU, written exams were supposed to start from October 1. For backlog students exams were supposed to be conducted between October 1 and 9 while for regular students the written exams were going to be held between October 10 and 30. These exams were slated to be of 50 marks with multiple choice questions (MCQ) for a duration of one hour. Currently, SPPU faculties are preparing question paper sets for around 3,300 different subjects. As per the earlier schedule the question paper sets were supposed to be ready by September 24, but till now they have not prepared such test sets for all the subjects.Karan Jadhav, a final year student who has appeared for UPSC exams, said, “Many final year students have applied for several other exams to prepare for their further career. Now, due to clash of exam dates with SPPU, students were worried. The change in examination schedule is a relief for all of us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-final-year-exams-postponed/story-ztDA9jMvns7wQB0jsMgXkO.html
30-09-2020||Pune||Pune div commissioner announces post-Covid mgmt plan: 5 counselling centres||Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, on Tuesday, announced a “post-Covid management plan” for residents in the division who have recovered from the infection to receive wholistic health guidance.Under the plan, five counselling centres will be operational to deal with issues residents who have recovered from the infection might face.Speaking to reporters at a weekly online press meet, Rao said, “The administration has prepared the post- Covid management plan for Pune division. After getting cured, citizens are emerging with various health issues and some are facing psychological problems. To address all these issues with the help of medical experts, the administration a task force is now in place. One team travelled to Cuttack in Orissa to study the post- Covid management issues.”Rao added, “The counselling and treatment centres will be at both Jumbo care facilities - COEP and Pimpri- Chinchwad, Sassoon Hospital, Naidu Hospital and at the Covid hospital in Baner. Along with these five locations, the administration will also set up a phone line for patients.”The administration had selected doctors to handle the centres and training will start this week. “Physiotherapy, psychology, neurology and some chronic health issues will all be dealt with,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-div-commissioner-announces-post-covid-mgmt-plan-5-counselling-centres/story-Ier1bb0hsPsOIkSfVIzypM.html
30-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Congress president booked for violating Covid norms during protest against farm bills||Uttarakhand Congress president Pritam Singh and other party members have been booked for allegedly violating the Covid-19 norms by holding a protest march on September 28 against the recently passed agriculture laws by the Centre, said police officials on Wednesday. Congress members led by Singh had held a protest march towards the governor’s house against the aforementioned laws but were stopped on the way by the police. The Congress members had then held a sit-in protest before submitting a memorandum to the sub-divisional magistrate, who had come at the protest site to meet them. Manibhushan Shrivastava, station house officer of Dalanwala police station, where the Congress leaders have been booked said, “They were booked on Tuesday for violating the Covid norms under relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act.” “In the case registered, party state president Pritam Singh, vice president Suryakant Dhasmana were named along with at least three others and unidentified other members. We are examining the video footage of the protest and identifying other people in the march.”Also Read: In farm bill protest, Cong finds a new inspiration: Arun Jaitley Reacting to the development, Congress vice-president Dhasmana called it a move by BJP-led state government to “suppress the voice of the Opposition”. “This is purely done to stop us from raising our voice against the government’s anti-people policies. But we are not going to hold back despite these cases and will continue to hit the streets for the public,” said Dhasmana. He added, “We are not going to be intimidated by the government and won’t even take permission for our future protests. Will just inform them about the date and that’s it, as Mahatma Gandhi never took permission from British government for protests.” Also Read: With 493 new Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand’s tally touches 47,995The BJP, meanwhile, justified the action accusing Congress of “flouting all Covid-19 norms by holding public events.” “At the time when the government is making all efforts to curb the Covid-19 spread, Congress is hell bent on derailing it and spreading the infection by carrying protests and rallies. This is highly condemnable,” said Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice-president. This is not the first time that the Congress leaders have been booked for violating Covid-19 norms. Earlier during the lockdown, Singh, former CM Harish Rawat and other senior leaders were booked in at least three cases for organising rallies and protests against the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-congress-president-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-during-protest-against-farm-bills/story-JesjJvk5nCCBAv7otPzZHL.html
30-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s ‘man-eater’ leopard killed two people, shot dead||A leopard declared to have become a man eater was shot dead by hunters appointed by the forest department in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district on Wednesday morning, said forest officials. Vinay Bhargav, divisional forest officer (DFO) Pithoragarh division said, “The 10-year-old leopard was shot dead by forest department hunter Sayyed Alibin Hadi near Silsila forest region early morning on Wednesday.” The leopard had killed two people and injured one person in Pithoragarh district. It was declared a man-eater by the state forest department on Saturday afternoon. On September 24, the leopard had killed an 11-year-old girl when she was collecting fodder near her house in Chaana village. On September 22, a 40-year-old man was killed by the same leopard in Pithoragarh forest range, where he lived alone. The same leopard had also attacked a man on Saturday who is still undergoing treatment. Also Read: With 493 new Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand’s tally touches 47,995The divisional forest officer said that the leopard’s carcass has been sent for a post-mortem examination. This is not the first designated man-eater leopard to be killed this year in the state. Another leopard that had killed a 25-year-old man in Tehri Garhwal district was shot dead on September 6. On July 11, another leopard declared a man eater after it had killed a 12-year-old girl in Chamoli district, was shot dead in Badrinath forest division. Also Read: In farm bill protest, Cong finds a new inspiration: Arun JaitleyChief wildlife warden, through the invocation of Clause 11 (1) (a) of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, can declare any wild animal as a threat to human life and as such fit to be destroyed.The Act states that the ‘chief wildlife warden of the state may, if he is satisfied that any wild animal specified in Schedule I has become dangerous to human life or is so disabled or diseased as to be beyond recovery, by order in writing and stating the reasons, therefore, permit any person to hunt such animal or cause such animal to be hunted’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-s-man-eater-leopard-shot-dead-after-killing-two-people/story-RCA537BAgCBh9apxyWu9gP.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Monsoon retreats from Delhi||This year’s monsoon season in the Delhi-national capital region (NCR) officially came to an end on Wednesday, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. “Changes in low-level wind pattern into north-westerlies, a reduction in moisture content and cessation of rainfall are all indications that the south-west monsoon has further withdrawn from some parts of Rajasthan, the remaining parts of Punjab, the entire western Himalayan region, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi -NCR and some parts of Uttar Pradesh (UP),” said an IMD scientist. Also read: Delhi sees driest September in 16 years“Usually, the monsoon season lasts between June 1 and September 30,” he added. “The transition in overall weather conditions and wind direction will predominantly remain north-westerly in Delhi-NCR. The national capital will get relief from day heat soon. The humidity levels have also come down. A slight decrease in maximum and minimum temperature may come into effect from October 5,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, who heads IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC). The average wind speed will remain around 20 kilometres per hour (kmph), which is likely to keep the air quality in Delhi-NCR in check at least until October 15, following which the wind speed is set to reduce, he added. The normal date for the complete withdrawal of monsoon from the country is October 15, as per the new onset and retreat dates of the rainy season issued by the IMD authorities in April. Until last year, the normal date for the commencement and withdrawal of monsoon was September 1 and October 15, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/monsoon-retreats-from-delhi/story-bPGKVwVKrihnXqre5PzxcO.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board extends water bill waiver scheme till December 31||The Delhi Jal Board on Wednesday extended the scheme under which consumers can avail a one-time waiver of water bill arrears and late payment surcharge in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, till December 31. “In wake of the pandemic, the water bill waiver scheme of the DJB has been further extended by 3 months and will now end on December 31,” DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha tweeted. In wake of the pandemic, water bill waiver scheme of @DelhiJalBoard has been further extended by 3 months and will now end on 31st Dec 2020.@DelhiJalBoard ने दी बड़ी राहत. पानी के बिल में मिल रही छूट की स्कीम 3 महीने के लिए बढ़ाई गई. अब 31 दिसंबर 2020 तक उठा सकेंगे छूट का फायदा pic.twitter.com/RnYyLNAVY2The scheme launched in August last year allows all categories of houses an exemption from late-fee payments while their pending water bills are waived off partially or fully, depending on the housing category. Housing colonies in Delhi are categorised from A-H. For ‘A’ and ‘B’ category colonies, a 25% rebate is given on principal arrears. A 50% waiver is granted to colonies in ‘C’ category while 75% waiver is given to ‘D’ category colonies on the principal pending arrears.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-extends-water-bill-waiver-scheme-till-december-31/story-bh1TMKL5eHa6fnq8am5BPM.html
30-09-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Missing 4-yr-old boy found dead in wooden trunk||A four-year-old boy was found dead in a trunk at his uncle’s house a day after he went missing in a village in Greater Noida.Harish Chander, the deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that the child had gone missing while playing in the afternoon. “His family members launched a search but failed to trace him. They informed the police at 1.30 pm about the incident. Surajpur police reached the spot and launched a search but could not trace him initially,” he said.Also read: Six arrested for clashing over property in Greater NoidaChander said that police registered a case of abduction against unknown persons. “A police team was conducting searches when someone informed us that the boy was found inside a wooden box at his maternal uncle’s house. The police team swiftly reached the spot and found the boy wrapped in a cloth inside the box. He was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,” he said.Police said they have sent the body for post-mortem and its report is awaited. “It is unlikely that the boy himself fell into the wooden box. We have questioned the family members about the matter and we suspect the role of some insiders in the crime. We are waiting for the post-mortem report to know the cause of death. We are investigating the matter from all angles,” Chander said.The child’s uncle refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-missing-4-yr-old-boy-found-dead-in-wooden-trunk/story-dUwyVh5zGINWIW4v6zOOiL.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Friendship that bridged tunnel of hope at Rohtang||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi opens the 9.2-km Atal Tunnel under the 13,050-ft Rohtang Pass in Himachal Pradesh, on October 3, he will be paying tribute to a bond of friendship between ex-PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and a tribal farmer, Tashi Dawa. It was Dawa, alias Arjun Gopal, who had suggested to Vajpayee get a tunnel built under Rohtang, which in the local Bhoti dialect translates into “a pile of bodies” in view of the high casualty rate of those trying to cross the treacherous terrain in the winter months. Convinced, Vajpayee laid the foundation stone of the tunnel on May 23, 2002, while work on the project started in 2010. “It took 10 years but this tunnel brings hope for the people of Lahaul-Spiti. With all-weather road connectivity, the dream of Vajpayee and Dawa has been realised,” says Ram Lal Markanda, the BJP legislator from Lahaul-Spiti and tribal development minister. Dawa, who belonged to Tholang village in Lahaul valley, and Vajpayee had been friends during their stay at the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) camp in Baroda, Gujarat, in 1942. Vajpayee used to call on Dawa whenever he visited his cottage at Prini village on the outskirts of Manali. Dawa passed away in 2007 at the age of 83 and Vajpayee in 2018. ECONOMY GETS A FILLIP The opening of the tunnel will give a boost to the all-round development in the tribal valley. It will revolutionise horticulture, agriculture and tourism. Farmers will get round-the-year access to markets and the reduced distance will bring down the transportation cost. Agriculture and horticulture units are expected to come up in the valley. Vegetables such as potato, cauliflower and cabbage are grown in this belt, while medicinal plants such as seabuckthorn grow in abundance. People will have the option of taking up poultry and dairy farming. BOOST FOR TOURISM The tunnel will increase the tourist flow to the region, opening up new employment and self-employment avenues. With all-weather access to the valley, new hotels are expected to come up, creating jobs and stopping migration. The valley residents shall have access to improved education and healthcare services. A few residents, however, fear the price of the abrupt model of development. “Mindless mass tourism will add to the haphazard construction and this region may start resembling other popular tourist destinations of Himachal Pradesh,” said a resident, requesting anonymity. The impact on the vulnerable ecosystem of the valley also needs to be assessed. Local culture and tradition will also need to be protected. MILESTONES TO ATAL TUNNEL June 2000: Then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee announces construction of the tunnel under Rohtang Pass during a public meeting at Keylong. May 6, 2002: Construction work entrusted to Border Roads Organisation. May 23, 2002: Vajpayee lays the foundation stone of the tunnel. June 28, 2010: United Progressive Alliance (UPA) chairperson Sonia Gandhi launches construction work of the tunnel. October 3, 2020: The 9.2-km tunnel will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/friendship-that-bridged-tunnel-of-hope-at-rohtang/story-mR3n0vbAOfOw5vS05fO1JI.html
30-09-2020||Lucknow||AIMIM to fight UP assembly bypolls, may upset Congress, SP, BSP plans||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) on Tuesday announced that it will contest the forthcoming assembly bypolls in Uttar Pradesh. Asaduddin Owaisi is the national president of the party. He is also the Lok Sabha MP from Hyderabad seat.Party’s state unit president Shaukat Ali said that in the meeting held on Sunday, the party’s state unit decided to contest the bypolls and the central leadership later gave its approval to the decision.“Dilshad Ahmed will be the party’s candidate from Bulandshahr seat while the candidates for the remaining seats will be finalised soon,” he said.Also, Ghulam Mohammad Shabir was appointed the AIMIM’s UP unit general secretary on Tuesday.“The decision of the AIMIM to contest the bypolls is likely to upset the strategy of the SP, the Congress and the BSP as the AIMIM enjoys support among the Muslim voters in west and east UP,” said Ashok Kumar Sinha, a political observer.Also Read: Babri Masjid demolition verdict: All 32 accused acquittedBypolls to the seven assembly seats in the state will be held on November 3, stated the election commission on Tuesday. The counting of votes will be held on November 10. The seven assembly seats include Naugawan Sadat, Bulandshahr, Tundla, Bangermau, Ghatampur, Deoria and Malhani.Hathras case: Kangana Ranaut expresses ‘immense faith’ in UP CMHowever, the poll panel decided not to hold the bypoll on the Suar assembly seat in Rampur district that fell vacant after Allahabad high court on December 16, 2019 set aside the election of Samajwadi Party MLA Abdullah Azam on charge of submitting wrong documents to contest election.An election commission officer said the matter related to the Suar assembly seat was pending in court. The commission decided to announce the bypoll on Suar seat later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/aimim-to-fight-up-assembly-bypolls-may-upset-congress-sp-bsp-plans/story-rnAp0aNrdOINrVZEeS9i3M.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Babri Masjid demolition verdict: Security vigil tightened in Delhi||The Delhi Police have heightened the security vigil in the national capital in view of the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case in which the court verdict was announced on Wednesday.A senior police officer who didn’t want to be identified said that a “special watch” is being kept outside the residences of some senior political leaders and police personnel have been deployed at important establishments.Also Read: UP Police put on high alert, told to prevent gatherings“We have additional police and paramilitary force at our disposal. We are keeping a watch and will press them into service if we feel any apprehension of law and order situation,” said the officer. WATCH| Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ As of early Wednesday afternoon, there was no trouble anywhere in Delhi on account of the judgment. A special court on Wednesday acquitted all the 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/babri-masjid-demolition-verdict-security-vigil-tightened-in-delhi/story-xmaDEhnRcwvM6pxhUCSM4M.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police summons Anurag Kashyap to record statement in alleged sexual assault case||Police have summoned filmmaker Anurag Kashyap on Thursday to record his statement in connection with the alleged sexual assault case filed by an actor (30) at Versova police station in Mumbai. A Mumbai Police official said Kashyap has been summoned to join the probe.Earlier on September 22, Mumbai Police had filed a first information report (FIR) against Kashyap after the complainant had accused him of sexual misconduct in 2013. Kashyap had dismissed the ‘baseless’ allegations. “I have complete faith in the police that they will intensify their investigation. If they won’t arrest him (Kashyap) soon, then I will sit in protest,” the complainant had told HT. On Sunday, she had visited Versova police station with her advocate Nitin Satpute to get an update regarding the probe.The complainant stated in her FIR that Kashyap had called her to his flat located at Yari road in Andheri (West) in August 2013 to have a discussion about casting her in one of his upcoming films. Kashyap had allegedly sexually assaulted her in his flat on the pretext of casting her in one of his films.She has filed a case against Kashyap under sections 376 (I) (rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with an intent to outrage her modesty,), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Versova police station on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-summons-anurag-kashyap-to-record-statement-in-alleged-sexual-assault-case/story-dOn5SHA3bYwAL0ggj7g2tK.html
30-09-2020||City||Shopian: Two civilians arrested in connection with July killings||Two civilians have been arrested by the Jammu and Kashmir Police in connection with the killing of three persons by security forces in an alleged “fake encounter” in Shopian on July 18.While the army initially said the three were “terrorists”, they later admitted that its men exceeded the powers vested under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) 1990 and contravened the dos and don’ts of Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Supreme Court. Three Rajouri families had identified the slain men from their pictures on social media and alleged the army had killed them in a “fake encounter” in Shopian where they had gone to work as labourers.Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh on Tuesday said that they have arrested two persons in connection with the killings.Also Read: DNA of 3 men killed in Shopian encounter matches with family: J&K police“Two persons we initially suspected and had put (their arrest) on hold. Now since the army’s court of enquiry and then DNA tests (of the victims matching with their families) have come, we have arrested two persons among the people on whom we had suspicion and their questioning is going on,” he said.The two persons are residents of south Kashmir and have been remanded in custody for eight days by a local court. The police were tight-lipped about their role in the case but sources said that they are believed to be informers of security forces. Their arrests come after the DNA samples of the three men—Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohd Ibrar— gunned down on July 18 matched with their family members in Rajouri on September 25, the police said.When questioned further about the case, the DGP said, “When the case moves forward only then we can share further details.”The investigation is being conducted by SSP Shopian Amritpal Singh and is in tits final stages, the DGP said on Monday, adding, “The army and police are both investigating the case.”On September 18, the army had said that the inquiry ordered by their authorities into the operation in Amshipora, Shopian, on July 18 had concluded and they had identified the trio killed as residents of Rajouri, adding their “involvement with terrorism was under investigation” by the police.Also Read: Govt should give hefty compensation: Farooq Abdullah on Amshipora case“The inquiry has brought out prima facie evidence indicating that during the operation, powers vested under the AFSPA 1990 were exceeded and the dos and don’ts of Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court were contravened. Consequently, the competent disciplinary authority has directed the initiation of disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima facie answerable,” army spokesman Colonel Rajesh Kalia had said.Earlier, the families of the three had written to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, seeking his intervention after the DNA reports were delayed.“Our children left for Shopian on July 16, in search of work After a couple of days, we lost contact with them. So, we decided to lodge a missing complaint,” the letter from the families read, adding that on August 10, they came to know, via social media, that all three had been killed.“Our children had no connection with militancy…They were killed in cold blood, and were merely students and labourers,” the letter read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shopian-two-civilians-arrested-in-connection-with-july-killings/story-pyUMWMWNPsa1A07SqVpDNP.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Cabinet may discuss farm bill issue today||Ruling Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) representatives are likely to raise the issue of the implementation of the newly-enacted farm laws at a Maharashtra Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, people aware of the matter said. The parties have opposed the laws as “anti-farmer” and their implementation in the state, where they are part of the ruling Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi.The Maharashtra government is yet to take a decision over implementing the laws. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Monday advised the states ruled by her party to explore the possibilities of legislation under the Constitution’s Article 254(2) to negate the “anti-agricultural laws” and to prevent the “grave injustice” being done to farmers.The Congress is in power in Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh, and Puducherry. It is part of coalition governments in Maharashtra and Jharkhand.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government pushed three farm bills to deregulate agricultural trade. They were passed controversially in Parliament, overriding demands for greater scrutiny and voting.Big farmers’ groups are protesting against the laws saying the deregulation will leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in a weaker negotiating position than before.Maharashtra had issued orders in August to implement the ordinances that preceded the laws.State minister and NCP leader Balasaheb Patil said a discussion is on over rescinding the orders. “We are with the farmers and a decision will be taken accordingly,” said Patil.The state Cabinet can take a decision in this regard. “It has to be a Cabinet resolution because it has become a constitutional issue now. Though agriculture is a state subject, according to entry 33 in the concurrent list, the Centre has the right to bring in legislation related to trade and commerce of agriculture produce,” said an official, requesting anonymity. “Also, if there is a law of the Centre and the state on a subject and there is conflict over a provision, then the central act will prevail, according to the constitutional experts. Hence, it has become a challenge as to how to stop the implementation of the central laws.”Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar last week said the farm laws will not be implemented. Revenue minister and Congress Balasaheb Thorat said all the ruling parties are against the laws and the decision on not implementing them in the state will be taken collectively after due deliberation.The Congress has organised #SpeakUpForFarmers on social media to garner support against the laws. It also held a virtual farmer rally and gathered signatures from 10 million farmers opposing the laws. A delegation of Congress leaders met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari demanding the withdrawal of the legislation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-may-discuss-farm-bill-issue-today/story-39wjLAlt5h62DQVBDqz0JL.html
30-09-2020||City||NGT sets fresh deadline to complete Western Ghats ESA notification||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on September 28 has set a fresh deadline of December 31 for the Union environment ministry to finalise the notification of eco-sensitive zones in the Western Ghats pending for eight years.“There is a demand for more and more exclusion by those who claim the need for ‘development’ while need for ‘environment protection’ does not allow acceptance of such demands. This aspect needs to be finalised and has been pending consideration for the last about eight years,” said an NGT bench of Adarsh Kumar Goel, S P Wangdi and Nagin Nanda.Also read: Year after tragedy, Goa govt pledges to seal open cast stone quarriesAn environment ministry panel led by ecologist Madhav Gadgil in 2011 recommended that 129,037 sq km in the Western Ghats be notified as eco-sensitive and protected. But another K Kasturirangan-led panel reduced the proposed area for notification to 56,825 sq km. The concerned states now seek to reduce it further to 50,805 sq km.The NGT said there is no justification for continued delay merely because the states have sought exclusion of areas from eco-sensitive zones. “Let the needful be done now before 31.12.2020. For any default thereafter, [the] direction to stop [the] salary of the Advisor, ESZ Division [Eco-Sensitive Zone], MoEFCC [Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change] will be operative,” the NGT bench said.The bench was hearing a Goa Foundation petition against repeated delays in finalising the matter. The NGT earlier on August 24, 2018, directed that “no changes be made to reduce the area of Eco-Sensitive Zone without the same being considered by this Tribunal”.The ministry has submitted that states have sought a reduction in the area to be demarcated as eco-sensitive as they are concerned about “prohibition of certain activities having implications on medical care, health care and education”.“There is a concern of States about certain areas within [the] proposed notification that have since the time of submission of [the] Gadgil Committee report and HLWG, undergone demographic, infrastructural changes,” the ministry told the NGT.A separate petition saying the Gadgil panel report be treated as final is pending before the Supreme Court.The Centre set up the panel in 2009 saying the Western Ghats is a global biodiversity hotspot, and needed to be conserved. It formed another committee under K Kasturirangan following opposition from states to Gadgil panel’s recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngt-sets-fresh-deadline-to-complete-western-ghats-esa-notification/story-n3ZLJmrcw4xUq0mgHajJSO.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Bribery in jails in Marathwada, north Maharashtra: HC orders magisterial enquiries||Taking note of frequent allegations of bribe demands by jail authorities against release of prisoners on emergency Covid-19 parole, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has ordered judicial magistrates to visit all jails across Marathwada and north Maharashtra to enquire with prisoners about the same and submit their report to the bench.The bench of justices TV Nalawade and MG Sewlikar, on Monday, also directed the magistrates to ask prisoners if they were told of their right to get emergency parole vide a notification issued on May 8, 2020, by Maharashtra home department for releasing undertrial prisoners on a temporary bail and grant of emergency parole leave to convicts, with a view to decongest prisons to check the spread of coronavirus in jails.The magistrates have been directed to ascertain if the jail authorities had refused to accept applications for parole and directly or indirectly refused parole leave to eligible prisoners for failing to grease palms of the jail officers concerned.They have also been asked to check if some life convicts were released only on personal bonds and others were, as alleged by some prisoners before the high court, asked to fulfil the condition of providing sureties.The court instructed the magistrates to assure the prisoners that their names would be kept secret, if they so wished, and also to collect written complaints if any prisoner was willing to do so openly.The magistrates have to submit their reports within three weeks.The court was hearing separate petitions filed by two convicts lodged at Harsul Prison at Aurangabad, complaining about rejection of their applications for emergency parole by jail authorities on flimsy grounds.The bench was irked to note that despite several orders interpreting the May 8 notification and number of clarifications issued by the high court, jail officials were rejecting parole applications on the same grounds that have been held by the bench as untenable. It has now converted the petitions into public interest litigations and posted the same for further hearing on October 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bribery-in-jails-in-marathwada-north-maharashtra-hc-orders-magisterial-enquiries/story-HnlV1zHifZm7d24LuVWTdO.html
30-09-2020||Lucknow||Babri verdict: BJP leaders Advani, Joshi, Bharti unlikely to be present in court||BJP veterans LK Advani, MM Joshi, Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh, all accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, are unlikely to be present in the trial court on Wednesday at the time of delivery of verdict in the matter.       Their advocate KK Mishra also said that Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas chief, Nritya Gopal Das, too is unlikely to be present in the CBI special court here.       Of the other accused, Sadhvi Rithambhara, Vinay Katiyar, Champat Rai and Pawan Pandey have arrived in the court.WATCH| Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.Follow live updates here       The Supreme Court had fixed September 30 as the deadline for the trial court to pronounce its judgement in the nearly three-decade old case.       The 32 accused include former deputy prime minister Advani, former Union ministers Joshi and Uma Bharti, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, during whose tenure the structure was pulled down, besides Vinay Katiyar and Sadhvi Rithambara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/babri-verdict-bjp-leaders-advani-joshi-bharti-unlikely-to-be-present-in-court/story-cOynztYXPxK1EJkp1B6f0J.html
30-09-2020||Lucknow||UP to cross 1 crore Covid 19 tests landmark, get 6 new L2 hospitals||On Wednesday, Uttar Pradesh is all set to announce achieving the landmark of having conducted one crore sample tests for detecting coronavirus disease since March this year. The state government has also decided to further improve facilities for treatment of Covid-19 patients with the launch of level-2 facility hospitals in six districts. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate these hospitals in Bareilly, Sant Kabir Nagar, Bhadohi, Amethi, Mirzapur and Shamli. He also directed the health department to set up level-2 facility hospitals in all 75 districts of UP, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare. In Bulandshahr, the hospital would be inaugurated after the by polls as the model code of conduct has come into effect, said Dr DS Negi, D-G, health. Prasad said, on Monday 1.60 lakh samples were tested in the state, taking the tally to 99.37 lakh. At this rate, the state would have tested more than a crore samples by the end of Tuesday. However, the final official figures will only be released on Wednesday after its compilation and verification.The difference between the number of fresh Covid cases being reported in the state and the number of daily recoveries was increasing. On Tuesday, 4,069 fresh cases were reported across the state, whereas 5,711 patients were discharged after recovery, he said. Also Read: No moral right to continue’: Priyanka Gandhi’s scathing attack on Yogi Adityanath after death of Hathras gang-rape victimThe state officials say that the decline in the number of active cases, registered daily, began since September 18, despite the state continuously increasing the number of people getting tested every day.The number of containment zones in UP had also declined from 20,000 in mid-September to 18,000 on Tuesday, added Prasad. Also Read: Bypolls to 1 MP, 56 MLA seats in November At present, there were 52,160 active Covid cases in the state. A total of 3.36 lakh coronavirus infected patients have been declared recovered since the start of the Covid pandemic. The recovery rate of patients on Monday was 85.34%, he said. Prasad said while 25,399 people were in home isolation, 3,647 were admitted to private hospitals and 108 were in hotel isolation. The state government will launch a vector-borne disease control programme on October 1 and Dastak programme on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-to-cross-1-crore-covid-19-tests-landmark-get-6-new-l2-hospitals/story-npkWWe831ElMX02Go6d6HO.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai ranks second after Delhi in crimes against women, shows NCRB data||Mumbai is ranked second among 19 cities in the country in recording the highest number of crimes against women after Delhi, the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data has revealed. The NCRB data showed that Mumbai had reported 6,519 crimes against women last year, while the national capital had recorded 12,902 cases. However, Mumbai is ranked ninth among the list of cities that has reported the highest rate of crime against women. Mumbai has 76.5 rate of crime against women as compared to other cities such as Jaipur (235), Lucknow (175.4), Delhi (170.3), Indore (169.1), Patna (102.3), Kanpur (98.5), Nagpur (93.6) and Bengaluru (85.9).The city is ranked third in the country in recording the maximum cases of rape last year. Delhi occupied the pole position with 1,231 reported cases of rape, followed by Jaipur (517) and Mumbai (394).The government data also revealed that Mumbai is the second city in the country that had reported the maximum number of cases of molestation at 2,069 after Delhi (2,326). The molestation cases involve sexual harassment, criminal force with intent to disrobe, voyeurism and stalking. Mumbai had reported the maximum number of cases of sexual harassment against women in public transport system. It had recorded 16 such cases last year, followed by Pune, Delhi and Hyderabad. Mumbai has topped the list of cities which had reported the maximum number of cases of insult to the modesty of a woman, which refers to section 509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), with 575 cases, followed by Delhi (456). Mumbai had also recorded the maximum number of human trafficking cases (85), which had involved 401 victims. Delhi had reported 56 cases that had involved 388 victims.Delhi and Mumbai were the leading offenders under the stringent Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.Mumbai had reported 1,319 cases under the POCSO Act, 2012, involving 1,431 minor victims. While the corresponding figure for the similar offence in Delhi was 1,662 cases that had involved 1,674 minor victimsDelhi and Mumbai are ranked in the top two, respectively, for reporting the maximum number of cases of crimes against children.Delhi and Mumbai had reported 7,565 and 3,640 cases, respectively, for the offence. The Central government data showed that Mumbai Police’s pendency in disposing of cases for crime against women is 67.2%, which is the second-worst rate in India after Chennai at 81.9%. Similarly, Mumbai Police’s pendency in disposing of cases for crime against children is also the second-worst rate in the country after Chennai at 87.5%, the NCRB data revealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-ranks-second-after-delhi-in-crimes-against-women-shows-ncrb-data/story-Jm0zgPofmMY8XL2B8IkR8N.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||As Covid-19 cases increase, Delhi hospitals see an increase in plasma therapy||Delhi’s doctors said that they have seen an increase in the number of convalescent plasma transfusions corresponding to the increase in the number of cases over the last two weeks. “We have seen an increase in the number of Covid-19 patients over the last 10 days, even from neighbouring states. Many of them qualify for convalescent plasma therapy and hence there has been an increase,” said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant for internal medicine at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital. He, however, warned people against thinking that it was a miracle cure. “There are several experimental therapies being administered to patients, so we don’t really know what is working and what is not. In our clinical experience, we have seen some improvements in patients after plasma therapy if administered at the right time,” he said. Also Read: Centre releases safety workplace guidelines for industry to prevent Covid-19When Anand’s 62-year-old father-in-law needed convalescent plasma therapy for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), his friends came to the rescue. “I contacted several NGOs and political party workers whose numbers were being shared online. But I did not find a donor for two days. It was my friends who had recovered from the infection about two months ago who donate plasma,” said Anand, a west Delhi resident who wanted to be identified by his first name only. Doctors have already administered the therapy but his father-in-law’s condition continues to be unstable. Recently, a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) found that the treatment was not associated with any reduction in mortality or progression to severe disease. The trial was conducted across the country at 39 public and private hospitals between April and July to determine the effectiveness of the therapy for Covid-19. Convalescent plasma therapy uses an antibody-rich blood component called plasma from a person who has recovered from the infection to aid the immune response of someone still fighting Covid-19. Also Read: Unlock 5 guidelines likely today: All you need to know about Delhi’s plan so farThe study actually supports what Delhi’s phase 1 trial had shown, said Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) which conducted the study in coordination with Lok Nayak Hospital. ILBS also houses Delhi’s first plasma bank. “The ICMR study actually reconfirms the findings of our small study—it shows that the oxygen requirement of the patients who received plasma therapy reduced, the duration for which they remained breathless reduced, and the group that received plasma tested negative for the virus quicker than others. What needs to be factored in is that the therapy was administered late, after two days of symptoms in most trial participant; it works best when given early. Also, many of the donors in the study did not have a high titre (concentration) of the neutralising antibodies,” said Dr Sarin. “For the study, I think a shorter duration (than the original 28 days) has to be chosen because mortality could be because of other complications as well,” he said. The trial by ILBS and Lok Nayak Hospital—called COPLA 1—where 29 people received either convalescent plasma or fresh frozen plasma without its therapeutic benefits showed that plasma therapy helped stabilise the respiratory rate, improve oxygen saturation, and improve the organ failure score that predicts multi-organ failure. A large scale study of 400 participants is currently underway at Lok Nayak Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in collaboration with ILBS. At Lok Nayak Hospital, the therapy continues; the hospital has its own plasma bank now. “The ICMR study says that there is a mortality benefit, but other drugs that are being used has also not shown mortality benefits so far. Nowhere does the study recommend that the therapy should be stopped. Our own study has shown encouraging results and what we need to remember from the ICMR trial is that the plasma needs to be given at an earlier stage and not when the patient is on ventilator,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak Hospital. The hospital has so far administered the therapy to 85 people under the trial—meaning half would have received a placebo, not convalescent plasma—and to 59 patients outside of the trial. At Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, 100 people have already received the therapy under trial and a couple received it outside of it. At Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, the third Delhi government hospital to have a plasma bank, 34 people have received the therapy so far. All three hospitals have plasma banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-covid-19-cases-increase-delhi-hospitals-see-an-increase-in-plasma-therapy/story-3dkddrrSaYxrz4C2gLAlcK.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Unlock 5 guidelines likely today: All you need to know about Delhi’s plan so far||The tenure of the Delhi government’s present order concerning relaxations of Covid-19 lockdown norms lapses on Wednesday.While the Central government is likely to release its Unlock 5 guidelines Wednesday, the document will be studied by the Delhi government, which is likely to issue fresh orders concerning relaxations of certain norms within two days, said a senior official of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).Under the Centre’s guidelines, state governments are allowed to implement the Unlock regulations in a stricter form but they are prohibited from diluting them.Some of the key fronts on which Delhi government are likely to take a call on includeSchools and education institutesThe Delhi government is scheduled to take a fresh call on this by October 5. Under the current rules, students from classes 9 to 12 are allowed to visit their schools voluntarily and higher education institutions can be opened only for research scholars and post-graduate students of technical and professional programmes. In Delhi, however, all education institutes are closed till October 5, as per an order by the state government.Also Read: Centre releases safety workplace guidelines for industry to prevent Covid-19Multiplexes and theatresEven if the Central government allows multiplexes, cinema halls and theatres to reopen under its Unlock plans, the final call for Delhi will be of lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal’s, who is the chairperson of DDMA. A DDMA meeting is likely to take place later this week.Multiplexes, however, have standard operating procedures (SOP) in place, said a senior office bearer of the Multiplex Association of India. He added the new SOP includes gaps between seats, a thorough disinfection of halls and auditoriums after every show and complete migration to e-tickets and contactless check-ins.Maximum gathering sizeCurrently, Central government guidelines allow gatherings up to 100 people. But, the government is yet to notify that. This essentially means a gathering of over 50 people are prohibited in the city. The maximum limit of 50 was initially set for marriages and has been in place under the Central government guidelines since June 1. Under the guidelines currently applicable in Delhi, it applies to all gatherings—political, religious, cultural, academic, etc.The Durga Puja festival is also scheduled in the third week of October and most organisers are so far in a state of confusion, not having received a go-ahead from the police or the government yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-5-guidelines-likely-today-all-you-need-to-know-about-delhi-s-plan-so-far/story-xWqJtlCLg9GX8aKN34E7EP.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi crimes rose by over 20% against India’s 3% in 2018-19, says NCRB data||Crimes in Delhi increased by over 20% from 2018 to 2019, a period when the national crime figures saw a rise of just three percent in cases registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). As per data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), thefts accounted for most of these crimes in Delhi. Over 82% of the 290,000crimes in Delhi were thefts which saw an increase of 25.7% from 2018 to 2019.In sharp contrast, thefts accounted for just a little over 20% of the 3.2 million crimes across India and the overall thefts increased by 8%.Also read: Delhi Police returns Rs 21.50 lakh, gold, phones, vehicles in recovered property to the publicWhere Delhi stands in terms of thefts can be gauged from the rate of thefts -- the number of crimes per 100,000 population -- which stood at 1,233.6 in the national capital in 2019 even as the national theft rate during this period was just 50.5. In fact, even Maharashtra -- the state second in terms of rate of thefts -- was at 78.8.The Delhi Police as well as many experts have often attributed the high theft figures to the willingness of the force to truthfully register such cases. FEWER VEHICLE THEFTSVehicle thefts, which have tormented the national capital for long, witnessed a marginal dip of 0.46%. While 46,433 vehicle thefts were reported across Delhi in 2018, last year saw 46,215 such thefts.Yet, the scene in Delhi remains bleak when it comes to vehicle thefts since the rate of this particular crime was 231.8 last year. In comparison, the rate was 17.8 across India and 12.6 in the second-ranked state, Uttar Pradesh. The Delhi Police says that its willingness to register all thefts often prompts complaints from neighbouring states that vehicle owners hope registering their vehicle theft in Delhi would help expedite the insurance claim process. And yet, Delhi Police officers have often urged vehicle owners to make their own security arrangements to protect their vehicles.RISE IN RAPES AND MURDERSMeanwhile, the city continued to report high number of rapes; 24 such crimes were reported every week on an average to the Delhi Police. Rape cases in 2019 rose by 3% compared to the previous year. The city also reported marginal increase in murders which went up 1.5% from 513 to 521.Robberies, however, witnessed a substantial dip of 20% even though its rate remained the highest across India. Robbery rate in Delhi last year was 9.8 as against the all India rate of 2.3; and 6.3 by the next ranked state Maharashtra. Robberies are different from thefts in the sense that robberies include use of force while committing a theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-crimes-rose-by-over-20-against-india-s-3-in-2018-19-says-ncrb-data/story-Z4LCxaYzF82hFgm13FlAeK.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Early morning blaze at Raymonds’ office in Thane brought under control||A fire broke out early Wednesday morning in a two-storey building housing Raymonds’ office next to Smt. Sulochanadevi Singhania School at Pokhran road number 1 in Thane, Maharashtra. No injuries or casualties were reported in the fire so far, which had been brought under control, said officials.Police officials, Maharashtra state electricity distribution company limited officers, regional disaster management cell and fire brigade personnel were on the site with four fire engines, two rescue vehicles, three water tankers, two jumbo water tankers and two jeeps.“The cause of the fire is unknown, but as the incident happened early in the morning, the office premises were empty, the situation is now under control.Also Read: 4 lakh Thane residents checked for Covid-19 symptoms under ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiativeHowever, fire officials are still on the site to ensure cooling operations continue,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, regional disaster management cell, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/early-morning-blaze-at-raymonds-office-in-thane-brought-under-control/story-fjZbzKy1EfGaTgDLQjhlsM.html
30-09-2020||Election:||Congress calls Bihar unit chief to Delhi for crucial talks to resolve impasse over seat sharing with RJD||The Congress party will hold crucial discussions in New Delhi on Wednesday ahead of finalising the seat-sharing agreement with Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) for Bihar Assembly elections.The party has called its Bihar unit chief Madan Mohan Jha and CLP leader Sadanand Singh to Delhi for the meeting. The All India Congress Committee’s screening panel on Bihar will also hold a meeting today. It is expected to take place at 3 pm.The screening committee will shortlist the party candidates and forward the list to the central election committee for final selection.Both the parties have so far refused to budge from their position, according to people aware of the development. While the RJD’s latest offer is 58 seats in the 243-member House, the Congress is demanding 75, leaders of the two parties said on condition of anonymity.The matter will now be decided by Congress president Sonia Gandhi.The nomination for the first phase of voting in Bihar will start from October 1.A Congress fucntionary said that both the parties have in principle decided to fight the upcoming Bihar elections together and are also ready to accommodate the three Left parties, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) besides the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) of Mukesh Sahani. But getting to a deal has been tough.Bihar assembly elections will be held in three phases - October 28, November 3 and 7 and the counting of votes will take place on November 10.In the 2015 Assembly polls, JD-U, RJD, and Congress had fought the elections together under the Mahagathbandhan banner. On the other hand, the BJP-led NDA had fought the elections with Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and other allies.RJD with 80 seats had emerged as the single largest party in the elections, followed by Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United) (71), and BJP (53). However, BJP got the largest vote share (24.42 per cent), followed by RJD with 18.35 per cent and JD(U) (16.83 per cent).Differences later emerged between the RJD and JD(U) and chief minister Nitish Kumar returned to the NDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/congress-calls-bihar-unit-chief-to-delhi-for-crucial-talks-to-resolve-impasse-over-seat-sharing-with-rjd/story-wg0pTtYMwaOQKrF98cfHTP.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Teicoplanin, an antibiotic, could be potential medicine for Covid-19: IIT Delhi research||Teicoplanin, an antibiotic medicine, may be a potential option for treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, according to a research conducted by scientists at Kusuma School of Biological Sciences (KSBS) in Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi. In laboratory experiments, the medicine effectively inhibited the activity of the 3CLpro enzyme that is needed for replication of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. The medicine was found to be up to 20 times more effective in inhibiting the activity of 3CLpro than some of the medicines that have been used in Covid-19 patients such as anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and Chloroquine, antibiotic Azithromycin, and anti-Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) medicine Lopinavir. Also Read: Covid-19: India’s tests per million population cross 50k-mark“Covid-19 has affected millions of people across the world and there is no specific treatment for the viral infection. We have been working for the last seven to eight months to find possible treatment for the infection. We started looking at drugs that are already approved and are in the market. If found effective, these drugs will be available for the treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Ashok Patel, assistant professor at KSBS, IIT-Delhi. Earlier, KSBS was the first academic institute to develop a novel and cheaper reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) kit to conduct a Covid-19 test. The researchers decided to make the 3CLpro enzyme that they knew was the key for viral replication because a biosafety level (BSL)-3 laboratory—a requirement for any institute wanting to work on the Sars-CoV-2 virus—was not available.They found a way around to conduct the research about the virus that enters a human body and replicates within cells to cause Covid-19. Also Read: Moderna Covid-19 vaccine appears safe, shows signs of working in older adults: Study“We created a list of about 100 existing medicines that we thought could attack the captain of the cricket team, the 3CLpro protease (enzyme) that is crucial for viral replication. After testing, we found 11 molecules that were responding to this viral protein, which included the medicines already in use such as Azithromycin, Chloroquine, Lopinavir and even Oseltamivir that are used to treat H1N1, or swine flu. But, Teicoplanin turned out to be upto 20 times more effective than the other medicines,” said Dr Patel. The researchers collaborated with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, for some advanced testing. “Unlike HCQ, which is harmful for the heart, there aren’t any major side-effects of Teicoplanin,” he said. The institute did not have ethical clearance for human trials. However, these trials would be needed to prove that the medicine is, indeed, effective in treating the viral infection, he added. “Teicoplanin is an approved broad spectrum antibiotic that is given to patients, especially in critical care, for various reasons. It is an interesting finding. However, viral culture studies and small human trials have to be conducted before it can be approved for an off-label use, which refers to a use of a medicine for a condition for which it was not approved. Many antibiotics such as Azithromycin and Doxycycline are being prescribed to Covid-19 patients across the country, and at times, indiscriminately. It might lead to large scale antimicrobial resistance in the future,” warned Dr Neeraj Gupta, a professor at the department of pulmonology in Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/teicoplanin-an-antibiotic-could-be-potential-medicine-for-covid-19-iit-delhi-research/story-N6RFIN2h8lxQ2GC5sP1JSP.html
30-09-2020||Environment||No major damage to local ecology: OIL on Baghjan gas and oil leak||No major damage was caused to the local ecology of Upper Assam, where the Baghjan gas well blowout had occurred on May 27, followed by a fire on June 9 , Oil India Limited’s (OIL) senior-most official said on Tuesday. “We have engaged various independent organisations, including The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI); Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Guwahati and others. No major damage has been caused to ecology. Only some areas need to be restored. But that can happen only by the end of November when the entire blowout has been brought under control,” said Sushil Chandra Mishra, chairman and managing director (CMD), OIL, following the 61st Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the public sector undertaking (PSU).Also Read: Another 8 weeks needed to bring Baghjan gas well under control: OILThe Baghjan gas well blowout led to oil and gas leaking into the adjacent Maguri Motapung wetland, the surrounding grasslands and river water. The industrial disaster is understood to have caused extensive damage to biodiversity and unique habitat of the region, according to the scientists and environmental researchers who have visited the site. Mishra said the blowout occurred during workover, or maintenance operations, when OIL employees noticed uncontrolled flow of gas from the wellhead. “Different committees have been set up by the Assam government to assess how the incident happened. They have not taken a final view yet. The National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) final report on the matter is also awaited,” he added.He said the well would be killed in a couple of months, but the gas would be diverted elsewhere and utilised. “You have to kill the well. But the production will continue from another well, where the gas will be diverted to,” Mishra added.Wildlife Institute of India (WII) had concluded in July that the environmental and health impact of the ongoing oil and gas spill due to the blowout in the Baghjan gas field would be long term.Also Read: Centre convenes meeting to review anti-pollution stepsIn a 178-page report submitted to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) in early September, WII had cited that the highest concentration of polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), a toxic compound, in fish samples from Maguri Motapung wetland, which is located near the gas well blowout site, was found to be between 10 and 100-fold higher than any concentrations reported from India or other parts of the world.“The impact is significant and will have long-term effect, as many of these pollutants will leach into the ground and contaminate ground water. Long-term restorative efforts are needed for cleaning up these pollutants,” the report has said. The burnt-out area is mapped, as 65-70 hectares (ha), including crop fields, grasslands and swamps. There was a visible oil spill in the downstream of the well on June 16, it added.The report had underlined that the wetland and surrounding lowland forests are unique and, as a result, are extremely vulnerable to more oil spill disasters. “The Brahmaputra and Ganges floodplain landscape is unique in its morphology and fragility, and is responsible for shaping the unique community of plants and animals…the landscape (in Baghjan) is fragile... The dynamic nature of wetland creates mosaics of habitat, which are in perpetual flux. In India as well as the world over, only a handful of Protected Areas (PA) exist, where this system and unique biodiversity is surviving and Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) and Kaziranga Orang National Park is on top of that list,” the report had said.The ministry had accorded environmental clearance to OIL on May 11 for an extension in drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations under the DSNP. “We will not touch the national park. The drilling will be done two kilometres (km) outside the park. However, the exploration will be conducted inside with new technology available to us,” Mishra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/no-major-damage-to-local-ecology-oil-on-baghjan-gas-and-oil-leak/story-r9fJJLbGUcRECYUWl8s1SK.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: In lockdown, new look||A historic place in Delhi, drastically transformed.While life in the city has severally shrunk due to the coronavirus pandemic, one of the Capital’s most important Sufi shrines, or dargahs, is undergoing a major overhaul. The twin shrines of Hazrat Sarmad Shahid and Hazrat Hare Bhare Shah lie tucked within a tiled chamber, at the foot of the great Jama Masjid. A neem tree grows between the graves of the two mystics, its trunk shooting up through an opening in the roof, beyond which it spreads out into a lush green foliage.The two parts of the shrine are distinguished by two colours—green for Hare Bhare Shah and red for Sarmad Shahid. The latter was executed by emperor Aurangzeb on charges of apostasy, and the red symbolises the Sufi saint’s blood. The dargah’s colour divide has always been so stark that despite being under the same roof, both graves seem to belong to two separate worlds—even the shrine’s walls are painted half in red and half in green.But now the saints are finally united. The thick cracked wall that lay between them—and that stifled the tree—has been gotten rid of. The tree has more room now, and can breathe better. While the graves are still identifiable by their respective red and green tiled wall, each has been given a canopy of white marble.“This marble is of Makrana, in Rajasthan,” says the shrine’s flower seller. “The same place where the Taj Mahal’s marble was from.”About half a dozen craftsmen from Rajasthan have been at work for one month, “and the work is not over yet.” The flower seller says that the renovation is being funded by a devotee who wishes to remain anonymous.The dargah has undergone at least one minor overhaul in the recent years, but that had not as profoundly altered the feel of the place. A regular visitor might be unsettled by the change, but the new appearance won’t take much time to get used to. This morning a few devotees, including a woman in red sari, are sitting on the floor, some with eyes closed, others with folded hands. Immersed in devotion, they seem to have already adapted their senses to the shrine’s altered aesthetics.Not far away is the garden tomb of freedom fighter Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, who was a devotee of Sarmad Shahid and wrote a book on the saint. His marble grave has always had a white canopy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-in-lockdown-new-look/story-oqV1eAjDNJ4aG85HI9B1qI.html
30-09-2020||City||Punjab farmers resort to early stubble burning for sowing veggies||Farmers in Punjab, particularly in the Majha region, have yet again started burning the paddy residue early this year even as the state government is making tall claims of stopping the farm fires. They are doing so to clear their fields and make them ready for sowing vegetables. The agriculture department officials say potato and peas are sown considerably in many areas. The farmers there prefer to cultivate the Pusa basmati-1,509 and some other hybrid varieties of paddy that ripen fast and thus are harvested early. Against 159 farm fires reported in the state till September 28 last year, as many as 520 such incidents, most of them from Majha, have been witnessed during the corresponding period this time. And of a total of 407 incidents that took place in the region, 358 were from Amritsar, the state’s worst-hit district. This despite the fact that the state government on Sunday had deputed more that 8,000 field staff to check burning of straw in fields. “Since the government has not announced any incentive for straw management, the farmers are left with no option but to burn it. If the government is serious about stopping farm fires, it should announce₹200 per quintal as handling of straw in fields,” said Jagmohan Singh of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakunda). An agriculture department official said, “Actually, the farmers find burning of stubble the easiest method of disposing it though it is hazardous to health. Since the agriculture income is going down, they try to utilise the gap between paddy harvesting and wheat sowing by cultivating vegetables.” The government has deputed 8,000 nodal officers in paddy growing villages, with 23,500 machines being given to farmers for an in-situ management of paddy straw. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has appealed the farmers to shun the practice of burning straw several times. ‘We know it’s hazardous,but have no other option’ At Devidas Pura village of Amritsar district where farmers were spotted burning the paddy straw, the HT team was asked to leave the place promptly. Some farmers said, “We are already facing harassment at the hands of government officials for burning the stubble. We cannot afford any method of managing the straw other than burning it.” But in some fields, labourers were seen lifting the straw with bailer machines and tractor-trailers transported it to nearby sugar mills. Kulwant Singh, a farmer from Phoolke village near Batala in Gurdaspur district, said, “The farmers know the side-effects of burning stubble, but they still do it. Keeping in view of their financial conditions and increasing cost of cultivation, they cannot afford any other method of managing the residue. It is like a person committing suicide that he does in a state of depression.” “Nearly 80 per cent farmers have just 2 to 5 acre land. The government asks us to buy a happy seeder machines to prevent stubble burning. This machine can be operated with a new model of tractor only. It costs around 11 lakh to buy such a tractor. How many of the farmers can afford to buy these machines?” he asks. Sukhwinder Singh, a farmer from Thatha village of Gurdaspur, said, “Without the government’s support, managing the residue with eco-friendly methods is not possible. As far as the use of bailer machines are concerned, a sizable quantity of grain goes waste,” he added. Erring farmers fined ₹55,000 in Amritsar The administration in Amritsar has imposed₹55,000 fine on 15 farmers in the district, said deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khehra. Teams of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Monday visited 150 villages after spotting 318 cases farm fires, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-farmers-resort-to-early-stubble-burning-for-sowing-veggies/story-ZmWyKdw0TuwmXrlTUoYzmL.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer stir hits Punjab’s Covid-19 testing pace||The protests by farmers over the agriculture bills that were recently passed by Parliament have cast their shadow on the pace of Covid-19 testing in Punjab with daily sample collection going down in the past few days. The health department’s field staff is attributing the decline in testing to the farmer stir as contact tracing in villages has virtually come to a halt with many a resident participating in the protests. As per the state health department’s media bulletin, Monday’s sample collection of 23,129 was the lowest in the past one week. While 30,929 samples were collected on September 25, the figure was 26,531 on September 26; 23,315 on September 27; 23,129 on September 28; and 23,459 on September 29. The slowdown in sample collection comes amid the state government’s repeated attempts to increase the daily testing to 30,000. Interestingly, the state witnessed relief in terms of single-day addition of coronavirus cases. On Tuesday, Punjab recorded 1,100 new confirmed cases, the lowest single-day spike in September. In the past three days, the state had 3,829 fresh positive cases. “People in villages were already running away from testing. Now, they have got an excuse to do so as they are taking part in protest marches and sit-ins. This became even more pronounced especially after September 25 when the farmers hit the roads on the Punjab bandh call,” a doctor involved in Covid-19 testing in Sangrur district said. Dr Aslum Parvez, state president of the Rural Medical Services Association who is leading Covid-19 testing team in Patiala villages, said, “We went for testing in a village where a group of influential farmers told me that they will not allow us to enter till the Central government doesn’t withdraw the contentious bills. We had to return empty-handed.” But state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar denied having fresh reports about people avoiding being tested. “The decrease in testing is an outcome of our change in strategy. Earlier, we were conducted targeted testing and were collecting samples, for instance, of teachers, policemen and health workers. Now, we are focusing on smart testing with an emphasis on smart testing and containing the potential virus carriers,” he claimed. Dr Bhaskar said the caseload is decreasing throughout the country and it is likely that India has touched the pandemic peak and the curve is flattening now. “But it is too early to say anything right now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmer-stir-hits-punjab-s-covid-19-testing-pace/story-cUdhKfUolh25p63IXIt8vJ.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Delay in procurement triggers farmer protests in Haryana||After procurement agencies failed to initiate the purchasing process in the state, farmers on Tuesday expressed their ire by blocking roads, staging protests and locking offices of the marketing committees . Agitated farmers held protests in Indri, Gharanda and Kunjpura in Karnal; Pipli, Ladwa, Pehowa and Sahabad in Kurukshetra; Guhla, Cheeka, Jandhola in Kaithal; and Radaur and Jagadhri in Yamunanagar.Farmers complained that delay in procurement had led to glut in grain markets. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had to face the farmers’ ire during his visit to Cheeka town in Kaithal district where sloganeering farmers opposed his visit. The police detained a farmer leader, Hardeep Singh, for allegedly tearing down posters and banners of the chief minister and deputy chief minister.The Bharitya Kisan Union will launch statewide protests and block roads outside mandis in all the districts from Wednesday. “We had raised the issue with additional chief secretary, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs PK Dass but he did not give us any assurance,” said BKU Chaduni.Arhtiyas, rice millers join forces, farmers on edge Procurement agency officials are unable to procure paddy as rice millers are not allowing them to store it in their godowns. Arhtiyas and rice millers are opposing the government’s decision to keep rice millers out of procurement operations. Procurement agency officials will procure paddy and transport it to the rice mill from the mandi check bogus procurement. Rice millers have demanded that the government increase their milling charges from ₹10 to ₹100 per quintal and reduce returns to 64 per quintal of paddy. Haryana Rice Millers and Dealers Association (HRMDA) representatives have raised the issue with the top officials of the Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department but did not get any assurance. Association members sat they will continue the strike until the government accepts their demands. “We will not allow government agencies to use our godowns until our demands are accepted,” said Jewel Singla, HRDMA state president. Meanwhile, Arhtiyas say they will not provide ‘J form’ or cooperate until procurement agencies assure them that procured paddy will be lifted from mandi the same day.Arhtiyas and rice millers have joined hands and are not supporting procurement, putting farmers on edge. “Arhtiyas and rice millers are harassing farmers. They have no option but to stage protests,” said a Haryana State Agriculture and Marketing Board senior officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delay-in-procurement-triggers-farmer-protests-in-haryana/story-SZWTcYqs36egtAAppQbIKN.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Dip in infections raises hope of curve flattening in Haryana||The number of coronavirus infections in Haryana decreased by 5,091 last week, raising hopes that the pandemic curve was plateauing in the state. As per health department statistics, Haryana’s 22 districts reported 12,525 new infections between September 21 to 27 as compared to 17,616 infections between September 14 to 20. The number of viral infections reported between September 7 to 13 was 17,092 and between August 31 to September 6 was 13,267. Additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora said cases were stabilising to an extent and it was expected that the numbers will decline in the next phase. While the number of samples tested using rapid antigen tests (RAT) and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) have also declined in the past week, health department officials said the declining infection rate outnumbers the reduced testing. Arora said with a 6.72% positivity rate and an average daily reduction of around 5,000, the decrease should be around 350 infections per day. “ Earlier, around 2,400 to 2,800 infections were being reported every day. The number has dropped to around 1,500 to 2,000 over the last week,’’ the ACS said. As per records, the health department conducted 1, 91,420 RAT and RT-PCR tests between September 13 and September 20 as compared to 1,70,309 tests between September 21 and September 27, which amounts to a reduction of 21,111 tests. Explaining reduction in sampling, Arora said when the number of infections start declining, the number of primary and secondary contacts of infected patients also comes down, thereby decreasing the sampling rate. “Then again one has to go for random sampling but we have seen the public at large resists random sampling,’’ he said. Arora said the department was going to step up the RT-PCR testing again but RAT had been reduced as it was felt that it was being performed indiscriminately. “During a recent review of national capital region districts by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Haryana’s RTPCR testing overshadowed Noida and Delhi. Our RT-PCR testing was around 65% and RAT around 35%,’’ the ACS said, adding the fatality rate in the state had remained stable at around 1.06%. Figures at a glance Officials say a 6.72% positivity rate and an average daily reduction of 5,000 samples indicates a decrease of around 350 infections per day. Week Infections August 24-30: 8,896 August 31-September 6: 13,267 September 6-13: 17,092 September 14-20: 17,616 September 21-27: 12,525 Testing Week Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction test Rapid antigen test Total September 13-20: 1,22,352 69,068 1,91,420 September 21-27: 1,12,012 58,297 1,70,309||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dip-in-infections-raises-hope-of-curve-flattening-in-haryana/story-ESokEUiArNyYTTfPx9aI0M.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs 1,562 new cases, 25 deaths||Haryana reported 1,562 fresh coronavirus infections, 2,403 recoveries and 25 deaths on Tuesday. Five districts - Gurugram (242), Faridabad (168), Kurukshetra (143), Rohtak (114) and Sonepat (112) reported over 100 cases each. Significant numbers were also reported from Hisar (99), Rewari (92), Panchkula (89), Yamunanagar (87), Karnal (76) and Ambala (61). The fresh infections have pushed the cumulative number of cases to 1,26,974. A medical bulletin said there were 2,403 new recoveries and 1,10,814 patients had recovered so far. There are 14,804 active cases in the state. The recovery rate is over 87% . Three people each from Rohtak, Hisar and Yamunanagar, two each from Panipat, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra and Sirsa and one each from Faridabad, Gurugram, Rewari, Ambala, Palwal, Panchkula, Nuh and Fatehabad districts succumbed to the virus. Former Nilokheri MLA passes away  Former Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) MLA from Nilokheri assembly segment Mamu Ram Gonder passed away on Tuesday. He was 73 and had tested positive for Covid. He had tested negative a week ago but family members said he died due to a lung infection caused by Covid at a private hospital in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-logs-1-562-new-cases-25-deaths/story-ocAao4Kkl9nEo7HiYGcwGO.html
30-09-2020||Bangalore||Strict action against Covid-19 negligence, regulations for public to be out soon: Minister||Warning of stern action against people flouting social distancing rules in public places, Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday said regulations on COVID-19 for the public will be out soon after discussions with the Chief Minister.“Coronavirus has been on a high in the past two months in the state.Despite raising awareness on the dangers caused by the virus, the general public has been negligent without wearing masks,” Sudhakar was quoted as saying by his office in a release.To combat this, the state government is keen on bringing in stern rules against those flouting social distancing norms in public.A detailed directive will be out in a few days, he said.The minister today held a meeting with the expert committee regarding COVID-19.Stating that political and religious gatherings have been on a high post the Coronavirus unlock in the state, Sudhakar said this has led to rapid spread of the virus. Hence, it has been decided to put a stop such large gatherings.Events that have to be held in unavoidable circumstances with a maximum of only 100 people would be allowed with prior permission from the district administrations, he said.However a final decision will be taken after consulting administrations in districts that have a large number of infections.The minister said the government planned to organise awareness about COVID programmes jointly with cinema stars, religious heads, political leaders and artists.Hailing the ‘notable role’ of the media in raising awareness about coronavirus, he said the government was mulling over organising a special workshop for mediapersons.The workshop will be organised within a week, he said.The Covid-19 positive rate in seven of 11 districts is 12 per cent, he said, adding that the death rate was 1.5 per cent.Steps are being taken to reduce this to less than one per cent, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/for-the-first-time-karnataka-records-over-10-000-covid-cases-in-a-day/story-QYQ13Vthth31RgiF6DBuyN.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Arrest Anurag Kashyap for sexual harassment, minister Ramdas Athawale to Governor||Union minister Ramdas Athawale has demanded the arrest of filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, who has been accused of sexual harassment by an actor. Athawale, who heads the Republican Party of India (RPI), met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari along with the actor and requested the latter to ask the Maharashtra government to take action against Kashyap. Kashyap has denied all the allegations, calling them an attempt to silence his political critique of the central government.The actor told Koshyari that said she had put her career at stake and sought justice against the harassment that she was subjected to by Kashyap.  महाराष्ट्राचे राज्यपाल महामहिम भगतसिंह कोश्यारी यांची आज अभिनेत्री पायल घोष ला न्याय मिळवून देण्यासाठी रिपब्लिकन पक्षाच्या शिष्टमंडळासह भेट घेतली. pic.twitter.com/88JlAErwpR“I am giving an ultimatum of seven days to the state government to arrest Kashyap or else the RPI will start an agitation. The police is going slow on the investigation,” said Athawale, adding that he believed that Kashyap was guilty and hence he would also submit a memorandum to state home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking urgent action against the filmmaker.The Union minister also demanded security for the actor and claimed that she could face an attack as she came forward to lodge the complaint against the filmmaker.Earlier this month, the actor had alleged that Kashyap had harassed her around the time he was making one of his films and threatened to sit on hunger strike if the filmmaker was not arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/union-minister-ramdas-athawale-meets-maharashtra-governor-seeks-action-against-filmmaker-anurag-kashyap-in-sexual-harassment-case/story-dEitsjM9SsH7p8C9GphHjO.html
30-09-2020||City||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Sharad Pawar attacks Centre, says probe agencies trying to divert people’s attention from case||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday criticised the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government and the central investigation agencies over the probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. “The actual case and investigation into his death is left behind and something else is going on. Doubts have been raised that the investigating agencies are trying to divert people’s attention from the case,” Pawar said, responding to queries from mediapersons at an interaction in Pandharpur, Solapur. “We had read that an actor has committed suicide. The Mumbai Police started its investigation to find the reason behind it. Maybe the Central government had no trust in the police force. Several agencies were handed over the probe. But we are yet to see any significant progress by them in the investigation. Now, it is going on in a different direction altogether. We may have to wait more to know the truth,” said the veteran leader. Currently, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are investigating the case and all three come under the union home ministry headed by Amit Shah. Earlier, Pawar had said the decision of handing over the case to central agencies could be politically motivated. Home minister Anil Deshmukh alleged: “Mumbai Police was accused of handling the case incompetently and alleged of shielding a politician. CBI has not been able to find anything substantial in the case so far. Bihar’s former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey played a key role in the entire episode.”Meanwhile, reacting to news reports, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “The report by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that ruled out poisoning has exposed the BJP’s conspiracy to take advantage of the case for the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections and defame Mumbai and Maharashtra. CBI should find the mastermind behind this conspiracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sushant-singh-rajput-death-sharad-pawar-attacks-centre-says-probe-agencies-trying-to-divert-people-s-attention-from-case/story-QEO7aGBri1fQs8zQIQw9XJ.html
30-09-2020||City||Farm laws: Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in a dilemma||MUMBAI Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, comprising the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena, appears to be in a dilemma over the contentious farm laws passed recently by Parliament. The Centre had issued three ordinances in June, replacing them with three bills – Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 – which were passed by Parliament last week. After the bills were passed, deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar announced that the state government would not implement the farm laws in the state. Revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat also claimed that the three ruling parties have opposed the bills and the issue would be discussed in a coordination committee meeting. However, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray hasn’t yet made a public comment on the row. His government had even issued a circular in August, directing the local authorities to implement in letter and spirit the ordinance that preceded the legislation. “I am sure after due deliberations, all three parties will be on the same page. The Congress and NCP have already opposed the implementation of the laws. The issue will now be discussed with the Sena,” Thorat told HT. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said the decision on implementation of the laws will be taken by the government. “We had opposed the bills in Parliament and I fully agree with the sentiments expressed by the Congress-NCP leaders. CM Thackeray has been holding discussions with his cabinet colleagues and the decision will be announced by him,” he said. On Monday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked all Congress-ruled states to explore the possibility of enacting the legislation under Article 254(2) of the Constitution to negate the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government’s “anti-agricultural laws” and prevent “grave injustice” from being done to farmers. A senior Congress leader in Maharashtra said they were holding consultations within the party and with their alliance partners. “We are consulting with the law and judiciary department. It will be discussed in a coordination meeting of ruling parties. The Shiv Sena’s stance on the bills was initially shaky, but they have realised the nuances of the laws after nationwide protests,” said a Congress leader, on condition of anonymity. The circular on implementation was issued on August 10 by Maharashtra marketing director Satish Soni. “As per the provisions in the ordinances, the farmers are free to market their produce at field, factory, warehouse or cold storage without any hindrance and without any market fee applicable under APMC Act. Any other fee or charges applicable under APMC Act cannot be charged now as per the provisions made in the ordinances. The law and judiciary department has vetted the ordinances and validated its applicability. Though the existence of the APMCs has not been affected by promulgation of the ordinance, the farmers will have a parallel mechanism to get fair prices for their produce. The market committees are expected to implement the provisions in the ordinances effectively,” the circular stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-laws-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-government-in-a-dilemma/story-46VKw2y2R0J07niJlX1FxI.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut petition: You are a parliamentarian, show some grace, Bombay high court tells Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut||The Bombay high court (HC), while saying it did not agree with the tweets by actor Kangana Ranaut pertaining to the state government and the Mumbai Police, on Tuesday said that Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut should have shown some grace and restraint when responding to her, considering he was a parliamentarian. In his affidavit, Raut, while admitting that the words in the interview to the TV channel were directed at the petitioner, said that it was not due to any malice towards her, but were prompted after she raised aspersions about the state not being safe. The court, hearing Ranaut’s petition against the demolition carried out at her Pali Hill bungalow here by the Brihanmumbai Municipal (BMC) on September 9, has directed all parties to submit their written submissions within a week and posted the matter for hearing next week. A division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and RI Chagla, while hearing the response of Bhagyawant Late, designated officer of the BMC who was impleaded in the case after the petition of the actor was amended, was informed by senior counsel Anil Sakhare that the actor’s allegations of malice were baseless. While responding to the allegations made by the actor against him, Sakhare submitted that Late’s subordinates had visited the Pali Hill bungalow around 1pm much before her tweet, which was made around 5pm. Hence, the allegation that the detection was prompted due to her tweet was not valid. Sakhare further submitted that as per previous judgements, making allegations of malice were easy, but proving them was the responsibility of the accuser. However, at no place in the petition or affidavits submitted by the actor had she proved malice on his part. In light of the submissions, Sakhare sought dismissal of the petition. The court then perused Raut’s affidavit wherein it was submitted that he was not concerned with the demolition matter and that he had not threatened the actor in a derogatory and abusive manner as alleged. “In the said interview, I have only referred to the petitioner as “dishonest” because the petitioner had made a statement saying that Mumbai is like “Pak Occupied Kashmir”,” stated the affidavit. Raut said, “I responded because the petitioner had insulted Mumbai and Maharashtra.” After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “You are a leader, a parliamentarian. You should have been cautious while making statements. Even we don’t agree with what the petitioner has said. Is this the way to address?” When Raut’s advocate submitted that his outburst was due to the provocation by the actor, the court said, “We are all Maharashtrians and we are all proud to be Maharashtrians. We have to show grace. You have to ignore such things. Is this an example you set for others by asking ‘Kanoon kya hai’?” Thereafter, senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf, who along with advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, for the actor, responded saying that the case was very much in the jurisdiction of the court, even though senior advocate Aspi Chinoy, for the BMC, on Monday had said that the actor had a remedy in a suit for claims and the court should not entertain the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-petition-you-are-a-parliamentarian-show-some-grace-hc-tells-raut/story-ASFSwWSXdKqAR3pROnunPK.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||3 years on, survivors recall Mumbai’s Elphinstone stampede||Three years after the Elphinstone stampede claimed the lives of 23 people, survivors and their families are still grappling with the effects of the tragedy. Aakash Parab, 21, suffered a thigh bone fracture during the stampede on the foot overbridge (FOB) at Elphinstone Road (now Prabhadevi) railway station on September 29, 2017. He was among the 39 people injured in the incident. His younger brother Rohit, 11, was the youngest of the 23 who died in the stampede. “I recall the stampede – people started falling and someone fell on me and I lost consciousness. I was taken out and put in a police van. I started searching for Rohit the minute I regained consciousness, but I could not see him. I called my friends and then my parents and asked them to come to the hospital,” Parab said, remembering the tragedy. Parab suffered a fractured thigh bone and had to spend 18 days in the civic-run KEM Hospital. He also underwent surgery for his injury. “It’s tough to stand for long hours,” he said. Parab now has a temporary job at an office in Marol.Ankita, Parab’s mother, said the family has struggled to make a living during the lockdown. “We had a flower shop that was shut completely. There was no source of income at all. We suffered a lot and did not know how to get money to survive. Aakash got a job but it is temporary and the salary is less. It is extremely difficult to manage,” she said. Ankita has written to the ministry of Railways and the chief minister of Maharashtra, asking for a job for her son, but said she has not received any reply. “I am hoping that the Railways reply and my son manages to get a job,” she said. However, the Railways had clarified previously that it cannot assure any job to anyone injured in the stampede. A compensation of ₹8 lakh was given to the families of those who lost their kin in the tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-years-on-survivors-recall-mumbai-s-elphinstone-stampede/story-ls2aUYip9mzq1zo8SqN6RL.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Inquiry against NCB officer over leak of part of Rhea Chakraborty’s statement to news channel||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has ordered a departmental inquiry against their officer who allegedly leaked a part of actor Rhea Chakraborty’s statement in connection with the drug angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput death to a TV channel. NCB had recorded Chakraborty’s statement for three days after which she was arrested on September 9. Sources said as Chakraborty’s statement was shown on a national television channel, a senior officer confiscated mobile phones of all NCB officials present in Mumbai office, as the picture had the background of NCB’s Mumbai office. The phones were checked and a report was made against the officer concerned and sent to Delhi. The officer was then taken off the investigations and sent to Delhi, said NCB sources. Meanwhile, according to NCB sources, all three actors – Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor – questioned in the connection with the drug link gave almost identical statements, which make it seem that they were tutored by a senior advocate. All the three actors told NCB that they did not use drugs, but only used to chat where they referred to a cigarette as ‘maal’, hashish as ‘patla cigarette’ and marijuana as ‘mota cigarette or roll’, said NCB sources. Sources said Kapoor had brought CBD oil, but she claimed that it was brought for external use, which is not illegal. NCB sources also said the agency was authorised to place phones of suspects under monitoring, and that it had verified several calls of suspects before calling them for statements. Sources also said that phones of several Bollywood personalities were being monitored and they could be called for inquiry soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-inquiry-against-ncb-officer-over-leak-of-part-of-rhea-chakraborty-s-statement-to-news-channel/story-QilDWXp7Cg7fDD5vU2aLRL.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested with MD worth ₹14.40 lakh from Mumbai’s Goregaon area||The Mumbai crime branch arrested a 22-year-old drug peddler from Goregaon (East) on Monday and seized mephedrone worth ₹14.40 lakh from his possession. The arrested accused Noor Mohammed Mehmood Khan is resident of Kurla (West). Officers of the unit 10 acted on a tip-off about a person delivering drugs in Film City area. Police then laid a trap and nabbed Khan as soon as he came around 9:20pm on Monday. Police recovered 480 grams of mephedrone (MD) worth ₹14.40 lakh from him. Khan has several past cases of assault at Ghatkopar police station, said police inspector Vinay Ghorpade of the unit 10.On September 27, unit 9 arrested a food delivery boy, Usman Ali Shaikh with 139grams of MD worth ₹5.5 lakh from Oshiwara area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-with-md-worth-14-40-lakh-from-mumbai-s-goregaon-area/story-tqxxS1CpoeQC2wL36LDLtM.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput didn’t need me to ‘finance’ drug purchases, Rhea Chakraborty tells high court||Refuting the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) allegation that actor Rhea Chakraborty, along with her brother Showik, “financed” the drug purchases of her boyfriend and late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, her lawyer Satish Maneshinde told the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday that “Rajput was in no dearth of funds”. Chakraborty and her brother were arrested on September 9 in connection with the alleged drug angle in Rajput’s death. Justice Sarang Kotwal reserved order on all applications. Arguing for their bail, Maneshinde said: “Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda used to take care of all household expenses, and there was no question of Rhea financing drug purchases for the deceased actor.” Responding to NCB’s accusation that Chakraborty was part of a drug syndicate, Maneshinde said the allegations were merely on the basis of a solitary incident of March 17, when she gave her credit card to Miranda, who withdrew Rs10,000 using it and purchased contraband for the deceased actor. He maintained that no amount was paid directly using Chakraborty’s card to any of the alleged peddlers for procuring drugs and so she can’t be said to be associated with any drug ring. It is an admitted fact that Rajput used to consume drugs even before Chakraborty became acquainted with him in April 2019, and two of Rajput’s co-stars, Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor, have reportedly told NCB that he was consuming drugs since long, he said. Maneshinde said Showik too was accused of being part of a drug syndicate for allegedly paying petty amounts on three occasions in April for purchasing minuscule amounts of ganja and charas. The lawyer added that even if one were to go by the allegations levelled by NCB, stringent provisions contained in section 27A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (financing illicit trafficking of drugs or harbouring offenders) were not at all applicable to Chakraborty or Showik. Maneshinde said NCB’s reliance on recovery of commercial quantity of drugs from one Anuj Keshwani and then the claim that Chakraborty and Showik were part of a drug ring cannot be maintained as neither of them had any connection with the alleged drug supplier. NCB had further alleged that Chakraborty had harboured Rajput who used to consume drugs. Maneshinde contended that during the relevant period, Chakraborty was residing with Rajput in his house and questioned how she could have harboured the late actor in his own house. Advocate Taraq Sayed, who argued for bail of another accused, Abdel Basit Parihar, submitted that NCB has been claiming to have busted a major drug ring by arresting 18-19 college students. He claimed that almost all accused arrested by NCB in this case come from well-to-do families and cannot be termed drug peddlers or suppliers. Sayed submitted that the arrests were made only on the basis of statements recorded under section 67 of the NDPS Act, especially when there was hardly any recovery from most of them. He said the statements under section 67 can at the most be used to corroborate recovery from an accused, and not otherwise. Sayed said Parihar is a last-year student of architecture and has missed his examination as he has been arrested by NCB. He added although moralistic argument is being advanced on behalf of NCB as to how society, especially the young generation was affected by the menace of narcotic drugs, in our country, more people die due to smoking than by drug abuse. Maintaining that all alleged transactions involve small quantities of drugs and therefore were bailable, Sayed said all five applicants before HC – Chakraborty, Showik, Miranda, Rajput staffer Dipesh Sawant and Parihar – were entitled to bail as a matter of right. In support of his submission that the offences alleged are bailable, he relied on a 2010 judgment of the Bombay high court holding that all offences under NDPS Act involving small quantities were bailable. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who opposed the bail applications on behalf of NCB, however, submitted that the applicants were under wrong assumption that all offences under the NDPS Act involving small quantity of drugs were bailable. Singh submitted that NDPS Act nowhere states that certain offences were bailable and claimed that all offences under the Act were non-bailable. Justice Kotwal agreed with his submission. The judge pointed to a 1999 judgment of a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court, observing that all offences under the NDPS Act were non-bailable, and no other court was therefore authorised to take a different view of the issue. Singh added that so far 19 persons have been arrested by NCB in this case, and all of them were interlinked and connected with each other. Referring to recovery of commercial quantity of drugs from Anuj Keshwani, he said case of none of them can be separated from that of the others. “Drug dealings was a regular affair of the drug syndicate,” Singh said. “Showik was in regular contact with the dealers. Sushant Singh Rajput, the consumer of the drugs, may not be alive today, but persons involved in these deals can’t go scot free only because he is no more.” Singh also responded to Maneshinde’s contention that NCB had no jurisdiction to investigate the case in view of the August 19, 2020 direction of the Supreme Court to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to take over cases “on the death of Rajput and surrounding circumstances”. Maneshinde had submitted that in the replies filed by NCB to the bail applications of Chakraborty and Showik before the special NDPS court, NCB had in clear terms said it was a fallout of the drug angle in Rajput case. “This case has nothing to do with the death of Sushant Singh Rajput,” said Singh. “It is nobody’s case that Sushant Singh Rajput died due to drug abuse.” The additional solicitor general added that the case was connected to Rajput only to the extent of him being the consumer of drugs, and not otherwise. Besides, it is a settled position of law that an accused cannot choose the agency to investigate offences against him or her, he said. This argument is not available to Chakraborty that the case should have been handed over to CBI for investigation, he said. Chakraborty and Showik moved HC for bail after their bail applications were rejected by the special NDPS court on September 11. The other three accused have approached the court separately after being refused bail by the special court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-had-no-dearth-of-funds-no-question-of-rhea-chakraborty-financing-his-drugs-her-lawyer-in-bombay-high-court/story-WRNMAc8Nucnr4QnuIWUd4M.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Only six admission rounds to IITs this year, students can report to institute virtually, JoSAA announces||Even as aspirants to the premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are awaiting the release of Joint Entrance Examination-Advanced (JEE-Adv) results on October 5, the Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) has already announced few changes to the admission process this year. In a statement released on the official website, JoSAA has stated that there will be only six rounds of seat allotment conducted in 2020 as opposed to seven rounds conducted in the past three years.“JoSAA suggested to limit admissions to only six rounds this year to ensure that the admissions process is over before Diwali and that the new academic session starts immediately after,” said professor Siddhartha Pandey, chairman JEE Adv 2020, IIT-Delhi.JoSAA conducts admissions to IITs, as well as National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) and other government-funded technology institutes (GFTIs).He added that another major change in the admissions process this year is that students will not be expected to physically report to their allotted institutes to confirm admissions.“This too was a suggestion by JoSAA, especially keeping in mind the increasing Covid-19 cases. This year students will confirm their admissions by submitting all necessary documents online itself,” added Pandey.Until 2015, JoSAA conducted three rounds of seat allotment, which was increased to six rounds in 2016 to bring down vacancy of seats in IITs. However, in 2017, 2018 and 2019, seven rounds of admissions were conducted but almost all IITs—old or new—had one or more seats vacant by the end of the common admission rounds. Almost 300 seats had remained vacant after six admission rounds across 23 IITs in 2019 which were reallotted in the seventh and final round.“Seat allocation rounds are of no importance after the first three rounds because the top courses in top institutes are already full by then. Students are very ambitious and clear about their choice of course and institute and when they know they haven’t managed to bag the seat they want, they end up opting for a private engineering institute closer home,” said a senior professor and former JoSAA member. He added that this trend has been witnessed across IITs over the last five years, and has been one of the biggest reasons for increasing vacancies in the institutes.Registrations to JoSAA rounds will begin from October 6, a day after the announcement of JEE-Adv results. The first seat allocation list is scheduled to be announced on October 17 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-only-six-admission-rounds-to-iits-this-year-students-can-report-to-institute-virtually-josaa-announces/story-yJa8UPFHi6g3XUJe9APLCI.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA election: Returning officer proposes October 8, 9 as polling dates||The returning officer for Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) election 2020 on Tuesday proposed October 8 and 9 as new dates for polling.The poll for the officer-bearers of PU teachers’ body was earlier scheduled for September 25 and 26. However, the election was postponed after several teachers raised concerns over its conduct during the pandemic, prompting returning officer Vijay Nagpal to seek sanction for the poll from Chandigarh deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar. The proposal of new polling dates comes after the deputy commissioner on Monday wrote to the returning officer seeking details of the fresh dates, venues of polling and compliance with standard operating procedures (SOPs) as per the directions of Chandigarh administration and the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).Nagpal on Tuesday announced that fresh dates of polling with same SOPs and programme as announced earlier have been submitted to the deputy commissioner for his clearance.“I have proposed the new dates and submitted them to the deputy commissioner. The other details of SOPs and venues have been provided, which are the same announced for the polling on September 25 and 26.”SOPs for electionThe polling is scheduled for two days with time slots for small groups of teachers to cast their votes. According to the SOPs, wearing masks is mandatory and every individual has to undergo thermal screening at entry points. Two different venues have been selected for the polling. The voters are advised to bring their own pens, while gloves will be provided to all. The voters are instructed to comply with social distancing norms. Services of professional consultants have been availed for complete sanitisation and other precautions at venues.Voters, who have tested positive for Covid-19, those awaiting their result or those who have been quarantined, have been requested to refrain from voting. Reason behind postponementSix teachers of university had written to PU authorities and expressed their concerns over the conduct of polls amid pandemic, while requesting its (PU’s) intervention into the matter. The returning officer had then written to the deputy commissioner for his sanction to conduct the poll, but a day before the polling, the election was postponed as no response was received from DC Brar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/puta-election-returning-officer-proposes-october-8-9-as-polling-dates/story-E6q2EaImjxyLs2RU1ejrkI.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai college is satellite educational centre for Sindhudurg, to offer 2 courses||Patkar-Varde College in Goregaon has become the first satellite education centre for the University of Mumbai. On Friday, the state government approved Sir Sitaram and Lady Shantabai Patkar College and VP Varde College of Commerce and Economics, also known as Patkar-Varde College as the satellite centre for Sindhudurg on a pilot basis.The college can now offer a Bachelor of Science (BSc) in hospitality, catering services and tourism, and Master in tourism and travel management at Kudal. The centre will commence the courses from the academic year 2020-21.The satellite centre has been approved for Pinguli village, which falls within the Mumbai circle, said an official from the state higher and technical education department.The concept of the satellite centre was conceived in the amended Maharashtra Public University Act (MPUA), 2016, as an educational centre that will promote academic curricular and research work in rural Maharashtra. However, this is the first time the state has approved a satellite centre. However, the University of Mumbai senate member Mandar Sawantdesai has alleged that due process was not followed in the appointment of the college as a satellite centre. “Neither the state government’s department of higher and technical education nor the university had published any advertisement inviting applications for starting satellite centre on a pilot basis,” said Sawantdesai. He has written to the governor and chancellor of universities Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Mumbai University vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar, highlighting discrepancies. Sawantdesai said that under the section 109(4)(d) of MPUA, 2016, the government may grant permissions only to such institutes as it may consider fit and proper in its absolute discretion on or before 15th June. However, in exceptional cases and for reasons to be recorded in writing any application not recommended by the university may be approved by the state government. “Has the government recorded any such reasons while approving the above-said pilot project to the said college?,” asked Sawantdesai.Gurunath Pandit, joint secretary, Patkar-Varde college management, said, “We have been following the matter with the government since the MPUA was amended in 2016, but it is only now that the centre has come to fruition. Sindhudurg is a tourism hotspot and we realised that courses in that area will help students from the region. We have good existing infrastructure that we can use for the purpose.” The courses will begin as soon as Covid-19 circumstances improve, he added. An official of the University of Mumbai, on the condition of anonymity, maintained that the selection of the college was done following the guidelines laid down by the state higher and technical education department in a government resolution issued on September 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-college-is-satellite-educational-centre-for-sindhudurg-to-offer-2-courses/story-D7MpU3sFf08Y40a5HjLhPP.html
30-09-2020||Mumbai||BEST employee arrested for sexually assaulting minor in Mumbai||DN Nagar police on Monday arrested a 38-year-old BEST employee for allegedly sexually assaulting his tenant’s 16-year-old daughter. “The accused requested the girl to get him a glass of water and while she was giving him water, he molested her,” an officer said. According to the police incident took place on September 27 at around 5pm when the accused was under the influence of alcohol. The complainant in her statement said that the accused visited her house and knocked on the door, and when she opened the door and greeted him, he asked where her family members where. When she told him that she was alone, he asked her to get him a glass of water, said DN Nagar police officer. “When she went into the kitchen to bring water, he entered the house. And then when she gave him the water, he pulled her towards her and molested her. She managed to escape from his clutches, and later informed her parents when they came back,” said a police officer from DN Nagar. The parents then approached police and registered an offence under section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and section 8 (Punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (Punishment for sexual harassment) of protection of children from sexual offences act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-employee-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-in-mumbai/story-z55GyeIcXitjsazLtagXkM.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Online classes of 1st year PG students of PU, its affiliated colleges to begin from Nov 2||The online teaching process for the first-year postgraduate students of Panjab University (PU) and its affiliated colleges will start from November 2, the academic calendar of the varsity stated.PU’s Dean College Development Council (DCDC) Sanjay Kaushik said the academic calendar has been released in anticipation of the syndicate’s approval. The admission process for the first-year postgraduate classes will start from October 1 and continue till October 31. Late admission of students with permission from department head or principal (in colleges) will be allowed for 10 days from November 1 in both teaching departments of PU and affiliated colleges, for which students would have to pay ₹1,000 as late fee. Late admission with permission from the vice-chancellor will be allowed from November 11 to 25 and students would have to pay ₹3,000 as late fee. As per the academic calendar, for the postgraduate students, the first academic term will start from November 2 and will end on February 27, 2021. The semester examination will start from March 8 and end on March 26 after which a nine-day semester break will start. The second academic term will be from April 5 to July 30. The semester exams for the second term will start from August 4 and end on August 23.The commencement of next academic session for the current batch of postgraduate students is scheduled for August 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-classes-of-1st-year-pg-students-of-pu-its-affiliated-colleges-to-begin-from-nov-2/story-KFes3ALLnYXPm2L40hpkcJ.html
30-09-2020||Noida||Awareness drive to fight Covid-19 in Noida and Greater Noida as cases increase||Amid the rising coronavirus cases, the Noida authority has started spreading awareness about checking the Covid-19 pandemic. The authority has appealed to the general public to strictly follow the Covid-19 safety guidelines, such as use of face masks and maintaining social distance.For the awareness drive, the Noida authority has deployed 10 vehicles to make announcements in all sectors of the city. The authority has divided the entire city into 10 work circles for a better administration.“We have engaged 10 vehicles, with one vehicle in each work circle, to spread awareness that people should follow precautions seriously for their safety. These vehicles will take three to four days to cover all sectors and villages in each circle properly. Even after all the areas are covered, the awareness drive will continue,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.According to the officials, the vehicles covered with banners about Covid-19 pandemic will be used to make announcements from 10am to 5pm. Each vehicle has a loudspeaker to make announcement about precautions that include maintaining social distance, wearing masks, venturing out only if it is important and issues related to sanitization.The Noida authority is also carrying out sanitization work in all crowed places such as commercial areas every Saturday and Sunday, said the officials. It has also released a mobile number 9717080605 at which residents can make any suggestion about how the fight against Covid-19 can be improved.Meanwhile, the Greater Noida authority has also requested the various residential bodies to spread awareness about following the social distancing and other necessary precautions to stay safe from the infection. The authority has directed its health department staff to make sure all sectors and villages are sanitized regularly.“We have directed the health department to carry out sanitization activity in all city markets and public places properly so that the visitors stay safe. We have also asked the social groups to spread awareness about precautions,” said Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.Till September 28, the Gautam Budh Nagar district reported a total of 12,757 Covid-19 cases, as per the data from the state health department. Of these cases, 1,599 are active cases while 11,107 patients have been cured. The district has recorded 51 deaths due to the virus so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/awareness-drive-to-fight-covid-19-in-noida-and-greater-noida-as-cases-increase/story-O9jv0JORjbt2thLnSjxAaK.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||New red zone plan on drawing board, to be out this week: Delhi govt||A revised policy for containment zones will be rolled out in the national capital later this week, senior government officials said on Wednesday. A Delhi government spokesperson said the guidelines for containment zones are undergoing revision at the moment by the high-level committee headed by Nitin Aayog member Dr VK Paul.In a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the L-G had directed to revise the policy for containment zones. “Though no clear deadline was fixed in the meeting of September 18, the health department was to submit the new strategy in a week. However, now the same is being reviewed and modified by the high-level committee, which is why the delay,” an official privy to the developments said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayAccordingly, Delhi’s directorate general of health services on Tuesday asked all district administrations to continue with the existing containment strategy. “As per approval of the competent authority, realignment of containment zones may be deferred till the end of this week, so that it may be done according to the revised guidelines to be finalised by the high-level committee,” read the communication of the state’s DGHS Nutan Mundeja to all districts. This is the second time that Delhi’s containment zone strategy will be re-drafted. Earlier, the containment zone policy was revised on June 26, in adherence to recommendations by Union home minister Amit Shah.District officials explained that at present, an area is declared a containment zone if three or more people test positive for Covid-19. Also read: One in 15 above 10 yrs of age exposed to Covid-19, reveals ICMR sero survey resultsThe number of containment zones in Delhi crossed the 2,000-mark on September 24. The city saw the total number of containment zones increase by over a thousand in just 18 days as daily Covid-19 cases continued to be above the 3,000-mark.As on Tuesday, Delhi had 2,505 containment zones - which are defined as sealed areas where free movement of individuals, traffic and economic activities are prohibited. All residents in containment zones are put under intensive surveillance and are periodically screened for the virus and the area is sanitised regularly. Essential goods are delivered at the doorstep by government officials for a period of at least 14 days, as per the government rules.Also read| 88 million in India may have been exposed to Sars-Cov2: Sero surveyAs per Tuesday’s data, most of the hot spots were concentrated in the western part of the city, with the highest number in the southwest district, which had 448 containment zones (17.88%), followed by the south (273), and northwest (257) districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/revised-containment-zone-policy-later-this-week/story-WZ7sp9wv92vSlmnsbHzNsM.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Hathras gang-rape: Protests at Safdarjung, Delhi braveheart’s mother says nothing has changed||Asha Devi, mother of December 16 gang rape victim, on Tuesday expressed her outrage at the death of a gang rape victim who died at Safdarjung Hospital. The woman was assaulted by four men in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh and had been brought to Delhi for treatment. Expressing solidarity with the family of the victim, Asha Devi said, “I just want to tell the mother of the victim that she is not alone and I, and many mother like me are standing with her in her fight for justice for her daughter. I can understand what she is going through because I was in her position eight years ago.” She said that little has changed ever since her daughter was gang-raped in a moving bus eight years ago. “It is upsetting that even after years of fighting for the cause of women’s safety nothing has changed, some other Nirbhaya’s mother is now fighting. Governments change but situation remains the same.”Also read| ‘We hoped she will survive’: Unease shrouds Hathras rape victim’s villageShe also questioned the action taken by the investigating agencies and said that this incident would have become another statistic, if the woman had not lost her life and the “incident had not hit headlines”. “How many daughters will have to die before some action is taken?” she asked.Hundreds of protesters gathered at Gate number 5 of Safdarjung hospital, close to the emergency wing, soon after the 19-year-old victim was declared dead. By evening the crowd had swelled to at least 300 people, which included members of the Aam Aadmi Party, the Congress and the Bheem Army. However, no one was arrested or detained from outside the hospital and no medical services were obstructed by the gatherers as the protest remained peaceful, said senior police officers.Leading the protests outside the hospital, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad said he has appealed to all members of the Dalit community to take to the streets and demand death penalty for the guilty. “The government should not test our patience. We won’t rest until the culprits are hanged,” he said.The protesters even lit candles and raised slogans demanding justice for the rape victim.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said around 2.30pm, members of Indian Youth Congress and other units of the party tried to reach the Raisina Hill near Vijay Chowk to stage a protest, demanding harsh punishment for the accused.“The protest at Vijay Chowk was led by Amrita Dhawan, president, Delhi Mahila Congress. 22 men and 14 women were detained and removed from the spot. As the protesters violated prohibitory orders in force due to Covid-19 they were booked under the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act. A case was registered against them at Parliament Street police station,” said Singhal.According to the police, some protesters attempted to block the Ring Road in front of the hospital. Senior police officers, including the joint commissioner of police had reached the spot to control the situation. The traffic was obstructed for a short time but the protesters were removed from the main road using additional police force, police said.In the evening, as more people started to join the victim’s family members outside the hospital, a team of Uttar Pradesh police left the hospital with the body of the rape victim while her family was still at the hospital. “The UP police team was escorted till the state border under heavy security to ensure there is no law and order situation,” said a police officer, who wished not to be named.In order to ensure that the gathering outside the hospital doesn’t swell further, Delhi police had to even announce that Safdarjung hospital is a Covid-19 designated hospital and that such a gathering may result in mass transmission of the virus.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya said after the family members left, the protesters were also completely dispersed by 9.30pm. “No one was arrested or detained from outside Safdarjung hospital. It was ensured throughout that the hospital services are nor obstructed in anyway,” he said.Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj, who had also reached Safdarjung hospital, accused that Delhi MLA Ajay Dutt, who is also a local Dalit leader, was beaten up by Delhi Police officials.“The relatives of the victim have been calling me, complaining that they are neither being allowed to come to Delhi nor being given any information about the body,” Bharadwaj alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protests-at-safdarjung-delhi-braveheart-s-mother-says-nothing-has-changed/story-O5PTKMMj5zpLM863C1BHrL.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi cop arrested for shooting friend, killing father-in-law||The Delhi Police sub-inspector, who allegedly shot dead his 62-year-old father-in-law in Rohtak’s Bhainsi village on Monday morning, nearly 12 hours after he shot at his woman friend in Delhi’s Alipur, was arrested from Rohini Sector-3 area on Tuesday morning. Investigators said sub-inspector Sandeep Dahiya was arrested nearly three hours after he forwarded a note titled “Dying Declaration” on the WhatApp group of his batchmates, explaining the circumstances that allegedly forced him to commit the crimes. He also shared his location in the purported note, saying he was contemplating to kill himself, said members of the team which arrested Dahiya. According to investigators, Dahiya has confessed to have used his service pistol to kill his father-in-law, Ranbir Singh, and injuring his woman friend. The pistol was found in his possession with four out of the 10 cartridges that were allotted to him by the Lahori Gate police station, where he was posted since December 2017. While Singh was shot in his forehead and died instantly, the woman suffered three bullet wounds in her right shoulder and arm. Her condition is stated to be stable. Police officers said two bullets had fallen on the road when Dahiya was loading the gun at the spot in Alipur where the woman was shot at following an argument. A passerby, Satbir, also suffered a shrapnel injury in his leg, the officials said. Another Delhi Police sub-inspector, Jaiveer, posted at Shahbad Dairy police station, had spotted the woman lying on the side of the road while he was crossing the Sai Mandir on the G T Karnal road and had taken her to a nearby hospital. On the way, the woman had revealed that she has been shot by Dahiya.Dahiya’s wife had told the Rohtak police that they had been living separately for some time due to strained marital relations and also alleged that her husband had earlier threatened that he would kill her father. The Rohtak Police on Monday had said Ranbir was cleaning a drain outside his house when he was shot. A CCTV camera installed in the street showed an SUV with a Delhi registration number, leaving the area after the crime was committed.“Ballistic experts will examine the pistol to verify Dahiya’s claims,” a police officer associated with the case said, requesting anonymity. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said Dahiya’s location in Rohini Sector-3 was tracked through “technical and manual investigation”. “Our teams spotted his white Duster car parked in an unauthorised parking space near the M2K shopping mall but Dahiya was missing. They laid a trap and caught him when he came to take his car,” said Alphonse. “We produced Dahiya before a magistrate that sent him to judicial custody. The two investigating officers (IOs) in the two cases – Alipur and Rohtak – may secure his custody from the court for investigation,” he added. Earlier on Tuesday, Meham (Rohtak Police) DSP Shamsher Dahiya, said, “We will approach the local court here after the accused will be sent to judicial custody. Then, the court will issue production warrant against Sandeep Dahiya.” The Rohtak police have registered a case of murder against Dahiya. Police said Dahiya spend two nights in his car and survived mostly on apples and bottled water. After shooting his woman friend on Sunday evening, Dahiya fled to Rohtak. After killing his father-in-law, he went to Kundli and spent the Monday night there in his car, before reaching Delhi on Tuesday morning. Dahiya kept his mobile phone switched off throughout the two days and switched it on Tuesday morning to send the purported “dying declaration” note, mostly written in Hindi, said another officer privy to the investigation. HT has seen the note but could not independently verify its authenticity. However, speaking on the condition of anonymity, senior police officers confirmed that the note was sent by Dahiya. In the WhatsApp note, Dahiya has blamed his dead father-in-law for ruining his married life. “I tried to save my married life for four years. But my wife was under her father’s influence and he destroyed my family. He tried to take half of my salary but could not succeed,” another investigator said, quoting Dahiya’s note. Dahiya’s wife Rajesh Devi demanded “harsh punishment” for him. “This man had ruined my life and he had always had a questionable character. I urge the police to take strict action against him,” she added. Police said, in his purported note, Dahiya claimed that if wanted to go untraceable the police would not be able to find him. He also gave locations of important documents kept in his house as well as the password of his laptop. He also claimed “harassment” by his woman friend and said no member of his family should be held responsible for his actions. Dahiya had joined the Delhi Police in 2006 as a constable and became a sub-inspector in 2010 after clearing an examination. He was residing at Shalimar Bagh Police Colony. He was on medical rest for two days and joined duty on Friday. Since he has been the division officer, 9MM pistol with 10 rounds was allotted to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-cop-arrested-for-shooting-friend-killing-father-in-law/story-wCjrGFOO5k6awVTFOBbl9M.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Laptop stolen from MLA Raghav Chadha’s car||New Delhi: Two unidentified men allegedly broke a window glass of Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) spokesperson and Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha’s car and stole his laptop in west Delhi’s Naraina Vihar on Monday night. The police said that they have registered a case of theft.According to the police, the incident took place between 9.30 pm and 10 pm, when Shivam Aggarwal, a staff at Chadha’s office in Delhi Jal Board – of which Chadha is the vice-chairperson – had parked it outside his house in Naraina Vihar. After some time, a security guard from the area noticed that one of the glasses of the car was broken and he alerted the neighbours.“The neighbours called Aggarwal. He came out to check on the Swift Dzire car and found that a laptop that was kept in the car was missing. The theft was then reported to the police,” said a police officer who wished not to be identified.The officer said during initial investigations CCTV footage of nearby areas were checked and two suspects have been spotted. “It looks like they are thieves who operate in the locality. Efforts to track them are in progress,” the officer added.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said a case of theft has been registered to probe the matter. “Multiple teams have been formed to track the suspects at the earliest,” he said.In a letter to Delhi police commissioner SN Srivastava on Tuesday, Chadha said, “Some unknown assailants broke the windowpane of the car into pieces and whisked away with my laptop containing sensitive data along with other crucial documents kept in the car. Pursuantly, he was immediately found forced to call the PCR where after he got his statement recorded.”The vehicle is registered in Chadha’s name, the MLA said in his letter to the commissioner which HT has seen.In his letter to the commissioner, Chadha also mentioned “earlier instances” of the attack on him by “assailants adopting almost similar modus-operandi” but did not elaborate further about specific instances. “There is an unholy nexus of anti-social elements to disrupt law and order and also create an alarm to me through such belligerent and wicked planning in order to satiate their evil motives,” said the letter.In a separate statement to the media, Chadha said: “The brazen attack on a sitting MLA’s car, that too in an area like Naraina Vihar, bears testimony to the crumbling law and order situation in Delhi... It reflects blatant impudence of offenders. It begs a serious question that if vehicles of legislators and official functionaries are attacked in this fashion, and they are put to constant threat and a state of fear, then what would be the plight of a common man?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/laptop-stolen-from-mla-raghav-chadha-s-car/story-cWW5UrTN2tBrDfhA5O5iXI.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Now, pay to pick a DDA flat of your choice||To ensure a good response to its next housing scheme, which is likely to be announced by the end of this year, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Tuesday approved a proposal to allow applicants to select the location of a flat by paying a preferential location charge (PLC) -- a practice common in private residential projects in NCR cities.For the first time, an applicant can choose the location of the flat (floor level, corner flat, facing the green area, etc) by paying between 1.5% and 3% of the total cost of the apartment, if they are successful in the draw of lots conducted by the DDA for the housing scheme.The decision was taken at the authority’s meeting chaired by Delhi lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday, along with other important announcements regarding in-situ slum redevelopment, relaxation in parking norms for state bhawans and state guest houses, land use changes, etc.The preferential location charges approved by the DDA are -- 3% of the total cost of the flat for the ground floor, 2.5% for flats facing green areas, 2.5% for flats on the first floor, 2% for corner flats and 1.5% for second-floor flats. An applicant can opt for multiple preferences and will have to pay accordingly, said a DDA official aware of the development. For instance, for a first-floor flat facing a green area, an allottee will have to pay 5% of the total cost of the house as PLC.This is for the first time the land-owning agency has introduced such a provision, which till now was available only for projects offered by private developers and is quite common in NCR cities such as Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurugram. “Till now, we used to allow applicants to give their location preference and we didn’t charge anything for it. But with this, applicants can choose better. The charges are not much. We are working out the details and necessary changes will be made in the draw of lots process. This will be done for the first time in the next housing scheme. No preferential location charges for the floor will be charged for allotment of ground or preferred floor to persons with a disability,” said the official.The DDA has nearly 10,000-15,000 flats lying vacant and around 40,000 flats in various stages of construction. The land-owning agency has flats either ready or nearing completion in Dwarka, Jasola Vihar and Narela. In the next housing scheme, DDA plans to bring 400 MIG in Jasola Vihar and 200 HIG flats Dwarka.The last housing scheme was announced in 2019 in which 18,000 flats were initially put on sale. But when it did not get the desired response, DDA reduced the number of flats on offer from 18,000 to 10, 294, of which only 8,438 were sold.While DDA officials say this is being done to help applicants, Sabyasachi Das, former planning commissioner with the authority, said, “DDA’s mandate is not to make a profit but to provide affordable housing to people. By allowing people to select the location by paying PLC, they are denying an opportunity to those who don’t have money to pay such charges. Under the previous allotment, all applicants had equal opportunity to get a first or a ground floor.”Urban planners are divided. While some say it is against the mandate of DDA, others say it necessary to change the norms to remain relevant. AK Jain, former planning commission with DDA, said, “It is a good move, as it will give people a choice to opt for a location, floor. etc., of their choice. It will also help DDA ensure better response to its housing scheme. This is a common practice by private developers.”In-situ rehabIn another important decision, the land-owning agency on Tuesday allowed private developers involved in in-situ redevelopment projects under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana to decide the type of development in the remunerative component and use floor area ratio up to 300.It is through the remunerative component, which is on 40% of the total area, that developers recover the cost of the in-situ project and provide houses to slum dwellers at affordable rates.“Currently, developers had to plan the remunerative project as per the prevailing land use. Due to this, some projects were not financially viable for the developer,” said an official.A decision was also taken to amend the ‘Nazul rule’ to allow group housing plots to be auctioned to private developers and organisations to meet the city’s housing requirement. The DDA had advertised for the auction of nine group housing plots in January and May but had to withdraw due to technical reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-pay-to-pick-a-dda-flat-of-your-choice/story-Jo3UsFYmE9Esp2STK3jSYL.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||North civic body mayor suspends 22 councillors, AAP says it’s undemocratic||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor on Tuesday suspended 22 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillors for creating a ruckus and disrupting the proceedings of the corporation’s House. As per the mayor’s order, the suspended councillors will not be allowed to attend the next three House meetings.AAP senior leader and MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said the councillors were suspended “undemocratically” and that they will hold a day-long sit-in protest on Wednesday outside the North MCD mayor Jai Prakash’s office, demanding roll back of the suspension order.The AAP has 30 councillors in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which is ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The House convened on Tuesday to discuss the financial crunch being faced by the civic body and ways to boost revenue to pay salaries to 55,000 employees and dues of over 20,000 pensioners. “I had given the AAP councillors a warning even in the previous House meetings to not raise slogans and allow the proceedings to go on peacefully. However, today again when such an important issue was being discussed, they continued to raise slogans and came into the well of the House. I will not allow them to attend the proceedings of the House for the next three meetings,” said Jai Prakash. The cash-strapped civic body has been unable to pay salaries of its employees including doctors, nursing staff, paramedics, teachers as well as safai karamcharis. Leader of the Opposition in the North Corporation and AAP councillor Vikas Goel said the AAP members were raising relevant questions but they were not allowed to participate in the discussion. “We had filed a short notice to discuss the various sources of revenue such as the recovery of payments from parking contractors, among others. They did not take up the discussion even towards the end of proceedings,” said Goel. Pathak said the AAP councillors wanted to fix accountability for the poor financial condition of the civic body. “The BJP is so scared that they are trying to muzzle AAP’s voice. Today, Delhi is the dirtiest city of India and the AAP wanted to discuss this matter with the mayor. We also pointed out that the budget of all the MCDs is around Rs 18,000 crore but the municipal staff are not getting paid for the past several months. The AAP councillors wanted to know where the money went,” Pathak said addressing a press conference.Pathak said the suspension means that the AAP councillors will not be able to attend the House for the next three months because the North MCD House usually meets only once a month. Responding to AAP’s allegations, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the Kejriwal government owes crores of rupees to the three municipal corporations.”It is because of sheer political malice that the Delhi government has neither released the entire funds allocated to the MCDs of their budget and whatever fund is given, it is not given on time,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-civic-body-mayor-suspends-22-councillors-aap-says-it-s-undemocratic/story-5aEKPNwjmPvFDfpvWjWHHJ.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||7 state agencies owe DJB Rs 6,811 crore in bills: Raghav Chadha||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said seven government agencies, including the three municipal corporations, have not paid water and sewerage dues for years, amounting to Rs 6,811 crore. The DJB issued show cause and recovery notices to all departments, asking them to pay the dues at the earliest. Chadha said the Covid-19 pandemic had hit the economy hard and so it was imperative for the Delhi government to recover all its dues.The seven agencies are the Indian Railways, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), Delhi Development Authority (DDA), Delhi Police and the North, East and South Delhi municipal corporations. “The Indian Railways, managed by the Central government, owes the highest dues -- Rs 3,283 crore. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation owes the second-highest dues, amounting to Rs 2,466 crore,” Chadha said at a press conference on Tuesday.The Indian Railways spokesperson did not comment on the matter. North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash reacting over the DJB notice said, “Firstly, the DJB cannot charge commercial fee on water and sewerage from a municipal corporation, as we providing public services. Secondly, they owe us at least ₹300 crore as compensation for cutting roads. Besides, they also owe us house tax for all their buildings, the amount of which will also run into crores.”Despite repeated attempts, the DDA and CPWD could not be reached for a comment. “Delhi Police is yet to pay bills of Rs 614 crore while the CPWD and the DDA owe Rs 190 crore and Rs 128 crore, respectively. The East and South corporations owe Rs 49 crore and Rs 81 crore, respectively,” he said. The notices were issued to the departments between September 1 and September 15 under relevant sections of the Delhi Water Board Act. The agencies are required to pay the dues within 40 days of the receipt of the notices, said Chadha. He said if the agencies fail to pay the dues in time, the DJB will be forced to use penal provisions to recover the money. “The pandemic and all of the other factors, cumulatively, have put the DJB in a precarious situation. If the dues are not cleared within the stipulated time, the board shall be constrained and left with no other option but to initiate coercive action until the full and final payment is recovered,” said Chadha. Chadha said these were unprecedented times and every government department was having a hard time in managing finances. The DJB had its own financial liabilities and needed to recover these dues in order to keep providing the essential water and sewerage services, he said. A senior police officer said they will look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-govt-agencies-owe-rs-6-811-crore-to-djb-as-water-and-sewage-dues/story-ZeuWRxvIWZhYsSltUiCSEK.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Four Youth Congress office holders among five more held for burning tractor at India Gate||The Delhi Police has arrested five more people, including the Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon, who had allegedly led the group that had set afire a tractor at India Gate on Monday morning. On Monday, around 7.30 am, Dhillon and 20-25 others had set a tractor on fire at Rajpath near India Gate lawns in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the newly passed farm laws. The police on Tuesday also wrote to Punjab Police, demanding action against four Punjab Police personnel who had allegedly escorted the group of protesters to India Gate on Monday morning.Police said of the five men arrested on Tuesday, four are affiliated with the Youth Congress. Apart from Dhillon, who was arrested from a luxury hotel in Delhi, the others were identified as Harish Panwar, national general secretary of All India Youth Congress; Abraham Roy Mani, national general secretary of the All India Youth Congress; and Bunty Shelke, secretary of the All India Youth Congress, who is also in charge of Punjab Youth Congress.Police also arrested a driver, Omprakash, a resident of Pathankot, who had come to Delhi with the other protesters.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said police received information that Dhillon was staying at a city hotel. “We sent our team there and he was arrested. Based on the information he gave, the other three Youth Congress members were arrested from different parts of the city. They have all been charged under Section 3 of the Epidemic Act, 51(B) Disaster Management Act, Section 4 of the Damage to Public Property Act, and under relevant Indian Penal Code sections for creating mischief by fire, and obstructing public way, among others.Singhal confirmed that the Delhi Police has also written to Punjab Police on Tuesday, demanding disciplinary action against four policemen who had escorted Dhillon and others in uniform up to India Gate. Punjab Youth Congress vice president Gurjot Singh Dhindsa said they have no regrets and are ready to face any legal action. “We are fighting for the rights of Punjab farmers. Another protest is being planned Delhi but I cannot share details,” he said.Police said the group was not stopped by any policemen as they were accompanied by policemen and, hence, could successfully reach Rajpath, where the tractor was set afire.Police had arrested five men on Monday. The men had even raised slogans of ‘Jai jawan jai kisan’ and ‘Bhagat Singh amar rahein’ in support of the farmers’ agitation . The protesters went live on social media and clicked group pictures alongside the burning tractor. They were also carrying a picture of Bhagat Singh, police said.Following the incident, the Delhi Police has stepped up security in and around India Gate. The police have also tightened security across the city’s borders last week, amid the ongoing farmers’ protest in Punjab and Haryana against the newly passed farm bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-youth-congress-office-holders-among-five-more-held-for-burning-tractor-at-india-gate/story-dUKLBU7CrEa79LJhyRxyTN.html
30-09-2020||Delhi||Centre convenes meeting to review anti-pollution steps||With farm fires flaring in parts of Punjab and Haryana, the Centre has called a meeting of several states’ environment ministers on October 1, which will also be attended by state pollution control boards and municipal authorities, to review air pollution control measures states and Centre formulated in 2016. However, senior officials warned that prevailing discontentment against the farm bills may render tackling stubble burning an uphill task this year as well.Officials of the Punjab Pollution Control Board said 350 stubble fire cases have been identified in the state since September 21 this year, even as month-long trials of the microbial consortium — developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute, are underway in the state, as well as Haryana. The consortium helps decompose stubble without the need for straw management machinery — the purchase of which is a major hurdle for small and marginal farmers, thereby hindering the mitigation of stubble fires. In 2019, the Supreme Court had asked Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to pay Rs100 per quintal of crop as an incentive to paddy farmers who have not burnt stubble on their fields, but that plan hasn’t been implemented yet.Punjab is in talks with Centre to make funds available for the incentive. “The Punjab government has sought the Centre’s support for the incentive. The government is very serious about tracking down violators. Around 8,000 people have been deployed at the village and district levels to track fires. Machinery is being made available to all farmers, especially marginal farmers,” said Karunesh Garg, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) member secretary. Just around 25% of farmers in Haryana have access to straw management machinery, senior state officials said. “We are providing subsidised equipment to individuals and cooperatives for the in-situ management of crop stubble. We are also providing ₹1,000 per acre subsidy for farmers choosing ex-situ options (like using for fodder). Our assessment is that 25% farmers have access to straw management machinery. For marginal farmers even rentals are not being charged by cooperative societies. So, we are expecting a reduction in fires,” said Sanjeev Kaushal, additional chief secretary of Haryana’s agriculture and farmers’ welfare department.Javadekar on Tuesday said he will speak about the farm bill agitation and the issue of air pollution from stubble fires separately and said the two are not to be discussed together. “We came up with short-term, medium term and long-term plans to control pollution in 2016. We plan to review implementation of those plans and assess preparedness for this winter,” Javadekar said.He added that two meetings with northwestern states was also held in the past month — one headed by the cabinet secretary, and another by the principal secretary to the Prime Minister. Javadekar said the Centre had accepted the air pollution problem and brought out policies to deal with it over the past four years. “The PM brought out the national air quality index (NAQI) so that people can easily understand pollution levels. The Badarpur power plant was shut down, the Sonepat thermal power plant was also phased out, we built the peripheral expressway which was pending for 15 years. The Eastern Peripheral Expressway ensured that 60,000 trucks which passed through Delhi polluting it to reach other states could bypass Delhi, BS- 6 emission standards have been introduced and BS VI fuel is also available. We introduced the Waste Management Rules, 2016, which include rules for construction and demolition waste, 3000 industries in NCR have got piped gas supply. So, we are working on all fronts,” Javadekar said, adding that ICAR will conduct various trials this year to curb crop stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-convenes-meeting-to-review-anti-pollution-steps/story-YQWOWJ6XmbEFibSFpo9TDP.html
30-09-2020||Pune||Post-Ganesh fest surge has Pune civic admin sounding ‘stay home’ alarm for Navratri||A surge of Covid-19-positive cases in the city after the Ganesh Festival earlier this month now has the civic administration worried about the upcoming According to Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao, the average caseload in the city this week has come down to 1,500 from an earlier 1,900, during the first two weeks of September, when the spread of the virus was being attributed to the Ganesh festival.Due to cases rising between September 1 and September 17, the city’s positivity rate, which was at 20 percent in the first week of August, touched 30 per cent.“Pune city, parts of the district and Pimpri-Chinchwad saw a Covid-19 surge after the festival. During the first two weeks, PMC areas reported, on average, 1,900 positive cases daily. Now that has dropped to 1,500 per day. Experts are hoping it will drop further, but the main challenge in front of us is now the Navratri festival,” said Rao, who, along with municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and district collector Rajesh Deshmukh held a joint online press conference on Tuesday.To avoid a the repeat of the post-Ganesh festival scenario, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar warned citizens not to step out of their homes unnecessarily. The warning came even as the Maharashtra government asked for the Navratri and Dussehra festivals to be celebrated in a low-key manner.The government has also prohibited dandiya, which attracts a large number of revellers for all nine days of Navratri. “If citizens do not follow the guidelines and instructions given by the government, again there will be a surge,” said Kumar. According to Rao, with cases coming down, the city’s positivity ratio this week is at 24%. “I would like to appeal sincerely to citizens to follow the guidelines and celebrate Navratri at home only. If people do not roam, we will be able to bring down the numbers, otherwise there will be a surge again, putting pressure on medical manpower and the administration,” said Rao. Vikram Kumar said, “During the Ganesh festival, people visited each other and travelled to nearby places. Immediately after the festival, positive cases increased in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/post-ganesh-fest-surge-has-civic-admin-sounding-stay-home-alarm-for-navratri/story-KjlDy4YcgR0HRIfRlKEGQN.html
30-09-2020||Pune||Pune’s additional civic chief orders inquiry into allegations of mis-mgmt of MPJAY at private hospital||Rubal Agarwal, Pune’s additional municipal commissioner has launched an inquiry into a complaint against a private hospital, Rising Medicare in Kharadi, for claiming coverage under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Yojana (MPJAY) scheme and not refunding the said amount.“I have got this complaint and we have launched an inquiry into the matter,” Agarwal said on Tuesday.Dr Vinod Bharati, director at the hospital, said, “This is completely false. In fact, until our hospital has processed maximum claims under the scheme for which we were appreciated by the MPJAY scheme. We immediately intimate the patient that the refund has been sanctioned under the scheme and that they can collect their cheque. Also, across the hospital we have also put up banners to provide all information to the relatives. We have proof to counter this claim.” The son of the 75-year-old woman who died due to Covid-19 alleged that the hospital charged for treatment and applied for the MPJAY scheme.The relative alleged that the hospital also refused to refund the money until a local politician intervened. However, Dr Bharati claims, “The patient’s relatives did not submit any documents until we followed up on the matter.”The 48-year-old man, son of the deceased, said, “I admitted my mother to the hospital in Kharadi on August 12 at 11:30 pm and we got to know that she is Covid-19 positive. She was in critical care and needed a ventilator. Unfortunately, she died within 24 hours on August 13. We had submitted Rs 35,000 during admission and after the death, the hospital refunded Rs 5,760 the very next day. However, a few days ago I got a call from a government official who said that my mother’s treatment would be covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Yojana. The hospital did not inform me about the same. Later, when I investigated, I got to know that the hospital did get the funds from the scheme and did not refund my money.”MNS leader Vasant More said, “The hospital refunded the amount after I intervened in the matter. We had to talk to the hospital authorities who later paid back Rs 16,000 under the sanction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/addl-civic-chief-orders-inquiry-into-allegations-of-mis-mgmt-of-mpjy-at-pvt-hosp/story-CpQ6MSFARyZtQPIvcLccCN.html
30-09-2020||Pune||At Pune’s Lohegaon airport, departures still outdoing arrivals||On May 25, when air traffic was allowed to resume in the country, as many as 2,500 domestic passengers flew out from Pune’s Lohegaon international airport. That figure touched 7,500 passengers on September 25. The latest figures released by airport authorities show that 2,61,320 passengers have arrived in the city between May 25 and September 25. However, 2,82,847 passengers departed from the city during the same period. According to the Lohegaon Airport authorities, on September 25, the airport recorded its highest footfall in terms of passengers in four months, to and fro, a total of 7,500.“There has been an increase in the number of flights from Pune and also the number of passengers flying have increased during the last four months,” said Kuldeep Singh, director, Lohegaon Airport.Dhairyasheel Vandekar, an aviation analyst, said, “The central government is taking strong steps to ensure strict implementation of Covid-19 travel guidelines. Traveller numbers this year will increase gradually. At least air traffic has increased after the reopening and this figure is likely to up in the next few months.” According to Lohegaon airport authorities, from October 26, the runaway will be available for 12 hours only due to re-carpeting of the surface. The airport authorities say they have already intimated airline managements about the change in timings which will be in place for at least 20 days.Mihika Sethia, an IT professional and frequent flyer based in Pune, said, “Covid-19 is there, but I have to travel to meet my ailing parents who stay in Delhi. I will remain in quarantine as advised by the airline authorities and the health department,” she said.Work on new 1,000-car parking lot gets underwayLohegaon Airport authorities have embarked on an ambitious parking facility project, aimed at increasing the parking capacity by four times the current number. The Rs 120-crore project will accommodate 1,000 cars compared to the current capacity of 250 and is spread over 9000 square feet. Work is expected to be completed by April 2022.Kuldeep Singh, director, Lohegaon airport, said that the new parking facility was being constructed taking into account the future needs of the airport and the number of passengers flying in. “Currently, there is adequate parking for passengers at the airport, but new arrangements are being made to address future requirements,” Singh said. Currently, drivers are billed Rs 300 as parking charges for 24 hours at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-pune-s-lohegaon-airport-departures-still-outdoing-arrivals/story-wCtcAvoTL1AbB8dUXRQ64L.html
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Baroda assembly byelection on November 3, counting on November 10||Polling for the Baroda assembly seat, which fell vacant upon the death of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda on April 12, will be held on November 3, the Election Commission (EC) said on Tuesday. The votes will be counted on November 10. As per the Representation of People Act, an assembly byelection must be conducted within six months of creation of the vacancy. However, the bypolls were delayed due to the pandemic. Section 151-A of the Act provides that the EC, in consultation with the central government, can defer the byelection if it certifies that it is difficult to hold the polls within the said period. As per the schedule announced by the EC, a notification will be issued on October 10 and the nomination process will start on the same day. The last date for filing nominations is October 16. The nominations will be scrutinised on October 17. The last date for withdrawing is October 19.With the EC announcing the poll schedule, model code of conduct has been enforced in Sonepat. Earlier, Haryana’s chief electoral officer had sent a report on the prevalence of Covid infection in the district. The district has around 8,000 cumulative cases and stands third in the state. As per the EC’s broad guidelines for conduct of general and byelections amid the pandemic, there shall be a maximum of 1,000 electors instead of 1,500 at a polling station.Campaigning guidelines The EC has stipulated that only a group of five people, including the candidate, but excluding security personnel will be allowed to participate in door-to-door campaigning. During road shows, the convoy of vehicles must be broken after every five vehicles and the interval between two sets of convoys should be half-an-hour. The EC has decided to use electronic voting machines and a voter verifiable paper audit trail at all polling stations for the bypoll. Public gatherings and rallies can be held subject to adherence to Covid guidelines, the EC said. It will fall on the district election officer (DEO) and district superintendent of police to ensure the number of attendees does not exceed the limit prescribed by State Disaster Management Authority. The DEO has been directed to depute sector health regulators to ensure Covid guidelines are followed. The contesting parties and candidates have been asked to ensure all Covid-related requirements (face masks, sanitisers and thermal scanning) are fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-baroda-assembly-byelection-on-november-3-counting-on-november-10/story-etnGDMM6YKUaWh0gIc9SRM.html
30-09-2020||World||Man arrested in ambush of two Los Angeles County deputies||Investigators have arrested and charged a man in connection with the shooting of two Los Angeles County sheriff’s deputies earlier this month as they sat in a squad car, authorities said Wednesday.Attempted murder charges were filed against Deonte Lee Murray, 36, District Attorney Jackie Lacey said in a press conference.Murray was arrested two weeks ago in connection with a separate carjacking and he was expected to be arraigned later Wednesday.The deputies, who suffered head wounds in the Sept. 12 ambush, have since been released from the hospital and are recovering.Surveillance video showed a person on foot approach the patrol car, parked at a Metro rail station in the city of Compton, and fire a handgun through the passenger-side window. The deputies were able to radio for help despite their wounds.The deputies, a 31-year-old woman and 24-year-old man who have not been identified publicly, graduated together from the sheriff’s academy 14 months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-arrested-in-ambush-of-two-los-angeles-county-deputies/story-n7Xve3bMjq26Bd5tJ4fpxO.html
30-09-2020||World||Julian Assange bugged while at Ecuadorian Embassy, UK court told||Julian Assange’s conversations in the latter part of his 7-year stay at the Ecuadorian Embassy in London were systematically bugged, even in the toilet, a London court heard Wednesday.In written statements at Assange’s extradition hearing, two anonymous witnesses who worked for a Spanish firm with a security contract at the embassy said the WikiLeaks founder faced an intensifying bugging operation from 2017 onwards after Donald Trump became US president.Judge Vanessa Baraitser on Tuesday granted the two witnesses anonymity amid fears for their safety. Lawyers acting on behalf of the US government did not contest the submission of the anonymous statements but said they were largely irrelevant to the matter under consideration in London’s Old Bailey court.The two witnesses alleged that David Morales, the director of Spanish security firm Undercover Global, switched to “the dark side” and had instructed the installation of cameras with sophisticated audio capabilities to secretly record Assange’s meetings at the embassy, particularly those with his lawyers.Assange lived in the embassy for seven years from 2012 after seeking refuge there while fearing his potential extradition to the US He was evicted in April 2019 and has been in a London prison since.The anonymous witnesses both claimed that Morales said the surveillance was initiated at the behest of “our American friends” and that he had been handsomely rewarded.One of the witnesses said Morales traveled to Las Vegas around July 2016 to showcase the security firm and subsequently obtained a “flashy contract” with the Las Vegas Sands, which was owned by Sheldon Adelson, a wealthy associate of Trump’s.“After returning from one of his trips to the United States, David Morales gathered all the workers in the office in Jerez and told us that ‘We have moved up and from now on we will be playing in the big league,’” the witness said.The other anonymous witness, who was employed as an IT expert from 2015, alleged that while in Jerez, the city in southern Spain where UC Global’s had its headquarters, Morales had said in December 2017 that “the Americans were desperate.” The witness said a suggestion was made that “more extreme measures should be employed against the ‘guest’ to put an end to the situation of Assange’s permanence in the embassy.”Specifically, the witness said the idea was raised for the door to the embassy being left open, “which would allow the argument that this had been an accidental mistake, which would allow persons to enter from outside the embassy and kidnap the asylee.” There was, the witness claimed, even a suggestion that Assange could be poisoned.“All of these suggestions Morales said were under consideration during his dealing with his contacts in the United States,” the witness said.The witness also alleged that Morales had asked him soon after to install a microphone in an extinguisher in an embassy meeting room, as well as in a toilet where Assange had been holding meetings due to concern he was the target of espionage.“I used a nearby socket to conceal a microphone in a cable in the toilet in the back of the embassy,” the witness said. “This was never removed, and may still be there.”US prosecutors have indicted the 49-year-old Assange on 17 espionage charges and one charge of computer misuse over WikiLeaks’ publication of secret American military documents a decade ago. The charges carry a maximum sentence of 175 years in prison.Assange’s defense team says he is entitled to First Amendment protections for the publication of leaked documents that exposed US military wrongdoing in Iraq and Afghanistan. They have also said he is suffering from wide-ranging mental health issues, including suicidal tendencies, that could be exacerbated if he ends up in inhospitable prison conditions in the USAssange’s extradition hearing, which was delayed by the coronavirus pandemic, is due to end this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/julian-assange-bugged-while-at-ecuadorian-embassy-uk-court-told/story-ZSAOHNZ0nzZhDFfo8WKUDM.html
30-09-2020||World||Iraq hopes US reconsiders embassy closure, warns of danger||Iraq’s foreign minister on Wednesday said his country hopes the US will reconsider its decision to close its diplomatic mission in Baghdad, as a group of ambassadors expressed their willingness to help Iraq tackle security challenges.Fuad Hussein spoke at a news conference during a heated week sparked by the US warning that it was taking measures to close its embassy in Baghdad. The US said it would be closed unless the Iraqi government took action to stop frequent rocket and improvised explosive device attacks by Iran-backed militias and rogue armed elements against the American presence in the country.Hussein called the threat to close the US Embassy “dangerous” because “there is a possibility that the American withdrawal from Baghdad will lead to other (embassy) withdrawals.”Rocket and mortar attacks have targeted the Green Zone, the seat of Iraq’s government and home to many foreign embassies, including the US Embassy. These attacks have also targeted Baghdad’s international airport, and a recent rocket attack intended for the airport struck a residential home, killing six Iraqi civilians, all women and children.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivered the embassy closure warning to Iraq’s President Barham Saleh and Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi in separate phone calls last week.A US official said the warning was not an imminent ultimatum. But some Iraqi officials appear to be under the impression it may coincide with the expiry of the latest Iran sanctions waiver in two months time. Iraq desperately needs the waivers to import Iranian energy. The US official was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.In the press conference, Hussein said: “We hope that the US government and American administration will reconsider this decision. ... Because the decision is a wrong one, it was taken at the wrong time and the wrong place.”He said it would also send a message to the armed groups and extremists perpetuating the attacks that they were effective in reaching their political aims.He said Iraq acknowledged the domestic climate in the US ahead of the November presidential election, which might have precipitated the warning. But he said the new Iraqi government — barely in office four months — was taking measures.“It is the government’s duty to take action and it has taken some actions,” he said, naming security measures in the Green Zone and the airport.His comments came after a group of 25 ambassadors and charges d’affaires in Iraq released a statement in support of the Iraqi government and stability in the country, which was issued following a meeting with al-Kadhimi.In Wednesday’s statement — which included ambassadors from the US, the UK, Saudi Arabia and Canada — the diplomatic envoys expressed “deep concern” at the rise in the number of attacks against diplomatic missions in Iraq.They welcomed the actions taken by al-Kadhimi, including recent security operations and heightened security around the airport, and encouraged more measures to consolidate forces within the Green Zone.“As friends of Iraq, we also expressed our willingness to help Iraq in addressing these security challenges,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraq-hopes-us-reconsiders-embassy-closure-warns-of-danger/story-LnusUCTzpNwed2ZIJFnCyN.html
30-09-2020||World||Winds rake northeastern parts of US, leaving thousands without power||Winds close to hurricane strength swept across parts of the northeastern US on Wednesday morning, toppling trees, taking down power lines and leaving tens of thousands of residents without power.The National Weather Service reported that winds gusted as high as 72 mph (155 kph) near Boston at around 7 a.m. before levelling off through the morning. Power lines were reported down across the region, with the worst damage reported in southern New England.In Massachusetts, more than 65,000 utility customers had lost power by 9 a.m., according to the state’s Emergency Management Agency, but within an hour the figure had dropped to about 45,000.Rhode Island and Connecticut each had more than 20,000 customers without power, leading some schools to move classes online or cancel them entirely.Toppled trees snarled traffic in parts of Massachusetts, including in Boston, where a large tree blocked the exit ramp from busy Storrow Drive to Massachusetts General Hospital. State Police said on Twitter that the ramp would be closed for an “extended period of time” while a contractor was called in to remove the tree.Fire officials in Plympton, Massachusetts, said firefighters responded to calls for trees and wires down or on fire. In one case, a tree landed on a car with adults and children in it, the fire department said on Twitter. No injuries were reported.In Maine, gusts approaching 50 mph (80 kph) knocked out power for more than 40,000 homes and businesses, officials said.The wind gusted around 40 mph (64 kph) or higher in Bangor, Portland and Bar Harbor on Wednesday morning, with stronger gusts on the way, the National Weather Service reported.The weather service issued wind advisories for much of New England through Wednesday morning, but the system was expected to pass through by mid-afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/winds-rake-northeastern-parts-of-us-leaving-thousands-without-power/story-BYVWYfYUywKOtbv75PM2xN.html
30-09-2020||World||Trump questions credibility of India’s Covid tally to defend his handling of pandemic||US President Donald Trump has raised questions over the credibility of India’s Covid-19 tally, claiming that it was among the countries that do not accurately disclose the number of deaths due to the pandemic.The remarks by Trump came during his first presidential debate with Democratic challenger Joe Biden, who attacked the US president over the handling of the coronavirus crisis and said the president lied to Americans on the Covid-19 pandemic, which has killed more than 200,000 people and infected over seven million others in the country.Defending his handling of the crisis, Trump said that “millions” could have died in America without his actions.“When you talk about due the numbers, you don’t know how many people died in China. You don’t know how many people died in Russia. You don’t know how many people died in India. They don’t exactly give you a right number. Just so you understand,” Trump said.Trump has repeatedly blamed China, where the coronavirus first emerged in December last year and spread around the world, killing over one million and infecting more than 30 million people.Watch| Donald Trump Vs Joe Biden: Full presidential debate | US Election 2020 Attacking Trump over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, Biden said the president has “no plan” to fight the deadly disease and he lied to Americans.“He still hasn’t even acknowledged that he knew this was happening, knew how dangerous it was going to be back in February, and he didn’t even tell you. He is on record as saying it. He panicked or he just looked at the stock market, one of the two, because guess what, a lot of people die and a lot more are going to die unless he gets a lot smarter, a lot quicker,” he said.Trump hit back, saying, “don’t ever use the word smart with me.” During the first of the three presidential debates in Cleveland, Ohio, on Tuesday night which was marked by angry interruptions and bitter accusations, the two candidates fiercely clashed over a number of issues, including racism, economy and climate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-questions-credibility-of-india-s-covid-tally-to-defend-his-handling-of-pandemic/story-LHAvTvuWXJijx7qgY5jvbL.html
30-09-2020||World||US Air Force fighter jet crashes after collision with refueling plane||A US Air Force F-35B fighter jet crashed after it collided with an aerial refueling tanker on Tuesday, a US marines unit said.The pilot of the F-35B jet ejected and was being treated, while the crew of the KC-130J refueling aircraft had landed safely, the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing said.The crash occurred over Imperial County, California, ABC News reported. “At approximately 1600 it was reported that an F-35B made contact with a KC-130J during an air-to-air refueling evolution, resulting in the crash of the F-35B,” the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing said in a tweet.The cause of the crash was under investigation, the marines said. The refueling plane had returned to Thermal Airport and all crew members were safe, it added.The marines unit did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-air-force-fighter-jet-crashes-after-collision-with-refueling-plane/story-I84BqggKm2jbrTj8Mobr4K.html
30-09-2020||World||Covid-19 leads to fewer UK visas to Indians||Curbs by the United Kingdom, India and other countries due to the coronavirus pandemic led to a ‘significant’ fall in the number of UK visas issued, according to latest immigration figures for the year ending June 2020, by when the virus was rampant.The Home Office figures reflect the impact of the pandemic until June, but later figures are expected to show a bigger fall in visas issued to Indian students, since most such visas are issued in July and August, before the academic year begins in September.The visas of 12,708 stranded Indians were extended due to Covid-19-related issues until June 2020, mainly because they were unable to travel home due to flights being discontinued.Overall, in the year ending June 2020, there were 1.7 million applications for Visitor visas, a decrease of 37% compared to the previous year, largely as a result of the pandemic, officials said, adding that the largest falls were for Chinese (272,105, down 44%) and Indians (206,206, down 41%).During the same period, Indian professionals granted Tier 2 work visas accounted for 48% of all visas issued, but their number decreased by a quarter (25%) to 42,196. For those already in the UK, Indian professionals were granted the highest number of all work-related extensions during the year (41% of the total).Officials said overall, there was a “notable increase” in the number of Tier 4 student visas issued to Indians during the year, but “very few” were granted in the latest quarter until June. From 21,868 visas granted to Indians, the figure until June 2020 was 48,297.The Home Office said: “Indian nationals saw a notable increase in the number of Tier 4 visas granted, more than doubling (up 121% to 48,297) compared with the year ending June 2019, and continuing an increase seen since 2016”. “Although very few Tier 4 visas were granted to Indian nationals in the latest quarter (down 100% compared to the same quarter in 2019), there was a 136% increase in grants in the first three quarters of the period (July 2019 to March 2020), leading to an overall increase for the year ending June 2020”.“The majority of study visas are granted in the third quarter of the year (July to September) and as such, the full effects of the Covid-19 pandemic will not yet be fully apparent”, it added.The figures show that the top non-EU nationalities being granted British citizenship after fulfilling requirements were Indian (13,564), Pakistani (12,607) and Nigerian (8,080) nationals. The largest number of recorded voluntary returns was of Indian nationals (1,290, or 16% of the total).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-leads-to-fewer-uk-visas-to-indians/story-1G9rhu22Mhpu3K85WA8Y5L.html
30-09-2020||World||Imran Khan faces pushback over Gilgit-Baltistan move. China ties his hands | Analysis||Prime Minister Imran Khan’s move to convert Gilgit-Baltistan (GB) in the occupied northern areas into Pakistan’s fifth province at China’s behest has provoked a pushback within the country. This week, Imran Khan’s fierce rival Maulana Fazlur Rehman joined the ranks of opposition leaders who have spoken out against Imran Khan for implementing Beijing’s agenda.The Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F) chief underlined that turning the Gilgit-Baltistan area into a full-fledged province would end up validating India’s August 5 decision to treat Jammu and Kashmir as a centrally-administered territory.“A deal has been made over the blood of Kashmiris... Business is being done in the name of Kashmir diplomacy,” the firebrand cleric told reporters on Tuesday in Athmuqam. He pledged “not to allow the partition of Kashmir”.Nearly 70 km away, Latif Akbar, president of the PoK unit of Pakistan Peoples Party told reporters in the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir capital Muzaffarabad that the federal government’s move to treat Gilgit-Baltistan as a province was not acceptable to them.Pakistan has traditionally claimed that parts of Kashmir it controls are semi-autonomous and not formally integrated into the country in line with its position that a referendum should be carried out across the whole region.Gilgit-Baltistan’s assimilation into the Islamic state is widely considered as an implicit recognition from Islamabad’s perspective that the Line of Control (LoC) is the border between India and Pakistan, a proposal that had been floated by Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Moeed W Yusuf a decade earlier.Expenditure on some CPEC key projects (million $)Gwadar East-Bay Expressway 141New Gwadar International Airport 230Construction of Breakwaters 123Dredging of Berthing Areas and Channels 27Development of Free Zone 32Pak-China Friendship Hospital 100Pak China Technical and Vocational Institute at Gwadar 10Cross Border optical Fiber Cable 44Thakot-Havelin Section Karakoram Highway Phase II 1,386Multan-Sukkur Section Peshawar-Karachi Motorway 2,980Khuzdar-Basima Road N-30 80Upgradation of Dera Ismail Khan-Zhob Phase I195Karakoram Highway Thakot-Raikot 719Expansion, Reconstruction of Karachi–Peshawar Railway Line 8,172Havelin Dry Port 65The Imran Khan government has, however, made it clear that it has no intention to go back on its plan for GB and has proposed as the first step, to hold an election for the legislative assembly of Gilgit-Baltistan on November 15.Pakistan watchers in India link Imran Khan and Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa’s anxiety to ramrod through the change in GB’s status to mounting pressure from China to secure the China Pakistan Economic Corridor that Beijing wants to expand under Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative, or BRI.It is a plan that has been in the making for four years, long before Imran Khan came to power on the back of populist assurances to root out corruption and reduce poverty.Indeed, it was after Xi Jinping’s visit to Pakistan in 2016 that the first reports of a plan to upgrade the constitutional status of the Gilgit-Baltistan region emerged. A report by news agency AFP in January 2016 quoted an official: “China cannot afford to invest billions of dollars on a road that passes through a disputed territory claimed both by India and Pakistan.”This statement made four years ago, a Pakistan watcher in New Delhi said, explains the Imran Khan government’s push to change GB’s status in 2020. And there is nothing that Khan can do about it. “He doesn’t have a choice and has to go along with Beijing”, he said.The China-Pakistan Economic Corridor - like much of the Belt and Roads Initiative conceived by Xi Jinping - is essentially designed to serve China’s interests rather than the participating countries. This explains the focus on development of Gwadar port, often described as the crown jewel of CPEC that has proven to be a tax haven for China and helped cut costs of its exports.Former Pentagon official Dr Michael Rubin recently described the pact with China on CPEC as a devil’s bargain, partnering with a country that has been responsible for the incarceration in concentration camps of one million Muslims and thinks nothing about killing Pakistanis and humiliating Pakistan.For China, Pakistan can be a major market, provide land links into West Asia, and build a strategic port at Gwadar that would help Beijing reduce its dependence on the Malacca Strait, he said.The money that Beijing has poured into Pakistan’s CPEC leg has already gagged the Islamic country from commenting on the brutalisation of muslims in Xinjiang province. Beijing does also use Islamabad to keep India engaged with its terror camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-faces-pushback-over-gilgit-baltistan-move-china-ties-his-hands-analysis/story-om5iNDEVGSVCeeBMDlFCSJ.html
30-09-2020||World||During visit to Rome, Pompeo pushes criticism of religious freedom in China||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo attacked China’s record on religious freedom on Wednesday, during a visit to Rome that has been overshadowed by his criticism of the Vatican for pursuing closer ties with Beijing.“Nowhere is religious freedom under assault more than in China,” Pompeo told a symposium hosted by the US Embassy to the Holy See, saying the Chinese Communist Party was looking to “to snuff out the lamp of freedom ... on a horrifying scale”.Pompeo, an evangelical Christian who has portrayed himself as a champion of religious rights, denounced Beijing’s treatment of its Uighur Muslim minority, and said all religious groups faced repression.“The Chinese Communist Party has battered every religious community in China, Protestant house churches, Tibetan Buddhists, Falun Gong devotees and more. Nor of course have Catholics been spared this wave of repression,” he said.China has consistently defended its human rights record and has denied any mistreatment of Uighurs.Vatican officials expressed surprise last week when, ahead of his planned visit to Rome, Pompeo published an essay in a conservative Catholic magazine that sharply criticised the Holy See for plans to renew a two-year-old agreement with Beijing.Pompeo said the deal, which gives the pope some say over the appointment of Chinese bishops, endangers the Vatican’s moral authority. Vatican officials say that while the arrangement is not perfect, it is an improvement after decades during which Chinese Catholics who recognise the pope were forced underground.The administration of President Donald Trump has made its hard line on China a central issue in the campaign for the Nov. 3 presidential election. Trump is also strongly aligned with conservative Protestant and Catholic movements, including some that are openly critical of Pope Francis.Pompeo is due to hold talks on Thursday with Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the Vatican’s top diplomat. Pope Francis saw Pompeo when he came to Italy last year but no such meeting is scheduled this time around.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/during-visit-to-rome-pompeo-pushes-criticism-of-religious-freedom-in-china/story-cEjf4bVoYhJFjpXqnGLHaI.html
30-09-2020||World||Office ventilation raises Covid-19 risk, says Cambridge study||Ventilation systems in modern office buildings may increase the risk of exposure to the coronavirus, according to research published in the Journal of Fluid Mechanics.The University of Cambridge said on Wednesday that a research team, including Indian-origin expert Rajesh Bhagat, found that widely used ‘mixing ventilation’ systems, which are designed to keep conditions uniform in all parts of the room, disperse airborne contaminants evenly throughout the space. These contaminants may include droplets and aerosols, potentially containing viruses.The evidence, the study says, increasingly indicates that the virus is spread primarily through larger droplets and smaller aerosols, which are expelled when people cough, sneeze, laugh, talk or breathe. In addition, the data available so far indicates that indoor transmission is far more common than outdoor transmission, which is likely due to increased exposure times and decreased dispersion rates for droplets and aerosols, the study led by Paul Linden of the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics (DAMTP) says.The researchers explored a range of different modes of exhalation: nasal breathing, speaking and laughing, both with and without face masks. By imaging the heat associated with the exhaled breath, they could see how it moves through the space in each case.If the person was moving around the room, the distribution of exhaled breath was markedly different as it became captured in their wake.Bhagat, also from DAMTP, said: “You can see the change in temperature and density when someone breathes out warm air – it refracts the light and you can measure it. When sitting still, humans give off heat, and since hot air rises, when you exhale, the breath rises and accumulates near the ceiling.”The results show that room flows are turbulent and can change dramatically depending on the movement of the occupants, the type of ventilation, the opening and closing of doors and, for naturally ventilated spaces, changes in outdoor conditions., and found that masks are effective at reducing the spread of exhaled breath, and therefore droplets.The researchers found that laughing, in particular, creates a large disturbance, suggesting that if an infected person without a mask was laughing indoors, it would greatly increase the risk of transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/office-ventilation-raises-covid-19-risk-says-cambridge-study/story-DRj7I0XbRLPBDf5GifivDL.html
30-09-2020||World||Green travel: Trial begins for first hydrogen-powered train in UK||Britain on Wednesday began trial of the country’s first hydrogen-powered train that does not emit harmful gases and uses hydrogen and oxygen to produce electricity, water and heat.The trial of HydroFLEX in Warwickshire in the Midlands follows almost two years of development and more than £1 million of investment by both rolling stock company Porterbrook and the University of Birmingham, officials said.The technology, described by officials as “ground-breaking”, will also be available by 2023 to retrofit current in-service trains to hydrogen, helping decarbonise the rail network and make rail journeys greener and more efficient.Transport secretary Grant Shapps hopes the Tees Valley in north-east England will become a hydrogen transport hub.Shapps said: “As we continue on our road to a green recovery, we know that to really harness the power of transport to improve our country – and to set a global gold standard – we must truly embed change”.“That’s why I’m delighted that, through our plans to build back better, we’re embracing the power of hydrogen and the more sustainable, greener forms of transport it will bring”, he added.Stephen Jarvis, head of the College of Engineering and Physical Sciences at the University of Birmingham, added: “The HydroFLEX project is a great example of how world-class R&D, together with the right industry partnerships, can deliver decarbonisation technologies that are both innovative and practical”.“Successful mainline testing is a major milestone for HydroFLEX and is a clear demonstration of the important role hydrogen has to play in the UK’s rail industry”.The world’s first hydrogen-powered train entered service in Germany in September 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/green-travel-trial-begins-for-first-hydrogen-powered-train-in-uk/story-Knn2KuPAuvWPXKRhyeS7CK.html
30-09-2020||World||US Presidential Polls: Error leaves thousands in New York City with flawed absentee ballots||Mail-in voting has gotten off to a rocky start in New York City, where election officials sent out nearly 100,000 absentee ballots with the wrong names and addresses printed on the return envelopes. The deluge of faulty ballots, sent to voters across Brooklyn, could result in ballots being voided if voters sign their own name on return envelopes bearing different names. The New York City Board of Elections blamed the problem on the company hired to print and mail the ballots. The faulty ballots are limited to one print run of ballots sent out to Brooklyn voters, the board’s director Michael Ryan said at a board meeting Tuesday. He didn’t say during the meeting how many were printed. But Governor Andrew Cuomo’s top aide Melissa DeRosa said the issue was contained to about 100,000 ballots. All voters who got the bad ballots will receive new ones before the Nov. 3 election, with the vendor covering the cost, Ryan said. He said the move will “make certain that absolutely no disenfranchisement occurs in the borough of Brooklyn.” It’s unclear exactly how the city will handle voters who had already mailed their completed ballot back in the provided envelopes. Ryan said elections workers will reach out to voters by social media and, if available, by telephone and email addresses. And he said the board will ensure all received ballots are “appropriately processed” and tallied votes are “properly credited.” “It is essential that confidence be established on this process and that we make certain we have all the voters who potentially have a problem have a full and fair opportunity to remedy that problem,” Ryan said. The printer the city blamed for the error, Phoenix Graphics, didn’t return messages seeking comment. The Rochester-based printing company, which was founded in 1985 and calls itself the state’s largest supplier of ballot materials, is urging those who call its offices about absentee ballot issues to contact their local board of election. “Phoenix Graphics is working hard with your board of elections to ensure that everyone will have what they need to vote,” the company’s voicemail message said Tuesday. Meanwhile, the city elections board also was dealing with confusion regarding another printing anomaly on absentee ballots. Ordinarily, absentee ballots in the city are sent out with a heading identifying them as an “Official Absentee / Military Ballot.” This year, the slash between “absentee” and “military” was left out, leading some voters to believe they had mistakenly been mailed a ballot for use only by members of the military. The board tweeted that the ballot was still good for use by any registered voter. The pair of mishaps took place despite intense scrutiny of mail-in voting nationwide. And it comes on the heels of a rocky spring primary in New York in which election boards struggled to handle a record amount of voting by mail. Marla Garfield, an editor who lives in Brooklyn, said she was among those who received a ballot envelope with another person’s name. Garfield said she is “furious” about the errors and plants to vote in-person out of concern replacement ballots won’t arrive in time. She’s worried the confusion will fuel distrust in mail-in-voting. “It’s a mess, it’s an absolute mess,” she said. “The fact they don’t know how far reaching it is, is troubling,” she added. “And you have this moment where really, now this election, this is the one this is happening to?” In Brooklyn’s Sheepshead Bay section, Victoria Edel, 28, said her family of four was excited to open up their ballots to vote by mail. They had requested them online Aug. 22. Then, they discovered she had received her younger brother’s ballot envelope. Her younger brother had her mother’s. Her mother had the envelope of a woman who appears to live nearby. She said she’s worried about people who don’t watch the news and perhaps are still sending back ballots in wrong envelopes. “It feels like it’s really easy for a lot of people to be disenfranchised this way,” Edel said. She’s hopeful she’ll get her correct envelope eventually. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, more than 400,000 New York City residents voted by absentee ballot in during the primary. That was 10 times the number of absentee ballots cast in the 2016 primary. Many voters complained that their absentee ballots didn’t arrive in time for the primary. And thousands of ballots cast by mail were later disqualified for minor technical errors, including voters forgetting to sign their name, or the US Postal Service failing to put a postmark on the ballot indicating when it was sent. The city’s Board of Elections is run by Republican and Democratic appointees picked by county party leaders and is not subject to the control of City Hall. A long list of city officials and the current and past mayors have called for reforms of the body because of a history of election mismanagement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-presidential-polls-error-leaves-thousands-in-new-york-city-with-flawed-absentee-ballots/story-KxYStcWJmzgL0xfq3dHIyL.html
30-09-2020||World||Sonic boom from military jet, say police after powerful explosion rattles Paris||The sonic boom of a fighter jet breaking the sound barrier reverberated through the French capital Paris and nearby suburbs on Wednesday, the Paris police prefecture said on Twitter.The shockwave rattled windows, made birds fly up and was heard in every part of the city, leading to a surge in phone calls to police.It was not immediately clear why a fighter plane was flying over Paris. A defence ministry spokesman confirmed it was a sonic boom but did not immediately offer further comment.The police urged people not to call emergency services.Paris has been tense since a knife attack outside the former offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/major-blast-heard-all-over-paris-nearby-suburbs-source-unclear/story-D7s14W6JLeGLQFIpRX4z8I.html
30-09-2020||World||Kuwait has new ruling emir: 83-year-old Sheikh Nawaf||Kuwait’s Sheikh Nawaf Al Ahmad Al Sabah was sworn in Wednesday as the ruling emir of the tiny oil-rich country, propelled to power by the death of his half-brother after a long career in the security services.At age 83, Sheikh Nawaf is not expected to deviate from the diplomatic path charted by his predecessor, the late Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah. But his accession touched off speculation about who will become the next crown prince in the country known for its lively elected parliament and relative independence in the neighborhood of Gulf Arab monarchies.The late Sheikh Sabah was set to make his final journey to Kuwait later on Wednesday, his coffin flying back from Rochester, Minnesota, home of the flagship campus of the Mayo Clinic where he had been receiving medical treatment after surgery.Although his funeral would typically draw tens of thousands of mourning Kuwaitis and scores of foreign leaders and dignitaries, because of the coronavirus pandemic the burial will be a private service restricted to relatives, said Kuwait’s state-run news agency, KUNA. The breadth and depth of emotion over the loss of Sheikh Sabah, known for his deft diplomacy and peacemaking, was reflected in condolence messages that streamed in from countries on opposite ends of regional bitter disputes, from Saudi Arabia to Iran. Kuwait entered a solemn 40-day period of mourning on Wednesday to commemorate the leader’s life and death.Sheikh Nawaf took office as the new ruler of Kuwait in the Parliament building before rows of applauding lawmakers, clad in their traditional white robes and surgical masks because of the pandemic. He bowed slightly, touching his hands to his head in a sign of respect. With a low voice, he delivered a short address offering tribute to his late half-brother and promising to “preserve the security of Kuwait.”“Kuwait throughout its history has seen serious and tough challenges, which we have succeeded in overcoming through cooperating together,” said Sheikh Nawaf, reading from prepared remarks. “Today, our dear country also faces risks and challenges that there is no way to bypass except through unity.”After the ceremony, Sheikh Nawaf, in his flowing robe, strode into a black Mercedes as groups of soldiers delivered a crisp salute.Sheikh Nawaf’s ascent to the throne bookended a political career that spanned from interior minister to defense minister, dating back to 1991 when US troops and their allies invaded Kuwait.Sheikh Nawaf briefly served as social affairs and labor minister after the war, then as the deputy chief of Kuwait’s National Guard and again as interior minister. He became the crown prince under Sheikh Sabah in February 2006, but was not known for making any major political decisions while serving as crown prince.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kuwait-has-new-ruling-emir-83-year-old-sheikh-nawaf/story-C5c8ujREA7JT7izwg5mlyI.html
30-09-2020||World||Earthquake off Taiwan’s east coast shakes Taipei||An earthquake struck off the coast of Taiwan on Wednesday, swaying buildings in Taipei, the capital.Taiwan’s Central Weather Bureau said the magnitude 5.9 quake struck at a depth of 106 kilometers (66 miles).There were no immediate reports of damage or casualties.An Associated Press journalist said the office building where the AP bureau is in Taipei swung slightly for about 10 to 15 seconds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/earthquake-off-taiwan-s-east-coast-shakes-taipei/story-WzQoXKCsJK73RWwg6erUKK.html
30-09-2020||World||UN meeting that began with unity concludes with divisions||This year’s UN General Assembly meeting began with calls for multilateralism and cooperation — a declaration that the urgency for countries to unite “has rarely been greater.” It concluded with a parade of divisive grievances that echoed when the final gavel fell.Leader after leader in days of speeches delivered virtually stressed the importance of working together to navigate the coronavirus outbreak and the challenges that lie beyond it. As Germany’s foreign minister put it, Covid-19 “shows that international cooperation is neither an ideology nor an end in itself. On the contrary, it delivers results, far beyond the actual pandemic.”Words, though, are not results. Though the UN and most of its member states largely envision a multilateral world, the underlying issues and challenges that divide nations sat squarely in the spotlight, as the “right of reply” at the end of the closing session demonstrated vividly.One by one they came forward — lower-level diplomats tasked with replying to leaders’ speeches with intense responses.On the hot-button conflict of the moment, between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the separatist enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, diplomats from the two countries went after each other over responsibility for the latest fighting. Bangladesh went after Myanmar over the more than 700,000 Rohingya Muslims who fled a crackdown by Myanmar’s military in 2017 and are living in camps in Bangladesh, still fearful of returning home -- and Myanmar responded.Iran went after Israel over the speech by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who claimed that the Islamic Republic would have “enough enriched uranium in a few months for two nuclear bombs” after it recently began exceeding limits set by the 2015 nuclear deal with world powers.An Iranian diplomat accused Israel of disregarding UN resolutions on negotiating a two-state solution with the Palestinians, and countered that Israel “poses the most serious threats to the security of the states in the Middle East” because of its widely reported nuclear program, which Israel has never acknowledged.The United Arab Emirates took the floor over a dispute with Iran over three Iranian-occupied islands the UAE claims and Tehran’s “destabilizing conduct” in the region, including supporting Houthi Shiite rebels in Yemen. The UAE, in turn, vehemently dismissed Iran’s allegation that the UAE was destabilizing Mideast security.Iran, again asked to reply, insisting on its claim to the islands and accusing the UAE of using starvation “as a war tactic in Yemen.” The UAE intervened for a second time, insisted the islands are occupied.A Yemeni diplomat then responded to the Iranian, saying: “How does he dare speak about the situation in Yemen while he is responsible for the situation?” The Yemeni accused Iran of “continuing their intervention to destabilize my country by providing money, weapons, training and equipment to establish their expansionist plan across the region.”While all the leaders delivered prerecorded speeches, the diplomats late Tuesday spoke in person, seated behind their country’s nameplate in the vast General Assembly Hall where virus restrictions meant only one representative of each of the 193 UN member nations was allowed.The main in-person event was a virtual UN Security Council meeting that sparked one of the few real-time exchanges and centered the escalating US confrontation with China. The clash at the meeting was over responsibility for the Covid-19 pandemic, which saw Russia back Beijing. But the US-China confrontation extends to trade issues, claims in the South China Sea and Taiwan.China’s UN Mission issued a statement just before midnight Tuesday night protesting US Ambassador Kelly Craft’s participation in an online event hosted by Taiwan on Monday. It said her remarks undermined China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.“There is only one China in the world, and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China’s territory,” the mission said.In his remarks opening the global gathering, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had painted a grim picture of the state of the world: an “epochal” health crisis, economic calamity, threats to human rights and worries of a new Cold War between the US and China.Guterres called for global unity, foremost to fight the pandemic, and sharply criticized populism and nationalism as failed answers that often worsened the situation.General Assembly President Volkan Bozkir ended the six-day meeting Tuesday night on an upbeat note, returning to the need for multilateralism and unity.“The challenges facing us are enormous, but so are the possibilities of solutions,” he said. “By working together, we can overcome them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-meeting-that-began-with-unity-concludes-with-divisions/story-UGe4IpYdgxY7mR4zll5K3N.html
30-09-2020||World||Terrorism charges filed in stabbings near Charlie Hebdo’s office||A Pakistani man accused in a double stabbing outside the former Paris offices of satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo has been handed preliminary terrorism charges.The suspect told investigators he acted out of anger over caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad recently republished by the weekly newspaper.Investigating magistrates handed him preliminary charges of “attempted murder in relation with a terrorist enterprise,” the counterterrorism prosecutor’s office said Wednesday. He will remain in custody pending further investigation. Relatives and associates of the suspect were released without charge.Counterterrorism prosecutor Jean-Francois Ricard said the Pakistan-born suspect identified himself as Zaher Hassan Mahmood, 25. Ricard said the assailant did not claim an affiliation with a specific extremist group.Two people were seriously wounded in last week’s stabbing, which took place outside the newspaper’s former offices where Islamic extremists killed 12 people in January 2015. The two brothers involved in the 2015 attack targeted Charlie Hebdo because they believed the newspaper blasphemed Islam by publishing the same Muhammad caricatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/terrorism-charges-filed-in-stabbings-near-charlie-hebdo-s-office/story-wSdG7FLfZhP3UlmobMOqZN.html
30-09-2020||World||India, China discussing foreign ministers’ 5-point agenda to ease border situation: Chinese official||Diplomats from India and China are currently holding talks to implement the five-point consensus reached earlier this month by the foreign ministers of the two countries to resolve border tensions, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Wednesday.Senior diplomats from the two countries are meeting via video link under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs.The last time the WMCC met was on August 20. The two countries were unable to bridge the differences on the disengagement of the two militaries at the meeting.“Currently, China and India are holding the 19th meeting of the WMCC on border affairs. The main topics (being) discussed are how to implement the five-point consensus reached in Moscow (on September 10) by the two foreign ministers to resolve outstanding issues on the ground and to ease the situation along the border,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin.Wang was responding to a question on the WMCC meeting asked by Chinese state media.The WMCC meeting is being co-chaired by joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry and Hong Liang, director general of the boundary and oceanic department of China’s foreign ministry.This was the body’s sixth virtual meeting since the standoff along the disputed border emerged in the open in May. In his response at a regular ministry press conference on Wednesday, Wang referred to the meeting between external affairs minister, S Jaishankar and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Moscow on September 10.The two sides had reached an agreement on five points during talks between Jaishankar and Wang, comprising dialogue aimed at quick disengagement, maintaining proper distance between troops of the two sides and easing tensions, abiding by all agreements and protocols on border management, and working on new confidence-building measures once the situation eases.Sharp differences between New Delhi and Beijing have become public this week with India dismissing China’s claims that it abides by a 1959 Chinese definition of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the notional alignment dividing the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-china-discussing-foreign-ministers-5-point-agenda-to-ease-border-situation-chinese-official/story-Obeuep9vbFPExjJIHePL8H.html
30-09-2020||World||Trump drags India into US presidential debate, twice||US President Donald Trump on Tuesday alleged India, Russia and China might not be reporting correct Covid-19 toll figures as he sought to defend his own handling of the public health crisis at his first debate with Democratic challenger Joe Biden.The president also brought up the three countries in an exchange with Biden over climate change, saying India, Russia and China “send up real dirt into the air”.Trump has frequently brought up Covid-19 testing in India to claim the United States was doing a far better job of it, and attributing more testing to the higher toll. And he had previously alleged China was concealing the true magnitude of its Covid-19 crisis. But this was probably the first time he had alleged under-reporting by India.“You don’t know how many died in China. You don’t know how many people died in Russia. You don’t know how many people died in India,” he said, adding, “They don’t exactly give a straight count, just so you understand.”Watch | US Presidential Debate 2020: Trump-Biden faceoff over Covid-19 turns nastyOf the more than 1 million killed worldwide by the pandemic, over 200,000 were in the United States, 97,497 in India, 20,456 in Russia and 4,739 in China, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s Covid-19 tracker.Questions have been raised before about China’s figures that seemed to be dramatically low for a country where the epidemic started last December. It has serious credibility issues in this regard also because it did not tell the world early enough that the virus can have human-to-humsn transmission and that it can be transmitted by asymptomatic people.Trump has attacked India and China before in the context of climate change. In fact, he pulled the United States out of the Paris Accord falsely claiming it gave India and China a sweeter deal. He has repeated that claim several times since, always without any proof or truth.“China sends up real dirt into the air, Russia does, India does, they all do,” Trump said, adding, “Were supposed to be good.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-drags-india-into-us-presidential-debate-twice/story-O11hzEPgkTSTNog6YSHjcP.html
30-09-2020||World||Expatriate New Zealanders seen boosting Ardern’s election bid||When recently returned New Zealander Lara Barclay talked to fellow Kiwi expatriates in Australia, it was her country’s success in tackling coronavirus that came up again and again and the crisis role of prime minister Jacinda Ardern.Support from New Zealand’s million-strong diaspora -- equal to a fifth of the country’s resident population -- could prove a surprise boost for Ardern as the Labour Party leader seeks re-election at an Oct. 17 poll.“They thought New Zealand’s response was fantastic,” said Barclay, a victim support worker. “Every New Zealander I knew in Australia bar one ... were super impressed by New Zealand’s response and by Jacinda.”Labour is widely expected to retain power next month and hopes to rule without the support of a coalition partner, although the opposition National Party has been clawing back support in recent polls.Overseas polling began on Wednesday, but a big unknown is how many expatriates will actually vote.Just 10% of eligible overseas voters cast their vote in the last election in 2017, but analysts say Ardern’s global profile from her promotion of issues such as social justice and equality, may draw more support.“Ardern’s got on to the front pages of world media and has been covered in way that no other New Zealand prime minister has been before,” said Geoffrey Miller, analyst at the political website Democracy Project.“It wouldn’t be a surprise if more New Zealanders living overseas decide to vote for Ardern, or may be just decide to vote in general,” he said.Tough restrictions to contain coronavirus limited New Zealand’s total cases to less than 1,500 and just 25 deaths, far fewer than other developed nations, and the virus is largely contained.The quick crisis response follows plaudits for 40-year-old Ardern’s compassionate and inclusive response to an attack by a white supremacist at two mosques as well as a fatal volcanic eruption.She is even tipped as a front runner to win the Nobel Peace prize, according to a UK betting agency.Domestic difficultiesArdern won’t have it all her own way. Analysts say Labour has largely failed on its big ticket policy promises like providing affordable housing, reforming tax and building key infrastructure.She faces National Party leader Judith Collins, known as “Crusher Collins’ for her tough-talking personality, who took over as leader in July.Collins, 61, is a seasoned politician well known to the electorate, who is mostly associated with issues such as law and order, and infrastructure.She has made efforts to connect more strongly with the farming community, but her appeal remains local while Ardern is known for how she portrays New Zealand to the world, said Richard Shaw, of Massey University.“Ardern has turned that feeling right up to maximum volume, while Collins does not get any play in that space,” Shaw said.About 67,000 New Zealand voters have so far enrolled overseas, election officials said. This compares with about 61,000 who voted in the 2017 election, out of about 2.6 million votes in total.Voters still have until mid-October to register and referendums on legalising cannabis and euthanasia could encourage more to take part. The majority of those enrolled are in Australia, at nearly 60%, followed by the UK at 17% and more than 6% in the United States.With the latest polls showing support for Labour at 47%, Ardern has urged New Zealanders in Australia to vote.“Every single vote counts, including those Kiwis in Australia,” she told broadcaster Channel Nine. “They’re almost the equivalent to a seat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/expatriate-new-zealanders-seen-boosting-ardern-s-election-bid/story-r78qabNfaRF5dhuQXMAlSM.html
30-09-2020||World||Biden seen as winner of chaotic presidential debate as Trump comes out ‘too hot’||President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden clashed bitterly in a chaotic presidential debate on Tuesday with sharp, testy exchanges and name-calling as they sought to sway undecided voters just five weeks from the close of polling on November 3.The acrimonious showdown exasperated several analysts, with several media outlets calling Biden the winner of the duel.Trump was expected to try and dominate the first face-to-face meeting of the two nominees in Cleveland, Ohio and turn the race, but he may have ended up overplaying his hand, by repeatedly interrupting and talking over Biden, flouting debate rules agreed upon by both campaigns and arguing with the moderator, Chris Wallace of Fox News.They debated issues such as the president’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the way to deal with it going forward and on who to trust on vaccines when they become available, as well as taxes, economy, healthcare and climate change. But the 90-minute debate was overshadowed by President Trump’s unbridled aggression.“Did you use the word smart?” Trump asked Biden at one point. “You graduated either the lowest or almost the lowest in your class. Don’t ever use the word smart with me, Joe.”“Will you shut up, man?” an exasperated Biden said to Trump at another stage. He went on to call the president a “clown” and the “worst president America has had”. But he also took the opportunity to turn away from these exchanges to address voters by looking directly at the cameras.Many experts and longtime observers came away frustrated at the debate, which was soon awash in descriptions such as “messy” . Michael Beschloss, a presidential historian, wrote on twitter, “Democracy was trashed tonight by a President who ran roughshod over the rules.”Trump’s own allies seemed disturbed. Former New Jersey governor Chris Christie, who helped the president prepare for the debate, conceded on ABC News Trump had come out “too hot”. Former Republican senator Rick Santorum said on CNN, “Donald Trump’s personality ran wild tonight.”In one of the exchanges in the segment on racism, President Trump ended up with the night’s most controversial remarks. “Proud Boys — Stand back, stand by,” he said, referring to a right-wing extremist group, when repeatedly pressed by the moderator if he will condemn white supremacists. President Trump has been accused of dog-whistling support for white supremacists by refusing to condemn then.Trump claimed he had paid millions in taxes when asked if he had parted with only $750 for each of his first two years in office, as reported by The New York Times. But he refused to go into specifics.As expected, the president levelled unfounded corruption allegations against Hunter Biden, the former vice-president’s younger son, and repeated them when Biden was talking about his elder son, Beau Biden, a veteran who died of brain cancer.In one of the most poignant moments of the debate, Biden said his younger son was a recovering drug addict and he was proud of him.Though most experts shook their heads and declared American people the loser in the tumultuous debate, some polls done immediately after it had a clear winner and a loser. Biden beat Trump 60%-28% in CNN’s poll of those who watched the debate, and by 48%-41% in a CBS News poll.The 90-minute debate was held at Cleveland Clinic under strict social distancing guidelines. Only about 80 people were allowed in the audience, mostly family members of the two nominees, campaign staff, hosts, health and security officials and journalists.The former vice-president leads the president in all major polls, just five weeks from the end of polling on November 3 (early polling in person and by mail is under way in many states) Biden is ahead of Trump by 7.1 points in the FiveThirtyEight weighted average of national polls — 50.2% to 43.1%; and by 6.1% in the RealClearPolitics national average of polls — 49.3% to 43.2%.Trump needed to do something dramatic to turn the race around, start rolling back Biden’s lead which has held steadfastly for weeks defying the president’s attempts to weaken the former vice-president by questioning his mental acuity, age and qualification for the job using a range of nicknames.The two candidates will meet next in two weeks, on October 15, for the second debate in Salt Lake City, Utah. There was some talk of canceling the next two after the chaotic debate in Cleveland, but the Biden campaign said they were on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-seen-as-winner-of-chaotic-presidential-debate-as-trump-comes-out-too-hot/story-SdiCFKs3jbUuJkCVRCMg1H.html
30-09-2020||World||Lonza confident of 2020 target for Moderna Covid-19 vaccine supply||Lonza is confident that US and Swiss plants it is building to help make Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate will be ready for commercial production this year, executives at the Swiss company said on Tuesday.New production lines at Lonza’s site in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, aim to start making vaccine ingredients in November, while three lines in Visp, deep in a valley in the Swiss Alps - to supply 300 million vaccine doses annually - should begin delivering by December. There is no approved Covid-19 vaccine yet, but several are in advanced trials, including from Pfizer Inc, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna, whose candidate relies on technology never previously approved that enlists human cells to help trigger an immune response.Torsten Schmidt, who heads Lonza’s Visp facility, where Moderna’s $210 million production lines are about 50% completed, said he has secured the equipment needed to avoid any last-minute setbacks.“The delivery of the equipment was critical,” Schmidt said in an interview. “You typically wait 12 months, you’re talking here about 4-5 months. In the end, the CEO has been talking to the CEOs of suppliers, to get the equipment delivered.”Lonza, whose shares are up 60% this year, has a 10-year contract to supply ingredients to Moderna, including for up to 1 billion doses annually of Covid-19 vaccine.The ingredients include a synthetic version of messenger RNA (mRNA), genetic material, which is packed inside tiny fat droplets called nanolipids, to instruct human cells to make a non-replicating form of the coronavirus’s spike protein and trigger an immune response in the body.They will be frozen at -70 degrees Celsius, then shipped from Visp to Spain’s Laboratorios Farmacéuticos Rovi SA for “fill and finish,” the final stage of manufacture.STILL HIRINGLonza is still hiring some of the roughly 200 workers it needs to operate the Moderna production lines in Visp, located where the Alps tip up towards the nearby ski towns of Zermatt, near the famed Matterhorn, and Saas Fe.In all, Lonza expects to have some 4,000 workers in Visp by January, from 3,500 now, following a hiring spree fueled by its manufacture of drugs for other customers, as well as Moderna. They include Roche, Sanofi and California’s Humanigen, with which it has partnered on another Covid-19 project.However ready Lonza is, when precisely Moderna’s vaccine becomes available depends on its trials and regulators. The U.S. company has said about 20 million doses should be ready by the year’s end.Already Lonza’s drugs unit revenue has seen double-digit percentage gains, prompting the Basel-based company earlier this year to seek to offload its $1.8 billion-per-year speciality chemicals business, after sales of products, such as animal feed supplements and resins have stagnated.Talks with potential buyers are ongoing, Renzo Cicillini, Lonza’s Visp site head, said. ‘A LITTLE PROUD’In Visp, two hours by train from both Zurich and Milan, Italy, its roughly 8,000 residents are accustomed to Lonza’s taking a behind-the-scenes role in making drugs for better-known companies, the town’s mayor, Niklaus Furger, said.But the Covid-19 pandemic, which has killed more than 1 million people and wreaked global economic havoc, has left the people of Visp hoping for success that would put it on the map.“The idea that a vaccine might just be produced in Visp with which we could fight against the pandemic, that would be excellent,” Furger told Reuters at Visp city hall. “For certain, the attention of the world would be trained on Visp along with Lonza, something that admittedly would make us all a little proud.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lonza-confident-of-2020-target-for-moderna-covid-19-vaccine-supply/story-cQJubqgoTitWyDSuavZ0aI.html
30-09-2020||World||First US presidential debate fails to move investors||U.S. stock futures fluctuated slightly but markets and investors were largely stoic as an acrimonious first debate between U.S. presidential candidates ended on Tuesday.Republican President Donald Trump repeatedly interrupted Democratic rival Joe Biden in the Cleveland debate, the first ahead of the Nov. 3 U.S. presidential election, that touched on Trump’s taxes, the economy, the coronavirus pandemic and election integrity.While betting odds makers showed little change in the odds as the debate progressed, U.S. stock futures initially rose as much as 0.6% before turning to be flat.US Presidential Election: Full coverage“Right now it looks like an even split between Trump and Biden, so it is difficult for the markets to move,” said Ayako Sera, a market strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank in Tokyo.“What people are most concerned about is the fairness of the election and how it will be carried out.”Biden, 77, has held a consistent lead over Trump, 74, in national opinion polls, although surveys in the battleground states that will decide the election show a closer contest.The dollar index against a basket of currencies was flat at 93.817.With more than a million Americans already casting early ballots and time running out to change minds or influence the small sliver of undecided voters, the debate showed the men trading barbs rather than moving the needle on investor perception.The first of three scheduled debates came at a fraught moment on Wall Street.The S&P 500 tumbled around 10% from record highs this month before recently paring some of those losses as investors worried about a prolonged recovery from the coronavirus and uncertainty related to the presidential vote.Many investors view Biden as more likely to raise taxes, and see a second term for Trump, who favors tax cuts and deregulation, as better for the overall stock market. At the same time, a Trump win could spark concerns over ramped up tensions between Washington and Beijing.In the run-up to the 2016 election, investors widely predicted that a Trump victory would hurt stocks due to his unpredictability and trade-war threats against China and Mexico.However, the S&P 500 surged 5% in the month following his unexpected election win in what was dubbed the “Trump trade”, as investors bet Trump would cut taxes and regulation, and boost infrastructure spending.“The markets almost always think they favor a Republican but did just fine under Clinton and Obama. There is comfort in that hindsight perspective regardless of what happens,” said Jake Dollarhide, chief executive officer of Longbow Asset Management in Tulsa, Oklahoma, as he watched the debate.With expectations that the increased use of mail-in ballots by voters concerned about the coronavirus could mean no immediate winner is announced, S&P 500 options show investors are bracing for volatility in November and December.Trump declined last week to commit to a peaceful transfer of power if he loses, and said he expected the election battle to end up before the Supreme Court.(Additional reporting by Tom Westbrook in Singapore and Hideyuki Sano in Tokyo Editing by Vidya Ranganathan and Muralikumar Anantharaman)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-us-presidential-debate-fails-to-move-investors/story-enqfSmY3Kvi1ITxYTVtB2K.html
30-09-2020||World||Donald Trump casts election doubts, Joe Biden urges voting||President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are painting a very different picture of the reliability of the upcoming election.Biden urged voters to cast their ballots and not be intimidated by Trump’s suggestions he might not accept a loss. Trump has been groundlessly casting doubt on the reliability of mail ballots and elections in general.“Vote whatever way is the best way for you,” Biden said. “Because he will not be able to stop you from determining the outcome of this election.”Biden agreed not to declare victory before the ballots are counted and to accept voters’ verdicts.US Presidential Election: Full coverageTrump continued to spread falsehoods about mail voting. He said falsely that his campaign’s poll watchers were improperly turned away at a Philadelphia early voting site Tuesday -- the poll watchers had not yet been accredited to observe. He suggested widespread Democratic fraud because a handful of ballots were improperly thrown in the trash last week -- but didn’t mention it occurred in a Republican-controlled elections office and was quickly reported to authorities.Biden urged viewers not to worry about Trump’s scare tactics.“I will accept it, and he will, too. You know why?” Biden said. “Because once the winner is declared once all the ballots are counted, that’ll be the end of it.”___HERE’S WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT WHAT’S HAPPENING IN THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE:The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden begins at 9 p.m. Eastern time in Cleveland.Read more:— 5 questions heading into Trump and Biden’s first debate— Viewers’ Guide: Trump, Biden meet in Ohio for 1st debate— Trump, Biden prepare to debate at a time of mounting crises— Analysis: In debate, a last chance for Trump to define Biden___HERE’S WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING:10:30 p.m.Democrat Joe Biden has evoked his son Beau Biden to criticize President Donald Trump for reportedly calling members of the American military who lost their lives “losers” and “suckers.”Raising his voice at Tuesday night’s debate, Biden described his son as a hero. Beau Biden died of cancer in 2015.Trump responded by pivoting to a familiar attack, on Biden’s other son, Hunter.The president said, “I don’t know Beau. I know Hunter,” and accused Hunter Biden of having collected millions of dollars from oversees interests, including China, while working as a consultant during his father’s tenure as vice president. It echoed attacks the president made earlier in the debate in Cleveland, but have little basis in fact.Trump also opened a new line of attack when he said Hunter Biden was dishonorably discharged from the military for cocaine use. Biden responded that his son wasn’t dishonorably discharged.He addressed viewers directly and said that, like a lot of Americans, Hunter had a drug problem but was “working on it” and had “fixed it.”Biden added, “I’m proud of my son.”___10:25 p.m.President Donald Trump says he does see human beings as contributing somewhat to climate change but doesn’t support strict regulations in part because of negative ramifications for business.When asked at Tuesday’s debate about humans being partially to blame for environmental deterioration, Trump said, “to an extent, yes.”But when asked why he took steps like withdrawing the U.S. from the landmark Paris climate pact, Trump reiterated his argument that such agreements were “driving energy prices through the sky.”Nearly 200 nations signed the climate deal in which each country provides its own goals to curb emissions of heat-trapping gases that lead to climate change.Biden said he would champion job-creating programs that embrace green technologies and would rejoin the Paris accord, which is “all falling apart” without U.S. involvement.___10:20 p.m.President Donald Trump has sidestepped a question from moderator Chris Wallace about whether he was willing to condemn white supremacists and military groups.“I would say almost everything I see is from the left wing, not the right wing,” Trump responded. “I’m willing to do anything. I want to see peace.”When pressed further, Trump said, “What do you want to call them? Give me a name. Give me a name?”Finally, he said, “Proud Boys — Stand back, stand by, but I’ll tell you what, somebody’s got to do something about Antifa and the left because this is not right-wing problem..... This is a left wing problem.”Antifa followers have appeared at anti-racism protests, but there’s been little evidence behind Republican claims that antifa members are to blame for the violence at such protests.Trump infamously said there were good people “on both sides” after a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, that led to the death of a counterprotester.___10:15 p.m.President Donald Trump and Vice President Joe Biden are making their pitches to win over Black voters in the coming election, with Biden mockingly questioning: “This man, this man is a savior of African Americans? This man has done virtually nothing.”Biden says that 1 in 1,000 African Americans has died because of the coronavirus, and if Trump doesn’t do something quickly, it will be 1 in 500.Trump turned the discussion from COVID-19 to a crime bill passed in 1994 that Biden helped write and get passed that, among other things, increased the penalties for certain drug offenses.Trump says “I’m letting people out of jail now,” and asserted that Biden had treated the Black community “about as bad as anybody in this country.”___10:10 p.m.President Donald Trump and Joe Biden are trading barbs about each other’s relatives.While Biden was making a point during the first presidential debate in Cleveland about the Trump administration’s trade deals with China not having the desired effect, Trump jumped in. He resurrected past claims about the former vice president’s son Hunter working overseas.Trump said Hunter Biden reaped millions in ill-gotten profit from China and other overseas interests, accusations that have been repeatedly debunked. Biden shot back, “None of that is true.” He then added of Trump, “His family, we could talk all night.”Trump interrupted to respond that his children gave up lucrative jobs to join government and “help people,” which left moderator Chris Wallace pleading, “Mr. President, please stop” trying to restore order on the stage.Biden then turned to the camera and addressed the audience directly, something he did frequently Tuesday night. “This is not about my family or his family,” Biden said. “It’s about your family.”___10:05 p.m.President Donald Trump won’t say when he will finally make his personal taxes public as he has long promised.During the first presidential debate Tuesday, Trump was asked specifically about a report in The New York Times that revealed he paid only $750 in personal income taxes each of those years.All presidents except Trump have publicly released their taxes since the presidency of Richard Nixon.Trump has said since 2016 that he would eventually release them. But when asked by moderator Chris Wallace when, he said only: “You’ll get to see it.”Democratic nominee Joe Biden quickly used that as a point of attack, saying Trump “does take advantage of the tax code” and “pays less tax than a schoolteacher.”Trump shrugged off the attack, saying that all business leaders do the same “unless they are stupid.”___10 p.m.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are showcasing vastly different approaches during their first presidential debate in Cleveland.Trump is being aggressive toward Biden on Tuesday, interrupting the former vice president and repeatedly being admonished by debate moderator Chris Wallace of Fox News to stick to the rules that both campaigns had agreed to.Biden is taking a more personal approach. At several times during the debate, Biden addressed his comments to “you folks at home” watching on television as he looked straight into the camera.___9:50 p.m.President Donald Trump says he’s had “no negative effect” from massive campaign rallies with thousands of attendees not adhering to social distancing recommendations amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Trump said during Tuesday night’s debate against Democrat Joe Biden that he thought masks “are OK,” pulling one out from his pocket and saying, “I wear masks when needed.”But Trump also bragged that he’s drawn “35 to 40,000 people” at his campaign rallies, saying he brings such large crowds to outdoor events “because people want to hear what I have to say.” Trump portrayed Biden’s socially distanced events as insignificant affairs where the Democrat “has three people some place.”Former Republican presidential hopeful Herman Cain, who attended one of Trump’s rallies in June without wearing a mask or social distancing, tested positive for the coronavirus nine days after the rally and died a month later. Neither Trump nor Biden mentioned him.Biden has held smaller campaign events, requiring attendees to spread out and at times sit in taped-off circles. Calling Trump “totally irresponsible” on managing COVID-19, Biden said the president is “a fool on this” and said Trump only worried about masks in the interest of protecting his own health, not others.___9:35 p.m.The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Joe Biden has gotten off to an contentious start, breaking down after just a few moments with Trump interrupting Biden on several occasions and Biden calling the president a clown and a liar.As the discussion about the Supreme Court quickly turned to COVID-19, Trump claimed without evidence that 2 million people would have died if Biden were president.Moderator Chris Wallace pleaded with Trump, stating that COVID-19 would be discussed later in the day. He then asked Trump about whether he had a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act, and the president said, “First of all, I guess I’m debating you, not him, but that’s OK. I’m not surprised.”Biden laughed at Trump’s jabs. But he also appeared to get upset at times, too.“Here’s the deal, the fact is that everything he’s saying so far is simply a lie,” Biden said. “I’m not here to call out his lies. Everybody knows he’s a liar.”Wallace asked Trump to let Biden finish. “Folks do you have any idea what this clown is doing?” Biden said.___9:25 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden says he is the leader of his party.Biden made the comment during Tuesday night’s debate after President Donald Trump accused him of supporting abolishing private insurance.Biden noted that he won the Democratic nomination partly by arguing against single-payer health care that many of his rivals sought. The former vice president has instead proposed expanding the Affordable Care Act to provide a public option that people could buy into.Trump responded that Democrats still want to abolish private health insurance and suggested the party would force Biden to do its bidding.“My party is me,” Biden replied. “Right now, I’m the Democratic Party.”___9:20 p.m.The first face-off for President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden is coming over a clash concerning a president’s prerogative to put push through an election-year Supreme Court nominee.Trump says during a debate Tuesday night in Cleveland that Republicans “won the election and therefore we have the right to choose” Amy Coney Barrett as a replacement for the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.Trump added that he felt Democrats “wouldn’t even think about not doing it” if given the chance to nominate a justice with just weeks until the election.Biden and other Democrats have decried Trump’s nomination of a new justice given Republicans’ refusal to consider President Barack Obama’s selection following the 2016 death of Antonin Scalia. Biden didn’t mention that during the debate, however.Biden says that Barrett seems like “a very fine person” but that her nomination after “tens of thousands of people have already voted” was troubling.___9 p.m.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are face-to-face in their first presidential debate, the most pivotal moment so far in an election that turns on a historic pandemic, racial unrest and an economy in shambles.The two are meeting Tuesday night in Cleveland. It’s a key opportunity for Trump to improve his standing in a race that polls show has remained stubbornly unchanged. For Biden, the debate offers a chance to show the steadiness he says the nation needs in contrast to Trump’s divisiveness.Biden welcomed Trump to the stage, saying, “How you doing, man?”The topics are the records of the candidates, the Supreme Court, the coronavirus pandemic, the economy, “race and violence in our cities,” and election integrity.At issue is the coronavirus pandemic that has killed 205,000 Americans and cost the country millions of jobs. Early voting is underway in many states, with the election 35 days away.___5:50 p.m.Kamala Harris says her running mate, Joe Biden, will share his vision for tackling the coronavirus and rebuilding the nation’s economy during his presidential debate against President Donald Trump.The Democratic California senator said Tuesday during a digital fundraiser with artists that “Joe’s goal in the debate is to communicate directly with the American people.”Harris says the country is at a crossroads in more ways than one, from the pandemic and economic recession to a reckoning on racial injustice and climate change. She’s calling Republican efforts to fill a Supreme Court seat before the election a “crisis.”Harris says, “And in the midst of all this, a president whose instinct is to always stoke chaos, division, and mistrust.”Harris is set to debate Vice President Mike Pence next week.___2:15 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, have released more of their personal tax returns ahead of the first presidential debate.The Bidens’ returns show the couple paid almost $300,000 in federal taxes in 2019, including almost $288,000 in personal income tax. The Bidens reported taxable income of $944,737.The release on Tuesday comes just days after The New York Times reported that Trump paid $750 in federal income taxes in 2016, the year he was elected president, and again in 2017, his first year in office. The Times said Trump paid no federal income taxes for 10 of the 15 years before that.Biden and Trump are set to meet Tuesday night in Cleveland for their first presidential debate, and Trump’s taxes are sure to come up.Trump has called the reports “fake news” yet still refuses to release his returns himself. Biden already had released two decades’ worth of his tax returns, in addition to the federal financial disclosures required of him when he was a senator and vice president.Biden’s running mate, California Sen. Kamala Harris, and her husband, Doug Emhoff, also released their 2019 returns Tuesday. Harris and Emhoff reported paying $1.05 million in personal income taxes and $1.19 million in total federal taxes on $3.02 million in taxable income.___2:10 p.m.President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump emerged from the White House to a crowd of more than 100 cheering supporters as they departed for the first presidential debate in Cleveland.The crowd, which included staffers and interns, cheered as the Trumps left the White House.Both the president and first lady paused to recognize the show of support with a few claps of their own and several first pumps from Trump.Trump boarded Marine One without comment. At Joint Base Andrews, where Air Force One was set to take off, Trump gave a wave and thumbs before boarding.___12:30 p.m.President Donald Trump spent Tuesday morning in informal preparations for the first debate with Joe Biden. A longer, more formal preparation session was set for the afternoon once he arrives in Cleveland.Trump’s prep team includes former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, campaign communications strategist Jason Miller, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, Jared Kushner, press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and communications director Alyssa Farah. Some other advisers like Dan Scavino and Hope Hicks have also been involved.While Trump is itching to go on the offense against Biden, some aides have encouraged him to adopt a more measured tone -- believing that in many ways the debates are more about Trump vs himself than Biden. Trump, they argue, should focus more on selling his accomplishments than trying to viciously attack Biden. Some involved with the preparations, though, have encouraged Trump’s more aggressive ‘counterpunching’ side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-casts-election-doubts-joe-biden-urges-voting/story-udzCXA1tICycL58uSDBAJK.html
30-09-2020||World||GlaxoSmithKline CEO optimistic Covid-19 vaccine widely available in 2021||The chief executive of GlaxoSmithKline, the world’s largest maker of vaccines, said she was optimistic the industry will be able to make an immunisation against Covid-19 widely available next year.“I share the optimism that we will have solutions next year. The challenge here is getting to the scale that is required,” GSK CEO Emma Walmsley said at an online event of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) on Tuesday.GSK is contributing adjuvants, efficacy boosters that play a vital role in many vaccines, in several development alliances for potential future vaccines against the novel coronavirus that has claimed more than a million lives globally.The group’s most advanced project is with French partner Sanofi and the two have said they hope to get approval for their candidate next year. Walmsley stressed the industry’s unprecedented speed of developing an immunisation did not compromise safety because trials were not smaller than usual and regulators and companies were taking steps in parallel that were previously done consecutively.“We are condensing timelines that can take 10 years into two years. But people should feel very reassured that the way we do that is (due to) a completely different level of collaboration with regulators,” the CEO said.“We are putting our funds at risk, governments have put funds at risk so that we don’t restrict the scale, which is really important in a trial for vaccines,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/glaxosmithkline-ceo-optimistic-covid-19-vaccine-widely-available-in-2021/story-GjcmsNjr35Pymmx32oTmBP.html
30-09-2020||World||US Presidential debate: ‘Covid-19 China’s fault,’ says Trump as Biden criticises response to pandemic||US President Donald Trump has defended his response to the coronavirus pandemic, calling it a China’s fault adding that he had received praise from governors for doing a ‘phenomenal job.’(Full US Presidential Election 2020 coverage)During the first presidential debate, Democratic Presidential nominee Joe Biden has criticised Trump’s response for the coronavirus pandemic, saying the President has no plan and he played down the crisis.When asked why he’s continuing to hold rallies during the pandemic, Trump said: “People want to hear what I have to say.” “We have tremendous crowds.” So far, he said, “we’ve had no negative effect,” he addedBiden said the President had been “totally irresponsible” in his handling of social distancing and other methods to stop the virus from spreading and criticized him over his decision to hold rallies during the pandemic.WATCH: US Presidential Debate 2020: Trump-Biden faceoff over Covid-19 turns nasty Biden turned directly to the camera and asked the American people whether they trust President Trump about coronavirus, noting that the President told journalist Bob Woodward in February that he downplayed the virus.When moderator Chris Wallace asked Biden on Trump’s handling of coronavirus, Biden said, “President has no plan, he still hasn’t even acknowledged that he knew this was happening, He knew all the way back in February how serious this crisis was.”He was referring to when Trump told journalist Bob Woodward in February that the virus was “deadly stuff” while downplaying the risks in public.Meanwhile, Trump touted his decision to restrict travel from China at the end of January, claiming that it saved millions of lives.“It’s China’s fault, it should have never happened,” Trump said, adding that he had received praise from governors for doing a “phenomenal job.”“Many of your Democrat governors said President Trump did a phenomenal job,” Trump claimed. He also claimed that “we’re weeks away from a vaccine,” and said that “far fewer people are dying.”The debate devolved into chaos in the first 20 minutes, as President Trump repeatedly talked over Biden and moderator Wallace.Trump persistently interrupted nearly every Biden answer on the Supreme Court and the candidates’ health care plans, as well as Biden’s rebuttals to Trump.Exasperated, about 18 minutes in, Biden turned to Trump and said, “Will you shut up, man?” Trump ignored Biden and continued talking over Wallace. “Keep yapping, man,” Biden said.”“The people understand, Joe. For 47 years, you’ve done nothing,” Trump shot back. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-presidential-debate-covid-19-china-s-fault-says-trump-as-biden-criticises-response-to-pandemic/story-kwzFcPTWk4ai9D8DqDL0qI.html
30-09-2020||World||Donald Trump won’t say when he’ll make taxes public||President Donald Trump won’t say when he will finally make his personal taxes public as he has long promised.During the first presidential debate Tuesday, Trump was asked specifically about a report in The New York Times that revealed he paid only $750 in personal income taxes each of those years.All presidents except Trump have publicly released their taxes since the presidency of Richard Nixon.US Presidential Election: Full coverageTrump has said since 2016 that he would eventually release them. But when asked by moderator Chris Wallace when, he said only: “You’ll get to see it.” Democratic nominee Joe Biden quickly used that as a point of attack, saying Trump “does take advantage of the tax code” and “pays less tax than a schoolteacher.” Trump shrugged off the attack, saying that all business leaders do the same “unless they are stupid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-won-t-say-when-he-ll-make-taxes-public/story-SVczqe9WniaUEqV8TKaHFI.html
30-09-2020||World||Biden vs Trump: Barbs, interruptions and big quotes from US presidential debate||Marked by angry interruptions and bitter accusations, the first debate between President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden erupted in contentious exchanges on Tuesday night over the coronavirus pandemic, job losses and how the Supreme Court will shape the future of the nation’s health care.The two men frequently talked over each other with Trump interrupting, nearly shouting, so often that Biden eventually snapped at him, “Will you shut up, man?”Read HT’s full coverage of US Presidential elections 2020 hereHere are the top quotes and moments from the first presidential debate ahead of the US elections:Lots of insults, lots of interruptionsJoe Biden: “You’re the worst president America has ever had.”Donald Trump: “You could never have done the job we’ve done. You don’t have it in your blood.”The tax debateBiden on Trump: The tax code put him in a position that he pays less tax than a schoolteacher. He says he’s smart because he can take advantage of the tax code and he does take advantage of the tax. And that’s why I’m going to eliminate the Trump tax cuts and make sure that we invest in the people who, in fact, need to help people out there need help.Trump replies: Why didn’t you guys do it over the last 25 years? Let me just say, Joe, I’ve done more in 47 months than you’ve done in 47 years.“I’m the one that brought back football... people of Ohio are very proud of me,” Trump said. But he didn’t say when he will finally make his personal taxes public as he has long promised. Trump claimed he paid millions of dollars but didn’t specify the year.Also read | US Presidential debate: Biden says Trump Russian President ‘Putin’s puppy’On Black communityBiden mockingly questioned: “This man, this man is a savior of African Americans? This man has done virtually nothing.” He further said that 1 in 1,000 African Americans has died because of the coronavirus, and if Trump doesn’t do something quickly, it will be 1 in 500.Trump turned the discussion from Covid-19 to a crime bill passed in 1994 that Biden helped write and get passed that, among other things, increased the penalties for certain drug offenses.Trump says “I’m letting people out of jail now,” and asserted that Biden had treated the Black community “about as bad as anybody in this country.”Attack on familyDemocrat Joe Biden evoked his son Beau Biden to criticise President Donald Trump for reportedly calling members of the American military who lost their lives “losers” and “suckers.”Raising his voice at Tuesday night’s debate, Biden described his son as a hero. Beau Biden died of cancer in 2015.Trump responded by pivoting to a familiar attack, on Biden’s other son, Hunter.The president said, “I don’t know Beau. I know Hunter,” and accused Hunter Biden of having collected millions of dollars from overseas interests, including China, while working as a consultant during his father’s tenure as vice president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/barbs-interruptions-and-big-quotes-from-us-presidential-debate/story-U8HRF34HzbiyFUvoryakVN.html
30-09-2020||World||Donald Trump sidesteps white supremacist condemnation||President Donald Trump danced around a question from moderator Chris Wallace about whether he was willing to condemn white supremacists and military groups.“I would say almost everything I see is from the left wing, not the right wing,” Trump responded. “I’m willing to do anything. I want to see peace.”When pressed further, Trump said, “What do you want to call them? Give me a name. Give me a name?”Finally, he said, “Proud Boys — Stand back, stand by, but I’ll tell you what, somebody’s got to do something about Antifa and the left because this is not right-wing problem..... This is a left wing problem.”US Presidential Election: Full coverageAntifa followers have appeared at anti-racism protests, but there’s been little evidence behind Republican claims that antifa members are to blame for the violence at such protests.Trump infamously said there were good people “on both sides” after a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, that led to the death of a counterprotester.___HERE’S WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT WHAT’S HAPPENING IN THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE:The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden begins at 9 p.m. Eastern time in Cleveland.Read more:— 5 questions heading into Trump and Biden’s first debate— Viewers’ Guide: Trump, Biden meet in Ohio for 1st debate— Trump, Biden prepare to debate at a time of mounting crises— Analysis: In debate, a last chance for Trump to define Biden___HERE’S WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING:10:15 p.m.President Donald Trump and Vice President Joe Biden are making their pitches to win over Black voters in the coming election, with Biden mockingly questioning: “This man, this man is a savior of African Americans? This man has done virtually nothing.”Biden says that 1 in 1,000 African Americans has died because of the coronavirus, and if Trump doesn’t do something quickly, it will be 1 in 500.Trump turned the discussion from COVID-19 to a crime bill passed in 1994 that Biden helped write and get passed that, among other things, increased the penalties for certain drug offenses.Trump says “I’m letting people out of jail now,” and asserted that Biden had treated the Black community “about as bad as anybody in this country.”___10:10 p.m.President Donald Trump and Joe Biden are trading barbs about each other’s relatives.While Biden was making a point during the first presidential debate in Cleveland about the Trump administration’s trade deals with China not having the desired effect, Trump jumped in. He resurrected past claims about the former vice president’s son Hunter working overseas.Trump said Hunter Biden reaped millions in ill-gotten profit from China and other overseas interests, accusations that have been repeatedly debunked. Biden shot back, “None of that is true.” He then added of Trump, “His family, we could talk all night.”Trump interrupted to respond that his children gave up lucrative jobs to join government and “help people,” which left moderator Chris Wallace pleading, “Mr. President, please stop” trying to restore order on the stage.Biden then turned to the camera and addressed the audience directly, something he did frequently Tuesday night. “This is not about my family or his family,” Biden said. “It’s about your family.”___10:05 p.m.President Donald Trump won’t say when he will finally make his personal taxes public as he has long promised.During the first presidential debate Tuesday, Trump was asked specifically about a report in The New York Times that revealed he paid only $750 in personal income taxes each of those years.All presidents except Trump have publicly released their taxes since the presidency of Richard Nixon.Trump has said since 2016 that he would eventually release them. But when asked by moderator Chris Wallace when, he said only: “You’ll get to see it.”Democratic nominee Joe Biden quickly used that as a point of attack, saying Trump “does take advantage of the tax code” and “pays less tax than a schoolteacher.”Trump shrugged off the attack, saying that all business leaders do the same “unless they are stupid.”___10 p.m.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are showcasing vastly different approaches during their first presidential debate in Cleveland.Trump is being aggressive toward Biden on Tuesday, interrupting the former vice president and repeatedly being admonished by debate moderator Chris Wallace of Fox News to stick to the rules that both campaigns had agreed to.Biden is taking a more personal approach. At several times during the debate, Biden addressed his comments to “you folks at home” watching on television as he looked straight into the camera.___9:50 p.m.President Donald Trump says he’s had “no negative effect” from massive campaign rallies with thousands of attendees not adhering to social distancing recommendations amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Trump said during Tuesday night’s debate against Democrat Joe Biden that he thought masks “are OK,” pulling one out from his pocket and saying, “I wear masks when needed.”But Trump also bragged that he’s drawn “35 to 40,000 people” at his campaign rallies, saying he brings such large crowds to outdoor events “because people want to hear what I have to say.” Trump portrayed Biden’s socially distanced events as insignificant affairs where the Democrat “has three people some place.”Former Republican presidential hopeful Herman Cain, who attended one of Trump’s rallies in June without wearing a mask or social distancing, tested positive for the coronavirus nine days after the rally and died a month later. Neither Trump nor Biden mentioned him.Biden has held smaller campaign events, requiring attendees to spread out and at times sit in taped-off circles. Calling Trump “totally irresponsible” on managing COVID-19, Biden said the president is “a fool on this” and said Trump only worried about masks in the interest of protecting his own health, not others.___9:35 p.m.The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Joe Biden has gotten off to an contentious start, breaking down after just a few moments with Trump interrupting Biden on several occasions and Biden calling the president a clown and a liar.As the discussion about the Supreme Court quickly turned to COVID-19, Trump claimed without evidence that 2 million people would have died if Biden were president.Moderator Chris Wallace pleaded with Trump, stating that COVID-19 would be discussed later in the day. He then asked Trump about whether he had a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act, and the president said, “First of all, I guess I’m debating you, not him, but that’s OK. I’m not surprised.”Biden laughed at Trump’s jabs. But he also appeared to get upset at times, too.“Here’s the deal, the fact is that everything he’s saying so far is simply a lie,” Biden said. “I’m not here to call out his lies. Everybody knows he’s a liar.”Wallace asked Trump to let Biden finish. “Folks do you have any idea what this clown is doing?” Biden said.___9:25 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden says he is the leader of his party.Biden made the comment during Tuesday night’s debate after President Donald Trump accused him of supporting abolishing private insurance.Biden noted that he won the Democratic nomination partly by arguing against single-payer health care that many of his rivals sought. The former vice president has instead proposed expanding the Affordable Care Act to provide a public option that people could buy into.Trump responded that Democrats still want to abolish private health insurance and suggested the party would force Biden to do its bidding.“My party is me,” Biden replied. “Right now, I’m the Democratic Party.”___9:20 p.m.The first face-off for President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden is coming over a clash concerning a president’s prerogative to put push through an election-year Supreme Court nominee.Trump says during a debate Tuesday night in Cleveland that Republicans “won the election and therefore we have the right to choose” Amy Coney Barrett as a replacement for the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.Trump added that he felt Democrats “wouldn’t even think about not doing it” if given the chance to nominate a justice with just weeks until the election.Biden and other Democrats have decried Trump’s nomination of a new justice given Republicans’ refusal to consider President Barack Obama’s selection following the 2016 death of Antonin Scalia. Biden didn’t mention that during the debate, however.Biden says that Barrett seems like “a very fine person” but that her nomination after “tens of thousands of people have already voted” was troubling.___9 p.m.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are face-to-face in their first presidential debate, the most pivotal moment so far in an election that turns on a historic pandemic, racial unrest and an economy in shambles.The two are meeting Tuesday night in Cleveland. It’s a key opportunity for Trump to improve his standing in a race that polls show has remained stubbornly unchanged. For Biden, the debate offers a chance to show the steadiness he says the nation needs in contrast to Trump’s divisiveness.Biden welcomed Trump to the stage, saying, “How you doing, man?”The topics are the records of the candidates, the Supreme Court, the coronavirus pandemic, the economy, “race and violence in our cities,” and election integrity.At issue is the coronavirus pandemic that has killed 205,000 Americans and cost the country millions of jobs. Early voting is underway in many states, with the election 35 days away.___5:50 p.m.Kamala Harris says her running mate, Joe Biden, will share his vision for tackling the coronavirus and rebuilding the nation’s economy during his presidential debate against President Donald Trump.The Democratic California senator said Tuesday during a digital fundraiser with artists that “Joe’s goal in the debate is to communicate directly with the American people.”Harris says the country is at a crossroads in more ways than one, from the pandemic and economic recession to a reckoning on racial injustice and climate change. She’s calling Republican efforts to fill a Supreme Court seat before the election a “crisis.”Harris says, “And in the midst of all this, a president whose instinct is to always stoke chaos, division, and mistrust.”Harris is set to debate Vice President Mike Pence next week.___2:15 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, have released more of their personal tax returns ahead of the first presidential debate.The Bidens’ returns show the couple paid almost $300,000 in federal taxes in 2019, including almost $288,000 in personal income tax. The Bidens reported taxable income of $944,737.The release on Tuesday comes just days after The New York Times reported that Trump paid $750 in federal income taxes in 2016, the year he was elected president, and again in 2017, his first year in office. The Times said Trump paid no federal income taxes for 10 of the 15 years before that.Biden and Trump are set to meet Tuesday night in Cleveland for their first presidential debate, and Trump’s taxes are sure to come up.Trump has called the reports “fake news” yet still refuses to release his returns himself. Biden already had released two decades’ worth of his tax returns, in addition to the federal financial disclosures required of him when he was a senator and vice president.Biden’s running mate, California Sen. Kamala Harris, and her husband, Doug Emhoff, also released their 2019 returns Tuesday. Harris and Emhoff reported paying $1.05 million in personal income taxes and $1.19 million in total federal taxes on $3.02 million in taxable income.___2:10 p.m.President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump emerged from the White House to a crowd of more than 100 cheering supporters as they departed for the first presidential debate in Cleveland.The crowd, which included staffers and interns, cheered as the Trumps left the White House.Both the president and first lady paused to recognize the show of support with a few claps of their own and several first pumps from Trump.Trump boarded Marine One without comment. At Joint Base Andrews, where Air Force One was set to take off, Trump gave a wave and thumbs before boarding.___12:30 p.m.President Donald Trump spent Tuesday morning in informal preparations for the first debate with Joe Biden. A longer, more formal preparation session was set for the afternoon once he arrives in Cleveland.Trump’s prep team includes former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, campaign communications strategist Jason Miller, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, Jared Kushner, press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and communications director Alyssa Farah. Some other advisers like Dan Scavino and Hope Hicks have also been involved.While Trump is itching to go on the offense against Biden, some aides have encouraged him to adopt a more measured tone -- believing that in many ways the debates are more about Trump vs himself than Biden. Trump, they argue, should focus more on selling his accomplishments than trying to viciously attack Biden. Some involved with the preparations, though, have encouraged Trump’s more aggressive ‘counterpunching’ side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-sidesteps-white-supremacist-condemnation/story-g2NxwIBiAE53KyEpg6dQYP.html
30-09-2020||World||Moderna Covid-19 vaccine appears safe, shows signs of working in older adults: Study||Results from an early safety study of Moderna Inc’s coronavirus vaccine candidate in older adults showed that it produced virus-neutralizing antibodies at levels similar to those seen in younger adults, with side effects roughly on par with high-dose flu shots, researchers said on Tuesday.The study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, offers a more complete picture of the vaccine’s safety in older adults, a group at increased risk of severe complications from Covid-19.The findings are reassuring because immunity tends to weaken with age, Dr. Evan Anderson, one of the study’s lead researchers from Emory University in Atlanta, said in a phone interview. The study was an extension of Moderna’s Phase I safety trial, first conducted in individuals aged 18-55. It tested two doses of Moderna’s vaccine - 25 micrograms and 100 micrograms - in 40 adults aged 56 to 70 and 71 and older.Overall, the team found that in older adults who received two injections of the 100 microgram dose 28 days apart, the vaccine produced immune responses roughly in line with those seen in younger adults.Moderna is already testing the higher dose in a large Phase III trial, the final stage before seeking emergency authorization or approval. Side effects, which included headache, fatigue, body aches, chills and injection site pain, were deemed mainly mild to moderate. In at least two cases, however, volunteers had severe reactions.One developed a grade three fever, which is classified as 102.2 degrees Fahrenheit (39°C) or above, after receiving the lower vaccine dose. Another developed fatigue so severe it temporarily prevented daily activities, Anderson said. Typically, side effects occurred soon after receiving the vaccine and resolved quickly, he said. “This is similar to what a lot of older adults are going to experience with the high dose influenza vaccine,” Anderson said. “They might feel off or have a fever.”Norman Hulme, a 65-year-old senior multimedia developer at Emory who took the lower dose of the vaccine, said he felt compelled to take part in the trial after watching first responders in New York and Washington State fight the virus.“I really had no side effects at all,” said Hulme, who grew up in the New York area.Hulme said he was aware Moderna’s vaccine employed a new technology, and that there might be a risk in taking it, but said, “somebody had to do it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-covid-19-vaccine-appears-safe-shows-signs-of-working-in-older-adults-study/story-gynXg2VHgAq2eUEaHfUpvO.html
30-09-2020||World||CureVac plans global late-stage Covid-19 vaccine trial in fourth quarter||Germany’s CureVac NV said on Tuesday it has started a mid-stage study testing its experimental coronavirus vaccine and plans to begin a decisive global trial with about 30,000 volunteers in the fourth quarter.The company’s U.S.-listed shares rose 10% to $49.66 in extended trading.CureVac has dosed the first patient with its experimental Covid-19 vaccine in the trial taking place in Peru and Panama and expects data on older adults in the fourth quarter.The vaccine developer plans to start the global trial after data from the ongoing studies.CureVac is among the many in the race to develop a vaccine for Covid-19, with rivals including Novavax Inc and AstraZeneca already conducting late-stage trials of their potential vaccines.CureVac bagged nearly $300 million in funding from the German government earlier this month to speed up work on its prototype covid-19 vaccine and build capacity to produce it at scale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/curevac-plans-global-late-stage-covid-19-vaccine-trial-in-fourth-quarter/story-idkz8eIe3hTubxq6jNMYXO.html
30-09-2020||World||Paid millions: Trump after report claims he paid $750 in taxes for 2016, 2017||US president Donald Trump on Tuesday said he has paid millions in taxes day after a report claimed he paid only $750 in federal income tax for 2017, his first year in the White House. During the first presidential debate ahead of US elections slated for November 3, moderator Christopher W Wallace asked Trump, “Is it true that you paid $750 in federal income taxes in 2016 and 2017?”Trump didn’t answer directly and said he paid millions of dollars in taxes while former Vice President and Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden interjected saying, “Show us your tax returns.” US presidential election 2020 debate live updates “I paid $38 million one year, I paid $27 million one year,” the US president said, without specifying which years.The New York Times reported that the US president paid only $750 in federal income tax for 2017, his first year in the White House, compared to $145,400 his businesses paid in taxes in India that year. In 2016 too, the year he ran for president and won, the report claims Trump paid $750. That was still way more than what he had paid the previous years. “He had paid no income taxes at all in 10 of the previous 15 years — largely because he reported losing much more money than he made,” the report said.Trump, however, dismissed claims in the report as “fake news”.Hours before the debate, Biden released his tax returns for the last four years. The former vice president and his wife Jill Biden, an educator, paid $299,346 in federal income taxes for 2019, according to forms filed with the Internal Revenue Service and released by Biden’s campaign.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-presidential-debate-paid-millions-says-donald-trump-after-report-claims-he-paid-750-in-taxes-for-2016-2017/story-Y0IIJe573P5MfAxmQl89hI.html
30-09-2020||World||Joe Biden says Donald Trump hasn’t helped Black community||President Donald Trump and Vice President Joe Biden are making their pitches to win over Black voters in the coming election, with Biden mockingly questioning: “This man, this man is a savior of African Americans? This man has done virtually nothing.”Biden says that 1 in 1,000 African Americans has died because of the coronavirus, and if Trump doesn’t do something quickly, it will be 1 in 500.Trump turned the discussion from Covid-19 to a crime bill passed in 1994 that Biden helped write and get passed that, among other things, increased the penalties for certain drug offenses.Trump says “I’m letting people out of jail now,” and asserted that Biden had treated the Black community “about as bad as anybody in this country.”___HERE’S WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT WHAT’S HAPPENING IN THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE:The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden begins at 9 p.m. Eastern time in Cleveland.Read more:— 5 questions heading into Trump and Biden’s first debate— Viewers’ Guide: Trump, Biden meet in Ohio for 1st debate— Trump, Biden prepare to debate at a time of mounting crises— Analysis: In debate, a last chance for Trump to define Biden___HERE’S WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING:10:10 p.m.President Donald Trump and Joe Biden are trading barbs about each other’s relatives.While Biden was making a point during the first presidential debate in Cleveland about the Trump administration’s trade deals with China not having the desired effect, Trump jumped in. He resurrected past claims about the former vice president’s son Hunter working overseas.Trump said Hunter Biden reaped millions in ill-gotten profit from China and other overseas interests, accusations that have been repeatedly debunked. Biden shot back, “None of that is true.” He then added of Trump, “His family, we could talk all night.”Trump interrupted to respond that his children gave up lucrative jobs to join government and “help people,” which left moderator Chris Wallace pleading, “Mr. President, please stop” trying to restore order on the stage.Biden then turned to the camera and addressed the audience directly, something he did frequently Tuesday night. “This is not about my family or his family,” Biden said. “It’s about your family.”___10:05 p.m.President Donald Trump won’t say when he will finally make his personal taxes public as he has long promised.During the first presidential debate Tuesday, Trump was asked specifically about a report in The New York Times that revealed he paid only $750 in personal income taxes each of those years.All presidents except Trump have publicly released their taxes since the presidency of Richard Nixon.Trump has said since 2016 that he would eventually release them. But when asked by moderator Chris Wallace when, he said only: “You’ll get to see it.”Democratic nominee Joe Biden quickly used that as a point of attack, saying Trump “does take advantage of the tax code” and “pays less tax than a schoolteacher.”Trump shrugged off the attack, saying that all business leaders do the same “unless they are stupid.”___10 p.m.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are showcasing vastly different approaches during their first presidential debate in Cleveland.Trump is being aggressive toward Biden on Tuesday, interrupting the former vice president and repeatedly being admonished by debate moderator Chris Wallace of Fox News to stick to the rules that both campaigns had agreed to.Biden is taking a more personal approach. At several times during the debate, Biden addressed his comments to “you folks at home” watching on television as he looked straight into the camera.___9:50 p.m.President Donald Trump says he’s had “no negative effect” from massive campaign rallies with thousands of attendees not adhering to social distancing recommendations amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Trump said during Tuesday night’s debate against Democrat Joe Biden that he thought masks “are OK,” pulling one out from his pocket and saying, “I wear masks when needed.”But Trump also bragged that he’s drawn “35 to 40,000 people” at his campaign rallies, saying he brings such large crowds to outdoor events “because people want to hear what I have to say.” Trump portrayed Biden’s socially distanced events as insignificant affairs where the Democrat “has three people some place.”Former Republican presidential hopeful Herman Cain, who attended one of Trump’s rallies in June without wearing a mask or social distancing, tested positive for the coronavirus nine days after the rally and died a month later. Neither Trump nor Biden mentioned him.Biden has held smaller campaign events, requiring attendees to spread out and at times sit in taped-off circles. Calling Trump “totally irresponsible” on managing COVID-19, Biden said the president is “a fool on this” and said Trump only worried about masks in the interest of protecting his own health, not others.___9:35 p.m.The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Joe Biden has gotten off to an contentious start, breaking down after just a few moments with Trump interrupting Biden on several occasions and Biden calling the president a clown and a liar.As the discussion about the Supreme Court quickly turned to COVID-19, Trump claimed without evidence that 2 million people would have died if Biden were president.Moderator Chris Wallace pleaded with Trump, stating that Covid-19 would be discussed later in the day. He then asked Trump about whether he had a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act, and the president said, “First of all, I guess I’m debating you, not him, but that’s OK. I’m not surprised.”Biden laughed at Trump’s jabs. But he also appeared to get upset at times, too.“Here’s the deal, the fact is that everything he’s saying so far is simply a lie,” Biden said. “I’m not here to call out his lies. Everybody knows he’s a liar.”Wallace asked Trump to let Biden finish. “Folks do you have any idea what this clown is doing?” Biden said.___9:25 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden says he is the leader of his party.Biden made the comment during Tuesday night’s debate after President Donald Trump accused him of supporting abolishing private insurance.Biden noted that he won the Democratic nomination partly by arguing against single-payer health care that many of his rivals sought. The former vice president has instead proposed expanding the Affordable Care Act to provide a public option that people could buy into.Trump responded that Democrats still want to abolish private health insurance and suggested the party would force Biden to do its bidding.“My party is me,” Biden replied. “Right now, I’m the Democratic Party.”___9:20 p.m.The first face-off for President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden is coming over a clash concerning a president’s prerogative to put push through an election-year Supreme Court nominee.Trump says during a debate Tuesday night in Cleveland that Republicans “won the election and therefore we have the right to choose” Amy Coney Barrett as a replacement for the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.Trump added that he felt Democrats “wouldn’t even think about not doing it” if given the chance to nominate a justice with just weeks until the election.Biden and other Democrats have decried Trump’s nomination of a new justice given Republicans’ refusal to consider President Barack Obama’s selection following the 2016 death of Antonin Scalia. Biden didn’t mention that during the debate, however.Biden says that Barrett seems like “a very fine person” but that her nomination after “tens of thousands of people have already voted” was troubling.___9 p.m.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are face-to-face in their first presidential debate, the most pivotal moment so far in an election that turns on a historic pandemic, racial unrest and an economy in shambles.The two are meeting Tuesday night in Cleveland. It’s a key opportunity for Trump to improve his standing in a race that polls show has remained stubbornly unchanged. For Biden, the debate offers a chance to show the steadiness he says the nation needs in contrast to Trump’s divisiveness.Biden welcomed Trump to the stage, saying, “How you doing, man?”The topics are the records of the candidates, the Supreme Court, the coronavirus pandemic, the economy, “race and violence in our cities,” and election integrity.At issue is the coronavirus pandemic that has killed 205,000 Americans and cost the country millions of jobs. Early voting is underway in many states, with the election 35 days away.___5:50 p.m.Kamala Harris says her running mate, Joe Biden, will share his vision for tackling the coronavirus and rebuilding the nation’s economy during his presidential debate against President Donald Trump.The Democratic California senator said Tuesday during a digital fundraiser with artists that “Joe’s goal in the debate is to communicate directly with the American people.”Harris says the country is at a crossroads in more ways than one, from the pandemic and economic recession to a reckoning on racial injustice and climate change. She’s calling Republican efforts to fill a Supreme Court seat before the election a “crisis.”Harris says, “And in the midst of all this, a president whose instinct is to always stoke chaos, division, and mistrust.”Harris is set to debate Vice President Mike Pence next week.___2:15 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, have released more of their personal tax returns ahead of the first presidential debate.The Bidens’ returns show the couple paid almost $300,000 in federal taxes in 2019, including almost $288,000 in personal income tax. The Bidens reported taxable income of $944,737.The release on Tuesday comes just days after The New York Times reported that Trump paid $750 in federal income taxes in 2016, the year he was elected president, and again in 2017, his first year in office. The Times said Trump paid no federal income taxes for 10 of the 15 years before that.Biden and Trump are set to meet Tuesday night in Cleveland for their first presidential debate, and Trump’s taxes are sure to come up.Trump has called the reports “fake news” yet still refuses to release his returns himself. Biden already had released two decades’ worth of his tax returns, in addition to the federal financial disclosures required of him when he was a senator and vice president.Biden’s running mate, California Sen. Kamala Harris, and her husband, Doug Emhoff, also released their 2019 returns Tuesday. Harris and Emhoff reported paying $1.05 million in personal income taxes and $1.19 million in total federal taxes on $3.02 million in taxable income.___2:10 p.m.President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump emerged from the White House to a crowd of more than 100 cheering supporters as they departed for the first presidential debate in Cleveland.The crowd, which included staffers and interns, cheered as the Trumps left the White House.Both the president and first lady paused to recognize the show of support with a few claps of their own and several first pumps from Trump.Trump boarded Marine One without comment. At Joint Base Andrews, where Air Force One was set to take off, Trump gave a wave and thumbs before boarding.___12:30 p.m.President Donald Trump spent Tuesday morning in informal preparations for the first debate with Joe Biden. A longer, more formal preparation session was set for the afternoon once he arrives in Cleveland.Trump’s prep team includes former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, campaign communications strategist Jason Miller, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, Jared Kushner, press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and communications director Alyssa Farah. Some other advisers like Dan Scavino and Hope Hicks have also been involved.While Trump is itching to go on the offense against Biden, some aides have encouraged him to adopt a more measured tone -- believing that in many ways the debates are more about Trump vs himself than Biden. Trump, they argue, should focus more on selling his accomplishments than trying to viciously attack Biden. Some involved with the preparations, though, have encouraged Trump’s more aggressive ‘counterpunching’ side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-says-donald-trump-hasn-t-helped-black-community/story-cwRaZHd0lWXxUP2xLbrckM.html
30-09-2020||World||US Presidential election 2020: A fact check of claims from Trump and Biden’s first debate||President Donald Trump and Democratic rival Joe Biden sparred Tuesday in their first of three debates, hoping to sway undecided voters planning to cast ballots by mail and in person in the final weeks leading up to the Nov. 3 election.(Full US Presidential Election 2020 coverage)A look at how their statements from Cleveland stack up with the facts:Trump, addressing Biden on U.S. deaths from Covid-19: “If you were here, it wouldn’t be 200,000 people, it would be 2 million people. You didn’t want me to ban China, which was heavily infected.... If we would have listened to you, the country would have been left wide open.”THE FACTS: This accusation is off the mark. Biden never came out against Trump’s decision to restrict travel from China. Biden was slow in staking a position on the matter but when he did, he supported the restrictions. Biden never counseled leaving the country “wide open” in the face of the pandemic.Trump repeatedly, and falsely, claims to have banned travel from China. He restricted it.The U.S. restrictions that took effect Feb. 2 continued to allow travel to the U.S. from China’s Hong Kong and Macao territories over the past five months. The Associated Press reported that more than 8,000 Chinese and foreign nationals based in those territories entered the U.S. in the first three months after the travel restrictions were imposed.Additionally, more than 27,000 Americans returned from mainland China in the first month after the restrictions took effect. U.S. officials lost track of more than 1,600 of them who were supposed to be monitored for virus exposure.Dozens of countries took similar steps to control travel from hot spots before or around the same time the U.S. did.BIDEN, on Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett: “She thinks that the Affordable Care Act is not constitutional.”THE FACTS: That’s not right.Biden is talking about Trump’s pick to replace the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Barrett has been critical of the Obama-era law and the court decisions that have upheld it, but she has never said it’s not constitutional. The Supreme Court will hear arguments in the case on Nov. 10, and the Trump administration is asking the high court to rule the law unconstitutional.TRUMP: “Drug prices will be coming down 80 or 90%.”THE FACTS: That’s a promise, not a reality.And as a promise, it’s an obvious stretch.Trump has been unable to get legislation to lower drug prices through Congress. Major regulatory actions from his administration are still in the works, and are likely to be challenged in court.There’s no plan on the horizon that would lower drug prices as dramatically as Trump claims.TRUMP: “You said you went to Delaware State, but you forgot the name of your college. You didn’t go to Delaware State. ... There’s nothing smart about you, Joe.”THE FACTS: Trump is quoting Biden out of context. The former vice president, a graduate of the University of Delaware, did not say he attended Delaware State University but was making a broader point about his long-standing ties to the Black community.Trump is referring to remarks Biden often says on the campaign, typically when speaking to Black audiences, that he “goes way back with HBCUs,” or historically Black universities and colleges. Biden has spoken many times over the years at Delaware State, a public HBCU in his home state, and the school says that’s where he first announced his bid for the Senate – his political start.“I got started out of an HBCU, Delaware State — now, I don’t want to hear anything negative about Delaware State,” Biden told a town hall in Florence, South Carolina, in October 2019. “They’re my folks.”Biden often touts his deep political ties to the Black community, occasionally saying he “grew up politically” or “got started politically” in the Black church. In front of some audiences, he’s omitted the word “politically,” but still with a clear context about his larger point. The statements are all part of standard section of his stump noting that Delaware has “the eighth largest Black population by percentage.”A spokesman for the Delaware State University, Carlos Holmes, has said it took Biden’s comments to refer to his political start, saying that Biden announced his bid for the U.S. Senate on the DSU campus in 1972.Biden’s broader point is push back on the idea that he’s a Johnny-Come-Lately with the Black community or that his political connections there are owed only to being Barack Obama’s vice president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-presidential-election-2020-a-fact-check-of-claims-from-trump-and-biden-s-first-debate/story-Wh5Q54AIik2nRpwqMyUNIK.html
30-09-2020||World||Trump-Biden debate descends into name-calling and interruptions||President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden hurled insults and repeatedly interrupted and talked over each other in their first debate, sparring over topics ranging from health care to the economy and their families as moderator Chris Wallace tried mostly in vain to control the conversation.Biden repeatedly called Trump a “clown” and told him to “shut up” as Trump talked over his answers. He called the president a “racist” after Trump defended his orders to end racial sensitivity training in the government.Trump insulted Biden’s intelligence and jabbed the former vice president over unsubstantiated allegations about his son Hunter Biden’s foreign business dealings. Biden called Trump “the worst president America’s ever had.”The back-and-forth quickly degenerated after Trump answered the first question, about his nominee to replace the late Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Trump said he had the right to move swiftly to replace her, while Biden said U.S. voters should weigh in first.“We won the election,” Trump said in answer to the first question, about his nominee Amy Coney Barrett. “Elections have consequences. We have the Senate, we have the White House and we have a phenomenal nominee.”Biden said that Trump and Barrett want to strike down the Affordable Care Act, costing 20 million people their health insurance.“The American people have a right to have a say over who the Supreme Court nominee is,” Biden said. “What’s at stake here, as the president’s made it clear, he wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. He’s in the Supreme Court right now trying to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, which will strip 20 million people from having health insurance now, if it goes to the Supreme Court.”The debate moderator, Fox News host Wallace, tried to intervene as the two candidates squabbled over their respective health policies, and Trump complained: “I guess I’m debating you.”“Folks, do you have any idea what this clown is trying to do?” Biden, who frequently spoke directly into the camera, said as Trump talked over him. “Will you shut up, man,” he grumbled moments later.Wallace subsequently asked about Trump’s response to the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 200,000 Americans so far, and why voters should trust Biden to handle the response better.“You don’t panic. He panicked,” Biden said. “He still doesn’t have a plan.”“Wrong,” Trump interjected.“You could never have done the job that we did. You don’t have it in your blood,” he told Biden, alleging “millions” of Americans would have died with the former vice president leading the country.“I know how to do the job,” Biden said. “I know how to get the job done.”After enduring Biden’s criticism of his coronavirus response, Trump seized on a Biden remark that his management of the crisis would be “smart.”“Don’t ever use the word ‘smart’ with me,” Trump said, accusing Biden of forgetting where he went to college.Biden chuckled. “Oh give me a break.”“There’s nothing smart about you, Joe,” Trump added.Trump and Biden even argued about whether Americans should wear masks to combat spread of the virus. Many people in Trump’s entourage in the audience didn’t wear one, and when an official from the Cleveland Clinic, which is co-hosting the debate, came by to offer them masks, they refused.Biden’s entourage wore masks. He noted that the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said earlier this month that near-universal mask wearing would end the U.S. outbreak. Trump said other officials had claimed the “opposite.”“No serious person said the opposite,” Biden said.“I think masks are OK,” Trump said. “I mean I have a mask right here. When needed, I wear masks. I don’t wear masks like him.”Hours before the debate began, Biden released his most recent tax returns, signaling that he wanted new revelations about the president’s taxes at center stage for their first face-to-face encounter.“Is it true that you paid $750 in federal income taxes” in 2016 and 2017, Wallace asked Trump, a reference to New York Times reporting beginning Sunday on tax records the president has kept secret.Trump didn’t directly answer, saying he paid millions of dollars in taxes. “Show us your tax returns,” Biden interjected.“I paid $38 million one year, I paid $27 million one year,” Trump said, without specifying which years.“Will you tell us how much you paid in federal income taxes in 2016 and 2017?” Wallace repeated.“Millions of dollars,” Trump answered. “And you’ll get to see it.”The difference between the two candidates’ tax history is fodder for Biden’s argument that Trump has conned working-class voters into supporting him.Biden paid nearly $300,000 in income taxes in 2019, according to his returns. Billionaire Trump, meanwhile, paid $750 in 2016 and 2017, and nothing in ten of the last 15 years, according to the New York Times.After the discussion of Trump’s taxes, a question about Trump’s economic record degenerated into arguing -- again in personal and insulting terms -- over China and the two candidates’ families.“You take a look at what he’s actually done. He’s done very little,” Biden said. “China’s perfected the art of the steal.”Trump used the criticism as an opening to attack Biden’s son Hunter Biden, demanding to know whether he had taken “billions of dollars” from China and alleging “the mayor of Moscow’s wife gave your son three and a half million dollars.”Biden audibly sighed. “That is not true,” he said. “It’s totally discredited.”Trump began talking over him again, insisting the claim was only discredited by the media.“It’s hard to get any word in with this clown,” Biden said. “His family, we could talk about all night.”Trump said some of his family had given up comfortable lives to move to Washington and help him govern. Wallace ended the back-and-forth by admonishing the two men not to interrupt each other, focusing on Trump, who he said had been the worst about it.After Wallace asked Trump to explain actions he’s taken to end racial sensitivity training in the government and by federal contractors, Trump said that “I ended it because it’s racist” and “they were teaching people to hate our country, and I’m not going to allow that to happen.”“Nobody’s doing that,” Biden responded. “He’s the racist.”The tax returns Biden released Tuesday showed he paid a 31.7% income tax rate, giving strength to his argument that he has more in common with the White, working class voters he needs to win back from Trump than the president himself -- even if that rate was on income of $944,737.Tuesday’s presidential debate, the first of three before the Nov. 3 election, is hosted by Case Western Reserve University as well as the Cleveland Clinic.The topics, which were announced last week by the Commission on Presidential Debates, include a comparison of the Trump and Biden records, the Supreme Court, the coronavirus, the economy, racial tensions, the violence in U.S. cities and the integrity of the election itself.With five weeks left until Election Day, polls show Biden leading Trump nationally and in key swing states. The Democrat’s campaign has approached the debate as a high-stakes moment when he could cement his advantage or see it begin to erode.Biden, an experienced debater after previous presidential and vice presidential bids and 36 years in the Senate, has previewed an approach focused on what he considers Trump’s failures, including “criminal” mismanagement of the pandemic. He will also seek to portray a second Trump term as one that would cause irreparable harm to U.S. democracy.For Trump, the debate is a critical opportunity to try to regain momentum after months of declining poll numbers.While debaters traditionally seek to raise expectations for their opponents, Trump and his allies have for weeks lowered the bar for Biden, 77, by arguing that he is mentally impaired and exhausted. Only recently have Trump surrogates begun to focus on Biden’s experience in the forum.That strategy could backfire. The coronavirus has sharply restricted the candidates’ ability to campaign, though Trump has resumed large in-person rallies. The debate will be the first opportunity for many voters to see Biden on a stage since the Democratic convention and he might only have to hold his own for the showdown with Trump to be declared a success.But for some Democrats, a single gaffe or missed opportunity to take a swipe at Trump is likely to be cause for worry. Trump and his supporters, meanwhile, are likely to declare victory no matter what.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-biden-debate-descends-into-name-calling-and-interruptions/story-CVKs8WbRWsPxWXgGU7IMKM.html
30-09-2020||World||Donald Trump, Joe Biden trade barbs about their families||President Donald Trump and Joe Biden are trading barbs about each other’s relatives.While Biden was making a point during the first presidential debate in Cleveland about the Trump administration’s trade deals with China not having the desired effect, Trump jumped in. He resurrected past claims about the former vice president’s son Hunter working overseas.Trump said Hunter Biden reaped millions in ill-gotten profit from China and other overseas interests, accusations that have been repeatedly debunked. Biden shot back, “None of that is true.” He then added of Trump, “His family, we could talk all night.”Trump interrupted to respond that his children gave up lucrative jobs to join government and “help people,” which left moderator Chris Wallace pleading, “Mr. President, please stop” trying to restore order on the stage.Biden then turned to the camera and addressed the audience directly, something he did frequently Tuesday night. “This is not about my family or his family,” Biden said. “It’s about your family.”___HERE’S WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT WHAT’S HAPPENING IN THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE:The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden begins at 9 p.m. Eastern time in Cleveland.Read more:— 5 questions heading into Trump and Biden’s first debate— Viewers’ Guide: Trump, Biden meet in Ohio for 1st debate— Trump, Biden prepare to debate at a time of mounting crises— Analysis: In debate, a last chance for Trump to define Biden___HERE’S WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING:10:05 p.m.President Donald Trump won’t say when he will finally make his personal taxes public as he has long promised.During the first presidential debate Tuesday, Trump was asked specifically about a report in The New York Times that revealed he paid only $750 in personal income taxes each of those years.All presidents except Trump have publicly released their taxes since the presidency of Richard Nixon.Trump has said since 2016 that he would eventually release them. But when asked by moderator Chris Wallace when, he said only: “You’ll get to see it.”Democratic nominee Joe Biden quickly used that as a point of attack, saying Trump “does take advantage of the tax code” and “pays less tax than a schoolteacher.”Trump shrugged off the attack, saying that all business leaders do the same “unless they are stupid.”___10 p.m.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are showcasing vastly different approaches during their first presidential debate in Cleveland.Trump is being aggressive toward Biden on Tuesday, interrupting the former vice president and repeatedly being admonished by debate moderator Chris Wallace of Fox News to stick to the rules that both campaigns had agreed to.Biden is taking a more personal approach. At several times during the debate, Biden addressed his comments to “you folks at home” watching on television as he looked straight into the camera.___9:50 p.m.President Donald Trump says he’s had “no negative effect” from massive campaign rallies with thousands of attendees not adhering to social distancing recommendations amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Trump said during Tuesday night’s debate against Democrat Joe Biden that he thought masks “are OK,” pulling one out from his pocket and saying, “I wear masks when needed.”But Trump also bragged that he’s drawn “35 to 40,000 people” at his campaign rallies, saying he brings such large crowds to outdoor events “because people want to hear what I have to say.” Trump portrayed Biden’s socially distanced events as insignificant affairs where the Democrat “has three people some place.”Former Republican presidential hopeful Herman Cain, who attended one of Trump’s rallies in June without wearing a mask or social distancing, tested positive for the coronavirus nine days after the rally and died a month later. Neither Trump nor Biden mentioned him.Biden has held smaller campaign events, requiring attendees to spread out and at times sit in taped-off circles. Calling Trump “totally irresponsible” on managing COVID-19, Biden said the president is “a fool on this” and said Trump only worried about masks in the interest of protecting his own health, not others.___9:35 p.m.The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Joe Biden has gotten off to an contentious start, breaking down after just a few moments with Trump interrupting Biden on several occasions and Biden calling the president a clown and a liar.As the discussion about the Supreme Court quickly turned to COVID-19, Trump claimed without evidence that 2 million people would have died if Biden were president.Moderator Chris Wallace pleaded with Trump, stating that COVID-19 would be discussed later in the day. He then asked Trump about whether he had a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act, and the president said, “First of all, I guess I’m debating you, not him, but that’s OK. I’m not surprised.”Biden laughed at Trump’s jabs. But he also appeared to get upset at times, too.“Here’s the deal, the fact is that everything he’s saying so far is simply a lie,” Biden said. “I’m not here to call out his lies. Everybody knows he’s a liar.”Wallace asked Trump to let Biden finish. “Folks do you have any idea what this clown is doing?” Biden said.___9:25 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden says he is the leader of his party.Biden made the comment during Tuesday night’s debate after President Donald Trump accused him of supporting abolishing private insurance.Biden noted that he won the Democratic nomination partly by arguing against single-payer health care that many of his rivals sought. The former vice president has instead proposed expanding the Affordable Care Act to provide a public option that people could buy into.Trump responded that Democrats still want to abolish private health insurance and suggested the party would force Biden to do its bidding.“My party is me,” Biden replied. “Right now, I’m the Democratic Party.”___9:20 p.m.The first face-off for President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden is coming over a clash concerning a president’s prerogative to put push through an election-year Supreme Court nominee.Trump says during a debate Tuesday night in Cleveland that Republicans “won the election and therefore we have the right to choose” Amy Coney Barrett as a replacement for the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.Trump added that he felt Democrats “wouldn’t even think about not doing it” if given the chance to nominate a justice with just weeks until the election.Biden and other Democrats have decried Trump’s nomination of a new justice given Republicans’ refusal to consider President Barack Obama’s selection following the 2016 death of Antonin Scalia. Biden didn’t mention that during the debate, however.Biden says that Barrett seems like “a very fine person” but that her nomination after “tens of thousands of people have already voted” was troubling.___9 p.m.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are face-to-face in their first presidential debate, the most pivotal moment so far in an election that turns on a historic pandemic, racial unrest and an economy in shambles.The two are meeting Tuesday night in Cleveland. It’s a key opportunity for Trump to improve his standing in a race that polls show has remained stubbornly unchanged. For Biden, the debate offers a chance to show the steadiness he says the nation needs in contrast to Trump’s divisiveness.Biden welcomed Trump to the stage, saying, “How you doing, man?”The topics are the records of the candidates, the Supreme Court, the coronavirus pandemic, the economy, “race and violence in our cities,” and election integrity.At issue is the coronavirus pandemic that has killed 205,000 Americans and cost the country millions of jobs. Early voting is underway in many states, with the election 35 days away.___5:50 p.m.Kamala Harris says her running mate, Joe Biden, will share his vision for tackling the coronavirus and rebuilding the nation’s economy during his presidential debate against President Donald Trump.The Democratic California senator said Tuesday during a digital fundraiser with artists that “Joe’s goal in the debate is to communicate directly with the American people.”Harris says the country is at a crossroads in more ways than one, from the pandemic and economic recession to a reckoning on racial injustice and climate change. She’s calling Republican efforts to fill a Supreme Court seat before the election a “crisis.”Harris says, “And in the midst of all this, a president whose instinct is to always stoke chaos, division, and mistrust.”Harris is set to debate Vice President Mike Pence next week.___2:15 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, have released more of their personal tax returns ahead of the first presidential debate.The Bidens’ returns show the couple paid almost $300,000 in federal taxes in 2019, including almost $288,000 in personal income tax. The Bidens reported taxable income of $944,737.The release on Tuesday comes just days after The New York Times reported that Trump paid $750 in federal income taxes in 2016, the year he was elected president, and again in 2017, his first year in office. The Times said Trump paid no federal income taxes for 10 of the 15 years before that.Biden and Trump are set to meet Tuesday night in Cleveland for their first presidential debate, and Trump’s taxes are sure to come up.Trump has called the reports “fake news” yet still refuses to release his returns himself. Biden already had released two decades’ worth of his tax returns, in addition to the federal financial disclosures required of him when he was a senator and vice president.Biden’s running mate, California Sen. Kamala Harris, and her husband, Doug Emhoff, also released their 2019 returns Tuesday. Harris and Emhoff reported paying $1.05 million in personal income taxes and $1.19 million in total federal taxes on $3.02 million in taxable income.___2:10 p.m.President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump emerged from the White House to a crowd of more than 100 cheering supporters as they departed for the first presidential debate in Cleveland.The crowd, which included staffers and interns, cheered as the Trumps left the White House.Both the president and first lady paused to recognize the show of support with a few claps of their own and several first pumps from Trump.Trump boarded Marine One without comment. At Joint Base Andrews, where Air Force One was set to take off, Trump gave a wave and thumbs before boarding.___12:30 p.m.President Donald Trump spent Tuesday morning in informal preparations for the first debate with Joe Biden. A longer, more formal preparation session was set for the afternoon once he arrives in Cleveland.Trump’s prep team includes former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, campaign communications strategist Jason Miller, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, Jared Kushner, press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and communications director Alyssa Farah. Some other advisers like Dan Scavino and Hope Hicks have also been involved.While Trump is itching to go on the offense against Biden, some aides have encouraged him to adopt a more measured tone -- believing that in many ways the debates are more about Trump vs himself than Biden. Trump, they argue, should focus more on selling his accomplishments than trying to viciously attack Biden. Some involved with the preparations, though, have encouraged Trump’s more aggressive ‘counterpunching’ side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-joe-biden-trade-barbs-about-their-families/story-E0Xhz2R1hq7C17XhnlOG6M.html
30-09-2020||World||From Kennedy-Nixon to Trump-Biden: 60 years of US presidential debates||Republican President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden face off on Tuesday in a televised presidential debate, part of a 60-year-old tradition marked by some of the most memorable moments of modern U.S. political history:- 1960: The first televised debate pitted Democratic nominee John F. Kennedy against Republican Vice President Richard Nixon, who was recovering from a hospital visit and had a 5 o’clock shadow, having refused makeup. The 70 million viewers focused on what they saw, not what they heard. Kennedy won the election.(Full US Presidential Election 2020 coverage)- 1976: In the first TV debate in 16 years, Democrat Jimmy Carter faced unelected incumbent Republican President Gerald Ford. In remarks seen as a major blunder, Ford said: “There is no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe, and there never will be under a Ford administration.” Carter won the election.- 1980: Carter appeared in a second debate with Republican Ronald Reagan after boycotting the first for including third-party candidate John Anderson. The president accused Reagan of planning to cut Medicare healthcare funding for the elderly. Reagan, who already had complained that Carter was misrepresenting his stands on a number of issues, said: “There you go again” and chuckled, drawing audience laughter and coining a catchphrase. Reagan won the election.- 1984: Reagan, 73, successfully defused the issue of his age when he debated Democrat Walter Mondale, 56, quipping: “I want you to know that also I will not make age an issue of this campaign. I am not going to exploit, for political purposes, my opponent’s youth and inexperience.” Reagan was re-elected.- 1988: A debate against Republican Vice President George H.W. Bush opened with Democrat Michael Dukakis being asked whether he would favor the death penalty for someone who raped and murdered his wife. The question offered a candidate dubbed “the iceman” by critics a chance to show his emotional side. His laborious response did just the opposite. Bush won the election.The vice presidential debate came alive when Dan Quayle, Bush’s running mate, compared himself politically to John F. Kennedy. Democrat Lloyd Bentsen replied in quiet, deadly tones: “Senator, I served with Jack Kennedy. I knew Jack Kennedy. Jack Kennedy was a friend of mine. Senator, you’re no Jack Kennedy.”- 1992: Three candidates - Bush, Democrat Bill Clinton and independent Ross Perot - shared a stage. Clinton won the election. - 1996: In a debate with Clinton, Republican Bob Dole was asked by a student whether at 73 he was too old to understand the needs of young people. He replied that at his age, intelligence and experience meant he had the advantage of wisdom. Clinton retorted: “I can only tell you that I don’t think Senator Dole is too old to be president. It’s the age of his ideas that I question.” Clinton was re-elected.- 2000: In his first debate with Republican George W. Bush, Democratic Vice President Al Gore drew negative reviews for sighing loudly while Bush spoke. “We all make mistakes. I’ve been known to mangle a syllable or two myself,” Bush said during their second debate, purposely mispronouncing “syllable.” Bush won the election.- 2004: The last debate between Bush and Democrat John Kerry offered voters a stark contrast in styles, with Bush sticking to simple arguments while Kerry released an array of facts to make his case. Bush was re-elected.- 2008: Sarah Palin, Republican John McCain’s running mate, and Joe Biden, running with Democrat Barack Obama, clashed on the economy and Iraq during a lively but polite vice presidential debate. Palin frequently displayed a folksy style. At one point, she said: “Aw, say it ain’t so, Joe,” adding a “doggone it” for good measure. Biden and Palin both vowed to make U.S. economic policy friendlier for middle-class workers, but Biden said McCain had called the fundamentals of the economy strong as the financial crisis broke out. The Obama-Biden ticket won the election.- 2012: Obama stumbled in his first debate with Republican Mitt Romney, surprising and worrying his supporters. But in their second debate Romney, responding to a question about gender pay equality, said he had “binders full of women” as candidates for Cabinet posts. The phrase became a meme on social media, with tweets, original artwork and a Facebook group spoofing Romney. Obama won again.- 2016: The first debate between Donald Trump and Democrat Hillary Clinton drew 84 million U.S. television viewers, a record for a debate and a rare number in an age of digital streaming. An exchange of insults dominated their second debate, with Clinton jabbing at Trump for sexually aggressive remarks about women he made on a just-uncovered 2005 videotape. Trump sought to deflect criticism by accusing Bill Clinton, the candidate’s husband, of having done worse to women. In her book published in 2017, Clinton wrote that in their second debate Trump made her skin crawl by stalking her around the stage and she wondered if she should have told him to “back up, you creep.” Instead she said, “I kept my cool, aided by a lifetime of dealing with difficult men trying to throw me off.” In the third debate Trump called Clinton “such a nasty woman” and declined to say he would accept the election results. (Reporting by David Cutler, Reuters Archive; Editing by Howard Goller)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-kennedy-nixon-to-trump-biden-60-years-of-us-presidential-debates/story-8quVFAp0stNmi3pHkF2KhL.html
30-09-2020||World||Donald Trump interrupts, Joe Biden talks to ‘folks at home’||President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are showcasing vastly different approaches during their first presidential debate in Cleveland.Trump is being aggressive toward Biden on Tuesday, interrupting the former vice president and repeatedly being admonished by debate moderator Chris Wallace of Fox News to stick to the rules that both campaigns had agreed to.Biden is taking a more personal approach. At several times during the debate, Biden addressed his comments to “you folks at home” watching on television as he looked straight into the camera.HERE’S WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT WHAT’S HAPPENING IN THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE:The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden begins at 9 p.m. Eastern time in Cleveland.Read more:— 5 questions heading into Trump and Biden’s first debate— Viewers’ Guide: Trump, Biden meet in Ohio for 1st debate— Trump, Biden prepare to debate at a time of mounting crises— Analysis: In debate, a last chance for Trump to define Biden___HERE’S WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING:9:50 p.m.President Donald Trump says he’s had “no negative effect” from massive campaign rallies with thousands of attendees not adhering to social distancing recommendations amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Trump said during Tuesday night’s debate against Democrat Joe Biden that he thought masks “are OK,” pulling one out from his pocket and saying, “I wear masks when needed.”But Trump also bragged that he’s drawn “35 to 40,000 people” at his campaign rallies, saying he brings such large crowds to outdoor events “because people want to hear what I have to say.” Trump portrayed Biden’s socially distanced events as insignificant affairs where the Democrat “has three people some place.”Former Republican presidential hopeful Herman Cain, who attended one of Trump’s rallies in June without wearing a mask or social distancing, tested positive for the coronavirus nine days after the rally and died a month later. Neither Trump nor Biden mentioned him.Biden has held smaller campaign events, requiring attendees to spread out and at times sit in taped-off circles. Calling Trump “totally irresponsible” on managing COVID-19, Biden said the president is “a fool on this” and said Trump only worried about masks in the interest of protecting his own health, not others.___9:35 p.m.The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Joe Biden has gotten off to an contentious start, breaking down after just a few moments with Trump interrupting Biden on several occasions and Biden calling the president a clown and a liar.As the discussion about the Supreme Court quickly turned to COVID-19, Trump claimed without evidence that 2 million people would have died if Biden were president.Moderator Chris Wallace pleaded with Trump, stating that COVID-19 would be discussed later in the day. He then asked Trump about whether he had a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act, and the president said, “First of all, I guess I’m debating you, not him, but that’s OK. I’m not surprised.”Biden laughed at Trump’s jabs. But he also appeared to get upset at times, too.“Here’s the deal, the fact is that everything he’s saying so far is simply a lie,” Biden said. “I’m not here to call out his lies. Everybody knows he’s a liar.”Wallace asked Trump to let Biden finish. “Folks do you have any idea what this clown is doing?” Biden said.___9:25 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden says he is the leader of his party.Biden made the comment during Tuesday night’s debate after President Donald Trump accused him of supporting abolishing private insurance.Biden noted that he won the Democratic nomination partly by arguing against single-payer health care that many of his rivals sought. The former vice president has instead proposed expanding the Affordable Care Act to provide a public option that people could buy into.Trump responded that Democrats still want to abolish private health insurance and suggested the party would force Biden to do its bidding.“My party is me,” Biden replied. “Right now, I’m the Democratic Party.”___9:20 p.m.The first face-off for President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden is coming over a clash concerning a president’s prerogative to put push through an election-year Supreme Court nominee.Trump says during a debate Tuesday night in Cleveland that Republicans “won the election and therefore we have the right to choose” Amy Coney Barrett as a replacement for the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.Trump added that he felt Democrats “wouldn’t even think about not doing it” if given the chance to nominate a justice with just weeks until the election.Biden and other Democrats have decried Trump’s nomination of a new justice given Republicans’ refusal to consider President Barack Obama’s selection following the 2016 death of Antonin Scalia. Biden didn’t mention that during the debate, however.Biden says that Barrett seems like “a very fine person” but that her nomination after “tens of thousands of people have already voted” was troubling.___9 p.m.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are face-to-face in their first presidential debate, the most pivotal moment so far in an election that turns on a historic pandemic, racial unrest and an economy in shambles.The two are meeting Tuesday night in Cleveland. It’s a key opportunity for Trump to improve his standing in a race that polls show has remained stubbornly unchanged. For Biden, the debate offers a chance to show the steadiness he says the nation needs in contrast to Trump’s divisiveness.Biden welcomed Trump to the stage, saying, “How you doing, man?”The topics are the records of the candidates, the Supreme Court, the coronavirus pandemic, the economy, “race and violence in our cities,” and election integrity.At issue is the coronavirus pandemic that has killed 205,000 Americans and cost the country millions of jobs. Early voting is underway in many states, with the election 35 days away.___5:50 p.m.Kamala Harris says her running mate, Joe Biden, will share his vision for tackling the coronavirus and rebuilding the nation’s economy during his presidential debate against President Donald Trump.The Democratic California senator said Tuesday during a digital fundraiser with artists that “Joe’s goal in the debate is to communicate directly with the American people.”Harris says the country is at a crossroads in more ways than one, from the pandemic and economic recession to a reckoning on racial injustice and climate change. She’s calling Republican efforts to fill a Supreme Court seat before the election a “crisis.”Harris says, “And in the midst of all this, a president whose instinct is to always stoke chaos, division, and mistrust.”Harris is set to debate Vice President Mike Pence next week.___2:15 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, have released more of their personal tax returns ahead of the first presidential debate.The Bidens’ returns show the couple paid almost $300,000 in federal taxes in 2019, including almost $288,000 in personal income tax. The Bidens reported taxable income of $944,737.The release on Tuesday comes just days after The New York Times reported that Trump paid $750 in federal income taxes in 2016, the year he was elected president, and again in 2017, his first year in office. The Times said Trump paid no federal income taxes for 10 of the 15 years before that.Biden and Trump are set to meet Tuesday night in Cleveland for their first presidential debate, and Trump’s taxes are sure to come up.Trump has called the reports “fake news” yet still refuses to release his returns himself. Biden already had released two decades’ worth of his tax returns, in addition to the federal financial disclosures required of him when he was a senator and vice president.Biden’s running mate, California Sen. Kamala Harris, and her husband, Doug Emhoff, also released their 2019 returns Tuesday. Harris and Emhoff reported paying $1.05 million in personal income taxes and $1.19 million in total federal taxes on $3.02 million in taxable income.___2:10 p.m.President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump emerged from the White House to a crowd of more than 100 cheering supporters as they departed for the first presidential debate in Cleveland.The crowd, which included staffers and interns, cheered as the Trumps left the White House.Both the president and first lady paused to recognize the show of support with a few claps of their own and several first pumps from Trump.Trump boarded Marine One without comment. At Joint Base Andrews, where Air Force One was set to take off, Trump gave a wave and thumbs before boarding.___12:30 p.m.President Donald Trump spent Tuesday morning in informal preparations for the first debate with Joe Biden. A longer, more formal preparation session was set for the afternoon once he arrives in Cleveland.Trump’s prep team includes former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, campaign communications strategist Jason Miller, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, Jared Kushner, press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and communications director Alyssa Farah. Some other advisers like Dan Scavino and Hope Hicks have also been involved.While Trump is itching to go on the offense against Biden, some aides have encouraged him to adopt a more measured tone -- believing that in many ways the debates are more about Trump vs himself than Biden. Trump, they argue, should focus more on selling his accomplishments than trying to viciously attack Biden. Some involved with the preparations, though, have encouraged Trump’s more aggressive ‘counterpunching’ side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-interrupts-joe-biden-talks-to-folks-at-home/story-Sjx8DssW6EIXiyaPgva6OK.html
30-09-2020||World||Donald Trump claims ‘no negative effect’ from rallies||President Donald Trump says he’s had “no negative effect” from massive campaign rallies with thousands of attendees not adhering to social distancing recommendations amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Trump said during Tuesday night’s debate against Democrat Joe Biden that he thought masks “are OK,” pulling one out from his pocket and saying, “I wear masks when needed.”But Trump also bragged that he’s drawn “35 to 40,000 people” at his campaign rallies, saying he brings such large crowds to outdoor events “because people want to hear what I have to say.” Trump portrayed Biden’s socially distanced events as insignificant affairs where the Democrat “has three people some place.”Former Republican presidential hopeful Herman Cain, who attended one of Trump’s rallies in June without wearing a mask or social distancing, tested positive for the coronavirus nine days after the rally and died a month later. Neither Trump nor Biden mentioned him.Biden has held smaller campaign events, requiring attendees to spread out and at times sit in taped-off circles. Calling Trump “totally irresponsible” on managing Covid-19, Biden said the president is “a fool on this” and said Trump only worried about masks in the interest of protecting his own health, not others.___HERE’S WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT WHAT’S HAPPENING IN THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE:The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden begins at 9 p.m. Eastern time in Cleveland.Read more:— 5 questions heading into Trump and Biden’s first debate— Viewers’ Guide: Trump, Biden meet in Ohio for 1st debate— Trump, Biden prepare to debate at a time of mounting crises— Analysis: In debate, a last chance for Trump to define Biden___HERE’S WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING:9:35 p.m.The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Joe Biden has gotten off to an contentious start, breaking down after just a few moments with Trump interrupting Biden on several occasions and Biden calling the president a clown and a liar.As the discussion about the Supreme Court quickly turned to COVID-19, Trump claimed without evidence that 2 million people would have died if Biden were president.Moderator Chris Wallace pleaded with Trump, stating that COVID-19 would be discussed later in the day. He then asked Trump about whether he had a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act, and the president said, “First of all, I guess I’m debating you, not him, but that’s OK. I’m not surprised.”Biden laughed at Trump’s jabs. But he also appeared to get upset at times, too.“Here’s the deal, the fact is that everything he’s saying so far is simply a lie,” Biden said. “I’m not here to call out his lies. Everybody knows he’s a liar.”Wallace asked Trump to let Biden finish. “Folks do you have any idea what this clown is doing?” Biden said.___9:25 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden says he is the leader of his party.Biden made the comment during Tuesday night’s debate after President Donald Trump accused him of supporting abolishing private insurance.Biden noted that he won the Democratic nomination partly by arguing against single-payer health care that many of his rivals sought. The former vice president has instead proposed expanding the Affordable Care Act to provide a public option that people could buy into.Trump responded that Democrats still want to abolish private health insurance and suggested the party would force Biden to do its bidding.“My party is me,” Biden replied. “Right now, I’m the Democratic Party.”___9:20 p.m.The first face-off for President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden is coming over a clash concerning a president’s prerogative to put push through an election-year Supreme Court nominee.Trump says during a debate Tuesday night in Cleveland that Republicans “won the election and therefore we have the right to choose” Amy Coney Barrett as a replacement for the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.Trump added that he felt Democrats “wouldn’t even think about not doing it” if given the chance to nominate a justice with just weeks until the election.Biden and other Democrats have decried Trump’s nomination of a new justice given Republicans’ refusal to consider President Barack Obama’s selection following the 2016 death of Antonin Scalia. Biden didn’t mention that during the debate, however.Biden says that Barrett seems like “a very fine person” but that her nomination after “tens of thousands of people have already voted” was troubling.___9 p.m.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are face-to-face in their first presidential debate, the most pivotal moment so far in an election that turns on a historic pandemic, racial unrest and an economy in shambles.The two are meeting Tuesday night in Cleveland. It’s a key opportunity for Trump to improve his standing in a race that polls show has remained stubbornly unchanged. For Biden, the debate offers a chance to show the steadiness he says the nation needs in contrast to Trump’s divisiveness.Biden welcomed Trump to the stage, saying, “How you doing, man?”The topics are the records of the candidates, the Supreme Court, the coronavirus pandemic, the economy, “race and violence in our cities,” and election integrity.At issue is the coronavirus pandemic that has killed 205,000 Americans and cost the country millions of jobs. Early voting is underway in many states, with the election 35 days away.___5:50 p.m.Kamala Harris says her running mate, Joe Biden, will share his vision for tackling the coronavirus and rebuilding the nation’s economy during his presidential debate against President Donald Trump.The Democratic California senator said Tuesday during a digital fundraiser with artists that “Joe’s goal in the debate is to communicate directly with the American people.”Harris says the country is at a crossroads in more ways than one, from the pandemic and economic recession to a reckoning on racial injustice and climate change. She’s calling Republican efforts to fill a Supreme Court seat before the election a “crisis.”Harris says, “And in the midst of all this, a president whose instinct is to always stoke chaos, division, and mistrust.”Harris is set to debate Vice President Mike Pence next week.___2:15 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, have released more of their personal tax returns ahead of the first presidential debate.The Bidens’ returns show the couple paid almost $300,000 in federal taxes in 2019, including almost $288,000 in personal income tax. The Bidens reported taxable income of $944,737.The release on Tuesday comes just days after The New York Times reported that Trump paid $750 in federal income taxes in 2016, the year he was elected president, and again in 2017, his first year in office. The Times said Trump paid no federal income taxes for 10 of the 15 years before that.Biden and Trump are set to meet Tuesday night in Cleveland for their first presidential debate, and Trump’s taxes are sure to come up.Trump has called the reports “fake news” yet still refuses to release his returns himself. Biden already had released two decades’ worth of his tax returns, in addition to the federal financial disclosures required of him when he was a senator and vice president.Biden’s running mate, California Sen. Kamala Harris, and her husband, Doug Emhoff, also released their 2019 returns Tuesday. Harris and Emhoff reported paying $1.05 million in personal income taxes and $1.19 million in total federal taxes on $3.02 million in taxable income.___2:10 p.m.President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump emerged from the White House to a crowd of more than 100 cheering supporters as they departed for the first presidential debate in Cleveland.The crowd, which included staffers and interns, cheered as the Trumps left the White House.Both the president and first lady paused to recognize the show of support with a few claps of their own and several first pumps from Trump.Trump boarded Marine One without comment. At Joint Base Andrews, where Air Force One was set to take off, Trump gave a wave and thumbs before boarding.___12:30 p.m.President Donald Trump spent Tuesday morning in informal preparations for the first debate with Joe Biden. A longer, more formal preparation session was set for the afternoon once he arrives in Cleveland.Trump’s prep team includes former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, campaign communications strategist Jason Miller, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, Jared Kushner, press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and communications director Alyssa Farah. Some other advisers like Dan Scavino and Hope Hicks have also been involved.While Trump is itching to go on the offense against Biden, some aides have encouraged him to adopt a more measured tone -- believing that in many ways the debates are more about Trump vs himself than Biden. Trump, they argue, should focus more on selling his accomplishments than trying to viciously attack Biden. Some involved with the preparations, though, have encouraged Trump’s more aggressive ‘counterpunching’ side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-claims-no-negative-effect-from-rallies/story-Sh2tklyHUOFTWhnn1eIHBN.html
30-09-2020||World||Joe Biden says Donald Trump has no plan to tackle coronavirus||President Donald Trump and Joe Biden are sparring over Trump’s handling of the coronavirus crisis, with Biden saying “a lot more people are going to die” unless Trump gets “smarter a lot faster.”Biden charged during Tuesday night’s debate that Trump “has no plan” to deal with the virus and noted that the president praised Chinese President Xi Jinping’s initial actions in dealing with the outbreak. Biden told Trump to “get out of your bunker and get out of the sand trap on your golf course” and bring Democrats and Republicans into the Oval Office to cut a deal on a coronavirus aid package.Trump, in response, is offering a number of erroneous claims, charging falsely that Biden opposed shutting down travel to China and claiming that the U.S. is “weeks away” from producing a vaccine. He also said that Biden’s handling of the H1N1 outbreak during the Obama administration was a “disaster,” though the number of H1N1deaths in the U.S. was less than 1% of the deaths from the coronavirus.Biden also noted that Trump misled the public on the severity of the virus and said that rather than owning up to the American people, the president “panicked or just looked at the stock market.”HERE’S WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING:9:25 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden says he is the leader of his party.Biden made the comment during Tuesday night’s debate after President Donald Trump accused him of supporting abolishing private insurance.Biden noted that he won the Democratic nomination partly by arguing against single-payer health care that many of his rivals sought. The former vice president has instead proposed expanding the Affordable Care Act to provide a public option that people could buy into.Trump responded that Democrats still want to abolish private health insurance and suggested the party would force Biden to do its bidding.“My party is me,” Biden replied. “Right now, I’m the Democratic Party.”___9:20 p.m.The first face-off for President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden is coming over a clash concerning a president’s prerogative to put push through an election-year Supreme Court nominee.Trump says during a debate Tuesday night in Cleveland that Republicans “won the election and therefore we have the right to choose” Amy Coney Barrett as a replacement for the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.Trump added that he felt Democrats “wouldn’t even think about not doing it” if given the chance to nominate a justice with just weeks until the election.Biden and other Democrats have decried Trump’s nomination of a new justice given Republicans’ refusal to consider President Barack Obama’s selection following the 2016 death of Antonin Scalia. Biden didn’t mention that during the debate, however.Biden says that Barrett seems like “a very fine person” but that her nomination after “tens of thousands of people have already voted” was troubling.___9 p.m.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden are face-to-face in their first presidential debate, the most pivotal moment so far in an election that turns on a historic pandemic, racial unrest and an economy in shambles.The two are meeting Tuesday night in Cleveland. It’s a key opportunity for Trump to improve his standing in a race that polls show has remained stubbornly unchanged. For Biden, the debate offers a chance to show the steadiness he says the nation needs in contrast to Trump’s divisiveness.Biden welcomed Trump to the stage, saying, “How you doing, man?”The topics are the records of the candidates, the Supreme Court, the coronavirus pandemic, the economy, “race and violence in our cities,” and election integrity.At issue is the coronavirus pandemic that has killed 205,000 Americans and cost the country millions of jobs. Early voting is underway in many states, with the election 35 days away.___5:50 p.m.Kamala Harris says her running mate, Joe Biden, will share his vision for tackling the coronavirus and rebuilding the nation’s economy during his presidential debate against President Donald Trump.The Democratic California senator said Tuesday during a digital fundraiser with artists that “Joe’s goal in the debate is to communicate directly with the American people.”Harris says the country is at a crossroads in more ways than one, from the pandemic and economic recession to a reckoning on racial injustice and climate change. She’s calling Republican efforts to fill a Supreme Court seat before the election a “crisis.”Harris says, “And in the midst of all this, a president whose instinct is to always stoke chaos, division, and mistrust.”Harris is set to debate Vice President Mike Pence next week.___2:15 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, have released more of their personal tax returns ahead of the first presidential debate.The Bidens’ returns show the couple paid almost $300,000 in federal taxes in 2019, including almost $288,000 in personal income tax. The Bidens reported taxable income of $944,737.The release on Tuesday comes just days after The New York Times reported that Trump paid $750 in federal income taxes in 2016, the year he was elected president, and again in 2017, his first year in office. The Times said Trump paid no federal income taxes for 10 of the 15 years before that.Biden and Trump are set to meet Tuesday night in Cleveland for their first presidential debate, and Trump’s taxes are sure to come up.Trump has called the reports “fake news” yet still refuses to release his returns himself. Biden already had released two decades’ worth of his tax returns, in addition to the federal financial disclosures required of him when he was a senator and vice president.Biden’s running mate, California Sen. Kamala Harris, and her husband, Doug Emhoff, also released their 2019 returns Tuesday. Harris and Emhoff reported paying $1.05 million in personal income taxes and $1.19 million in total federal taxes on $3.02 million in taxable income.___2:10 p.m.President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump emerged from the White House to a crowd of more than 100 cheering supporters as they departed for the first presidential debate in Cleveland.The crowd, which included staffers and interns, cheered as the Trumps left the White House.Both the president and first lady paused to recognize the show of support with a few claps of their own and several first pumps from Trump.Trump boarded Marine One without comment. At Joint Base Andrews, where Air Force One was set to take off, Trump gave a wave and thumbs before boarding.___12:30 p.m.President Donald Trump spent Tuesday morning in informal preparations for the first debate with Joe Biden. A longer, more formal preparation session was set for the afternoon once he arrives in Cleveland.Trump’s prep team includes former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, campaign communications strategist Jason Miller, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, Jared Kushner, press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and communications director Alyssa Farah. Some other advisers like Dan Scavino and Hope Hicks have also been involved.While Trump is itching to go on the offense against Biden, some aides have encouraged him to adopt a more measured tone -- believing that in many ways the debates are more about Trump vs himself than Biden. Trump, they argue, should focus more on selling his accomplishments than trying to viciously attack Biden. Some involved with the preparations, though, have encouraged Trump’s more aggressive ‘counterpunching’ side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-says-donald-trump-has-no-plan-to-tackle-coronavirus/story-2phN20iJCuyDw0vRsCP0oM.html
30-09-2020||World||Angry opening: Donald Trump, Joe Biden lash, interrupt each other||President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden began the first presidential debate with heated exchanges over health care, the coronavirus and the future of the Supreme Court.Fitting for an edge in their bitter campaign, the two men frequently interrupted each other with angry interjections, with Biden eventually snapping at Trump “Will you shut up, man?” That was after the president badgered him over his refusal to comment on whether he would try to expand the Supreme Court in retaliation if Trump’s high court pick, Amy Coney Barrett, was confirmed to replace the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.“The fact is that everything he’s said so far is simply a lie,” Biden said. “I’m not here to call out his lies. Everybody knows he’s a liar.”Trump struggled to define his ideas for replacing the Affordable Care Act on health care in the debate’s early moments and defended his nomination of Barrett, declaring that “I was not elected for three years, I’m elected for four years.”“We won the election. Elections have consequences. We have the Senate. We have the White House and we have a phenomenal nominee, respected by all.”Trump and Biden arrived in Cleveland hoping the debate would energize their bases of support, even as they competed for the slim slice of undecided voters who could decide the election. It has been generations since two men asked to lead a nation facing such tumult, with Americans both fearful and impatient about the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 200,000 of their fellow citizens and cost millions of jobs.The pandemic’s effects were in plain sight, with the candidates’ lecterns spaced far apart, all of the guests in the small crowd tested and the traditional opening handshake scrapped. The men did not shake hands and, while neither candidate wore a mask to take the stage, their families did sport face coverings.“How you doin’, man?” Biden asked the president as they entered.With just 35 days until the election, and early voting already underway in some states, Biden stepped onto the stage holding leads in the polls — significant in national surveys, close in some battleground states — and looking to expand his support among suburban voters, women and seniors. Surveys show the president has lost significant ground among those groups since 2016, but Biden faces his own questions encouraged by Trump’s withering attacks.Trump had arguably his best chance to try to reframe the campaign as a choice between candidates and not a referendum over his handling of the virus that has killed more people in America than any other nation. Americans, according to polling, have soured on his leadership in the crisis, and the president has struggled to land consistent attacks on Biden.Biden’s performances during the primary debates were uneven, and some Democrats have been nervous as to how he would fare in an unscripted setting. But his team also viewed the night as a chance to illuminate Trump’s failings with the pandemic and economy, with the former vice president acting as a “fact checker on the floor” while bracing himself for the onslaught that was coming.The tumult of 2020 was difficult to overstate: COVID-19 has rewritten the rules of everyday life; racial justice protests have swept into cities after several highly publicized killings of Black people by police, and the death of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg allowed Trump to nominate a conservative jurist to replace a liberal voice and perhaps reshape the high court for generations.___Lemire reported from New York. Additional reporting by Associated Press writers Jill Colvin in Cleveland and Zeke Miller in Washington.___||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/angry-opening-donald-trump-joe-biden-lash-interrupt-each-other/story-AY67M027fVZ7w60w6VoreM.html
30-09-2020||World||Joe Biden calls Donald Trump a ‘liar’ in fiery debate start||Democratic challenger Joe Biden on Tuesday branded President Donald Trump a liar and told him to “shut up” as the pair clashed in a bad-tempered start to their first televised debate. Trump fired back hard at Biden, telling him: “There’s nothing smart about you, Joe. Forty-seven years, you’ve done nothing.”US Presidential election 2020 live updatesTension was palpable from the opening minutes, with the pair interrupting each other repeatedly, leading Biden to lash out at one point: “Will you shut up, man!”“The fact is that everything he is saying so far is simply a lie. I’m not here to call out his lies. Everybody knows he’s a liar,” Biden said.The debate, watched by a deeply divided nation, comes 35 days ahead of the most tense US election in recent memory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-calls-donald-trump-a-liar-in-fiery-debate-start/story-2DMCrVceYkyWY2ekAVnliM.html
30-09-2020||World||Trump, Biden spar over Barrett nomination as first debate opens||Donald Trump said that he had the right to choose a replacement for the late Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, while former Vice President Joe Biden alleged the president’s nominee would end health coverage for millions of people as they opened their first debate.“We won the election,” Trump said in answer to the first question, about his nominee Amy Coney Barrett. “Elections have consequences. We have the Senate, we have the White House and we have a phenomenal nominee.”Biden said that Trump and Barrett want to strike down the Affordable Care Act, costing 20 million people their health insurance.“The American people have a right to have a say over who the Supreme Court nominee is,” Biden said. “What’s at stake here, as the president’s made it clear, he wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. He’s in the Supreme Court right now trying to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, which will strip 20 million people from having health insurance now, if it goes to the Supreme Court.”The debate moderator, Fox News host Chris Wallace, tried to intervene as the two candidates squabbled over their respective health policies, and Trump complained “I guess I’m debating you.”Hours before the debate began, Democratic nominee Joe Biden released his most recent tax returns, signaling that he wanted new revelations about the president’s taxes at center stage for their first face-to-face encounter.The difference between the two candidates’ tax history is fodder for Biden’s argument that Trump has conned working-class voters into supporting him.Biden paid nearly $300,000 in income taxes in 2019, according to his returns. Billionaire Trump, meanwhile, paid $750 in 2016 and 2017, and nothing in ten of the last 15 years, according to the New York Times.The former vice president has sought in recent weeks to portray Trump as catering to the wealthy and well connected, as Biden tries to emphasize his working-class roots and promote an economic agenda he says would focus on the middle class.The Times reporting on Trump’s taxes -- information the president has insisted on keeping secret from voters -- “reinforces what we already knew about Donald Trump, which is he looks down on working people, he views them as suckers, he thinks he’s smart because he doesn’t pay taxes,” Biden’s deputy campaign manager, Kate Bedingfield, said on a conference call with reporters before the debate.However, the report is unlikely to cost Trump many votes. He was elected in 2016 after boasting about paying little income tax but breaking with modern precedent by refusing to release his returns, and his core supporters have consistently shown little interest in the issue.But polls show that about two-thirds of Americans believe that Trump should release his tax returns and that he hasn’t been entirely honest with the IRS.Biden’s returns Tuesday showing that he paid a 31.7% income tax rate gives strength to his argument that he has more in common with the White, working class voters he needs to win back from Trump than the president himself -- even if that rate was on income of $944,737.Tuesday’s presidential debate, the first of three before the Nov. 3 election, is hosted by Case Western Reserve University and the Cleveland Clinic.The topics, which were announced last week by the Commission on Presidential Debates, include a comparison of the Trump and Biden records, the Supreme Court, the coronavirus, the economy, racial tensions, the violence in U.S. cities and the integrity of the election itself.With five weeks left until Election Day, polls show Biden leading Trump nationally and in key swing states. The Democrat’s campaign has approached the debate as a high-stakes moment when he could cement his advantage or see it begin to erode.Biden, an experienced debater after previous presidential and vice presidential bids and 36 years in the Senate, has previewed an approach focused on what he considers Trump’s failures, including “criminal” mismanagement of the pandemic. He will also seek to portray a second Trump term as one that would cause irreparable harm to U.S. democracy.For Trump, the debate is a critical opportunity to try to regain momentum after months of declining poll numbers.Trump, never a stickler for presidential decorum, is likely to attack Biden in deeply personal terms, portraying him as doddering and senile and alleging that his son Hunter engaged in corruption in Ukraine and China by leveraging his father’s political position.While debaters traditionally seek to raise expectations for their opponents, Trump and his allies have for weeks lowered the bar for Biden, 77, by arguing that he is mentally impaired and exhausted. Only recently have Trump surrogates begun to focus on Biden’s experience in the forum.That strategy could backfire. The coronavirus has sharply restricted the candidates’ ability to campaign, though Trump has resumed large in-person rallies. The debate will be the first opportunity for many voters to see Biden on a stage since the Democratic convention and he might only have to hold his own for the showdown with Trump to be declared a success.But for some Democrats, a single gaffe or missed opportunity to take a swipe at Trump is likely to be cause for worry. Trump and his supporters, meanwhile, are likely to declare victory no matter what.One planned topic of the debate will be the battle around Trump’s nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court as a replacement for Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who died Sept. 18.Barrett’s nomination was greeted with enthusiasm by social conservatives, and Republicans are planning to try to confirm her to the court before Election Day. But many Democrats, including Biden, assert that putting in place a new justice so close to the election violates precedent and that the next president should make the nomination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-biden-spar-over-barrett-nomination-as-first-debate-opens/story-uFFt5k6daIVKVNBZA9ffKP.html
30-09-2020||World||Joe Biden calls Donald Trump a ‘clown’ as candidates spar in first debate||President Donald Trump and Vice President Joe Biden sparred over their respective plans for U.S. health care, interrupting and talking over each other in the opening moments of their first debate as moderator Chris Wallace tried mostly in vain to control the conversation.“Folks, do you have any idea what this clown is trying to do?” Biden said to Americans as Trump talked over him. “Will you shut up, man,” he grumbled moments later.The back-and-forth quickly degenerated after Trump answered the first question, about his nominee to replace the late Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Trump said he had the right to move swiftly to replace her, while Biden said U.S. voters should weigh in first.“We won the election,” Trump said in answer to the first question, about his nominee Amy Coney Barrett. “Elections have consequences. We have the Senate, we have the White House and we have a phenomenal nominee.”Biden said that Trump and Barrett want to strike down the Affordable Care Act, costing 20 million people their health insurance.“The American people have a right to have a say over who the Supreme Court nominee is,” Biden said. “What’s at stake here, as the president’s made it clear, he wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. He’s in the Supreme Court right now trying to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, which will strip 20 million people from having health insurance now, if it goes to the Supreme Court.”The debate moderator, Fox News host Wallace, tried to intervene as the two candidates squabbled over their respective health policies, and Trump complained “I guess I’m debating you.”Hours before the debate began, Biden released his most recent tax returns, signaling that he wanted new revelations about the president’s taxes at center stage for their first face-to-face encounter.The difference between the two candidates’ tax history is fodder for Biden’s argument that Trump has conned working-class voters into supporting him.Biden paid nearly $300,000 in income taxes in 2019, according to his returns. Billionaire Trump, meanwhile, paid $750 in 2016 and 2017, and nothing in ten of the last 15 years, according to the New York Times.The former vice president has sought in recent weeks to portray Trump as catering to the wealthy and well connected, as Biden tries to emphasize his working-class roots and promote an economic agenda he says would focus on the middle class.The Times reporting on Trump’s taxes -- information the president has insisted on keeping secret from voters -- “reinforces what we already knew about Donald Trump, which is he looks down on working people, he views them as suckers, he thinks he’s smart because he doesn’t pay taxes,” Biden’s deputy campaign manager, Kate Bedingfield, said on a conference call with reporters before the debate.However, the report is unlikely to cost Trump many votes. He was elected in 2016 after boasting about paying little income tax but breaking with modern precedent by refusing to release his returns, and his core supporters have consistently shown little interest in the issue.But polls show that about two-thirds of Americans believe that Trump should release his tax returns and that he hasn’t been entirely honest with the IRS.Biden’s returns Tuesday showing that he paid a 31.7% income tax rate gives strength to his argument that he has more in common with the White, working class voters he needs to win back from Trump than the president himself -- even if that rate was on income of $944,737.Tuesday’s presidential debate, the first of three before the Nov. 3 election, is hosted by Case Western Reserve University and the Cleveland Clinic.The topics, which were announced last week by the Commission on Presidential Debates, include a comparison of the Trump and Biden records, the Supreme Court, the coronavirus, the economy, racial tensions, the violence in U.S. cities and the integrity of the election itself.With five weeks left until Election Day, polls show Biden leading Trump nationally and in key swing states. The Democrat’s campaign has approached the debate as a high-stakes moment when he could cement his advantage or see it begin to erode.Biden, an experienced debater after previous presidential and vice presidential bids and 36 years in the Senate, has previewed an approach focused on what he considers Trump’s failures, including “criminal” mismanagement of the pandemic. He will also seek to portray a second Trump term as one that would cause irreparable harm to U.S. democracy.For Trump, the debate is a critical opportunity to try to regain momentum after months of declining poll numbers.Trump, never a stickler for presidential decorum, is likely to attack Biden in deeply personal terms, portraying him as doddering and senile and alleging that his son Hunter engaged in corruption in Ukraine and China by leveraging his father’s political position.While debaters traditionally seek to raise expectations for their opponents, Trump and his allies have for weeks lowered the bar for Biden, 77, by arguing that he is mentally impaired and exhausted. Only recently have Trump surrogates begun to focus on Biden’s experience in the forum.That strategy could backfire. The coronavirus has sharply restricted the candidates’ ability to campaign, though Trump has resumed large in-person rallies. The debate will be the first opportunity for many voters to see Biden on a stage since the Democratic convention and he might only have to hold his own for the showdown with Trump to be declared a success.But for some Democrats, a single gaffe or missed opportunity to take a swipe at Trump is likely to be cause for worry. Trump and his supporters, meanwhile, are likely to declare victory no matter what.One planned topic of the debate will be the battle around Trump’s nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court as a replacement for Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who died Sept. 18.Barrett’s nomination was greeted with enthusiasm by social conservatives, and Republicans are planning to try to confirm her to the court before Election Day. But many Democrats, including Biden, assert that putting in place a new justice so close to the election violates precedent and that the next president should make the nomination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-calls-donald-trump-a-clown-as-candidates-spar-in-first-debate/story-Cpki7e3Iwv0KVvfbcxMpbO.html
30-09-2020||World||Trump, Biden spar over Supreme Court, health care||President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden squared off Tuesday night in their crucial first debate of the 2020 campaign, the most pivotal opportunity yet for them to outline starkly different visions for a country facing multiple crises.It began with a contentious exchange over the Supreme Court with Trump defending his nomination of a new justice barely a month before the election. Declaring that “I was not elected for three years, I’m elected for four years,” Trump insisted he had every right to select Amy Coney Barrett to replace Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who died earlier this month.“We won the election. Elections have consequences,” said Trump. “We have the Senate. We have the White House and we have a phenomenal nominee, respected by all.”Trump and Biden arrived in Cleveland hoping the debate would energize their bases of support, even as they competed for the slim slice of undecided voters who could decide the election. It has been generations since two men asked to lead a nation facing such tumult, with Americans both fearful and impatient about the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 200,000 of their fellow citizens and cost millions of jobs.The pandemic’s effects were in plain sight, with the candidates’ lecterns spaced far apart, all of the guests in the small crowd tested and the traditional opening handshake scrapped. The men did not shake hands and, while neither candidate wore a mask to take the stage, their families did sport face coverings.“How you doin’, man?” Biden asked the president as they entered.With just 35 days until the election, and early voting already underway in some states, Biden stepped onto the stage holding leads in the polls — significant in national surveys, close in some battleground states — and looking to expand his support among suburban voters, women and seniors. Surveys show the president has lost significant ground among those groups since 2016, but Biden faces his own questions encouraged by Trump’s withering attacks.Trump had arguably his best chance to try to reframe the campaign as a choice between candidates and not a referendum over his handling of the virus that has killed more people in America than any other nation. Americans, according to polling, have soured on his leadership in the crisis, and the president has struggled to land consistent attacks on Biden.Leaving the White House for Cleveland, Trump pumped his fist for supporters gathered on the White House lawn but did not address reporters. He spent the morning in informal debate preparations while a more formal session was set for the afternoon once he arrived in Ohio. Biden held an umbrella to ward off the Delaware rain as he boarded a new, bigger campaign plane en route to Cleveland. He, too, did not address reporters.Though some Trump aides involved in the preparations urged the president to adopt a measured tone while selling his own accomplishments, Trump had told advisers he was preparing an all-out assault on Biden, claiming that the former senator’s 47 years in Washington have left him out of touch and that his family, namely his son Hunter, has benefited from corruption.Biden’s performances during the primary debates were uneven, and some Democrats have been nervous as to how he would fare in an unscripted setting. But his team also viewed the night as a chance to illuminate Trump’s failings with the pandemic and economy, with the former vice president acting as a “fact checker on the floor” while bracing himself for the onslaught that was coming.The tumult of 2020 was difficult to overstate: COVID-19 has rewritten the rules of everyday life; racial justice protests have swept into cities after several highly publicized killings of Black people by police, and the death of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg allowed Trump to nominate a conservative jurist to replace a liberal voice and perhaps reshape the high court for generations.But the impact of the debate — and the two to follow — remained unclear. Despite the upheaval, the presidential race has seemed largely unchanged since Biden seized control of the Democratic field in March and opened a steady lead over Trump.Both sides looked to one-up each other in the hours before the debate.Biden released his 2019 tax returns just days after the blockbuster revelations about Trump’s long-hidden tax history, including that he paid only $750 a year in federal income taxes in 2016 and 2017 and nothing in many other years. The Bidens paid nearly $300,000 in taxes in 2019.Meanwhile, trying to hammer home a claim that Biden is not up to the job of president, Trump’s campaign pushed out a number of pre-debate accusations, including that the former vice president asked for numerous breaks during the 90-minute debate and had backed out of a search meant to rule out that either man was wearing an earpiece from which he could be fed answers.The Biden campaign denied the accusations and, in a conference call Tuesday afternoon, chided reporters for biting on a Trump gambit.“We’re in the middle of a global pandemic,” Biden senior campaign adviser Symone Sanders said. “Is this what you all would really like to spend your time on, these false, crazy, random, ridiculous assertions by the Trump campaign?”The president’s handling of the coronavirus was likely to dominate much of the debate. The pandemic’s effects were in plain sight, with the candidates’ lecterns spaced far apart, all of the guests in the small crowd tested and the traditional opening handshake scrapped.The scene in Cleveland was notably understated compared to typical election years, with none of the pomp and pageantry. Instead of the usual auditorium, the debate was held in an atrium on Case Western University’s campus — one that had been temporarily converted into a COVID-19 hospital this spring — and signs were placed on two of every three three chairs reading, “Thank you for not sitting here in observance of social distancing.”___Lemire reported from New York. Additional reporting by Associated Press writers Jill Colvin in Cleveland and Zeke Miller in Washington.___||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-biden-spar-over-supreme-court-health-care/story-IiZhKtI9d7jyaceyjc1sEL.html
30-09-2020||World||No handshake at start of first Trump-Biden presidential debate in age of coronavirus||Republican President Donald Trump and Democratic rival Joe Biden did not shake hands or wear masks as they entered their first White House debate on Tuesday, adhering to protocols on social distancing during the coronavirus pandemic.The two candidates entered the stage at the same time and smiled as moderator Chris Wallace of Fox News explained they would not shake hands.“How you doing, man?” Biden said, extending his arms towards Trump.The 90-minute debate, with a limited and socially distanced in-person audience due to the pandemic, was held at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland.It was the first of three scheduled debates.Organizers said there were about 80 people in the audience, including the candidates’ family members, their guests, campaign staff, hosts, health and security officials and journalists.Trump’s guests included first lady Melania Trump, sons Eric and Donald Jr., daughters Ivanka and Tiffany, and such allies as U.S. Representative Jim Jordan and White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows.Biden’s wife Jill sat in Biden’s section.With more than a million Americans already casting early ballots and time running out to change minds or influence the small sliver of undecided voters, the stakes were enormous as the two White House candidates took the stage five weeks before the Nov. 3 election.Biden, 77, has held a consistent lead over Trump, 74, in national opinion polls, although surveys in the battleground states that will decide the election show a closer contest.The debate, beginning at 9 pm EDT (0100 GMT on Wednesday) was due to be divided into six segments: the records of Trump and Biden, the Supreme Court, the pandemic, the economy, election integrity and “race and violence” in U.S. cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-handshake-at-start-of-first-trump-biden-presidential-debate-in-age-of-coronavirus/story-s83wFqCfiFTCADI4PHyLMI.html
30-09-2020||World||Trump, Biden square off in crucial first campaign debate||President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden squared off Tuesday night in their crucial first debate of the 2020 campaign, the most pivotal opportunity yet for them to outline starkly different visions for a country facing multiple crises.Trump and Biden arrived in Cleveland hoping the debate would energize their bases of support, even as they competed for the slim slice of undecided voters who could decide the election. It has been generations since two men asked to lead a nation facing such tumult, with Americans both fearful and impatient about the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 200,000 of their fellow citizens and cost millions of jobs.With just 35 days until the election, and early voting already underway in some states, Biden stepped onto the stage holding leads in the polls — significant in national surveys, close in some battleground states — and looking to expand his support among suburban voters, women and seniors. Surveys show the president has lost significant ground among those groups since 2016, but Biden faces his own questions encouraged by Trump’s withering attacks.Trump had arguably his best chance to try to reframe the campaign as a choice between candidates and not a referendum over his handling of the virus that has killed more people in America than any other nation. Americans, according to polling, have soured on his leadership in the crisis, and the president has struggled to land consistent attacks on Biden.Leaving the White House for Cleveland, Trump pumped his fist for supporters gathered on the White House lawn but did not address reporters. He spent the morning in informal debate preparations while a more formal session was set for the afternoon once he arrived in Ohio. Biden held an umbrella to ward off the Delaware rain as he boarded a new, bigger campaign plane en route to Cleveland. He, too, did not address reporters.Though some Trump aides involved in the preparations urged the president to adopt a measured tone while selling his own accomplishments, Trump had told advisers he was preparing an all-out assault on Biden, claiming that the former senator’s 47 years in Washington have left him out of touch and that his family, namely his son Hunter, has benefited from corruption.Biden’s performances during the primary debates were uneven, and some Democrats have been nervous as to how he would fare in an unscripted setting. But his team also viewed the night as a chance to illuminate Trump’s failings with the pandemic and economy, with the former vice president acting as a “fact checker on the floor” while bracing himself for the onslaught that was coming.The tumult of 2020 was difficult to overstate: Covid-19 has rewritten the rules of everyday life; racial justice protests have swept into cities after several highly publicized killings of Black people by police, and the death of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg allowed Trump to nominate a conservative jurist to replace a liberal voice and perhaps reshape the high court for generations.But the impact of the debate — and the two to follow — remained unclear. Despite the upheaval, the presidential race has seemed largely unchanged since Biden seized control of the Democratic field in March and opened a steady lead over Trump.Both sides looked to one-up each other in the hours before the debate.Biden released his 2019 tax returns just days after the blockbuster revelations about Trump’s long-hidden tax history, including that he paid only $750 a year in federal income taxes in 2016 and 2017 and nothing in many other years. The Bidens paid nearly $300,000 in taxes in 2019.Meanwhile, trying to hammer home a claim that Biden is not up to the job of president, Trump’s campaign pushed out a number of pre-debate accusations, including that the former vice president asked for numerous breaks during the 90-minute debate and had backed out of a search meant to rule out that either man was wearing an earpiece from which he could be fed answers.The Biden campaign denied the accusations and, in a conference call Tuesday afternoon, chided reporters for biting on a Trump gambit.“We’re in the middle of a global pandemic,” Biden senior campaign adviser Symone Sanders said. “Is this what you all would really like to spend your time on, these false, crazy, random, ridiculous assertions by the Trump campaign?”The president’s handling of the coronavirus was likely to dominate much of the debate. The pandemic’s effects were in plain sight, with the candidates’ lecterns spaced far apart, all of the guests in the small crowd tested and the traditional opening handshake scrapped.The scene in Cleveland was notably understated compared to typical election years, with none of the pomp and pageantry. Instead of the usual auditorium, the debate was held in an atrium on Case Western University’s campus — one that had been temporarily converted into a Covid-19 hospital this spring — and signs were placed on two of every three three chairs reading, “Thank you for not sitting here in observance of social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-biden-square-off-in-crucial-first-campaign-debate/story-c0jal7tNoMVjy2RkbWY8WP.html
30-09-2020||World||Trump intel chief unveils unverified Russian info about Dems||The Trump administration’s top intelligence official said Tuesday that he has declassified Russian intelligence alleging damaging information about Democrats during the 2016 election even though he acknowledged it might not be true.The announcement, just hours before the first presidential debate of this November’s election, drew harsh criticism from lawmakers who accused National Intelligence Director John Ratcliffe of politicizing intelligence.In a letter Tuesday to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., Ratcliffe said that in late July 2016, U.S. intelligence agencies obtained “insight” into Russian spycraft alleging that Hillary Clinton, who was running for president, had “approved a campaign plan to stir up a scandal against” Trump.But Ratcliffe added that American intelligence agencies do “not know the accuracy of this allegation or the extent to which the Russian intelligence analysis may reflect exaggeration or fabrication.”The announcement was a startling break from convention given that the nation’s intelligence chiefs are generally loath to publicly discuss sensitive government intelligence, particularly when that information is unconfirmed — as Ratcliffe himself admits is the case here. But Trump himself has been eager to install loyalists in the role of intelligence director, and Ratcliffe and his predecessor, Richard Grenell, have authorized a series of disclosures in recent months aimed at undermining the Russia investigation and providing a political advantage to Trump.Graham signaled Tuesday that he intended to ask former FBI Director James Comey about the issue when Comey testifies before the committee, which has been doing its own inquiry into the origins of the Russia probe.Sen. Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence committee, called Ratcliffe’s decision “disturbing,” especially this close to a presidential election.Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., a member of the intelligence committee, accused Ratcliffe of abusing his position as the nation’s top spy.“His politicization of intelligence, including through selective releases to political allies, damages the country and undermines the intelligence community he purports to lead,” Wyden said in a statement. “Ratcliffe is even willing to rely on unverified Russian information to try to concoct a political scandal — a shocking abdication of his responsibilities to the country.”Wyden said the information being released amounted to “rumint” or intelligence based on rumors. Ratcliffe responded with a second statement claiming the intelligence was not Russian disinformation. He said he’d be briefing Congress in coming days about the “sensitive sources and methods by which it was obtained.”Ratcliffe said he was providing the intelligence to the Judiciary Committee related to the FBI’s “Crossfire Hurricane” investigation in 2016 and 2017 into links between Trump associates and Russian officials. Comey is to testify to the committee on Wednesday.In his letter to the committee, Ratcliffe said that according to handwritten notes by former CIA Director John Brennan, Brennan briefed President Barack Obama and other senior national security officials on the intelligence, including the “alleged approval by Hillary Clinton on July 26, 2016 of a proposal from one of her foreign policy advisors to vilify Donald Trump by stirring up a scandal claiming interference by Russian security services.”Nick Shapiro, former CIA deputy chief of staff to Brennan, said Russian interference in the 2016 election was “real, intense and unprecedented in scale and scope.”Shapiro said the meddling was authorized personally by Russian President Vladimir Putin to hurt Clinton and to promote the electoral prospects of Trump. “The intelligence on this is incontrovertible and the analysis unimpeachable,” Shapiro said.He said the intelligence community’s assessment of Russian interference on behalf of Trump has been corroborated numerous times. That includes in the CIA’s own review when Secretary Mike Pompeo was the CIA director as well as in the bipartisan Senate intelligence committee review and report by former special counsel Robert Mueller.“Trump’s own head of counterintelligence has publicly stated that the Russians are once again helping Donald Trump,” Shapiro added. “Ratcliffe should be ashamed of his blatant politicization of his position.”Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., the chairman of the House intelligence committee, also denounced Ratcliffe’s action. “Ratcliffe’s decision to release Russian intelligence he concedes may be false is an obvious domestic political errand with an election weeks away,” Schiff tweeted. “But his acknowledgment that it was derived from sensitive sources and methods—which he may now have compromised—is just inexcusable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/us-presidential-election/trump-intel-chief-unveils-unverified-russian-info-about-dems/story-EmCcIA3TUUhXVenQ80tYEL.html
30-09-2020||World||Crowds out, masks in: Debating in the age of the coronavirus||Crowds and pageantry are out. Covid-19 tests and masks are in.Presidential debates are typically some of the most exciting nights of the campaign season, drawing a crowd of thousands of staffers, media and guests.But this year, as with almost everything else, things are very, very different, with a long list of precautions in place.Instead of the usual auditorium setting, the debate is being hosted by the Cleveland Clinic and Case Western Reserve University in the 27,000-square-foot (2,500-square-meter) atrium of the Sheila and Eric Samson Pavilion on the clinic’s Health Education Campus. Notre Dame, the original debate host, withdrew because of the pandemic.Also read: Donald Trump, Joe Biden push into crucial first 2020 campaign face-offNot long ago, the building was transformed into a temporary, 1,000-bed surge hospital, named Hope Hospital, for expected coronavirus patients. Though it never ended up needing to be used, the floor where the debate stage was built was not long ago lined with beds for patients and copper piping to bring in oxygen.The atrium, with its skylighted roof, has now been turned into a makeshift debate hall with a stage, red carpeting and elevated platforms for cameras. While chairs are mostly placed right next to one another, the rows have been spaced out and signs have been posted on many chairs that read, “Thank you for not sitting here in observance of social distancing.” That leaves room for about 100 people, all of whom will have been tested for the virus and will be required to wear masks.President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden won’t have to wear masks themselves, though.Each candidate’s campaign was given 20 tickets to hand out to guests, said White House chief of staff Mark Meadows. Trump’s guests were to include his wife, Melania, and his four adult children. Seats were set with programs and anti-bacterial wipes.Beyond those watching the televised debates from afar, the faceoffs typically draw several thousand people, including guests, sponsors, donors and the national and international media, taking on the feel of a festival. There’s usually a huge media filing center and food tents — even a beer garden. And after the debate, supporters of each candidate typically file into the press center, creating a “spin room” where they post-game the main event.While there is a media filing center in Cleveland in a ballroom near the venue, the atmosphere felt far from buzzy Tuesday afternoon, with few reporters in place. And only those wearing gray wristbands indicating they had tested negative for the virus were allowed inside.Outside, there were no large demonstrations, just security officials blocking off streets around the building before the candidates’ arrivals and helicopters buzzing overhead.One man was spotted driving around the venue in a pickup truck that had a papier-mache model of Trump’s head in a box, along with pro-Biden flags and signs that read, “203,000 DEAD” of COVID-19 and “Trump failed us.”Also spotted: A woman dressed as a doctor and pulling a plastic wagon filled with toy skeletons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/crowds-out-masks-in-debating-in-the-age-of-the-coronavirus/story-Q6rBc55f9XtQU3pvRqj2LN.html
30-09-2020||World||World Bank seeks board approval for $12 billion coronavirus vaccine financing plan||World Bank President David Malpass said on Tuesday he is seeking board approval for a $12 billion (£9.33 billion) coronavirus vaccine financing plan to help poor and developing countries secure a sufficient share of vaccine doses when they become available in the coming months.Malpass told Reuters in an exclusive interview that the initiative, part of $160 billion in coronavirus aid financing pledged by the multilateral lender, is aimed at helping countries procure and distribute vaccines early to healthcare and other essential workers and expand global production. He said the board was expected to consider the plan in early October.Global competition for early coronavirus vaccine doses is already fierce, months ahead of any approvals, as wealthy countries move to secure supplies. The U.S. government has pledged over $3 billion to secure hundreds of millions of doses of vaccines under development by Britain’s AstraZeneca Plc
30-09-2020||World||Boost in vaccine doses planned for poor as coronavirus rages on||Up to 100 million additional doses of any eventual Covid-19 vaccines will be secured for delivery to poorer countries in 2021, health groups announced Tuesday, as the virus showed no sign of receding after claiming more than one million lives around the world.The announcement doubles the number of doses already secured from the Serum Institute of India by the Gavi vaccine alliance and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, following an initial agreement last month.The public-private health partnership stressed that the eventual total is “potentially several times” greater, and said the price would be capped at $3 per dose.“No country, rich or poor, should be left at the back of the queue when it comes to Covid-19 vaccines; this collaboration brings us another step closer to achieving this goal,” Gavi chief Seth Berkley said.As nine vaccine candidates are in last-stage trials, the World Bank said Tuesday it had asked its board of directors to approve $12 billion to help poor countries purchase and distribute vaccines.A World Bank spokesman said that “the global economy will not recover fully until people feel they can live, socialize, work and travel with confidence.”As humanity struggles against Covid-19, the World Health Organization said this week that some 120 million rapid tests will soon be made available to low- and middle-income countries if funding can be secured.The kits -- faster, cheaper and easier to administer than standard polymerase chain reaction (PCR) swab tests, but also less reliable -- will be rolled out across 133 countries in the next six months.- European wave -UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Tuesday said that “responsible leadership matters” in steering the world through the pandemic.“Science matters. Cooperation matters -- and misinformation kills,” he warned, urging people to respect familiar infection control measures like hand-washing, distancing and mask-wearing.Case numbers are climbing rapidly in Europe, where governments are clamping down on movement in an attempt to curb the surge.Germany introduced new limits on the number of people who can attend private events, after Spain, France, Britain and Northern Ireland all imposed fresh restrictions.German Chancellor Angela Merkel said “a reaction is necessary” after recent outbreaks were frequently traced to weddings and other gatherings.In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson appeared to share general confusion about his government’s measures, apologising after wrongly saying that rules limiting gatherings in northeast England to no more than six people did not apply outdoors.The Czech Republic and Slovakia said they were preparing to declare a state of emergency.In Israel, which has the world’s highest infection rate per capita, Health Minister Yuli Edelstein said Tuesday that there was “no way” the country’s second nationwide coronavirus lockdown would be lifted after three weeks as originally planned.- New York worries again-Across the Atlantic, former coronavirus hotspot New York’s rate of positive tests surged to more than three percent from below two in just 24 hours, authorities said, adding that Orthodox Jewish communities have faced a particularly sharp increase.The figures were a “real cause for concern,” Mayor Bill de Blasio told reporters as he introduced fines for those not wearing masks in public.More than one in ten of the 203,107 people who have so far died of coronavirus in the US were New Yorkers.US President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden were gearing up for their first televised election debate, with the country’s troubled response to the virus likely to be a battleground.Hours before the debate, the economic impact of the virus was highlighted by Disney saying it will cut 28,000 jobs from its US theme parks division.Worldwide the virus has now infected almost 33.5 million people and killed over a million, according to an AFP tally compiled from official sources.Mid-September saw a record rise in cases in most regions and the WHO has warned that virus deaths could even double to two million.On Monday, the number of cases in India surpassed six million, with the country on course to overtake the US in the coming weeks as the nation with the most infections.The country’s lead pandemic agency said Tuesday that as many as 60 million of India’s 1.3 billion population could already have been infected, based on a study of blood antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boost-in-vaccine-doses-planned-for-poor-as-coronavirus-rages-on/story-67BFm3BSCxpFIlcrDn6mNL.html
30-09-2020||World||Trump, Biden healthcare differences in spotlight amid pandemic, Supreme Court fight||Healthcare, always a top concern for U.S. voters, has taken on even greater importance amid a coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 205,000 Americans and cost millions more their jobs.The death of liberal Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, meanwhile, has raised the stakes of the upcoming legal battle over Obamacare, formally known as the Affordable Care Act, when the high court hears the Trump administration’s effort to repeal the law days after the Nov. 3 election.Here is a look at some of the vast differences on healthcare policy between Republican President Donald Trump and his Democratic challenger, former Vice President Joe Biden:CORONAVIRUSTrump has ceded much of the response to the pandemic to the states, rather than pursuing a national effort to expand testing, coordinate contact tracing and acquire protective equipment in bulk. He has also sent mixed messages on masks, which public health experts have said are crucial to slowing the spread of the virus.Since the spring, Trump has pressed governors to reopen their states and has called on public schools to return to in-person instruction, arguing that the “cure cannot be worse than the disease.” He has often downplayed the deadliness of the virus and at times publicly undermined his administration’s own experts.Trump signed into law several relief bills that have delivered trillions of dollars to individuals and businesses, though congressional Democrats have demanded more spending. The administration also launched “Operation Warp Speed,” an effort to support development of a coronavirus vaccine.Biden has vowed to “listen to the science,” even saying he would consider another national economic shutdown if experts recommend it. He has called for a national mask standard, though he has acknowledged he may not have the authority to mandate their use.His coronavirus plan calls for scaling up testing and contact tracing and promises to appoint a “supply commander” to oversee supply lines of critical equipment.Biden has also proposed reopening insurance marketplaces for people who lost coverage through their jobs, expanding paid sick leave, and increasing pay for frontline workers. He has questioned whether Trump may try to politicize the vaccine process to boost his own re-election chances.OBAMACAREAfter years of failed attempts by Republican lawmakers to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Trump has turned to other tools to undermine the sweeping healthcare law: executive power and the courts.The Justice Department is backing a lawsuit brought by several Republican-led states seeking to overturn the entire ACA, a case the U.S. Supreme Court is expected to hear on Nov. 10 - one week after Election Day.Justice Ginsburg’s death has deepened concerns among Democrats that the court, which previously upheld the law 5-4 in 2012, might rule against the ACA. Under the law, more than 20 million Americans have gained insurance coverage.The Trump administration has not proposed a comprehensive replacement, despite Trump’s vow to deliver a better, less-costly healthcare system. On Thursday, he signed two executive orders as part of what he called the “America First” healthcare plan, though they were seen as largely symbolic.The Republican-backed 2017 tax overhaul bill eliminated the ACA’s individual mandate, which required most people to maintain insurance or face a penalty. Experts say the move increased premiums.In addition, Trump has used executive power to boost short-term plans, which are exempt from the ACA’s requirement to cover basic benefits and guarantee coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.The Trump administration also cut funding for staff and advertising intended to help people navigate the ACA marketplaces, where individuals can purchase private insurance, often with the help of government subsidies.Biden has vowed to bolster the law, which was enacted during his first four-year term as Obama’s vice president. His own healthcare plan would cost $750 billion over 10 years and would be financed by raising taxes on the wealthy, according to his campaign.Unlike some liberals, Biden does not support a single-payer system like Medicare for All.Instead, Biden’s plan calls for a Medicare-like public option that would serve as an alternative, not a replacement, for private insurance.In addition, several million people who are uninsured because they live in one of the 14 states that have refused to expand Medicaid - which provides coverage for low-income Americans - under the ACA would automatically be enrolled in the public option. He also has proposed expanding the subsidies available on the ACA marketplaces and capping cost increases.PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONSTrump has repeatedly said he will protect those with pre-existing conditions despite his administration’s effort to gut the ACA.On Thursday, he signed an executive order intended to maintain insurance protections for people with pre-existing conditions if the Supreme Court overturns the ACA. But health experts immediately said the order had little practical import.“The executive order has no specific policy to protect people with pre-existing conditions, nor does it even have a path to such a policy,” said Larry Levitt, a health policy expert at the nonprofit Kaiser Family Foundation. “This is more of a pinky promise than a plan.”DRUG PRICESTrump’s rhetoric has been more hawkish on prescription drug prices than that of most Republicans, but his results have been uneven.He signed an executive order in early September aimed at setting Medicare prices for prescription drugs based on the cost in other countries, where prices are often lower. But experts say the order alone does not set policy; implementing the change will require a lengthy rulemaking process that would likely be challenged in court by drugmakers.Both Biden and Trump support some form of importing prescription drugs from foreign countries to lower costs, though some experts have questioned whether doing so is feasible.Trump also vowed on Thursday to deliver $200 cards to 33 million seniors to help pay for prescriptions, though it was not immediately clear where he would get the $6.6 billion without congressional approval.Biden supports a bill approved by the Democratic-led House of Representatives last year that would allow Medicare to negotiate drug prices, as private insurers do.Republicans, backed by the pharmaceutical industry, have argued it would force drugmakers to spend less on research and development, and the Trump administration has said it would veto the bill.MEDICARE/MEDICAID EXPANSIONIn April, Biden proposed lowering the Medicare eligibility age from 65 to 60, a move aimed at appealing to liberal voters. Such a change would potentially extend Medicare to some 20 million more Americans.Trump has proposed several budgets that include cuts to Medicare and Medicaid spending. The Medicare reductions would not affect benefits but would instead change how providers are paid, according to Tricia Neuman, a Medicare expert at Kaiser.The administration has supported imposing work requirements and other limitations on Medicaid eligibility, as well as installing caps on Medicaid spending growth and converting Medicaid to block grants - all moves that experts say would result in fewer people covered. (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Colleen Jenkins and Jonathan Oatis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/us-presidential-election/trump-biden-healthcare-differences-in-spotlight-amid-pandemic-supreme-court-fight/story-omBA0g8zCS9XFT1CKM0QML.html
30-09-2020||World||Kamala Harris previews Joe Biden’s focus for debate||Kamala Harris says her running mate, Joe Biden, will share his vision for tackling the coronavirus and rebuilding the nation’s economy during his presidential debate against President Donald Trump.The Democratic California senator said Tuesday during a digital fundraiser with artists that “Joe’s goal in the debate is to communicate directly with the American people.”Harris says the country is at a crossroads in more ways than one, from the pandemic and economic recession to a reckoning on racial injustice and climate change. She’s calling Republican efforts to fill a Supreme Court seat before the election a “crisis.”Harris says, “And in the midst of all this, a president whose instinct is to always stoke chaos, division, and mistrust.”Harris is set to debate Vice President Mike Pence next week.___HERE’S WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT WHAT’S HAPPENING IN THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE:The first presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Democrat Joe Biden begins at 9 p.m. Eastern time in Cleveland.Read more:— 5 questions heading into Trump and Biden’s first debate— Viewers’ Guide: Trump, Biden meet in Ohio for 1st debate— Trump, Biden prepare to debate at a time of mounting crises— Analysis: In debate, a last chance for Trump to define Biden___HERE’S WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING:2:15 p.m.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden, have released more of their personal tax returns ahead of the first presidential debate.The Bidens’ returns show the couple paid almost $300,000 in federal taxes in 2019, including almost $288,000 in personal income tax. The Bidens reported taxable income of $944,737.The release on Tuesday comes just days after The New York Times reported that Trump paid $750 in federal income taxes in 2016, the year he was elected president, and again in 2017, his first year in office. The Times said Trump paid no federal income taxes for 10 of the 15 years before that.Biden and Trump are set to meet Tuesday night in Cleveland for their first presidential debate, and Trump’s taxes are sure to come up.Trump has called the reports “fake news” yet still refuses to release his returns himself. Biden already had released two decades’ worth of his tax returns, in addition to the federal financial disclosures required of him when he was a senator and vice president.Biden’s running mate, California Sen. Kamala Harris, and her husband, Doug Emhoff, also released their 2019 returns Tuesday. Harris and Emhoff reported paying $1.05 million in personal income taxes and $1.19 million in total federal taxes on $3.02 million in taxable income.___2:10 p.m.President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump emerged from the White House to a crowd of more than 100 cheering supporters as they departed for the first presidential debate in Cleveland.The crowd, which included staffers and interns, cheered as the Trumps left the White House.Both the president and first lady paused to recognize the show of support with a few claps of their own and several first pumps from Trump.Trump boarded Marine One without comment. At Joint Base Andrews, where Air Force One was set to take off, Trump gave a wave and thumbs before boarding.___12:30 p.m.President Donald Trump spent Tuesday morning in informal preparations for the first debate with Joe Biden. A longer, more formal preparation session was set for the afternoon once he arrives in Cleveland.Trump’s prep team includes former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, campaign communications strategist Jason Miller, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, Jared Kushner, press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and communications director Alyssa Farah. Some other advisers like Dan Scavino and Hope Hicks have also been involved.While Trump is itching to go on the offense against Biden, some aides have encouraged him to adopt a more measured tone -- believing that in many ways the debates are more about Trump vs himself than Biden. Trump, they argue, should focus more on selling his accomplishments than trying to viciously attack Biden. Some involved with the preparations, though, have encouraged Trump’s more aggressive ‘counterpunching’ side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/us-presidential-election/kamala-harris-previews-joe-biden-s-focus-for-debate/story-82yZVi3YmuIfwWYNtVFHbM.html
30-09-2020||World||US stocks dip ahead of presidential debate||Wall Street stocks dipped Tuesday after two positive session as investors digested the latest effort to try to jumpstart Washington stimulus talks amid caution ahead of the first presidential debate.The Dow Jones Industrial Average shed 0.5 percent to 27,452.66.The broad-based S&P 500 also dropped 0.5 percent to 3,335.47, while the tech-rich Nasdaq Composite Index lost 0.3 percent at 11,085.25.Tonight’s debate in Ohio pits President Donald Trump against Democratic challenger Joe Biden and comes after US politics were rocked anew by revelations from a New York Times expose that said Trump paid no taxes for 10 of the last 15 years.Biden is ahead in national polls and in several crucial swing states, but a debate win by Trump could shake up that dynamic.Congressional Democrats on Monday unveiled a trimmed-down $2.2 trillion stimulus bill, a scale still well above the level supported by Senate Republicans.On Tuesday, a top aide to Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the lawmaker had spoken for the second day in a row with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, and the two agreed to continue negotiating, raising hopes the impasse could end. Consumer confidence in the US jumped to 101.8 in September, The Conference Board reported on Tuesday, ending months of decline with a 15 point-plus gain from August despite no new federal stimulus.A note from Schwab described markets as shrugging off the better consumer data, “with investors cautious ahead of tonight’s first presidential debate.”Among individual companies, electric truck companies Nikola slid 7.4 percent as former chairman Trevor Milton faced accusations of sexual assault, another negative headline even though Milton has left the company.Beyond Meat jumped 9.5 percent as it announced it is expanding its distribution partnership with Walmart to 2,400 stores in the US from 800 previously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/us-presidential-election/us-stocks-dip-ahead-of-presidential-debate/story-abB7HBE2Q4idK7sTxdIE8M.html
30-09-2020||World||TikTok launches US election guide to battle misinformation||TikTok on Tuesday launched a US election guide as part of an effort to battle misinformation on the wildly popular video-sharing app that the White House has targeted for a ban.Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and other internet platforms have all ramped up efforts to provide users reliable news and avoid being used to mislead voters during a contentious US election.TikTok’s in-app guide provides links to voter registration pages and access to election information from sources such as the National Association of Secretaries of State and BallotReady, according to head of US public policy Michael Beckerman.“Our goal is to keep TikTok a place where authentic content can thrive, and our elections guide reflects our ongoing efforts to protect the integrity of our platform and the US elections,” Beckerman said in a blog post.The guide can be accessed from a Discover page in the TikTok app and will appear on election-related search results, according to Beckerman.It will also be linked at the bottom of videos related to the election or on verified political accounts, he said.“On TikTok we’re seeing how people, especially younger voters, are passionate about important issues and are ready to make their voices heard,” BallotReady chief executive Alex Niemczewski said in the release.“Younger voters often do not realize everything that will appear on their ballot, and we believe that TikTok can help them vote their entire ballot.”- Voting information -MediaWise at the Poynter Institute will post a series of videos on TikTok aimed at teaching first-time voters how to spot bogus information online, according to program manager Katy Byron.“We are excited to partner with TikTok to help teach their community how to sort fact from fiction online,” Byron said.The election guide makes its debut as TikTok battles to stop a ban ordered by US President Donald Trump. The company has challenged the ban in court as being capricious and politically motivated.A US judge who stopped a ban on TikTok downloads from kicking in on Monday said that Trump likely overstepped the law with the attempted move.District Judge Carl Nichols issued a temporary injunction at the request of TikTok, which the White House has called a national security threat stemming from its Chinese parent firm’s links to the Beijing government.The government order sought to ban new downloads of the app from midnight on Sunday. A second phase of the ban aimed at stopping TikTok operations in the US is set to take effect on November 12.Government lawyers have argued the president has a right to take national security actions, and said the ban was needed because of TikTok’s links to the Chinese government through its parent firm ByteDance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/us-presidential-election/tiktok-launches-us-election-guide-to-battle-misinformation/story-EUR0gpVzazADP56vmmQiYO.html
30-09-2020||World||Regeneron says its Covid-19 treatment reduces viral levels, improves symptoms||Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc on Tuesday said its experimental two-antibody cocktail reduced viral levels and improved symptoms in non-hospitalized Covid-19 patients, enhancing its chances of becoming a treatment for the disease that has killed over a million people worldwide.“We hope these data will support an EUA” (emergency use authorization) from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Regeneron Chief Scientific Officer George Yancopoulos said on a conference call.The FDA can authorize emergency use of a drug before completing its review for a formal approval.Shares of Regeneron, which closed at $573.61, were halted after hours.Trial results for the first 275 patients showed the greatest effect in those who had not yet mounted their own immune response prior to treatment. That suggests the treatment, REGN-COV2, could help patients whose own immune system is not strong enough to combat the virus, Regeneron said.REGN-COV2 is part of a class of biotech therapies known as monoclonal antibodies. Several companies are using the technology to manufacture copies of human antibodies to the new coronavirus.Regeneron believes its dual-antibody formula will limit the ability of the virus to escape detection and attack.The study tested two different doses of REGN-COV2 in two patient populations: those who had mounted an effective immune response on their own (seropositive), and those whose immune response was not yet adequate, or seronegative.Among patients given a placebo, those who already had effective natural antibodies had a median time to alleviation of symptoms of 7 days, compared to 13 days for seronegative patients.Among seronegative patients given the Regeneron cocktail, median time to symptom alleviation was 8 days for the high-dose group, and 6 days for the low-dose group.Regeneron also said REGN-COV2 rapidly reduced viral load through day 7 in seronegative patients. In addition, patients with higher virus levels at the start of the trial had correspondingly greater reductions in viral load with REGN-COV2, which is given by intravenous infusion.Serious adverse side effects occurred in two placebo patients and one patient who got the lower dose of REGN-COV2. There were no deaths in the trial.The treatment is also being studied for use in hospitalized patients, and for prevention of infection in people who have been exposed to Covid-19.The U.S. government in June awarded Regeneron a $450 million supply contract for the antibody cocktail.Swiss drugmaker Roche Holding AG last month agreed to boost overall manufacturing capacity for REGN-COV2 by at least three and a half times. Under the deal, Regeneron would handle U.S. sales of the treatment and Roche would be responsible for the rest of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/regeneron-says-its-covid-19-treatment-reduces-viral-levels-improves-symptoms/story-WfqQcPa2Wo3UcxquSMCZzN.html
30-09-2020||World||Disney to cut 28,000 US employees due to coronavirus||Disney announced Tuesday it will cut 28,000 jobs from its US parks and experiences division, pointing to depressed demand caused by the coronavirus and uncertainty on when it will recover.The cuts were needed in light of social distancing requirements, exacerbated by tough restrictions imposed by the California state government, the company said in a press release. About two-thirds of the affected employees are part-time staff.“Over the past several months, we’ve been forced to make a number of necessary adjustments to our business, and as difficult as this decision is today, we believe that the steps we are taking will enable us to emerge a more effective and efficient operation when we return to normal,” said Josh D’Amaro, chairman of Disney Parks, Experiences and Products.The move comes on the heels of Disney’s $4.7 billion loss in the most recent quarter, which reflected the hit to its theme park business and the derailment or postponement of major movie releases. These negative effects have been offset somewhat by soaring demand for the “Disney +” streaming service, where it steered premiers of “Mulan” and “Hamilton.”Shares of Disney fell 1.5 percent to $123.57 in after-hours trading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/disney-to-cut-28-000-us-employees-due-to-coronavirus/story-QKzVI4W7ZF2076FveBCE3L.html
30-09-2020||World||Space station air leak forces middle-of-night crew wakeup||A small air leak at the International Space Station finally has been traced to the Russian side, following a middle-of-the-night search by astronauts.NASA said Tuesday that the two Russians and one American on board were awakened late Monday to hurriedly seal hatches between compartments and search for the ongoing leak, which appeared to be getting worse. It was the third time in just over a month that the crew had to isolate themselves on the Russian side, in an attempt to find the growing leak.It turns out instead of the leak getting bigger this time, a temporary temperature change caused the erroneous cabin air pressure reading, according to NASA. The leak was first spotted a year ago.NASA officials stress that the leak remains small and poses no danger. The astronauts will now use leak detectors to try to pinpoint the leak in Russia’s main living and working compartment, called Zvezda, Russian for Star.Space station deputy program manager Kenny Todd said the good news is that “instead of a bunch of haystacks, we’re down to maybe one haystack.” But he added: “It’s still a needle we’re looking for.” NASA is sending up extra air supply tanks on its next space station delivery, scheduled for a Thursday departure from Virginia. As long as the leak does not worsen, Todd said, the space station should be fine through next spring.In two weeks, two Russians and an American are scheduled to arrive at the space station, followed by crew of three Americans and a Japanese on SpaceX’s second launch of astronauts, now targeted for Oct. 31.During a news conference Tuesday from Houston, NASA astronaut Mike Hopkins, the commander, announced that the SpaceX capsule would be called Resilience — to reflect how the world is coping with this year’s challenges.“We hope that it brings a smile to your face and we hope that it provides something positive in your lives. Quite frankly, we hope that it’s an inspiration,” Hopkins said of the name and the mission. (AP) RS RS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/space-station-air-leak-forces-middle-of-night-crew-wakeup/story-WBpjImqM5n1GhPW8FGoNxJ.html
30-09-2020||World||Donald Trump, Joe Biden push into crucial first 2020 campaign face-off||With just 35 days until the election, President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden are barreling into their crucial first debate Tuesday night, the most pivotal moment so far in a race that has remained stubbornly unchanged in the face of historic tumult.Both men huddled with aides in the final hours before the debate, which will offer the candidates their biggest national stage to outline starkly different visions for a country facing multiple crises. Americans are both fearful and impatient about the coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 200,000 Americans and cost millions of jobs, and many are concerned about racial justice, protest violence or both.Each side hoped the debate would energize its own base of supporters even as the candidates compete over the slim slice of undecided voters who could decide the election.Biden will step onto the Cleveland stage holding leads in the polls — significant in national surveys, close in some battleground states — and looking to expand his support among suburban voters, women and seniors. Surveys show the president has lost significant ground among those groups since 2016, but Biden faces his own questions encouraged by Trump’s withering attacks.Trump will have arguably his best chance to try to reframe the campaign as a choice between candidates and not a referendum over his handling of the virus that has killed more people in America than any other nation. Americans, according to polling, have soured on his leadership in the crisis, and the president has struggled to land consistent attacks on Biden.“This will be the first moment in four years that someone will walk on stage as co-equal to Trump and be able to hold him to account for the malfeasance he has shown leading the country,” said Steve Schmidt, senior campaign aide for John McCain’s 2008 Republican presidential bid and a frequent Trump critic. “If Biden is unable to indict Trump for all that he has done, (that) would be a profound failure. There is no spinning that away.”Leaving the White House for Cleveland, Trump pumped his fist at supporters gathered on the White House lawn but did not address reporters. He spent the morning in informal debate preparations while a more formal session was set for the afternoon once he arrived in Ohio. Among those working with the president: former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, senior White House aide Jared Kushner and former White House counsellor Kellyanne Conway.Biden held an umbrella to ward off the Delaware rain as he boarded a new campaign plane enroute to Cleveland. He, too, did not address reporters.Though some Trump aides involved in the preparations urged the president to adopt a measured tone while selling his own accomplishments, Trump has told advisers he is preparing an all-out assault on Biden, claiming that the former senator’s 47 years in Washington have left him out of touch and that his family, namely his son Hunter, has benefited from corruption.Biden’s performances during the primary debates were uneven, and some Democrats have been nervous as to how he will fare in an unscripted setting. But his team views the night as a moment to illuminate Trump’s failings with the pandemic and economy, with the former vice president acting as a “fact checker on the floor” while bracing himself for the onslaught that is coming.Both sides looked to one-up each other in the hours before the debate.Biden released his 2019 tax returns just days after the blockbuster revelations about Trump’s long-hidden tax history, including that he paid only $750 a year in federal income taxes in 2016 and 2017 and nothing in many other years. The Bidens paid nearly $300,000 in taxes in 2019.Meanwhile, trying to hammer home a claim that Biden is not up to the job of president, Trump’s campaign pushed out a number of pre-debate accusations, including that the former vice president asked for numerous breaks during the 90-minute debate and had backed out of a search meant to rule out that either man was wearing an earpiece from which he could be fed answers.The Biden campaign denied the accusations and, in a conference call Tuesday afternoon, chided reporters for biting on a Trump gambit.“We’re in the middle of a global pandemic,” Biden senior campaign adviser Symone Sanders said. “Is this what you all would really like to spend your time on, these false, crazy, random, ridiculous assertions by the Trump campaign?”The president’s handling of the coronavirus was likely to dominate much of the debate. The pandemic’s effects were in plain sight, with the candidates’ lecterns spaced far apart, all of the guests in the small crowd tested and the traditional opening handshake scrapped.The scene in Cleveland was notably understated compared to typical election years, with none of the pomp and pageantry. Instead of the usual auditorium, the debate is being held in an atrium on Case Western University’s campus and signs were placed on two of every three three chairs reading, “Thank you for not sitting here in observance of social distancing.”And Biden’s selected guests gave clues that he wanted to focus on the virus, inviting small business owners dealing with the struggling economy and Kristin Urquiza, who spoke powerfully at the Democratic convention about her father’s death to Covid-19. Trump, meanwhile, was inviting Giuliani and UFC fighter Colby Covington.The debate was also shaped by an extraordinary confluence of other recent events, including the death of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, which allowed Trump to nominate a conservative jurist to replace a liberal voice and perhaps reshape the high court for generations.The tumult of 2020 was difficult to overstate: Covid-19 has rewritten the rules of everyday life, schools and businesses are shuttered and racial justice protests have swept into cities afterseveral highly publicized killings of Black people by police.But the impact of the debate — or the two to follow — remained unclear in an election year like no other. Despite the upheaval, the presidential race has seemed largely unchanged since Biden seized control of the Democratic field in March.While both sides anticipated a vicious debate between two men who do not like each other, the Biden campaign downplayed the night’s importance, believing that the pandemic and the battered economy would outweigh any one-night gaffe or zinger. Conversely, the Trump campaign played up the magnitude of the duel, believing it a moment for the president to damage Biden and recast the race.That continued a curious round of expectations setting: While Trump’s campaign has of late praised Biden’s debate skills, the president has also vividly portrayed his opponent as not being up to the job, potentially allowing Biden to come off well as long as he avoids a major stumble.“Historically, incumbents do less well in the first debate, largely because they’re unaccustomed to being challenged openly,” said presidential historian Jon Meacham. “The most important single debate in terms of direct impact on outcome came 40 years ago, with the single Carter-Reagan meeting a week before the election. The key question then — ‘Are you better off than you were four years ago?’ — has fresh and compelling resonance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-biden-push-into-crucial-first-2020-campaign-face-off/story-WjM2bdgyB2fCfkKTnMGcOI.html
30-09-2020||World||Azerbaijan and Armenia reject peace talks as Karabakh conflict zone widens||Armenia and Azerbaijan accused one another on Tuesday of firing directly into each other’s territory and rejected pressure to hold peace talks as their conflict over the enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh threatened to spill over into all-out war.Both reported firing from the other side across their shared border, well to the west of the breakaway Nagorno-Karabakh region over which fierce fighting broke out between Azeri and ethnic Armenian forces on Sunday.The incidents signalled a further escalation of the conflict despite urgent appeals from Russia, the United States and others to halt it.Azerbaijan’s President Ilham Aliyev, speaking to Russian state TV, flatly ruled out any possibility of talks.Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan told the same channel that talks could not take place while fighting continued.Further fuelling tensions between the two former Soviet republics, Armenia said an F-16 fighter jet belonging to Azerbaijan’s close ally Turkey had shot down one of its warplanes over Armenian airspace, killing the pilot.It provided no evidence of the incident. Turkey and Azerbaijan called the claim “absolutely untrue”.Dozens of people have been reported killed and hundreds wounded since clashes between Azerbaijan and its ethnic Armenian mountain enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh broke out on Sunday. Nagorno-Karabakh is a breakaway region that is inside Azerbaijan but is run by ethnic Armenians and is supported by Armenia. It broke away from Azerbaijan in a war in the 1990s, but is not recognised by any country as an independent republic.A descent into all-out war could drag in regional powers Russia and Turkey. Moscow has a defence alliance with Armenia, which is the enclave’s lifeline to the outside world, while Ankara backs its own ethnic Turkic kin in Azerbaijan.PLANE DISPUTEAn Armenian defence ministry spokeswoman said the Armenian Sukhoi Su-25 warplane had been on a military assignment when it was downed by an F-16 fighter jet owned by the Turkish air force.Turkey’s communications director Fahrettin Altun said: “Armenia should withdraw from the territories under its occupation instead of resorting to cheap propaganda tricks.”Azeri presidential aide Hikmat Hajiyev told Reuters: “The Su-25 was not even detected by our radars. Let Armenia present evidence.”The Kremlin said earlier that Moscow was in constant contact with Turkey, Armenia and Azerbaijan over the conflict. Any talk of providing military support for the opposing sides would only add fuel to the fire, it said.Azerbaijan’s prosecutor’s office said 12 Azeri civilians had so far been killed and 35 wounded by Armenian fire. The Azeri side has not disclosed military casualties.Nagorno-Karabakh has reported the loss of at least 84 soldiers. Armenia said on Tuesday that a 9-year-old girl was killed in shelling, while her mother and a brother were wounded. A mother and her child were killed on Sunday, the defence ministry of Nagorno-Karabakh said.FIGHTING SPREADSIn a sign that fighting was spreading, Armenia’s foreign ministry reported the first death in Armenia proper - a civilian it said was killed in an Azeri attack in the town of Vardenis more than 20 km (12 miles) from Nagorno-Karabakh. The Armenian defence ministry said an Armenian civilian bus caught fire in the town after being hit by an Azeri drone. It was not clear if the reported civilian death was from that incident.Azerbaijan’s defence ministry said that from Vardenis the Armenian army had shelled the Dashkesan region inside Azerbaijan. Armenia denied those reports.The clashes have reignited concern over stability in the South Caucasus region, a corridor for pipelines carrying oil and gas to world markets.Azerbaijan’s defence ministry said both sides had attempted to recover lost ground by mounting counter-attacks in the directions of Fizuli, Jabrayil, Agdere - Armenian-occupied areas of Azerbaijan that border Nagorno-Karabakh.Armenia reported fighting throughout the night, and said that Nagorno-Karabakh’s army had repelled attacks in several directions along the line of contact. (Additional reporting by Riham Alkousaa in Berlin, Gabrielle Tétrault-Farber in Moscow and Ece Toksabay in Ankara; Writing by Margarita Antidze, Tom Balmforth and Mark Trevelyan; Editing by Angus MacSwan and Giles Elgood)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/azerbaijan-and-armenia-reject-peace-talks-as-karabakh-conflict-zone-widens/story-kG8Boh92PeBKwjayTG5CcO.html
30-09-2020||World||Joe Biden releases tax info just before debate||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden paid $299,346 in income taxes in 2019, according to documents released on Tuesday just hours ahead of his first presidential debate with Donald Trump, who has staunchly refused to reveal his tax returns. The former US vice-president, together with his wife Jill, got a refund of $46,858 after paying $346,204 in income taxes, according to documents that pegged their total income at nearly $985,000.The returns were shared less than two days after The New York Times reported that Trump had paid a mere $750 in taxes in both 2016 and 2017, and nothing at all in 10 of the last 15 years. The Democrats’ deputy campaign manager Kate Bedingfield said earlier on Tuesday that besides the Bidens, his running mate, Indian-origin senator Kamala Harris, and her husband would release their tax information, calling on Trump to do the same.This is the 22nd year that Biden has publicly released his tax information and the 15th year for Harris.The first Trump vs. Biden debate is starting at 6.30am, Indian time, on Wednesday in Cleveland, Ohio, moderated by Fox News anchor Chris Wallace.Biden is going into the debate with a 7.1-point lead ahead of Trump in the FiveThirtyEight weighted average of national polls at 50.2% to 43.1%. He also leads by 6.1 points in the RealClearPolitics national average of polls at 49.3% to 43.2%.There will be no drug tests before the debate as Trump has been demanding. And there will most likely be no handshakes as the debate is taking place amid the coronavirus pandemic.“Joe Biden just announced that he will not agree to a drug test. Gee, I wonder why?” Trump tweeted on Monday. In the build-up to the November 3 election, Trump and his allies have sought to portray that Biden is mentally and physically unfit for the presidency.Six topics have been picked for the first debate, split into 15- minute segments: the candidates’ records, the Supreme Court, Covid-19, the economy, racism and violence in US cities, and the integrity of the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-releases-tax-info-just-before-debate/story-0M5ebxSWm6sqBKHThFSIbP.html
30-09-2020||India||Mathura court dismisses suit for removal of Shahi Idgah Masjid||A Mathura court on Wednesday dismissed a suit filed on behalf of child deity, Bhagwan Shri Krishna Virajman seeking removal of the Shahi Idgah Masjid which stands adjacent to the Sri Krishna temple complex at Mathura.The suit was heard by Additional District Judge, Chhaya Sharma who refused to admit the suit citing the bar under the Place of Worship (Special Provisions) Act of 1991.This law was passed at the height of the Ram Janmabhoomi dispute and seeks to protect all religious structures as they existed at the time of Independence on August 15, 1947 with the exception of the disputed site at Ayodhya.Since Ayodhya land was exempted, the Supreme Court had invoked this law in 2019 while awarding the disputed site at Ayodhya to child deity Ram Lalla while reaffirming that similar such cases cannot be entertained with respect to other sites in view of the law.The suit claiming ownership of the entire land of 13.37 acres land which is believed to be the birthplace of Lord Sri Krishna, the 8th incarnation of Lord Vishnu, was filed on September 25 through next friend of the child deity, one Ranjana Agnihotri an advocate and a resident of Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh. Six other devotees were also plaintiffs to the suit.They had sought cancellation of a settlement entered into between the Shri Krishna Janamsthan Seva Sansthan which is the governing body of the temple complex and the Committee of Management of Trust of Shahi Idgah (Idgah Trust) in 1968.The suit stated that Lord Shri Krishna was born in a prison of King Kans and the entire area under dispute is known as ‘Katra Keshav Dev’. Katra Keshav Dev is sacred for the devotees of Lord Shri Krishna and Hindu community. Hindu rulers have always paid homage to the birth place of Lord Shree Krishna and from time to time they constructed / renovated temple at the spot, the plaint said.It was submitted that the Idgah Trust with the help of some Muslims encroached upon the land belonging to Shri Krishna Janamasthan Trust and the deity and erected a super structure at the place.The birthplace of Lord Krishna, the 8th incarnation of Lord Vishnu lies beneath the structure raised by the trust, the suit added.It was claimed that Shri Krishna Janamsthan Seva Sansthan which is the governing body of the temple complex entered into an illegal compromise with the Idgah Trust in 1968 with a view to grab the property in question.“The Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan is working against the interest of the deity and devotees and fraudulently entered into a compromise with the Committee of Management of Trust Masjid Idgah (Trust) in 1968 conceding a considerable portion of property belonging to the deity and the trust,” the suit had argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mathura-court-dismisses-suit-for-removal-of-shahi-idgah-masjid/story-MSMaCnmL7HbgUK7xywhSeI.html
30-09-2020||India||Assam launches TRISSAM brand of forest products made by tribal communities||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Wednesday launched a brand of products made by tribal communities from forest goods. Called TRISSAM, the brand under the Pradhan Mantri Van Dhan Yojana scheme aims to boost entrepreneurship among tribal people in the state and make them economically self-reliant. The scheme envisages aggregating forest products and marketing them with the required branding by Van Dhan Vikas Kendras (VDVK). At present around 50 VDVKs are operating in the state under the welfare of plain tribes and backward classes department. Sonowal launched a number of new products made by VDVKs and stated that the abundance of natural and forest based products in the state would play a key role in building ‘Atma-nirbhar’ (self-reliant) Assam. He urged those engaged in making and marketing the products to ensure value addition according to the needs of consumers and tap the vast potential naturally available in forests of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-launches-trissam-brand-of-forest-products-made-by-tribal-communities/story-y5Md6LGKPWjDji75m21raO.html
30-09-2020||India||Gauhati HC notice for Centre, Assam over nod to OIL to drill for oil, gas in national park||The Gauhati High Court on Wednesday issued notices to Centre, Assam government, and 12 other agencies over permission granted to Oil India Limited (OIL) to drill for oil and natural gas in Assam’s Dibru Saikhowa National Park, which is close to Baghjan, where an OIL gas well had a blow out in May. Acting on a public interest litigation filed by advocate Mrinmoy Khataniar and Amar Jyoti Deka, a division bench comprising Chief Justice (acting) NK Singh and Justice Manish Choudhury ordered the 14 respondents including OIL to file their affidavits within two weeks. The next date for hearing has been fixed as October 20. The bench also considered another PIL filed on the same issue filed by advocate Gautam Uzir. The petitioners had sought the court’s intervention against Centre’s permission to OIL to drill inside the national park by doing away with public hearing under the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification, 2020. Besides the Centre, Assam government and OIL, other respondents named in the petition include the national board of wildlife, the state board of wildlife and the central and state pollution control boards. On May 11, the Union forest, environment and climate change ministry had given environmental clearance for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations by OIL under Dibru-Saikhowa National Park area in Tinsukia district of Assam. Spread over 340 sq km, Dibru-Saikhowa is one of the five national parks in Assam. The park, which is also a biosphere reserve, is home to 36 mammal species including tiger, Gangetic dolphin, feral horses and 382 bird species. Concerns about OIL’s drilling plan soon emerged on social media platforms after the company published an advertisement in newspapers recently mentioning the environment ministry’s clearance for the project. Reacting to the apprehensions, OIL had clarified in May that the company won’t operate inside the national park and the drilling will have no impact on the area as operation would be conducted through extended reach drilling (ERD). “We will not touch the national park. Drilling will be done from two kilometers away from the park and won’t affect the surface of the park,” OIL CMD Sushil Chandra Mishra told journalists on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-notice-for-centre-assam-over-nod-to-oil-to-drill-for-oil-gas-in-national-park/story-6hunTb2oYi7Qw3jyFdb5RK.html
30-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand gets its first pine needle power generation plant||Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inaugurated Uttarakhand’s first project for generating power through pine needles with 25KW capacity made at a cost of Rs 25 lakh in Dunda block of Uttarkashi district. Rawat said that this project will be very useful to protect the environment from forest fires as pine needles with high resin content are one of the main reasons for the spread of forest fires in Uttarakhand. “Due to forest fires, many trees, medicinal plants, vegetation gets destroyed and a large number of wild animals are also affected. With this power generation project using pine needle, forests and animals will be protected. This will also create employment opportunities,” said Rawat. The chief minister further informed that 23 lakh metric tonnes of pine needles are produced in the state annually, from which about 200 megawatts of electricity can be produced. He further said that keeping in mind the problem of network connectivity in the border areas of the state, 250 satellite phones have been given so that marginalized people do not face any problem. An amount of Rs 40 lakh has also been sanctioned by the government to erect mobile towers in the state at places where there is no connectivity. Gopal Singh Rawat, member of the legislative assembly from Gangotri thanked the chief minister and said that with the establishment of solar and pine needle plants in the district, the local people will get employment from it. He called upon the youth to develop new dimensions of employment at the local level itself. He said that the youth of the village should come forward to adopt self-employment and form groups and asked them to cooperate at all levels on behalf of the government. In April 2018, the state cabinet had approved a policy allowing commercial use of dry pine leaves for generating power. According to the pine needle policy, the state government aims to generate 150 megawatts of electricity by collection of pine needles in the state by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-gets-its-first-pine-needle-power-generation-plant/story-q3x36Xl9ieJBjScnl7m3VO.html
30-09-2020||India||PM Modi attends Somnath trust meeting through video conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday participated in the Shree Somnath Trust meeting via video conferencing as its members discussed a wide range of issues pertaining to the historic temple.  “Participated in the Shree Somnath Trust meeting via video conferencing. We discussed a wide range of issues pertaining to the Temple, including the exceptional community service by the Trust during these times and harnessing of technology to enable more devotees to pray,” he tweeted. The trust manages affairs of the famous Somnath temple of Lord Shiva, situated in Gir-Somnath district of Gujarat. The temple is believed to be the first among the 12 Jyotirlinga shrines of Lord Shiva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-attends-somnath-trust-meeting-through-video-conference/story-tGdSjRoV6BRgzRaj9jaadN.html
30-09-2020||India||Nirbhaya of Hathras killed by insensitive government: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi said the people of the country are sad and angry over the gruesome incident and said the ‘Nirbhaya of Hathras’ did not die but was killed by a “cruel and insensitive” government and its administration. In a video message, she said the country will speak up against this injustice and not allow the BJP to divide the country and violate the Constitution. “This incident is a blot on our society. I want to ask is it a sin to be a girl? Is it a crime to be the daughter of a poor? What was the UP government doing? For weeks, the family’s cry for justice was not heard. There was an attempt to cover up the issue. The girl was not given proper treatment. Today, our daughter has left us. I want to say that the Nirbhaya of Hathras did not die, she was killed by an insensitive government and its administration,” Gandhi said. “Even after her death, the girl was denied dignity and not handed over to her family. A weeping mother could not see her daughter for the last time. This is a grave sin. Her body was cremated by force. There is dignity in death. Our Hindu religion is clear about it. But she was cremated like an orphan by the police,” she added. “What kind of justice is this? What kind of a government is this? You think you can do anything and the nation will sit and watch. Never, the nation will speak against your injustice. On behalf of the Congress party, I demand justice for the family. India belongs to everyone. Everyone has the right to live with dignity. The Constitution has given us this right. We will not allow the BJP to break the country and violate the Constitution,” the Congress president said.Earlier in the day, her daughter and Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi took on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the death of Hathras rape victim, saying he doesn’t have any moral right to continue as chief minister.The 19-year-old woman from Hathras died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday morning, nearly two weeks after she was allegedly gang raped and tortured by four men from her village on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirbhaya-of-hathras-killed-by-insensitive-government-sonia-gandhi/story-oYa6FgpsyeCTBMq4Bg9hMO.html
30-09-2020||India||In breather for Delhi hospitals, licenses need not be renewed till March 2021||Nursing homes in Delhi will not need to renew their licenses till March next year, with the Delhi government relaxing the nursing homes rules in the city. “In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi, Rule 7(3) of the Delhi Nursing Homes Registration (Amendment) Rules, 2011 has been temporarily relaxed till 31.03.2021,” the order by Director General of Health Services Dr Nutan Mundeja said. The rule states that applications of hospitals and nursing homes that fail to file an application for renewal of registration within six months of the expiry of the previous licence will not be accepted and their names would be removed from the register. Nursing homes and hospitals cannot operate in Delhi without registration with the nursing home cell. With registrations not being renewed since March this year, without the relaxation several of the over 1,000 hospitals and nursing homes in the city would have been affected. “We had earlier given a representation to the government to relax the rules and had received assurance. The government order has now been issued. This will be a relief for many hospitals,” said Dr Arun Gupta, chairman of the Covid Management Committee of the Delhi Medical Association. Earlier this month, the DMA had asked the state government to look into the matter of a majority of nursing homes — many treating Covid-19 patients — operating with expired licenses. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had verbally directed the department to renew licenses of nursing homes till December 31, 2020. This will also give time for the hospitals to comply with the new fire safety norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-breather-for-delhi-hospitals-licenses-need-not-be-renewed-till-march-2021/story-6Xtbym0iYv1Q6UN4GlwOGK.html
30-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand reports highest single-day Covid-19 casualties of 20||With deaths of 20 Covid-19 patients on Wednesday, Uttarakhand reported it highest single-day casualties in the pandemic since the state reported its first case on March 15. The death toll of Covid-19 positive reached 611 Wednesday. Out of the 611 deaths, 196 cases were of deaths due to coronavirus, while the others died due to comorbidities. The state reported 1,005 fresh cases, taking the tally to 49,000. On Wednesday, the state reported 976 recoveries with maximum 424 from Dehradun, taking the total number of recoveries to 39,035. With this, the recovery rate now stands at 79.66% and the rate of doubling of cases stands at 42.23 days. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Wednesday evening, a maximum 336 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by Haridwar (133), Nainital (112), Pauri (65), Chamoli (61), Tehri (59), US Nagar (58), Champawat (54), Uttarkashi (41), Bageshwar (26), Pithoragarh (24), Almora (20) and Rudraprayag (16). Dehradun district has reported the maximum 13,203 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Haridwar (9361), US Nagar (8435) and Nainital (5908). The state has so far tested over 7.12 lakh samples of which results of over 12,000 are awaited. The positivity rate stands at 7.14% in the state at present. Uttarakhand currently has 458 containment zones in nine districts including maximum 291 in Haridwar district. The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday also fixed the price of antigen tests in NABH and NABL accredited private labs across the state at Rs 719. An order issued by state health secretary Amit Singh Negi mentions that after all tests, private labs are required to upload the test results on the website of Indian Council of Medical Research. Along with this, they also have to send a copy of the reports to the district chief medical officers and state surveillance officer. If the private labs are found to be violating the norms, then action can be taken against them under relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act. Meanwhile, chief minister Rawat on Wednesday sanctioned a sum of Rs 3 crores for prevention of Covid-19 in the state. The amount has been sanctioned from State Disaster Response Force fund to Doon Hospital affiliated to Doon Medical College for effective prevention of spread of Covid-19 in the state. Rawat also issued instructions to end the service of long-absent doctors in the state. He approved the proposal for termination of service of 81 medical officers who have remained absent from the State Medical and Health Services cadre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-reports-highest-single-day-covid-19-casualties-of-20/story-gUaKx0qw5pgwa8kJ5YwDbO.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Are all swimming pools open? When will schools reopen compulsorily?’: FAQs answered||The ministry of home affairs on Wednesday released guidelines for opening up of more activities in areas outside the containment zones. Multiplexes, swimming pools have been partially allowed to resume activities from October 15. States have been asked to take the final decision on the reopening of schools after October 15. State/UT governments have also been entrusted to fix the number of people to be allowed in social/political/religious gatherings. Here are some clarifications.1. Are all swimming pools open?No. Swimming pools being used for training of sportspersons will be permitted to open from October 15. A detailed guideline will be issued by the ministry of youth affairs and sports. Swimming pools inside containment zones are not allowed to reopen.Also Read: Re-opening guidelines out: MHA lets states reopen schools from 15 October. Conditions apply2. Is gathering outside containment zones allowed in October?State governments will decide this. At present, 100 people can gather for Social/ academic/ sports/ entertainment/ cultural/ religious/ political functions and other congregations.From October 15, state/ UT governments will decide whether the upper ceiling can be relaxed. But it will not be more than 200 persons if the gathering is in a closed space. 3. Are lockdowns going on in any state?Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra are the two states to have officially extended lockdowns till October 31, though several relaxations are being allowed simultaneously. State governments/UTs have been asked not to impose any local lockdown outside containment zones, without prior consultation with the Centre.Also Read: Movie theatres, swimming pools: What’s new in Centre’s guidelines for re-opening4. Are regular flights, trains back?Regular international passenger flights are still suspended. The suspension has now been extended till October 31. Vande Bharat Mission flights and air bubble flights are the only international routes operating.Regular domestic flights are on. Airlines are allowed to return to 60 per cent of their pre-Covid capacity as well. There has been no new announcement regarding domestic flights.Regular train services are still suspended. The Indian Railways is running special passengers trains, the number of which are being increased at regular intervals.Also Read: Suspension on commercial international passenger flights extended till Oct 315. Do we need a pass to travel from one state to another?No. “There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements,” the reopening guideline has said.6. Will booking counters open from October 15 as theatres are opening?No. Detailed guideline will be issued later. But according to the SOP prepared by the Multiplex Association of India, there will be no paper tickets now. 7. Are shopping malls, restaurants, hotels, gyms open in all states?Broadly yes, outside the containment zones as the Centre permitted these to reopen in the earlier phase of reopening. Maharashtra government has now allowed restaurants and bars to restart dine-in services.8. Will schools, colleges reopen after October 15?Not necessarily. The state governments will decided on whether to resume physical classes after October 15. This is applicable to states which have not yet decided a date. For instance, West Bengal government is likely to resume schools in November. Assam, Mizoram, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Jammu & Kashmir have already resumed classes. Bihar and Tamil Nadu might reopen schools in October.9. When will schools reopen compulsorily?The Centre does not want to force school authorities to resume regular classes. There is no such date before which all schools will have to resume physical classes. Online classes will continue as is.10. Will attendance be enforced in schools that reopen?No. It will entirely depend on parental consent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-all-swimming-pools-open-when-will-schools-reopen-compulsorily-unlock-5-faqs-answered/story-zHKNlZ16KVIZSMRnbVTeSM.html
30-09-2020||India||TMC MP Nusrat Jahan seeks security in London alleging death threat on social media||Actor-turned-MP Nusrat Jahan of the Trinamool Congress, who is currently shooting in London for a Bengali film, has sought additional security cover saying she received death threats on social media for posting a video in which she was featured as Goddess Durga, news agency PTI reported. On September 17, Jahan posted on her Instagram and Twitter accounts photos and videos in which she was dressed like the Hindu Goddess and armed with a trident. More than one thousand comments were posted. Many of the comments came from residents of Bangladesh. While most people made fun of the actor, some were bitterly critical. A comment in Bengali read “You won’t be able to save yourself, your God of earth won’t be able to save you.. After your death you will realise your fault. There won’t be any excuses for you.” A senior officer at the Kolkata Police headquarters told HT that no official complaint was received till Wednesday evening. TMC leaders did not comment on the matter. Jahan could not be contacted. Jahan, who gets standard security cover as an MP, has taken up the matter with the West Bengal government and Ministry of External Affairs, seeking additional security arrangement during her outdoor shoots in London from September 27 to mid-October, her close aide told PTI on Wednesday. In a letter to the Indian High Commissioner in the UK on September 29, she said “I would like to inform you that I reached London two days back on my professional purpose and after reaching here I have received a death threat via my social media pages from some fundamentalists who belong to India and neighbouring country”. A copy of her letter was made available to PTI. Informing that she will be in London till October 16, Jahan said in the letter, “During my stay in London I require an immediate police protection as the threat is very serious and it is affecting my mental health. I would request you to kindly arrange to provide me a necessary protection in London”. She attached screen shots of two trolls on her mail box. One of them read, “Your time of death has come. You are fearful of Allah but cannot cover your body. Shame on you.” According to PTI, a member of Jahan’s team said “she has always stood up for secular and inclusive views and these trolls do not deter her.” Jahan had been trolled in the past by a section of Muslim fundamentalists for sporting sindoor and inaugurating a ISKCON Rathyatra. She had hit back, saying her faith in humanity and secularism does not prevent her from participating in religious festivals of other communities while believing in Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mp-nusrat-jahan-seeks-security-in-london-alleging-death-threat-on-social-media/story-QgmlmuZyDhlKtvVkiXtJOJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Amit Shah to chart strategy, stem rumblings in Bengal unit at Delhi meet||Amid reports of differences over recent elevation of former TMC leaders in the BJP hierarchy, the Bengal leaders have been called to Delhi to attend a key meet to be helmed by home minister Amit Shah.The former BJP president, who had set the target to oust the Trinamool government in 2021 after his party won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019, will chart out the strategies to be followed by the West Bengal unit in the run-up to the coming assembly polls. Bengal leaders called to Delhi are state president Dilip Ghosh, national vice-president Mukul Roy and, quite significantly, Rahul Sinha, who expressed his grievance in public after being removed from the post of national secretary during the reshuffle on Saturday. On being replaced by Anupam Hazra, a much younger leader who left the TMC and joined the BJP in January 2019, Sinha rued the fact that after a service of 40 years to the party he was removed to make way for TMC leaders. In the same reshuffle, Roy, who had been a BJP national executive member since 2017, when he left the TMC, was made national vice-president. “The meeting has been called to discuss an overall strategy to be followed across Bengal. Differences that have emerged over elevation of former TMC leaders in the BJP hierarchy will also be ironed out,” a senior state BJP leader aware of the developments said on condition of anonymity. “No constituency-specific policy will be discussed at this meeting. Only core issues will be discussed on Thursday,” he told HT. There is a speculation in the BJP state unit that Roy may be entrusted with the task of overseeing the Bengal unit’s election machinery since the BJP performed well in the 2018 panchayat and 2019 Lok Sabha election when he was convenor of the state election committee. He was able to bring over many TMC leaders to the BJP.Sinha’s journey to Delhi was marked by an agitation by his supporters at the Kolkata airport on Wednesday afternoon. More than a hundred men and women blocked his path outside the entrance to the airport, asking him not to take the flight. “We do not want the BJP to turn into a B-team of the TMC,” the BJP workers shouted. “I am going to Delhi as I have been invited. Let me attend the meeting and return. I will talk to you,” Sinha told his supporters. Other than Shah, BJP central leaders to attend the meeting are Arvind Menon, Shivprakash, Kailash Vijayvargiya and party president JP Nadda. Menon, Shivprakash and Vijayvargiya are tasked with overseeing the Bengal organisation on behalf of the central leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rumblings-in-bengal-unit-amit-shah-summons-top-state-leaders-to-delhi/story-m9vW1k5i2hQYFFGa5hFGuO.html
30-09-2020||India||BJP’s Tejasvi Surya reiterates ‘Bengaluru terror hub’ remark||Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president Tejasvi Surya on his maiden visit to Bengaluru after assuming the national post of the party said that he remained committed to his remark that “Bengaluru had become a terror hub”. Surya had made the comments citing the violence in DJ Halli and KG Halli which led to burning down of an MLA’s residence and attack on a police station in which three people died.“My blood boiled when the violence took place with the Congress giving tacit encouragement to PFI’s thuggish behaviour. The Congress should apolgise for its role,” Surya added. The young BJP leader represents the Bengaluru South constituency in Parliament. His remark that the city had emerged as an epicentre of terrorism had attracted severe criticism from the Congress and JD(S).KPCC President D K Shivakumar had demanded that Surya should be sacked adding his statements were destroying the brand equity of the city known as a technology innovation hub. JD(S) leader Kumaraswamy too had criticised the remarks.However, Surya said his demand for a branch of NIA to be established in Bengaluru seems to have created heartburn in Congress as “it will destroy its match fixing with SDPI (the political arm of PFI).” The MP also said Bengaluru was the place which had given him both education and food, with BJP giving him a sense of Asmita (pride). He thanked the party leadership for giving the responsibility “to an ordinary youth who used to tie party flags to poles. This is only possible in BJP, as all other parties function like private limited companies,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-tejasvi-surya-reiterates-bengaluru-terror-hub-remark/story-AkGfjyDTsOakF6INljWGaM.html
30-09-2020||India||BJP, Congress slam Odisha govt over Covid management, CM tweets WHO praise||Opposition Congress and BJP on Wednesday slammed the Naveen Patnaik government over its alleged poor management of Covid-19 in the state, accusing it of dressing up figures even as the government claimed that the World Health Organisation has praised Odisha’s effective governance and community-based strategies to fight the pandemic.Participating in an adjournment motion brought by BJP and Congress members on government’s alleged failures in Covid management, Congress leader Narasingha Mishra said all that the government has managed to do is fool a lot of people through fake statistics and statements.“In my home district of Bolangir, 29 ventilators in Covid hospitals are not working due to lack of necessary infrastructure. Covid-19 test results are taking a long time to come resulting in deaths. Even the kind of conditions that the Covid patients have to endure in hospitals is sickening. People are dying after they are being forcibly discharged from Covid hospitals. In Sonepur district headquarter hospital, patients could not defecate as there was no water supply for two days. Covid tests are coming down over days as doctors are being told to bring down the numbers. What certificate is the government talking about,” said Mishra.Similarly, Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati too alleged that all the claims of the government of being a model state in Covid management did not reflect on ground. “Though the government claims that ventilators and ICU beds are available in the state, there have been several instances in Bhubaneswar when people have died while trying to arrange beds for their near and dear. The tests are going down to make the Covid statistics look good. Even Lord Jagannath would not pardon the lies that the government is peddling in the name of Covid management. The chief minister should see the reality on ground,” said Bahinipati.BJP leader Jaynarayan Mishra also criticised the government, saying deaths numbers were being fudged to show that things are in control. “Everyday 10-15 deaths are being shown while the reality is something different. People are not getting beds,” he alleged.Early in the day, chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted an article from WHO website which praised Odisha for early lockdown, setting up the country’s first dedicated Covid-19 hospital, temporary medical camps to manage the huge influx of migrants, multisectoral collaboration, community-based disaster management, community engagement and mentoring support programs.Health minister Naba Kishore Das also said that Odisha has been doing a lot better in terms of Covid management than other states of India. “While the national mortality rate in the viral disease is at 1.6%, Odisha’s rate is as low as 0.38%. Odisha now has active cases just over 36,000. Out of this 29,000 positive patients are currently in home quarantine, while just 7348 patients are being treated in Covid hospitals,” he said.“If the government has failed in Covid management, then how these patients are recovering from the serious disease that has claimed more than 800 lives and infected over 2 lakh people in the state,” he asked.However, Congress MLA Santosh Singh Saluja said 10,000 people are getting infected daily but the government is only providing data of 3000-4000 people.The opposition also hit out at the government in getting the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill 2020 passed, saying it was meant to target opposition. “As per the Bill, anybody who dares to question the government would be dragged to court. If this bill is allowed to become a law, time will come when the government will not hesitate to pull the Opposition parties to the court too for raking up issues concerning the common man,” Mishra alleged.Leader of Opposition Pradipta Naik said the penalty provision of Rs 1 lakh and jail provision was actually meant to silence opposition. “Using this provision, the government can get opposition leaders arrested,” he alleged. The Bill has a provision of a jail term of up to two years and a fine amounting up to Rs 1 Lakh for anybody violating the act.Meanwhile, the state government today said all its offices in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack would function with 50% strength of employees (all staff including Group-A Officers) during the month of October. All state government offices throughout the State will remain closed on Saturdays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-slam-odisha-govt-over-covid-management-cm-tweets-who-praise/story-EKmKbtLPY4x2pepnuEN5QI.html
30-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bars, restaurants in Maharashtra to operate with 50% capacity from Oct 5 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till October 31, Mumbai local to allow dabbawalasThe Maharashtra government on Wednesday said that the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease has been extended till October 31. However, hotels, food courts, restaurants and bars will be allowed to operate from October 5 with 50% capacity, the state government added. Read moreCongress seeks Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal’s resignation over police recruitment scamPointing fingers at the ruling BJP, the opposition Congress in Assam have demanded chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s resignation over the job recruitment scam in the state’s police department. The Assam unit of the Congress staged a protest rally in Guwahati on Wednesday seeking the resignation of Sonowal over the police recruitment scam. Read morePlea in SC seeks CBI probe into Hathras gang rape caseA plea was filed in the Supreme Court on Wednesday seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a special investigation team (SIT) into the Hathras gang rape case alleging failure by the Uttar Pradesh authorities in dealing with the matter. Read moreBlack History Month: UK postboxes change colour to honour Black BritonsFour of Britain’s distinctive red postboxes have been painted black and gold and adorned with images by or of illustrious Black Britons, in a novel way of celebrating Black History Month. One of Britain’s most recognisable symbols, red pillar boxes appear on countless postcards and souvenir items, while tourists can often be seen posing for photographs next to the postboxes. Read moreIPL 2020: They’ll always be there - Shane Warne names four teams who will finish on top and make the play-offs in Indian Premier LeagueFormer Australia leg-spinner and current Rajasthan Royals mentor Shane Warne named the four sides who he thinks will make it to the play-offs of IPL 2020. It’s still early days in the tournament but the four sides - Rajasthan Royals, Delhi Capitals, Royal Challengers Bangalore and Kings XI Punjab - who generally languish at the bottom half of the points table in the IPL are hogging the top four spots currently. Read moreThe Crown: First pics from season 4 show Emma Connor as Princess Diana, Olivia Colman returns as the QueenThe first pictures of much-awaited Netflix series The Crown are out and they give us a glimpse at young Princess Diana ( Emma Corrin) as well as Queen Elizabeth II (Olivia Colman) who wishes to secures the appropriate wife for Prince Charles (Josh O’Connor) in the upcoming season. Read moreTravel blogger recreates vacation photos with household items, results are hilariousThe cool ocean breeze, the crisp mountain air or the beauty of untravelled locations - these are some of the things that people who love to travel have been missing over the past few months. However, some creative people have come up with their own ways to relive the experience of travelling to different destinations. Read moreDouble Take: From Priyanka Chopra to Madhubala, the resemblance of these doppelgangers to their celebrity counterparts is uncannyIt is the easiest way to unlock your phone, it sits pretty within your wallet on your driving license, if you’re lucky it may have gotten you out of more than a few sticky situations and although coronavirus times have forced half of it into hiding, your face will always be the easiest way to identify you. Read moreWatch| Babri Demolition Verdict: What next? Yug Mohit Chaudhry | On The Record||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bars-restaurants-in-mumbai-to-operate-with-50-capactiy-from-oct-5-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9kabnH2NyctH8abBynXjYK.html
30-09-2020||India||Demand for tribal state surfaced in violence in Rajasthan, say police||Attempts to radicalise tribal youths in south Rajasthan started two years ago and Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) leaders have added fuel to the attempts, said a Rajasthan Police intelligence report seen by HT.The report prepared after violence in Dungarpur and Udaipur districts said people from Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh are part of the campaign. The intelligence report named several people, including BTP MLAs - all of whom denied the charges.Hundreds of tribal youths resorted to violence last week, blocking Udaipur-Ahmedabad national highway, pelting police with stones, damaging property and torching vehicles with the demand for recruitment to vacant posts of teachers in the Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) area.The intel report pegged the loss at Rs 110 crore. “Name of Tarachand Bhagora, former Congress MP from Dungarpur-Banswara , BTP MLAs Ramprasad Dindor and Rajkumar Roat, and other groups associated with the demands of creating a separate state for the tribals has surfaced in the violence. It has been found that it was a pre-planned activity in which youngsters from Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh also participated. They could be identified from their language,” the report said. The report sent to chief minister Ashok Gehlot recommended criminal cases against all these people, and said the licence of Vangad Mazdoor Kisan Sangathan, a non-profit, should be cancelled.The two-page report underlined the people in the Udaipur division - comprising Udaipur, Banswara, Dungarpur, Pratapgarh and Chittorgarh districts - have been demanding a separate ‘Bhil Pradesh’ for many years. They want Mangarh Dham as its capital. “Just like Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, some groups are giving rise to extremism and their aim is to create a Bhil Autonomous Council in every village. Radicals of Jharkhand organised an event in Ranchi on September 19 last year in which BTP MLA Dindor was the chief guest. Tribal people from south Rajasthan also went to Jharkhand during the Assembly election,” the intelligence report said. The tribal groups want Bhil Pradesh to be carved out from tribal-dominated areas of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat.The report also mentioned incidents of desecration in the area in 2018. “On August 27, 2018, in Sajjangarh police station area of Banswara one idol of Ganesh was damaged and an idol of Hanuman was stolen. On August 30, 2018, at least 30 to 40 people forcefully removed the flag from the Sonar Mata temple in Salumbar region. In this way, an attempt has been made to create enmity between tribal and non-tribal people,” the report said. BTP MLA Ramprasad Dindor said he has never been to Jharkhand all his life. “We have evidence to prove that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress are behind last week’s violence,” he said.“Why don’t these political parties understand that our region has a different culture, different dialect, etc? Why is the government imposing civil laws while there are different provisions for tribal people?” Dindor asked. Refuting allegations against himself, former Congress MP Bhagora said, “The BTP has made some message groups through which they can call mob of youngsters in short time.” He agreed that people from Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh participated in the violence. BTP MLA Rajkumar Roat said that the party was a soft target because its stature was growing in the area. “Stone pelting, communal incidents happen in other parts of state too but why are they not called Naxals or radicals there? Where was the government for the last 18 days when the candidates were protesting silently? Neither we provoked the youngsters and nor do we support violence but the demands of candidates were unheard,” said Roat. Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Raghuvir Singh Meena said that the state government had created a committee in the past to look after the recruitment issues. “However, we had to take a step back due to Covid-19. The Congress party is very serious about the issues of the tribals,” he added. Meena said the role of BTP in this violence is under scanner. “Nobody can deny that unwanted people from Chhattisgarh joined them. BTP presents unrealistic dreams in front of youngsters and try to brainwash their minds in the name of their rights,” he alleged.Former home minister and leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said that when he was home minister, there were many meetings called by the BTP in the Kherwara and Rishabhdeo blocks in which people from Jharkhand were present. “Their activities are suspicious and I have written to the chief minister about it a few days back,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demand-for-tribal-state-surfaced-in-violence-in-rajasthan-say-police/story-WnWlVGvs6EqbpbvE2s0o5O.html
30-09-2020||India||Suspension on commercial international passenger flights extended till Oct 31||The suspension on commercial international passenger flights has been extended till October 31, the government announced on Wednesday. However, the restriction will not be applicable for international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA.“In partial modification of circular dated 26-06-2020, the competent authority has further extended the validity of circular issued on the subject cited above regarding Scheduled International commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359 hrs IST of 31st October, 2020, the Centre said in a statement.However, International Scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on case to case basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspension-on-commercial-international-passenger-flights-extended-till-october-31/story-OVLvtpg9v9XeBToyEkWqUJ.html
30-09-2020||India||October reopening:These four activities are still prohibited. Check list||The Centre on Wednesday released guidelines in continuation with the gradual unlocking that began in June 8. Starting with essential activities to special train services to finally metro trains and schools and colleges, the Centre has been following a calculated step-by-step approach to ensure economic activities despite Covid-19 control.In its October guideline, it has allowed cinema halls, multiplexes and swimming pools to resume function from October 15. Movie theatres, multiplexes will open with only 50 per cent capacity. Several associations of movie theatres have been pressing the government for this permission, especially after the Centre reopened malls and gyms.Also read: Re-opening guidelines out; multiplexes, swimming pools to partially open from October 15However, there are some activities which are not yet allowed.1. Swimming pools for recreational purpose. It may be noted that the Centre has allowed swimming pools to reopen which are only used for the training of sportspersons.2. Social/ academic/ sports/ entertainment/ cultural/ religious/ political functions and other congregations in containment zones3. Similar such gatherings outside containment zones with more than 100 people — if state government don’t permit. Gatherings in closed spaces with more than 50% of the hall capacity, or more than 200 persons.4. International air travel of passengers, except as permitted by MHA. Apart from these broad guidelines, the states may impose a few restrictions though the Unlock 5 guideline has made it clear that no lockdown can be imposed outside containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-these-four-activities-are-still-prohibited-check-list/story-RANoLFmb0aUyBBzokMPETK.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Babri demolition verdict an inspiration for temple in Mathura’: Karnataka minister||Karnataka’s rural development and Panchayat Raj minister K S Eshwarapa who is also a former president of the state BJP unit on Wednesday welcomed the verdict which acquitted 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case saying it would provide inspiration for a similar movement in Mathura.The minister said, “Today’s verdict is an inspiration for building a grand mandir of Sri Krishna at Mathura. The mosque there too will have to eventually go and a temple for Lord Krishna has to come up.” Eshwarappa who was speaking to reporters at Shivamogga added, “It is a joyous day for all nationalists and the verdict is not limited to Ayodhya. It will inspire all of us for a similar movement at Mathura.”Earlier in the day, chief minister BS Yediyurappa also welcomed the verdict saying that he too had played a part in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and added that with today’s verdict, “Truth has prevailed. Acquittal of all BJP leaders has vindicated the law abiding nature of the party. Efforts to sully the BJP’s image have failed. Verdict has reinforced people’s belief in Indian judiciary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-verdict-an-inspiration-for-temple-in-mathura-karnataka-minister/story-aj5Ca8mGd1mZI2Es15b6oN.html
30-09-2020||India||Plea in SC seeks CBI probe into Hathras gang rape case||A plea was filed in the Supreme Court on Wednesday seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a special investigation team (SIT) into the Hathras gang rape case alleging failure by the Uttar Pradesh authorities in dealing with the matter.The petition filed by a social activist, Satyama Dubey and two lawyers Vishal Thakre and Rudra Pratap Yadav claimed that grave injustice was done to the victim and her family who belonged to Scheduled Caste as her body was cremated by the police personnel without the consent of the family members.“Police personnel after getting the dead body of deceased cremated the same without the consent of the family members of the deceased. Police authorities have not performed their duties towards the victim and (are) trying to shield the accused persons. Grave injustice had been done to the victim and the system is silent on the issue,” the petition said.The victim, a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang raped and brutalized by four upper caste men on September 14 and breathed her last on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdurjung hospital.Her body was allegedly cremated by Uttar Pradesh police in a hurry in the early hours of Wednesday without the consent of the family members though the UP police has refuted this claim.The plea in the Supreme Court also sought a transfer of the trial in the case from UP to Delhi.“The case may be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation or an SIT be formed to investigate the matter under a sitting or retired Supreme Court or High Court Judge, (and) trial of the matter may be transferred from Uttar Pradesh to Delhi,” the petitioners prayed.Earlier in the day, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath said a fast-track court will handle the case for speedy justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-seeks-cbi-probe-into-hathras-rape-and-murder-case/story-KbxDOGfISvETnB0UKmpHTO.html
30-09-2020||India||Congress seeks Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal’s resignation over police recruitment scam||Pointing fingers at the ruling BJP, the opposition Congress in Assam have demanded chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s resignation over the job recruitment scam in the state’s police department. The Assam unit of the Congress staged a protest rally in Guwahati on Wednesday seeking the resignation of Sonowal over the police recruitment scam. Congress’s state unit president Ripun Bora and MLA Rakibul Hussain and dozens of party workers were detained by the police.The written exam to recruit T587 sub-inspectors (SI) was cancelled on September 20 after the question paper got leaked and was found circulating on Whatsapp. Nearly 64,000 applicants were scheduled to appear for the examination. At present, the crime branch and criminal investigation department (CID) are probing the leak and have arrested over a dozen suspects. However, a retired IPS officer and a BJP leader, both believed to have played a key role in providing applicants with question papers in lieu of cash, are absconding. “Sonowal should resign on moral grounds and seek a fresh mandate from the people in view of the government’s failure to keep electoral promises and exposure of multiple recruitment scams including the latest one in the police,” said Congress MLA and leader of opposition in assembly Debabrata Saikia. “After coming to power the government headed by Sonowal has been depriving jobs to eligible youth by operating illegal job syndicates and the SI recruitment scam is the latest one. The nefarious racket is being operated from the CM’s secretariat with involvement of various BJP leaders,” he added. Sonowal on Wednesday reiterated the government’s resolve in ensuring that all accused involved in the police recruitment scam are nabbed and brought to justice. He also assured that no deserving young men will be deprived of jobs because of such scams. “Within 15 minutes of the reported leak of the question papers, the state government cancelled the examination and ordered an inquiry. There have been several cases of question paper leaks under various governments since 1952, but never did any government act so expeditiously and transparently,” he said in a programme in Guwahati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-assam-cm-sarbananda-sonowal-s-resignation-over-police-recruitment-scam/story-e3E7ELSe5coE2z1LOXWDYM.html
30-09-2020||India||School reopening: If students prefer online classes, allow them to do so, says Centre||The Centre on Wednesday released a detailed guideline on how resume educational activities in October. In its unlock 4.0 guideline, it had allowed states to allow senior students to come to the campuses for guidance from September 21. However, not many states readily accepted the idea owing to the resistance from the parents as well. In its latest guideline, the MHA has spelt out a detailed plan.Opening of Schools, colleges, education institutions and coaching institutions1. For re-opening of schools and coaching institutions, State/ UT Governments have been given the flexibility to take a decision after October 15, 2020, in a graded manner. The decision shall be taken in consultation with the respective school/ institution management, based on their assessment of the situation, and subject to the following conditions:* Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.* Where schools are conducting online classes, and some students prefer to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, they may be permitted to do so.*Students may attend schools/ institutions only with the written consent of parents.* Attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent.2. States /UTs will prepare their own SOP regarding health and safety precautions for reopening of schools/ institutions based on the SOP to be issued by Department of School Education and Literacy (DoSEL), Ministry of Education, Government of India, keeping local requirements in view.3. Schools, which are allowed to open, will have to mandatorily follow the SOP to be issued by Education Departments of States/ UTs.4. Department of Higher Education (DHE), Ministry of Education may take a decision on the timing of the opening of Colleges/ Higher Education Institutions, in consultation with Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), based on the assessment of the situation. Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.5. However, Higher Education Institutions only for research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory/ experimental works will be permitted to open from 15th October, 2020, as under:* For Centrally Funded Higher Education Institutions, the Head of Institution will satisfy herself/ himself that there is a genuine requirement of research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology stream for laboratory/experimental works.*For all other Higher Education Institutions e.g. State Universities, Private Universities etc., they may open only for research scholars (Ph.D) and postgraduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory/experimental works as per decision to be taken by the respective State/UT Governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-reopening-if-students-prefer-online-classes-allow-them-to-do-so-says-centre/story-8MhJGpKQy7NaqQ28zqoLMJ.html
30-09-2020||India||PM Modi offered me chief ministership for 5 years if JDS allied with BJP: Kumaraswamy||Janata Dal (Secular) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Wednesday claimed that in 2018 Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself offered him the Chief Ministership of Karnataka for an uninterrupted five years if his party joined hands with the BJP. The May 2018 assembly polls had thrown up a hung assembly with BJP nine seats short of a simple majority in the 224-member House. The JD(S) eventually joined hands with the Congress to form a coalition government which lasted 14 months before some legislators of both parties quit and crossed over to the BJP.Kumaraswamy made this claim while addressing his party workers in Sira of Tumkur district. Sira and RR Nagar constituencies in Karnataka are going to bypolls on November 3. Sira was represented by JD(S) till its legislator B Sathyanaryana succumbed to Covid-19 on August 5 necessitating the bypoll. “PM Modi himself offered me the CM’s post for five years and said nobody will touch you during that period,” Kumaraswamy said without elaborating anymore.He also took a swipe at the JD (S)’s former alliance partner Congress. “Despite declining the CM’s post due to ill-health the Congress begged me also to take over reins but the experiment didn’t last due to the perverse mentality of some leaders of that party,” the former chief minister said.The BJP ridiculed Kumaraswamy’s claim. “He has a habit of making up things when convenient to him. How can he make the claim without a shred of evidence? JD(S) is a party fighting to remain politically relevant. Nobody will take his claims seriously,” said S Prakash, BJP spokesperson.Earlier in the day, leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramiah also ruled out any possibility of joining hands with its former ally JD(S) to jointly take on the BJP. “Congress is a strong national party which is capable of fighting (the BJP) on its own. There is no question of any tie-up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-offered-me-chief-ministership-for-5-years-if-jds-allied-with-bjp-kuamraswamy/story-urQUjn6aVABNtf7bVAQ8gJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Re-opening guidelines out: MHA lets states reopen schools from 15 October. Conditions apply||State governments have been given a free hand to reopen schools after 15 October under the Centre’s Unlock 5.0 guidelines announced by the Union home ministry on Wednesday. A decision on opening colleges would be taken later. Institutions that have doctoral and postgraduate researchers in science and technology streams that require laboratory work can also open.The home ministry guidelines require state governments to reopen schools in a graded manner in consultation with the management of schools and based on their assessment of the situation. This flexibility to the states to decide on reopening schools, however, is contingent on six conditions listed by the Union home ministry.1. Online and distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.2. Where schools are conducting online classes, and some students prefer to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, they may be permitted to do so.Also read: Re-opening guidelines out; multiplexes, swimming pools to partially open from October 153. Students may attend schools and institutions only with the written consent of parents.4. Attendance must not be enforced and must depend entirely on parental consent.5. States will prepare their own standard operating procedure regarding health and safety precautions for reopening of schools based on the procedures to be outlined by the Union education ministry.6. Schools, which are allowed to open, will have to mandatorily follow the SOP to be issued by the state education department.In Wednesday’s Unlock 5.0 guidelines, the Centre hasn’t spelt out its stand on reopening colleges and institutions of higher education. The timing of reopening colleges would be taken by the department of higher education in consultation with the Union home ministry based on the assessment of the situation, the guidelines said.Online learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching for colleges and shall be encouraged.Also read| Movie theatres, swimming pools: What’s new in Centre’s guidelines for re-openingInstitutions with doctoral research scholars and post-graduate students in science and technology stream shall be permitted to open from 15 October.The decision on reopening these institutions run by the central government would be taken by its head, who will have to satisfy himself/herself that there is a genuine requirement of research scholars of the two streams to come for laboratory or experimental works.The state government has been empowered to decide on reopening individual institutions under state and private universities for research scholars from the science and technology stream||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-guidelines-for-re-opening-home-ministry-lets-states-reopen-schools-from-15-october-conditions-apply/story-qJGJc99bRtTawMnbo5DDZI.html
30-09-2020||India||From airport expansion to jobs for former rebels; CM Mamata showers sops on north Bengal||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced several major projects for five districts in north Bengal with a new medical college and hospital, expansion of the Bagdogra airport and major grants for different communities figuring prominently in her list. The chief minister virtually laid the foundation stone of Jalpaiguri Medical College and Hospital and granted 104 acres of land for the expansion of Bagdogra airport near Siliguri town. “Night landing has already started at Bagdogra. More flights will operate after the expansion,” she said while handing over land documents to the chairman of the airport. The government also announced that 161 former members of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO) would be employed as home guards so that they can be rehabilitated. Formed in 1995, the KLO carried out an armed struggle for a separate state for the local Rajbanshi community which comprises a sizeable section of voters. While addressing an administrative meeting with officials from Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts, Banerjee made a series of announcements but did not hide her grievance, saying the government’s sincere efforts were not appreciated. She did not directly refer to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in which the Bharatiya Janata Party won seven of the eight seats in the region. Banerjee also announced a grant of Rs 5 crore for the Rajbanshi Language Academy and Rs 10 crore for the Rajbanshi Development and Cultural Board. “We will also set up a second campus of the Panchanan Barma University and for this a 50 acre land has been earmarked at Mathabhanga,” said the chief minister. Barma is the most prominent face of the Rajbanhsi community since he carried out the first movement against caste politics. The chief minister reached out to other communities as well. She handed over monthly allowance and home building funds to the chief priest of the famous Madan Mohan temple at Cooch Behar Palace. Banerjee announced that Cooch Behar Medical College and Hospital would be renamed after Maharaja Jitendra Narayan, the former king of Cooch Behar who died in 1922. Among his five children was Gayatri Devi who was married to Maharaja Sawai Man Singh II of Jaipur. Jitendra Narayan was married to Indira Raje, daughter of Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of Baroda. The state government also announced that Rs 6 crore had been granted for the second phase of renovation at the Katherine Graham Memorial Chapel in Kalimpong. The chief minster gave a grant of Rs 175 crore to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, the district council in the Darjeeling hill region. “So much has been done by us for north Bengal and yet some people only spread canards. Our projects are not being publicised. Something has to be done about this,” said Banerjee. Banerjee’s efforts however did not satisfy everyone. Bangshibadan Barman, general secretary of Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association (GCPA) and chairman of both the Rajbanshi Language Academy and the Rajbanshi Development and Cultural Board, did not attend the administrative meetings held on Tuesday and Wednesday although he was invited as he had been tested for Covid-19. When contacted by HT, Barman said, “Rajbanshis comprise 52 per cent of the population in Cooch Behar and 40 per cent in four other districts. The amount sanctioned by the government so far is not enough to run the board which looks after the welfare of the community in entire north Bengal.” Barman made it clear that he was not in favour of any political party. “Whoever works for the Rajbanshi community will get my support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-airport-expansion-to-jobs-for-former-rebels-cm-mamata-showers-sops-on-north-bengal/story-IivfGTwG7zNTm061ABbyPJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Muslim, Left leaders decry verdict on Babri Masjid demolition||Prominent Muslim and Left leaders from south India on Wednesday came down heavily on the verdict in Babri Masjid demolition case and asked the Muslim Personal Law Board and the CBI to appeal against the judgment that exonerated all the accused. Describing it as a “black day” in the Indian judiciary, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president and MP from Hyderabad Asaduddin Owaisi said this judgment was given only to satisfy Hindutva ideology. “Muslims of India have not got justice. I request the Personal Law Board to go in for an appeal against the judgment immediately,” he said. The AIMIM chief asked the court to make it clear who had demolished Babri Masjid when everybody was innocent in the incident. “Wherever L K Advani’s Rath Yatra was taken out, there was violence and killing of innocents,” he pointed out. He wondered how the CBI court could say the demolition was not pre-planned. “How much preparation must have gone into the demolition of the mosque? Is it not true that BJP leader Uma Bharati had made provocative slogans asking the activists to demolish the mosque? Is it not true that Advani had distributed sweets after the demolition?” he asked. In Kerala the Muslim League, all ally of the Congress-led United Democratic Front, was more guarded in their criticism and exhorted believers to maintain peace and amity. “The verdict is a big letdown. It is unfortunate even after 28 years justice eludes the community. Some of the observations are really intriguing. It even says leaders tried to prevent the demolition. It gives an impression that a mosque never existed at the disputed site. We hope the probe agency will file an appeal against the verdict,” said Muslim League leader P K Kunhalikutty. Party supremo Panakkad Hyderli Thangal has asked believers to maintain peace and amity. But Popular Front of India (PFI), a fundamentalist outfit, chairman O M A Salam has termed the verdict “a shameful act.” “It is another black day in the history of India. It seems a political verdict which is not based on facts and evidence,” he said. Congress and Left leaders also criticised the judgment. “The whole world saw the destruction of the structure. How can you say there are no evidence?” asked former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and PCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran also slammed the verdict. “The verdict is really shocking. After the destruction of the masjid, it is yet another attack on democracy. All democratic and secular forces will have to raise their voice against the decision that literally gives a clean chit to the accused,” said Democratic Youth Federation of India, CPI (M) youth wing president, Mohammad Riyaz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-left-leaders-decry-verdict-on-babri-masjid-demolition/story-06Y99YCugGwXkcjGMnaCUK.html
30-09-2020||India||Movie theatres, swimming pools: What’s new in Centre’s guidelines for re-opening||The Centre on Wednesday announced new guidelines for re-opening of several activities such as restarting movie theatres, schools and colleges among other things.The Ministry of Health Affairs in its guidelines also said that swimming pools will be permitted to reopen but only for training purpose of sportspersons. Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports (MoYA&S) will issue a standard operating procedure (SOP) regarding that.Ever since the country went into a complete lockdown late March this year as a precautionary measure against rising spread of coronavirus (Covid-19), the Centre has announced significant relaxations in phases. Though there has been a rise in Covid-19 cases India, the government had assured that there would be more relaxations.Here are the complete features of the new guidelines:Activities permitted from 15th October 2020, in areas outside the Containment Zones:- Cinemas/ theatres/ multiplexes will be permitted to open with up to 50% of their seating capacity, for which, SOP will be issued by Ministry of Information & Broadcasting.- Business to Business (B2B) Exhibitions will be permitted to open, for which, SOP will be issued by the Department of Commerce.- Swimming pools being used for training of sportspersons will be permitted to open, for which the standard operating procedure (SOP) will be issued by Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports (MoYA&S). - Entertainment parks and similar places will be permitted to open, for which the SOP will be issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW).- Opening of Schools, colleges, education institutions and coaching institutions-- For re-opening of schools and coaching institutions, State/ UT Governments have been given the flexibility to take a decision after 15th October 2020, in a graded manner. -- The decision shall be taken in consultation with the respective school/ institution management, based on their assessment of the situation, and subject to the following conditions:-- Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.-- Where schools are conducting online classes, and some students prefer to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, they may be permitted to do so.-- Students may attend schools/ institutions only with the written consent of parents.-- Attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent.Also read | Re-opening guidelines out; multiplexes, swimming pools to partially open from October 15-- States /UTs will prepare their own SOP regarding health and safety precautions for reopening of schools/ institutions based on the SOP to be issued by Department of School Education and Literacy (DoSEL), Ministry of Education, Government of India, keeping local requirements in view.-- Schools, which are allowed to open, will have to mandatorily follow the SOP to be issued by Education Departments of States/ UTs.-- Department of Higher Education (DHE), Ministry of Education may take a decision on the timing of the opening of Colleges/ Higher Education Institutions, in consultation with Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), based on the assessment of the situation. Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.-- However, Higher Education Institutions only for research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory/ experimental works will be permitted to open from 15th October, 2020, as under:-- For Centrally Funded Higher Education Institutions, the Head of Institution will satisfy herself/ himself that there is a genuine requirement of research scholars (Ph.D) and post-graduate students in science and technology stream for laboratory/experimental works.-- For all other Higher Education Institutions e.g. State Universities, Private Universities etc., they may open only for research scholars (Ph.D) and postgraduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory/experimental works as per decision to be taken by the respective State/UT Governments.- Regulation of gatheringsSocial/ academic/ sports/ entertainment/ cultural/ religious/ political functions and other congregations have already been permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons, outside Containment Zones only. Now State/ UT Governments have been given the flexibility to permit such gatherings beyond the limit of 100 persons, outside Containment Zones, after 15th October 2020, which will be subject to the following conditions:In closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitizer will be mandatory.In open spaces, keeping the size of the ground/ space in view, and with strict observance of social distancing, mandatory wearing of face masks, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitizer.To ensure that such gatherings do not spread Covid-19, State/ UT Governments will issue detailed SOPs to regulate such gathering, and strictly enforce the same.All activities, except the following, shall be permitted outside containment zones: - International air travel of passengers, except as permitted by MHA.- Entertainment parks and similar places will remain closed.- Lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the Containment Zones till 31st October, 2020.- Containment Zones shall be demarcated by the District authorities at micro level after taking into consideration the guidelines of MoHFW with the objective of effectively breaking the chain of transmission. Strict containment measures will be enforced in these containment zones and only essential activities will be allowed.Also read | Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till October 31, Mumbai allows relaxations on local trainsWithin the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and only essential activities allowed. These Containment Zones will be notified on the websites of the respective District Collectors and by the States/ UTs and information will also be shared with MOHFW.- States not to impose any local lockdown outside Containment ZonesState/ UT Governments shall not impose any local lockdown (State/ District/ sub-division/City/ village level), outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the Central Government.- No restriction on Inter-State and intra-State movementThere shall be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-guidelines-new-rules-relaxations-restrictions/story-SX5aD5nBbxsDhMeI9dcSvO.html
30-09-2020||India||Kanha National Park now a Maoist habitat: Police||Kanha National Park, also known for high density of tigers, spread across Balaghat and Mandla districts of Madhya Pradesh is now virtually under strong Maoists influence with the forest department officials having to provide rebels grains, groceries and other essentials, according to a police officer.Kanha is considered one of the finest tiger reserves in the country having over 130 tigers, as per 2018 tiger estimate. The tiger density is most after Corbett National Park, Kaziranga National Park and Ranthambore tiger reserve. The park has been doing well till about two years ago when the Maoists facing pressure from security forces in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh decided to shift to the dense and difficult terrain of Kanha for a safe haven. Police said that in 2017 the rebels formed a platoon to increase its influence in the region and started recruiting locals. Abhishek Tiwari, superintendent of police (SP), Balaghat, said Maoists influence was earlier restricted to just the buffer zone of Kanha tiger reserve, which they used as a route to and from Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra.“Now Maoists of Vistar Dalam (the platoon) have shifted to the core area of the reserve in Mandla and Balaghat districts and are using it as a gateway to enhance their reach to other parts of MP including Vindhya region,” he said.The SP said this was revealed by Maoist leader Badal Singh Markam, who was arrested by Balaghat police after an encounter on September 18. On basis of his interrogation, the police found three dumps of arms, ammunition and essential items from the core area of Kanha.A tiger reserve is divided into buffer and core zones with the latter being most guarded for animals. An officer of Madhya Pradesh’s anti-Naxal wing said Maoists’ presence in the core area of the tiger reserve was a new and different type of challenge as movement of people is restricted in the core area, which has poor mobile connectivity.“The forest guards can help but they are scared and are providing dry ration to Maoists,” he said.Balaghat police have issued an advisory to forest officers of Kanha Tiger Reserve asking them to provide them information about the presence of rebels.“Forest department officials should cooperate with police as it is their fundamental duty,” inspector general of police, Balaghat, KP Venkateshwar, who issued the advisory. He said that the police have assured the forest guards of security if they provide information or action would be initiated against them.The Kanha forest department officials refused to speak on record on the advisory and Maoists now having virtual control of the park.A deputy ranger at the reserve, not willing to be named, said the forest guards have no option.“Armed Maoists come to patrolling camps located at every 8-10 sq km of core area and ask for ration from the guard. Our guards are unarmed and they have no option but to give them the ration. They can’t put their life at risk by challenging them,” he said. MP’s additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), JS Chauhan, said: “Earlier, the movement of Maoists was in a buffer zone so it was easy for police to take action but now their movement has shifted to a dense core zone and it is difficult for forest authorities to locate them. The unarmed guards, who are protecting wildlife in the core area and living in camps can’t resist Maoists and risk their lives by sharing information with police.”He, however, said that all possible help was being provided to the police. The police officials said Maoists movement has increased in and around Kanha, especially during lockdown, when surveillance in the forest areas was low.The anti-Naxal wing officer, quoted above, said special zone secretary for Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh (MMC) zone Deepak Teltumbde alias Jeeva has been spotted in Mandla and Balaghat region for recruiting the locals.Maoists had also allegedly killed a 30-year-old migrant labourer in June this year in Balaghat on the suspicion of being a police informer. As many as 800 personnel of the anti-Naxal Force have been deployed in Balaghat division to combat Maoists, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanha-where-jungle-book-s-mowgli-came-to-life-now-a-maoist-habitat-police/story-EyQ1B4zlhKWmhpJJz1nzAJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Andhra CM Jagan sets up 56 welfare corporations for as many OBC communities||In a first of its kind exercise, the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has announced formation of 56 welfare corporations for as many castes falling under Other Backward Classes (OBC) category. The names of chairpersons and directors for each corporation were supposed to be announced on Wednesday, but the announcement was deferred due to some last-minute changes. “It will be done on October 8 and the new corporations would come into force with immediate effect,” an official spokesman in the chief minister’s office said. Hitherto, there was only one welfare corporation for the all the OBC communities in the state. However, in its election manifesto, the YSRC had promised to constitute separate corporations for each OBC community.“There will be a separate corporation for each OBC community having a population of at least 30,000. Separate funds will be allocated to each corporation for the welfare of the community,” the CMO spokesman said. He said hitherto neglected OBC communities like Vannikula Kshatriya, Agnikula Kshatriya, Besta, Ediga, Nagavamshiyulu and Pulanati Velama would also have separate corporations. The CMO spokesman said women would get more than 50 per cent representation in the nomination of chairpersons for these OBC corporations. Out of 56 corporations, 29 corporations would be reserved for women representatives. “Equal representation will be given to all the districts in nominating chairpersons as well as directors of the corporation,” he said. Out of the total number of posts, Anantapur district will get 4 posts, Chittoor 4, East Godavari 4, Guntur 4, Kadapa 4, Krishna 5, Kurnool 4, Nellore 4, Prakasam 4, Srikakulam 6, Visakhapatnam 5, Vijayanagaram 4, West Godavari district 4 posts. According to a YSR Congress party functionary familiar with the development, the nominated posts in these corporations would be given to those who had been loyal to the party right from the beginning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-jagan-sets-up-56-welfare-corporations-for-as-many-obc-communities/story-wSlDyVYRXYIdzfSzcJadAL.html
30-09-2020||India||Leh corps commander who led 6 rounds of military talks with China to head IMA||A change of guard is set to take place at the Leh-based 14 Corps, with its current commander Lieutenant General Harinder Singh moving out shortly after completing his one-year term, officials said on Wednesday. Singh is heading to Dehradun as the commandant of the Indian Military Academy where cadets are groomed to become officers, they said. Singh will be replaced by Lieutenant General PGK Menon, who held an important appointment in the sector as a brigadier a few years ago. Menon was present along with Singh at the latest round of military talks between Indian and Chinese commanders in eastern Ladakh on September 21. The change of guard will take place around mid-October, the officials said. Singh led six rounds of military talks with China. The September 21 talks over the dispute at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) remained inconclusive, with Indian negotiators firmly demanding comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo as the only approach towards de-escalation, and China asking India to withdraw its soldiers from strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to reduce friction. The two sides, however, made some headway. According to a joint statement, released in New Delhi and Beijing on September 22, the two sides agreed to stop sending more troops to the front line, and to hold a seventh round of commander-level talks “as soon as possible, take practical measures to properly solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border area”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leh-corps-commander-who-led-6-rounds-of-military-talks-with-china-to-head-ima/story-AebnlkDeuKmQunRXWIMBaM.html
30-09-2020||India||Re-opening guidelines out; multiplexes, swimming pools to partially open from October 15||The ministry of home affairs has announced a detailed guideline for Unlock 5, or for reopening to be effective from October 1, shortly. Despite a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country, the home ministry has made it clear that there would be more relaxations and fewer restrictions, though local administrations in some states are heavily relying on voluntary curfew, local lockdowns etc. Also Read: Movie theatres, swimming pools: What’s new in Centre’s guidelines for re-openingHere are the guidelines:* Cinemas/ theatres/ multiplexes will be permitted to open with upto 50% of their seating capacity, for which, SOP will be issued by Ministry of Information & Broadcasting.* Business to Business (B2B) Exhibitions will be permitted to open, for which, SOP will be issued by the Department of Commerce.* Swimming pools being used for training of sportspersons will be permitted to open, for which the standard operating procedure (SOP) will be issued by Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports (MoYA&S). * Entertainment parks and similar places will be permitted to open, for which the SOP will be issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW).Also Read: Unlock 5 guidelines likely today: All you need to know about Delhi’s plan so farOpening of Schools, colleges, education institutions and coaching institutions* For re-opening of schools and coaching institutions, State/ UT Governments have been given the flexibility to take a decision after October 15, 2020, in a graded manner. The decision shall be taken in consultation with the respective school/ institution management, based on their assessment of the situation, and subject to the following conditions:* Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.* Where schools are conducting online classes, and some students prefer to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, they may be permitted to do so.* Students may attend schools/ institutions only with the written consent of parents.* Attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent.* States /UTs will prepare their own SOP regarding health and safety precautions for reopening of schools/ institutions based on the SOP to be issued by Department of School Education and Literacy (DoSEL), Ministry of Education, Government of India, keeping local requirements in view.* Schools, which are allowed to open, will have to mandatorily follow the SOP to be issued by Education Departments of States/ UTs.* Department of Higher Education (DHE), Ministry of Education may take a decision on the timing of the opening of Colleges/ Higher Education Institutions, in consultation with Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), based on the assessment of the situation. Online/ distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.Unlock 5.0 is likely to become the most crucial as a number of religious festivals are scheduled in October, including Durga Puja. The first phase of Bihar Assembly Election 2020 is scheduled on October 28. The Centre is likely to revise its order pertaining to the maximum number of people who can gather at a place.The phase-wise unlocking began in June with only a few essential activities beginning outside the containment zones. Over the last four months, offices, public transport including metro, domestic flights, religious places, restaurants, hotels, gyms, schools and colleges have been allowed to resume activities, though the state governments concerned are the final authorities. Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have extended lockdown till October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-5-new-guidelines-to-be-effective-from-october-1/story-CnlZ6orfuI6PrJ9NrmjDZO.html
30-09-2020||India||CM Yogi Adityanath speaks to UP gangrape victim’s family via video link||Amid nationwide outrage and calls for his resignation over a 19-year-old Dalit’s gangrape and death in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras and the manner in which the state police cremated her in the dead of night yesterday against her family’s wishes, chief minister Yogi Adityanath spoke to the family via video-link. The chief minister has said a fast-track court will handle the case for speedy justice. A state government official said the SIT, headed by senior IPS officer Bhagwan Swaroop, has been asked to submit its report in seven days. “The CM has spoken to the father of the deceased woman of Hathras. Her father asked for harshest penalty against the accused. The CM assured him that the most stringent action shall be taken against the accused and all possible help shall be provided to the family of the deceased,” Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the CM and asked him to ensure strict action against the accused. The CM assured PM Modi that the guilty will not be spared. He said state government had a zero-tolerance policy against crime. On September 14, the young woman had gone to the fields with her mother and went missing soon after. She was found later, beaten and tortured, her tongue cut as she bit it when the accused attempted to strangle her.The family has alleged that the local police forced them to conduct the last rites late into the night even when they pleased with them to take the body home and cremate her in the morning. However, police claimed that the cremation was carried out “as per the wishes of the family” and news regarding cremation was “incorrect”.In a video statement posted on her Twitter account, Priyanka Gandhi slammed CM Adityanath over the incident and said the CM has made a statement 15 days after the incident.“After 15 days, he (Adityanath) has made a statement and what does he say that ‘PM called and I have constituted an SIT’. Were you waiting for the PM’s phone call, you could not do anything for 15 days, you did not provide her treatment, did not take her to a good hospital, she was brought to Delhi only day before yesterday,” the Congress general secretary said.“What kind of treatment has been meted out to the family of the victim as they could not even take the body of their daughter home for one last time, her father could not light her funeral pyre and he was locked up in a room,” she alleged.“This is the biggest example of how inhuman your government is. What all is happening in Uttar Pradesh and you are not taking responsibility... Is there no concern for women’s security in your state? Will you not take responsibility, what kind of a chief minister are you?” Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-yogi-adityanath-speaks-to-up-gang-rape-victim-s-family-via-video-link/story-ybjMm8PfVVYzBFJuxSZWsM.html
30-09-2020||India||Telangana, Andhra claim Covid-19 cases declining, BJP’s Daggubati Purandeshwari tests positive||Former Union minister and newly appointed national general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata party Daggubati Purandeshwari tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, even as the Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governments claimed a steady decline in the intensity of the pandemic. Purandeshwari, who returned from New Delhi on Tuesday, got admitted to a corporate hospital in Hyderabad with symptoms of Covid-19 and tested positive for the virus. Her condition is stable, a party leader familiar with the development said. Purandeshwari was inducted into the national executive committee of the BJP as a national general secretary on September 26. She is the only woman among the nine national general secretaries of the party. “There has been a steady flow of visitors and well-wishers to her house for the last four days to greet her. She also gave interviews to the media after her elevation to the party position. In the process, she might have contracted the virus from any of the visitors in Hyderabad or Delhi,” the party leader said. Meanwhile, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh which have been reporting high number of Covid-19 cases in the last couple of months have been showing a steady decline in the incidence of the virus. Telangana director of health G Srinivasa Rao said there has been a steady drop in the number of Covid-19 infections but it would take a few more months to get back to normalcy. “Increased testing, early diagnosis, isolation of symptomatic and asymptomatic persons were the reasons for steady decline in the incidence of the disease,” Rao said. On Wednesday, Telangana’s Covid-19 tally stood at 1.91 lakh out of which 1.61 lakh people have recovered – the recovery rate being 84 per cent. The fatality rate is only 0.54 per cent, as against the national average of 1.56 per cent. In the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, too, the government claimed that the Covid-19 pandemic has been declining over the last couple of weeks. “There has been a 23.75 per cent reduction in the number of coronavirus cases in the fortnights August 30-September 12 and September 13-26. The reduction in the number of deaths was 22.5 per cent,” Special Chief Secretary (medical and health) K S Jawahar Reddy said. About 58 per cent of the Covid-19 deaths were being reported from the rural areas in the state, while the rest from urban centres. From a high of 16.73 per cent, the infection positivity rate fell to 10.22 per cent by September 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-andhra-claim-covid-19-cases-declining-bjp-s-daggubati-purandeshwari-tests-positive/story-O3QTe7SSshQZFRqGD7gOXP.html
30-09-2020||India||Only 3,500 Latur earthquake victims got jobs in 27 years: Report||Twenty seven years after a massive earthquake ravaged Latur district in Maharashtra, a representative of those affected by the tragedy claims many victims are yet to get employment to sustain their livelihood.The district administration, however, said there is a provision of reservation in employment for earthquake-hit families and they get jobs on merit.Over the last 27 years, “only around 3,500 earthquake-hit people have got jobs till now, but the number is very less as compared to the number of affected families,” Bhukampgrast Kruti Samiti president Amar Birajdar told PTI.An earthquake of 6.4 magnitude jolted Latur-Osmanabad region on September 30, 1993, killing nearly 10,000 people and injuring thousands of others. Around 52 villages in the region were destroyed in the disaster.There are many issues which still remain unresolved even after such a long time, claimed Birajdar, a resident of the earthquake-hit Mangrul village in Latur.Lands of many people from the area were taken for rehabilitation of the affected families and many of them complained they got very less compensation for their lands, the activist said.“A massive movement to reach out to government offices helped us in getting this small number of 3,500 jobs,” he claimed, adding that the earthquake-affected families suffered a lot even after their rehabilitation.“We were promised three per cent reservation in government jobs. We approached every government office over the issue between 2005 and 2013,” he said.He also said they can’t blame the government alone as politicians should also have raised these issues before the state legislature.When contacted, Collector G Shreekant told PTI that reservation in jobs for quake-hit families is still there and people get jobs on merit through this provision.Raising other issues of the victims, Birajdar claimed the affected families were allotted new houses after two to three years of the incident, but they got the ownership only in 2018-19.Around 100 people have started their own businesses by mortgaging the houses they got, he said.He also noted that in 2018, the then state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said all the pending issues related to additional land allotment to the people affected by the quake will be resolved soon.He said Fadnavis had acknowledged that there were some families who were given some pieces of land, but the families expanded and needed more space.“But nothing happened in two years. We are still hopeful of getting the plots,” the activist said.The collector said some earthquake-affected people put forth their demand directly to him for additional compensation for their land, but he does not have the authority to sanction it directly.He further said the administration has sent a proposal to construct internal roads in the areas where the earthquake- affected people are residing in the district.“The proposal cost is more than Rs 100 crore and work will move ahead after the government sanctions it,” he said.“Latur has learnt a lot from the earthquake. The buildings are now earthquake-proof and people know what to do if such a calamity occurs again,” the collector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-3-500-latur-earthquake-victims-got-jobs-in-27-years-report/story-KjTPBb2xsr51lD5wejB53N.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Was a divine act’: Who said what after verdict in Babri demolition case||The special Central Bureau of Investigation court in Lucknow on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case due to lack of conclusive proof.The CBI court acquitted all the 32 accused, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti, former union minister Murli Manohar Joshi and ex-Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh, saying the demolition of the mosque was a spontaneous act and not a pre-planned one.‘Satyamev Jayate’, the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath said in a statement after the verdict was out.The Defense Minister of India, Rajnath Singh welcomed the court’s judgment and said “This shows, that though delayed, justice eventually triumphed.”Veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Lal Krishna Advani, who was one of the accused in the case who were acquitted by the special CBI court, welcomed the verdict.“I wholeheartedly welcome the judgement by the special court in Babri Masjid demolition case. The judgement vindicates my personal and BJP’s belief and commitment toward the Ram Janmabhoomi movement,” Advani said.Here’s what all other political leaders have said on the special court’s verdict in Babri mosque demolition case:Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vinay Katiyar, one of the accused who were acquitted said, “We welcome the judgement. It’s a triumph of the truth. We never had any role in the demolition. We were actually on stage, that was away from the site where the demolition took place.”Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, the head of the Ram Janmbhoomi Tirth Kshetra, one of the accused in the Babri demolition case, welcomed the special CBI court’s acquittal and said the ‘dhaancha’ (structure) fell due to ‘Hindu akrosh’ (Hindu anger). “No Hindu hatches conspiracies. The ‘dhaancha’ fell due to Hindu akrosh (Hindu anger). Though belated, but at least now, the court decision, provides the stamp of approval on ‘asthaa’ (belief),” said Das. “Lord Ram is the ancestor of all and his birthplace has now been freed. December 6, 1992 is part of history. All those who were accused of demolition are devotees who would never engage in an anti-social act. Mental agony was caused to them by making them accused,” he added.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, “The then Congress government acted with political bias, indulged in vote bank politics, defamed the BJP and VHP leaders, saints and other social organisations by lodging false cases on them. The people involved in the conspiracy should now apologise to the country.”Former BJP MP Ram Vilasdas Vedanti, among the accused who were acquitted, said, “It’s good that justice has been done. The court agreed that we did no wrong.”Uttar Pradesh minister Mohsin Raza said: “The decision is a welcome one and it’s a victory of justice. This is Ram Rajya. This is what is called rule of law.’”Another accused who was acquitted by the special CBI court, Mahant Dharamdas said, “What can we say? The demolition was a divine act. There was nothing wrong in it. The judgement is a welcome one.”Iqbal Ansari, petitioner in Babri mosque demolition case, welcomed the verdict and said “Ayodhya wants to live peacefully”.“I think now, all this chaos and trouble’ must end. Ayodhya wants to live peacefully. All should welcome the judgement. We abided by the court judgement in the past and would continue to do so. Let there be no more such issues,” he said. VHP leader Sharad Sharma said “Today’s decision of the CBI court has made people’s faith in democracy and rule of law even stronger. Today, the lord’s birthplace is free of obstructions and historical mistakes of the past have been set right.” Rajnath Singh, defense minister and Lucknow MP said in a tweet, “I welcome the acquittal of all the 32 accused in the case. This shows, that though delayed, justice eventually triumphed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demolition-was-a-divine-act-political-leaders-welcome-special-cbi-court-s-verdict-in-babri-demolition-case/story-IgEmEJnB1uo63yIM9cpZTL.html
30-09-2020||India||In Dehradun, district administration pushes for education of tribal girls||Fifty-two girls including 45 from the Boxa tribe of Uttarakhand’s Dehradun in the age group of 11-14 years have started going to school for the first time following an initiative by the district administration. A recent survey by the Dehradun district administration in the remote areas of the district found that over 400 girls in the 11-14 years age group were not going to school as they had either dropped out or had never been enrolled.Akhilesh Mishra, programme officer Dehradun district said, “During an inspection for some project around Vikasnagar area, we saw that many children were roaming around outside and were not in schools. We then enquired a little and found that these girls were not enrolled in schools.” “Most of them were from the Boxa tribe who are mostly engaged in daily-wage jobs or small-scale farming and did not have a culture of educating children, especially girls. Girls would either not go to schools at all or stop after 8-9 years. We then conducted a survey to find out the exact number and have now started getting the students enrolled in schools,” said Mishra. The survey was carried out by aanganwadi workers who were already involved in spreading awareness among locals on the coronavirus epidemic. The survey was then expanded and is now being conducted in the rural areas of Dehradun district, Mishra said that the number of girls not in schools could go up to 1,000. Till now, the officials have identified 336 students who are dropouts and 64 girls who have never been enrolled in schools. At present, 45 girls from the tribe have been admitted to government schools with the Dehradun district administration paying their fees. Nineteen other girls want to continue education from open universities. Dehradun district magistrate AK Srivastava has appealed to people to come forward and help the administration to educate the girls. The project was handled on ground mainly by Taruna Chamola, child development project officer Vikasnagar, Saroj Dhyani the women welfare officer of the area and district coordinators Lakshmi Chauhan and Vaibhavi Dora. The district administration is also tapping companies to raise money through Corporate Social Responsibility donations to fund the education of these children so that lack of finance does not force them to quit school, said Mishra. According to the official records of the state education department, Uttarakhand has over 23.25 lakh students going to schools between the age group of 6-17 years, of which over 8.81 lakh students are enrolled in government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-dehradun-district-administration-pushes-for-education-of-tribal-girls/story-UsthUByI61BzaXceME9kNM.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: Family gave consent for funeral, says Uttar Pradesh ADG||After the family members of the Dalit woman who was gang-raped and succumbed to her injuries claimed that her body was forcibly cremated at 2.30 am, Uttar Pradesh assistant director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said the funeral was conducted with the consent of the family. “They were present during the funeral. The body was putrefying. The victim died yesterday in Delhi. After the post-mortem, the funeral was conducted with the consent of the family members. The details of the examination will soon be out and shared,” Prashant Kumar said.The family claimed that the woman’s body was taken away by the police in the middle of the night for final rites.“The police have forcibly taken the dead body, and my father along with them for cremation. When my father reached Hathras, he was immediately taken (to the crematorium) by the police,” the woman’s brother told news agency PTI.The body of the woman reached her village around midnight and the cremation was done by 3 am on Wednesday.The villagers claimed that they wanted to take the body of the woman to her house, but the passage for ambulance was blocked and finally cremation took place in village.A video of the victim’s mother beating her chest to have a last look of her dead daughter has been doing rounds on social media. The woman was raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras village by four men on September 14 and died a fortnight later after battling serious injuries. The woman was first taken to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh, but shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi after her condition deteriorated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-family-gave-consent-for-funeral-says-uttar-pradesh-adg/story-St66NQrjjFkGMjZ1bgFKRJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Elephant kills 55-year-old woman in Uttarakhand’s Nainital||A 55-year-old woman was killed in an elephant attack on Wednesday morning in Nainital district, when she had gone to the forests to cut grass, said forest officials. Chandrashekhar Joshi, divisional forest officer (DFO) Ramnagar said that the incident happened in Kotabagh region of the division. “Bishna Devi, a 55-year-old, resident of Jala village in Kotabagh block was killed by an elephant, when she had gone to the forest with other women to cut grass on Wednesday morning around 10 am. The other women barely managed to escape from the site and saved themselves.“The women came and informed the villagers, after which the victim was rushed to a hospital where she was declared dead,” said Joshi. The official further added that the family of the deceased woman would be given appropriate compensation. On August 30, a 47-year-old man was trampled to death by an elephant in Nainital district. The incident happened in Devchauri range of Ramnagar division when the man took his cattle for grazing in the forest. The aggression of some elephants in Uttarakhand’s Corbett and Rajaji National Park landscape, two bastions of wild elephants in the state, is a major concern for wildlife officials. Earlier, Bhuwan Ram 51, a forest watcher was killed by an elephant in Karakot in the Haldwani forest division in the month of June. In July, Parvati Devi 60, forest watcher’s wife was attacked and killed in Kishanpur range of the Terai east forest division. In November last year, a wild elephant killed two people in Haridwar when it went on a rampage in two villages. A senior forest official said that man-animal conflict has increased because of several reasons, including humans coming close to the forests for habitation. “The natural corridors have been encroached by humans and people go inside the forests and it’s a huge risk as forests are the territory of the wild animals. There is a need to sensitise people about man-animal conflict and how to avoid it,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-kills-55-year-old-woman-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital/story-841JTKn2hJsvphzwLmwPMP.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Don’t want anyone homeless during pandemic’: Bombay HC refuses to allow demolitions, evictions||The Bombay high court on Wednesday refused to relax its interim stay on all demolitions and evictions due to the pandemic situation asked the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to inform the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that its order for eviction of encroachments in a river bed cannot be implemented till October 31. The court also held that as more than 100 parties who were to be evicted as per the NGT order were not impleaded in the PCMC’s application, they were not inclined to pass orders in favour of the PCMC behind their back. A full bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta, justices AA Sayed, SS Shinde and KK Tated while hearing the interim application of PCMC in the suo motu petition initiated by the high court in March was informed by advocate G H Keluskar that the corporation had approached the HC seeking relaxation of its interim order which stayed all demolition and eviction during the pandemic situation. Keluskar informed the bench that the NGT through a September 2019 order in an application made by environmentalist Sarang Yadwadkar had directed the PCMC to remove illegal reclamation and evict encroachments on the floodplains of the Ram Nadi river. Keluskar submitted that in June 2020 the NGT had sought compliance of its order but as the HC had stayed all demolitions and evictions through its suo motu writ petition, the PCMC was seeking relaxation of the stay to the extent that it could comply with the NGT order. In September 2019, the NGT while hearing the application of Yarwadkar relating to illegal reclamation of floodplains, diversion of the original and natural flow of the rivers, encroachment by way of dumping and unauthorized construction on the floodplains of rivers flowing through Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad cities of Maharashtra had directed the removal of the same after identification.Yarwadkar had again approached the NGT in June, 2020 seeking implementation of its September order as non-implementation of the same by PCMC could have a disastrous effect on the city of Pune during the rains. The NGT had directed the commissioner of PMC to comply. After hearing the submissions, the bench said that it’s March 2020 interim stay order which has been extended from time to time could not be relaxed.“Is the NGT not aware of the HC order? Did you inform NGT about the HC order?” justice Datta asked PCMC. “Similar orders have been passed by all high courts across the country. As the persons who will be affected by the relaxation of our stay are not before us, we are not inclined to grant any relief as we do not want anyone to be dispossessed and without a home during the pandemic,” said justice Datta. The bench then directed the PCMC to inform the NGT about the stay and that it would continue till October 31 and hence its order of eviction and removal of encroachments and illegal constructions along the Ram Nadi floodplains could not be implemented till then and disposed of the interim application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-anyone-homeless-during-pandemic-bombay-hc-refuses-to-allow-demolitions-evictions/story-SNcexaQ9IYv04Ip7wi2KZJ.html
30-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘No justice, Muslim Board should appeal,’ says Asaduddin Owaisi on Babri verdict and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times‘No justice, Muslim Board should appeal’: Asaduddin Owaisi on Babri verdictAll India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday said the All India Muslim Peronal Law Board would appeal in the high court against the special CBI court judgment that acquitted LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and 30 others in the Babri Masjid demolition issue. Read moreUddhav Thackeray government withdraws August order to implement new farm laws under pressure from CongressThe Maharashtra government on Wednesday withdrew its August order to implement the new farm laws after Congress threatened to boycott the cabinet meeting. Read moreBabri demolition case: LK Advani, 31 others acquitted; no local testifiedThe special CBI court in Lucknow on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former union minister Murli Manohar Joshi, ex-Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti, in the Babri Masjid demolition case due to lack of conclusive evidence. Read moreIPL 2020: We have specific ideas how to get him out - MI bowling coach Shane Bond’s plan for KL RahulAfter losing to Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Super Over, Mumbai Indians will take on Kings XI Punjab in their next contest on Thursday. Read moreBigg Boss 14’s first confirmed contestant Jaan Kumar Sanu says getting the offer was ‘overwhelming and amazing’Singer Jaan Kumar Sanu, who is set to enter the house of Bigg Boss 14, has said he was quite surprised to get the offer for the reality show hosted by Salman Khan. Read moreNo driving license, no RC, no problem: Here’s what you need if stopped by copsCarrying a physical copy of a driving license or a vehicle’s registration certificate (RC) is not mandatory and need not be produced if stopped by traffic cops. Read moreAnurag Kashyap summoned by Mumbai Police in alleged sexual assault caseBollywood filmmaker Anurag Kashyap was summoned by Mumbai Police in an alleged sexual assault case. The filmmaker was accused by actor Payal Ghosh of sexually assaulting her during “Bombay Velvet” shoot. Read moreLong pipe echoes sound of saxophone. Video is nothing short of amazingMost of us know what an echo sounds like. Also, most of us will agree that there is a certain fascination attached to the whole concept. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-no-justice-muslim-board-should-appeal-says-asaduddin-owaisi-on-babri-verdict/story-ZamhEtUBmxWsF0fZLSz69K.html
30-09-2020||India||Kerala political killings: CBI issues notice to crime branch, asks for case diary||In an unusual move, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday sent a notice to the Kerala crime branch asking it to hand over the case diary of the twin political murders of Youth Congress workers and cautioned that the agency would be forced to seize it if it was delayed further. The CBI has sent the notice under CrPC 91 (summons to produce important documents) after the crime branch failed to hand over details after six requests, a senior official of the agency said. The notice was issued to the deputy superintendent of police who investigated the case. The state government is trying its best to prevent the CBI from taking over the probe fearing the central agency will implicate its senior leaders in the case. Youth Congress workers Kripesh and Sharth Lal were waylaid and hacked to death brutally by an alleged group of CPI (M) workers in Periya in north Kerala in February 2019. Though both chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had condemned the double murders most of the arrested were active party workers.Parents of the victims had moved the High Court later saying that the investigation was not conducted properly and many leaders were left out by the crime branch due to political pressure and they sought a CBI probe. A single bench of the HC had accepted their plea but the government moved the division bench which also upheld the single bench order. However, the government later moved the Supreme Court which also refused to stay the HC order. The Opposition Congress and BJP have questioned the government’s move saying it was more interested in protecting the perpetrators of the crime, not families of the victims. Many senior advocates from the Supreme Court were approached by the government but all the courts stood with the parents of the victims.Though the state police arrested 12 people, all local CPI(M) workers, in connection with the case, the parents alleged that it was a well-planned and executed murder and many senior district leaders were involved in the conspiracy. A week before the murder, the CPI(M) had organised a protest rally in the area and senior leader V P P Mustafa had made a speech in the meet threatening both the men that their days were numbered, the parents pointed out in their plea saying a central agency probe was needed to bring all the conspirators to book.The CBI is already probing two political murder cases in north Kerala in which many senior leaders including former Kannur district secretary P Jayarajan were named as accused. So, the party had strongly opposed the CBI probe fearing that senior party functionaries would be made accused in the latest case also. Parents of both men alleged that senior party leaders knew about the murder and they protected the accused after the crime.The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) said the Union government was using central agencies to weaken the state government and it will not allow free reign of CBI in the state. “The Modi government is using all opportunities to weaken an elected government. We will not allow this to happen,” said LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan. Two days back the party had announced an agitation against the central agencies but dropped its plan after Covid-19 cases spiked. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the government wanted to protect the “real killers” that is why it was opposing the CBI probe. North Kerala is notorious for political killings especially between red and saffron forces and usually the party leadership prepares the list of accused and submits it in the police station after every killing and this helps the real killers and those who worked behind the scenes to go scot free. But things have changed of late due to effective intervention of the judiciary and media, say political observers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-political-killings-cbi-issues-notice-to-crime-branch-asks-for-case-diary/story-ClWbl0dPPeCbKtyPpvnNYL.html
30-09-2020||India||India’s active Covid cases constitute 15.11% of total caseload: Health ministry||India’s active Covid-19 cases constituted 15.11% of the total caseload as of Wednesday against 33.32% on August 1, the union health ministry said. Currently, the country’s Covid-19 tally is over 6.2 million, which includes 97,497 deaths.According to data provided the ministry’s dashboard as of 8am, there are 9,40,441 active Covid-19 cases so far.“From 33.32 per cent on August 1 to 15.11 per cent on September 30, active cases have less than halved in two months,” the ministry said, adding that active cases are actively declining as a percentage of the overall tally.Over 76% of the country’s active cases are from 10 states - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Assam, Chhattisgarh and Telangana.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMaharashtra, which is considered to be the worst-hit state from the pandemic, contributes the maximum number of active cases which is over 260,000.India’s recovery rate from Covid-19 has climbed to 83.33% after 86,428 people were recovered/discharged on Wednesday.The total recoveries which are nearing 5.2 million exceed the total number of active cases by 4,247,384.The ministry pointed out speedy recoveries were being registered by states and union territories (UTs) after following the 5T strategy, i.e. ‘test, track, trace, treat, technology’ strategy. Ten states and UTs contribute 78 per cent of the total recovered cases.Also read| Maximum impact of Covid-19 faced by women, children and adolescents: Harsh VardhanMaharashtra, apart from having the highest number of active cases, has also the maximum number of recoveries which is over one million, the ministry highlighted adding that Andhra Pradesh was in the second spot with over 600,000 recovered cases.Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that over 74 million samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far out of which 1,086,688 samples were tested on Tuesday.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-covid-cases-constitute-15-11-of-total-caseload-health-ministry/story-wapruTF5ZfezfjhjFMpOjI.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri demolition case: LK Advani, 31 others acquitted; no local testified||The special CBI court in Lucknow on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former union minister Murli Manohar Joshi, ex-Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti, in the Babri Masjid demolition case due to lack of conclusive evidence.Ruling out the criminal conspiracy theory, the court held that the demolition on December 6, 1992 was a spontaneous act and not pre-planned.Ending a nearly 28-year wait in less than 28 minutes, judge SK Yadav delivered the verdict around 12.15am. He held that the prosecution (CBI) could not establish the role of the 32 accused (now acquitted) with regard to the evidence (points) it had submitted in court during the proceedings. The verdict came nearly 11 months after the Supreme Court, in November last year, paved the way for building a Ram temple at the very site in Ayodhya where the masjid once stood. It observed that none of the locals of Ayodhya testified against any of the accused to prove that they incited the mob. “The CBI court has acquitted all the 32 accused in the Babri Masjid case. This ends the long pending dispute related to the December 6, 1992 case,” confirmed lawyer KK Mishra, who represented 25 accused in the court, including Advani, Joshi and Kalyan Singh, who was the UP chief minister at the time of the demolition. “The court observed that the December 6, 1992 incident wasn’t planned and that it was a spontaneous act,” the lawyer said.The judge did not admit the videos produced by the CBI as they were not certified (tested) in the forensic laboratory to ascertain their authenticity.Photographs submitted were also not accepted as the agency could not produce the original negatives, another defence lawyer Manish Tripathi said. Of the total 49 accused in the case, 17 had died. Twenty-six of the remaining 32 accused arrived in person at the court when the judge delivered the verdict. Advani was present via video link. There were intelligence reports, the court said, at the time indicating that some anti-social elements might indulge in some unwarranted act.It said that witness (number 9) Anju Gupta had given a statement in court that some ‘dacoits and criminals’ also mingled with the crowd of kar sevaks. Anju Gupta was additional superintendent of police, posted in Ayodhya during the time the incident took place. She had testified in court The court observed that at noon on December 6, 1992 in Ayodhya, everything was fine. Then, some anti-social elements started brick-batting from behind the structure (Babri Masjid), it said. It also pointed out that Ashok Singhal (late VHP leader) was appealing to kar sevaks not to indulge in violence and only carry out kar seva as per guidelines of the Supreme Court. The judge who pronounced the verdict was on a year’s extension and his extended term ended today.A ceremony to mark the beginning of the construction of Ram temple was held on August 5 and attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Supreme Court had in November, while maintaining that the demolition was a ‘criminal act’, ordered that an alternative land be provided to the Sunni Waqf Board for a mosque within Ayodhya. The CBI will decide on filing an appeal against the special court verdict acquitting all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case after consulting the legal department, its counsel said on Wednesday.“After a copy of today’s verdict is received, it would be sent to the CBI headquarters where it would be studied by the legal department and a decision on filing an appeal would be taken as per its suggestion,” CBI counsel Lalit Singh said.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath welcomed the court verdict, terming it as Satyamev Jayate (victory of truth), according to a statement issued by his advisor Mritunjay Kumar.Adityanath also spoke with BJP veterans LK Advani and MM Joshi over phone and congratulated them on the verdict.Reacting to the court’s verdict, Iqbal Ansari, a prominent litigant in the Ayodhya title suit case, said: “The entire world saw what happened in Ayodhya (on December 6, 1992). I respect the court’s verdict.” Ansari had issued an appeal to the CBI court earlier this month, requesting to close the case and acquit all 32 accused in larger interest of the nation and Hindu-Muslim unity. “We abided by the SC verdict in November last year and we would abide by the latest decision again. There is no question of opposing it. Ayodhya wants peace,” Ansari said.Mohsin Raza, a minister in the UP government, welcomed the verdict.In an interview to HT on July 30, former chief minister Kalyan Singh, whose government was dismissed after the December 6, 1992 demolition, had said that he was proud of the fact that he refused to allow firing on kar sevaks (religious volunteers) who had gathered in Ayodhya. “I am proud of the fact that I didn’t allow firing. I also feel that it was the demolition that paved the way for the Ram temple,” Kalyan had said. An accused in the demolition, Kalyan, infected with the coronavirus, couldn’t make it to the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-case-lk-advani-31-others-acquitted-no-local-testified/story-Dny1uhZTZSIF4ORLGCbBNM.html
30-09-2020||India||Deadline to link Aadhaar card-ration card ends today: How to link online and offline||If you are yet to link your Aadhaar card and ration card, do it immediately as today is the last day to get the linking done. If not linked, you will no longer be eligible to receive your entitled quantity of food grains under the Public Distribution System (PDS). Earlier, the government had extended the deadline to link Aadhaar and ration cards in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The Aadhaar-ration card linking can be done both online and offline.For online:(1.) Visit the official Aadhaar website--uidai.gov.in--and click on ‘Start Now’(2.) Enter your address details: district and state(3.) From among the given options, choose ‘ration card benefit’(4.) Now, choose the scheme name; it is mentioned in the ration card(5.) Enter your ration card number, Aadhaar number, mobile number and e-mail address(6.) Now, enter a one-time password (OTP), which is sent to your mobile number(7.) You will get a notification informing about the completion of the application process(8.) After this, your application will be verified and, after successful verification, your Aadhaar card will get linked to ration cardFor offline:(1.) Visit nearest PDS or ration shop with photocopies of Aadhaar cards of all family members, a passport-size photograph of the head of the family and ration card(2.) Submit a copy of your passbook if your bank account and Aadhaar are not linked.(3.) Submit all these documents at the PDS shop with a copy of your Aadhaar card.(4.) An SMS will be sent on your registered mobile number regarding successful submission of documents(5.) Another SMS will be sent after Aadhaar and ration card are successfully linkedOnce the linking is successfully done, whether online or offline, you will get your entitled quantity of food grains every month regardless of where you stay. This is because the government has started the implementation of the inter-state portability of ration cards under its ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-to-link-aadhaar-card-ration-card-ends-today-how-to-link-online-and-offline/story-2FP04aJzeFmArNrAEqqyeI.html
30-09-2020||India||‘No justice, Muslim Board should appeal’: Asaduddin Owaisi on Babri verdict||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday said the All India Muslim Peronal Law Board would appeal in the high court against the special CBI court judgment that acquitted LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and 30 others in the Babri Masjid demolition issue. Describing it as a black day in the Indian judiciary, Owaisi alleged that this judgment was given only to satisfy the Hindutva ideology. “Muslims of India have not got justice. I request the AIMPLB to go in for an appeal against the judgment,” he said.The Supreme Court in its judgment on November 9 last year, pronounced by five judges, had clearly held that the demolition of Babri Masjid was a clear illegality and “egregious violation of the rule of law”, Owaisi recounted.“Now, I want to know whether the Babri Masjid was razed to the ground mysteriously on December 6, 1992 and whether it was also a mystery behind placing of idols of Ram in the mosque in late 1940s or behind opening of locks of the masjid during the Rajiv Gandhi regime?” Owaisi asked.He sought to know from the court as to who demolished the Babri Masjid, when everybody was innocent in the incident. He alleged that they had created a violent political climate in the country. “Wherever Advani’s Rath Yatra was taken out, there was violence and killing of innocents,” he pointed out.Owaisi wondered how the CBI court could say the demolition was not pre-planned.“How much preparation must have gone into the demolition of the mosque? Is it not true that Uma Bharati had made provocative slogans, asking the activists to demolish the Babri mosque? Is it not true that Advani had distributed sweets after the demolition?” he asked.Delivering the much-awaited verdict in the 28-year-old case, CBI judge S K Yadav did not accept newspapers and video cassettes as evidence.The court said there was no conclusive proof against themIt also observed that late Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Ashok Singhal wanted to save the structure because Ram idols were inside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-justice-muslim-board-should-appeal-asaduddin-owaisi-on-babri-verdict/story-5mSCTuIaAWyhkzlxcg4haI.html
30-09-2020||India||Goa lifeguards junk mouth to mouth resuscitation, adopt new protocol amid Covid pandemic||Lifeguards manning Goa’s beaches will now adapt to the new normal and have adopted a new rescue and revival protocol in tune with the pandemic times. The lifeguards will now no longer perform a mouth to mouth respiration method of revival and will instead use a bag valve mask, a self inflating resuscitation device along with cardiopulmonary resuscitation if necessary to try and revive a patient who has lost consciousness on account of drowning. Drishti Marine, the lifeguarding agency that operates along Goa’s 105-km long coastline said that the new protocol is being rolled now with the beaches being gradually being reopened for swimming to coincide with the withdrawal of the monsoon. “The earlier protocol involved clearing airways to avoid sand choking, commencing CPR through compressions and moving on to a BVM only if mouth-to-mouth resuscitation could not be continued,” Ravi Shankar who heads the operations of Drishti Marine, said. “The new Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) protocol has changed. Globally, hands-only CPR is recommended which includes compression of the chest, but no rescue breaths. In more advanced cases too, it’s a direct shift from the regular mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to the use of a Bag Valve Mask (BVM). This can reduce infections or diseases being transmitted in the process between victim and rescuer,” he said. Training sessions have been conducted for all the 400-member lifeguard force in separate batches to educate them on Covid-19 and dispel myths. Instructions prescribing the dos and don’ts have been put up prominently at all the 35 lifeguard towers along the coast.However, the nature of lifeguarding makes it impossible for the lifeguards themselves to avoid close contact with possible victims. Owing to its nature, a lifeguard wears a mask only while onshore but will need to take it off if he needs to rush in to rescue. The shore based teams, however, wear masks and shields. “Rescues still involve a lot of unavoidable physical contact but the new protocol can curb it down significantly and offer safety to both, the lifeguards as well as the rescued victims”, Ravi said.The lifeguards have been briefed to keep a distance of two meters between themselves and others at all times and to actively use whistles and hailers to give instructions to people present on the beach.The lifeguards also have to deal with several cases of persons attempting suicide by drowning. This year there have been at least seven cases reported of persons attempting to commit suicide by drowning which six coming within the period June to August. In cases of attempted suicide cases or those suffering from mental health, the lifeguards circle the person while speaking to him or her and keeping him/her calm, eventually bringing the person back to the shore. Goa has reopened for tourism leading to a beeline of tourists mainly from neighbouring states coming after protocol for testing at the border and quarantine were lifted by the government at the start of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-lifeguards-junk-mouth-to-mouth-resuscitation-adopt-new-protocol-amid-covid-pandemic/story-i1Gh4SpHPdJl0KoejKKzRK.html
30-09-2020||India||India successfully test-fires BrahMos supersonic cruise missile from Chandipur ITR in Odisha||India on Wednesday successfully test-fired BrahMos supersonic cruise missile with a strike range of more than 400 km from a base in Odisha, defence sources said.The launch of the state-of-the-art missile from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) at Chandipur near here was successful, Defence Research and Development (DRDO) sources said.“All the parameters were met during the trial,” a DRDO official said after the missile was test fired at 10.45 am.The missile can be launched from land, sea platforms as well as fighter jets, he said.The first extended version of the missile, which had a strike range of 450 km, was successfully tested on March 11, 2017.On September 30, 2019 a shorter range land version of BrahMos was successfully test fired from Chandipur ITR.Jointly developed by the DRDO and NPOM, a leading aerospace enterprise of Russia, the BrahMos missile is a medium-range ramjet supersonic cruise missile capable of being launched from submarines, warships, fighter jets or land.The missile, already operational with the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force, is regarded as the fastest supersonic cruise missile in the world, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-brahmos-supersonic-cruise-missile-from-chandipur-itr-in-odisha/story-TVrmRlqHX0esXtqjYoSXpL.html
30-09-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray government withdraws August order to implement new farm laws under pressure from Congress||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday withdrew its August order to implement the new farm laws after Congress threatened to boycott the cabinet meeting. The Uddhav Thackeray-led government was already in a dilemma over the implementation of the agriculture reform laws, which were recently passed by the Parliament, after Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) opposed the farm laws in the state, calling them “anti-farmer”. Last week, deputy Maharashtra chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar had announced that the state government would not implement the agriculture reform laws.Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar announced last week that the state government would not implement the farm laws in the state. On Monday, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi had advised the states ruled by the party to inspect all possibilities of legislation under the Constitution’s Article 254(2) to negate the “anti-agricultural laws” and to prevent the “grave injustice” being done to farmers.Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat had earlier claimed that all the three ruling parties have opposed the bills. The parties were to raise the issue at cabinet meeting, which is being held today.The Upper House of Parliament recently cleared farm reform laws amid uproar and protests from the opposition parties in the house. Since then, oppositions parties and several farmers’ groups all across India have been carrying out protests against the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-government-stays-farm-reform-laws-cites-objections-by-people/story-WbsD35oJ0wJcQOoaHUT6AJ.html
30-09-2020||India||‘No criminal conspiracy’: Key points of Babri Masjid verdict||A special CBI court on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri Mosque demolition case, saying the demolition of the mosque was a spontaneous affair and not a pre-planned one. The accused, including LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Kalyan Singh, faced charges like criminal conspiracy, rioting, promoting enmity between different groups, and unlawful assembly.Also Read: LK Advani, acquitted in Babri case, says ruling vindicates ‘my and BJP’s belief in Ram Janmabhoomi movement’Here are the key points of the 2,000-page verdict* The demolition was not pre-planned and the accused had actually tried to stop the mob.* Those who climbed on the dome were anti-social elements.* The authenticity of the audio and video clips produced by the CBI is not proved.Watch - Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ * Local intelligence report forewarning that some unexpected sequence of events could take place on December 6 went unheeded.* There was no criminal conspiracy behind the demolition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-case-key-points-of-verdict/story-Qw8A8srjXah1Honge9x7CI.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition case: Verdict counter to SC judgment, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday said the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court’s verdict on the Babri Masjid demolition case runs counter to the Supreme Court’s November 9 ruling and the Constitutional spirit. It urged the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government to file an appeal and follow the letter of the law and the Constitution without any partiality and pre-meditated prejudice.Addressing reporters at the party headquarters in Delhi, Congress’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala said the five-judge bench of the Supreme Court in its judgement on November 9 last year held that demolition of the Babri Masjid was “clear illegality and egregious violation” of the rule of law.Also read: Court’s verdict proves no conspiracy was hatched in Ayodhya, says BJP’s Murli Manohar Joshi“But the special court exonerated all the accused. It is clear that the decision of the special court runs counter to the decision of the Supreme Court,” he said.Surjewala said the entire nation witnessed a “deep-rooted political conspiracy” by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) and its leaders to destroy the country’s communal amity and brotherhood for usurping power at any cost.“The then BJP government of Uttar Pradesh was a co-conspirator in the designed attack on India’s Constitutional ethos. So much so that Supreme Court was misled by filing a wrong affidavit on oath. It is only after detailed examination of all these aspects, facts and evidence that the Supreme Court held the demolition of Masjid to be an egregious violation of the rule of law,” he said.The Congress leader said every Indian, who has innate faith in the Constitution as also in the spirit of communal amity and brotherhood, expects and urges the Centre and Uttar Pradesh government to file an appeal against the special court’s decision founded in error and follow the letter of the law and the Constitution without any “partiality and pre-meditated prejudice”.This is the true calling of the rule of law and the Constitution, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-demolition-case-verdict-counter-to-sc-judgement-says-congress/story-pUHz9WGAgDezT7felDmOSL.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: BJP stares at the return of Dalit unrest||The protest against the cremation of a Dalit woman (19), who was gang-raped and murdered allegedly by four upper caste men in Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Hathras district in the dead of night on Wednesday, could spell the return of a Dalit unrest that can have an adverse impact on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) fortunes in the upcoming Bihar assembly polls. Though UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday announced the setting up of a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the alleged crime following his talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, there is a public outcry against the coercive action of the UP Police.UP Police performed the last rites of the gang-rape victim at around 2.30 am on Wednesday in the absence of her family members. The incident has given the Opposition the arsenal to attack the BJP and the Yogi-led administration. BSP chief Mayawati tweeted that the last rites, which were conducted by the UP Police, created “doubts and resentment” about the role of the UP administration.She said it would be better if the Supreme Court (SC) took appropriate action by taking suo motu (on its own motion) cognisance of the case. She blamed the callous attitude of the UP administration and the UP Police and expressed doubts that the perpetrators of the heinous crime would not be punished and the victim’s family members would be denied of justice.Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress have also attacked the government. Congress’s Sushmita Dev said the way the victim was cremated and she was left to languish in a hospital ward for over six days, despite the serious nature of her injuries, was a gross violation of human rights. “No first information report (FIR) was filed for eight days. Even after it (FIR) was filed, what sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) did this hopeless and ruthless (UP) government invoke?” Dev asked.The ruling BJP has been quick to dub these statements as attempts to create misgivings about the UP government and stoke a raging controversy.However, a few functionaries, who spoke on condition of anonymity, admitted that the party could be bracing for the return of a Dalit unrest. “If the protests continue, it will have an impact in neighbouring Bihar as well. The UP government is taking action, but the opposition will certainly raise the issue,” said a functionary from UP. Bihar has 18% of Dalit population and the sizeable vote bank can sway the state’s electoral outcome. On Wednesday, protests were also reported from some parts in poll-bound Bihar. This is not the first time that the BJP government has been confronted by caste-based protests. In 2017, ahead of the Gujarat assembly polls, the BJP government was accused of not taking action against Dalit atrocities in Una, where a group of cow vigilantes were accused of flogging Dalit youth in public view. In January 2018, the Bhima-Koregaon clashes had led to violence and casualties during the congregation of Dalits to commemorate the 200th anniversary of an Anglo-Maratha war against the then Peshwa rule. Dalits constitute a little over 16%of the country’s population and the BJP has been assiduously trying to woo the caste groupings. “The BJP is making concerted efforts to reach out to the dominant castes, who come under the SC category. In the new national team, which was announced on Saturday, Dalit leaders, who belong to the Jatav caste and are considered to have political clout, such as Dushyant Gautam were given key posts,” said a second BJP functionary. However, Lal Singh Arya, who was appointed the SC Morcha chief, said that the BJP has given a platform to representatives from all castes since the party’s inception. He said, “I was the district general secretary at the age of 26 in 1989. Whether it is appointments within the BJP or for constitutional positions, the party ensures representation for all castes.” Arya also dismissed concerns that the Hathras incident would lead to the resurgence of a Dalit unrest. “The state (UP) government will take all the necessary steps to ensure severe punishment for the perpetrators of this heinous crime. The protests are being orchestrated by the opposition,” he alleged. However, Chandrabhan Prasad, a Dalit author and an ideologue of the community, took potshots at the BJP for being “anti-Muslims and Dalits”. He blamed the party for polarising the country in a bid to boost its electoral fortunes. He alleged that the Dalit representation in the party was “notional” because it did not “want to empower us”. He added, “The Dalits are paying a price for the freedom they had enjoyed in the country for the past seven decades.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-bjp-stares-at-the-return-of-dalit-unrest/story-tCHwxyoaMqQNOg9dxlYGLN.html
30-09-2020||India||From driving license to health insurance, five new rules from October 1||From October 1, five rules that concern our daily lives will change. Of the new rules which will come into effect from Thursday, while some will benefit people others will cause some inconvenience. Here are new rules that will kick in from October 1:Getting driving licenses to become easier: The government has said all documents related to driving license and e-challan shall be maintained on an online portal from October 1. Also, not many documents will be needed to get a driving license. Additionally, no hard copy will be asked for documents found valid electronically. Details of driving licences disqualified or revoked by the licensing authority will be recorded on the e-portal and updated periodically.More facilities in health insurance: According to insurance regulator IRDA, three major changes will be introduced in health insurance. First, insurance companies will make their policies easier so that customers can understand them. Second is to ensure insurance coverage for telemedicine and third and last is that insurance companies will have to provide claims easily.Fresh sweet in the market: Now, shopkeepers selling sweet will have to inform customers about the duration for which sweet can be consumed. Food regulator FSSAI has made it mandatory for shops selling food items to display on sweets, the duration of time for which these can be used.TV to become costlier: Buying TV will get costlier as the government will start levying custom duty of 5% on its open sales imports. According to people aware of developments, the government has taken this step to encourage manufacturing. According to reports, a 32-inch TV may get costlier by Rs 600 and 42-inch TV by Rs 1,200-1,500.More tax on money sent abroad: If you are sending money to you children studying abroad or financially helping a relative, you will have to make an additional payment of 5% at tax collected at source (TCS). The Finance Act, 2020, states that anyone sending money abroad will have to pay TCS under the liberalised remittance scheme of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-driving-license-to-health-insurance-five-new-rules-from-october-1/story-mpPBSxFrxgQqTZU84y0H4N.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition case verdict: Shiv Sena welcomes acquittal||Shiv Sena has welcomed the acquittal of 32 accused associated with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in the Babri Masjid demolition case. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday that both the party as well as Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray have welcomed the verdict. Earlier today, a special CBI court in Lucknow ruled that there was no conclusive evidence to prove that the demolition of the Mosque in Ayodhya in 1992 was pre-planned, ruling out a criminal conspiracy to bring down the mosque.Former deputy Prime Minister LK Advani along with other BJP stalwarts Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti, were among the accused in the case.“We should not forget the incident as grand Ram Mandir is now being built. If the Babri structure had not come down, we would not have seen the construction of the Ram temple,” Raut said, reacting to the verdict. Former Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan, who was then a close aide of Sena founder Bal Thackeray, was also acquitted in the case. Expressing his happiness over the verdict, he said, he was not even present at the spot.“I had no connection with the demolition as I was not even present at the spot. My stance has been vindicated and I finally got justice,” said Pradhan.The court in Lucknow said there was no conclusive proof against the accused that also included Vinay Katiyar and Sadhvi Rithambara.Also Read: Babri Masjid demolition verdict: All 32 accused acquittedEarlier, LK Advani, too, welcomed the court verdict and said it came in the footsteps of another order which paved the way for his “dream” of seeing a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.“It is a very important decision and a matter of happiness for us. When we heard the news of the court’s order, we welcomed it by chanting Jai Shri Ram,” Advani said in a video message.Also Read: LK Advani, acquitted in Babri case, says ruling vindicates ‘my and BJP’s belief in Ram Janmabhoomi movement’After the court verdict, the 92-year-old BJP leader had greeted the media, gathered outside his house, by chanting the slogan of “Jai Shri Ram”.He was seen watching the news in his residence while sitting with his family members and his daughter Pratibha Advani, who was holding his hands, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-demolition-case-verdict-shiv-sena-welcomes-acquittal/story-Tb8RxeDKzLVv1p2Nw7qviO.html
30-09-2020||India||Court’s verdict proves no conspiracy was hatched in Ayodhya: BJP’s Murli Manohar Joshi||Senior BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi on Wednesday said the decision of the Special CBI Court proved that there was no conspiracy hatched for December 6 incident in Ayodhya.Joshi made this remark after all the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case were acquitted by the Special CBI court in Lucknow.Also read | ‘Justice done’: Leaders hail special CBI court verdict in Babri demolition case“It is a historic decision by the court. This proves that no conspiracy was hatched for December 6 incident in Ayodhya. Our programme and rallies were not part of any conspiracy,” the senior leader said. “We are happy, everyone should now be excited about Ram Mandir’s construction,” he added.In its judgment pronounced earlier today, the court said that the demolition was not pre-planned and had acquitted all accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-s-verdict-proves-no-conspiracy-was-hatched-in-ayodhya-bjp-s-murli-manohar-joshi/story-52sTVFQIvUxU65FITHM3iM.html
30-09-2020||India||LK Advani, acquitted in Babri case, says ruling vindicates ‘my and BJP’s belief in Ram Janmabhoomi movement’||Veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Lal Krishna Advani welcomed the judgement by the special CBI court which acquitted him and 31 other accused in the Babri mosque demolition case.“I wholeheartedly welcome the judgement by the special court in Babri Masjid demolition case. The judgement vindicates my personal and BJP’s belief and commitment toward the Ram Janmabhoomi movement,” Advani said after the verdict by the court in Lucknow.He, along with another accused Murli Manohar Joshi, participated in the proceedings through video conferencing.Also read: Satyamev Jayate, tweets Yogi Adityanath after Babri verdict; jabs Congress“It’s a historic decision by the court. This proves that no conspiracy was hatched for December 6 incident in Ayodhya. Our program and rallies were not part of any conspiracy. We are happy, everyone should now be excited about Ram Mandir’s construction,” said Joshi.The court acquitted all the 32 accused, saying the demolition of the mosque was a spontaneous affair and not a pre-planned one. It further said there was no conclusive proof against the accused.Also watch| Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ The court had asked all the accused to be present in the court. Twenty six of them were present.Apart from Advani and Joshi, Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh did not appear in the court because they have tested positive for the coronavirus disease.Also read | ‘Justice done’: Leaders hail special CBI court verdict in Babri demolition caseThe CBI, which went into the case, produced 351 witnesses and 600 documents as evidence before the court. Charges were framed against 48 people, but 16 had died during the course of the trial. Over two dozen of 32 accused were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lk-advani-aquitted-in-babri-case-says-ruling-vindicates-my-and-bjp-s-belief-in-ram-janmabhoomi-movement/story-enqZVvZq8w6Pf8a4BElYoJ.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Justice done’: Leaders hail special CBI court verdict in Babri demolition case||The verdict given by the special CBI court in the Babri demolition case has been hailed by many political leaders and Union ministers. Defence minister Rajnath Singh took the lead in congratulating the 32 people who have been acquitted by the court.“ I welcome the decision of the special court of Lucknow not to join any conspiracy of 32 people including Shri LK Advani, Shri Kalyan Singh, Dr Murali Manohar Joshi, Umaji in the Babri Masjid demolition case. The verdict has proved that justice prevailed even if it is late,” Singh wrote on Twitter. Delivering the verdict, judge SK Yadav said that the demolition of the mosque was not pre-planned, but a spontaneous act. He also said that “there is no conclusive proof against the accused.” Also read: Click here for live coverage of Babri demolition case verdictThe case related to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.“I wholeheartedly welcome the judgement by the Special Court in Babri Masjid demolition case. The judgement vindicates my personal and BJP’s belief and commitment toward the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, said LK Advani after being acquitted by special CBI court.WATCH| Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ BJP’s Murli Manohar Joshi, also one of the accused, said, “It’s a historic decision by the court. This proves that no conspiracy was hatched for December 6 incident in Ayodhya. Our program and rallies were not part of any conspiracy. We are happy, everyone should now be excited about Ram Mandir’s construction.”“False narratives and conspiracy theories are finally laid to rest by the Hon’bl CBI Court in historic Babri Masjid Demolition Verdict,” minister of Civil Aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri said. He also congratulated LK Advani and other leaders who were acquitted by the court. BJP’s Lok Sabha MP and one of the accused in the Babri demolition case, Ram Vilas Vedanti, emerged from court flashing a victory sign. “It’s good. Justice done. The court agreed that we did no wrong,” he said after the verdict.Welcoming the verdict, Uttar Pradesh chief minister and BJP leader Yogi Adityanath said, “Satyamev Jayate- truth has won”In a press statement CM said, “the then Congress government acted with political bias, indulged in vote bank politics defamed the BJP leaders, saints, Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) leaders and various social organizations by lodging false cases. The people involved in the conspiracy should apologize to the people of the country.”Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said both the party as well as Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray welcome the verdict. “We should not forget the incident as grand Ram Mandir is now being built. If the Babri structure had not come down, we would not have seen the construction of the Ram temple,” said Raut. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) also welcomed the verdict.“After this decision, all sections of the society should come together in unity and harmony and work successfully to face the challenges before the country, and work towards the progress of this country,” RSS general secretary Suresh ‘Bhaiyyaji’ Joshi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-done-leaders-hail-special-cbi-court-verdict-in-babri-demolition-case/story-r95GlfaHKB5DcTVd2iiwxO.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition verdict: All 32 accused acquitted||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Lucknow on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused, including Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders LK Advani, 92, and Murli Manohar Joshi, 86, in the Babri Masjid demolition case almost 28 years after a mob razed the 16th century structure in Ayodhya and triggered some of the deadliest riots since partition that left about 2,000 dead.CBI judge Surendra Kumar Yadav ordered the acquittal citing a lack of evidence and added the probe agency could not prove the authenticity of the audio and video evidence submitted. He said the demolition was not pre-planned and the accused tried to stop “anti-social” elements who razed the mosque.Former Union minister Uma Bharti, and Kalyan Singh, who was Uttar Pradesh chief minister at the time of the demolition, are among other accused acquitted in the case. They have tested positive for Covid-19 and are hospitalised and could not attend the court proceedings on Wednesday. Singh’s government was dismissed over the demolition.Also Read: Babri Masjid demolition verdict: On high alert, UP police told to prevent gatheringsSadhvi Rithambhara, Lallu Singh, Pawan Pandey, Vinay Katiyar, and Champat Rai were the accused present in the CBI court.The verdict came months after the Supreme Court in November 2019 ruled in favour of building a temple at the 2.77-acre site in Ayodhya where the mosque once stood. Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended a ceremony to mark the beginning of the temple construction in August.WATCH- Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ Security was heightened on the court premises and no one except the defence, CBI lawyers, and the accused were allowed inside the courtroom. Entry was permitted through only one gate and barricades were put on nearby roads to restrict traffic. The movement of buses from the Kaisarbagh bus stand was diverted and vehicular traffic on the roads near the court building was minimised as part of multi-layered security arrangements.Supporters of the accused were stopped at the barricades as they started arriving at the court. Journalists were denied access to the court building and most of the shops in the vicinity remained closed.Lucknow’s police commissioner Sujeet Pandey took stock of security arrangements and policemen used a public address system to urge journalists to stay behind the barricades.Also Read: Purohit Mahasabha condemns suit in Mathura court on Krishna Janambhoomi issueThe accused faced charges like criminal conspiracy, rioting, promoting enmity between different groups, and unlawful assembly.Ahead of the verdict, Jai Bhagwan Goyal, 62, an accused who described himself as the international working president of United Hindu Front, said he would not comply with the CBI court’s order to bring a guarantor worth Rs 50,000 with him.“I am not going to comply with the order for sure as I feel by bringing down the disputed structure, I did no wrong,” Goyal said. “I was among the first to own up that I had a role in demolition.”Kalyan Singh, who has also served as Rajasthan governor, has said he is proud of his decision denying permission to fire on karsevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers, who razed the mosque.The CBI took over the demolition case a week after the mosque was demolished on December 6, 1992. Two simultaneous criminal trials in Lucknow and Rae Bareli were conducted until the Supreme Court shifted all cases to Lucknow in 2017. The top court in July last year extended the timeframe for completing the criminal trial by six months and also set a deadline of nine months for the final order.The nine-month deadline expired on April 19. The Supreme Court on May 8 set the new deadline of August 31 for the judgment. In August, it again extended the deadline till September 30.CBI produced 351 witnesses and 600 documents as evidence during the course of the trial and the special court framed charges against 49 accused. Seventeen of the accused died during the course of the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-demolition-verdict-all-32-accused-acquitted/story-pEH3vJXWUCxhkfZ44kCnaI.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Babri demolition was spontaneous, not pre-planned’: CBI court acquits all 32 accused||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Wednesday acquitted all the 32 accused in nearly three-decade-old Babri masjid demolition case.Judge Surendra Kumar Yadav said that the demolition of the mosque was not pre-planned, but a spontaneous act. The case related to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.Among the 32 accused, LK Advani, MM Joshi, Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh were not present in the court for the hearing. While Advani and Joshi were advised not to travel due to age and the coronavirus disease pandemic and attended the hearing through video link, Bharti and Singh have contracted Covid-19.“The CBI court has acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. This ends the long pending dispute related with the December 6, 1992 incident,” said lawyer KK Mishra.WATCH| Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ Mishra represented 25 out of 32 accused in the case. Twenty six of the 32 accused were present in the court for hearing. Sadhvi Ritambhara, Vinay Katiyar, Champat Rai, Jai Bhagwan Goyal, Acharya Dharmadas, Lallu Singh, Ram Vilas Vedanti and Pawan Pandey were among them.Iqbal Ansari, a petitioner in the Babri case, welcomed the CBI court’s decision. “It’s good that this is now over. Let’s all live in peace. Let there be no fresh trouble of this nature. Hindu and Muslim have always lived in peace in Ayodhya,” he said.Some saints distributed sweets in Ayodhya after the verdict.Security was tightened in the court premises in Lucknow and no one was allowed inside the court room except the defence and CBI lawyers, and the accused persons.The verdict in the case comes roughly 11 months after the Supreme Court, in November last year, ruled in favour of building a temple at the 2.77 acre site in Ayodhya.A ceremony to mark the beginning of the construction was held on August 5 and attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-was-spontaneous-not-pre-planned-cbi-court-acquits-all-32-accused/story-qLtlafsEuZTb6vgiANLgKO.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras case: Kangana Ranaut expresses ‘immense faith’ in UP CM||Expressing her “immense faith,” in Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, actor Kangana Ranaut on Wednesday said she wants that the Hathras rapists to be executed in the same manner, in which the Priyanka Reddy’s rapists were punished. She took to Twitter to give her opinion on the case and said she wants an “emotional, instinctive and impulsive justice,” for the Hathras rapists.“I have immense faith in @myogiadityanath ji, just how Priyanka Reddy rapists were shot dead on the very spot they raped and burnt her alive we want the same emotional, instinctive and impulsive justice for #HathrasHorror #HathrasHorrorShocksIndia,” she tweeted.Priyanka Reddy was a veterinary doctor in Hyderabad who was gang raped and murdered in November 2019. Also read | Hathras gang-rape: PM Modi speaks to UP CM Yogi Adityanath, seeks strict actionThe 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, died on Tuesday morning, at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi.The woman was gang-raped in Hathras on September 14, 2020, and was admitted to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital for better healthcare facilities.All the four accused involved on September 14 gang-rape have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-kangana-ranaut-expresses-immense-faith-in-up-cm/story-H7zFI3KQ3Sf5O9C2MDy3AP.html
30-09-2020||India||Family dream returning Maoists to mainstream, reversal of vasectomy makes it possible||During spring of 2007, Dinesh Kadti first saw Meena in a Maoist training camp inside a dense jungle in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district and fell in love. Both of them were teenagers and within a month they decided to get married. Two years later, they got married in Edesmetta jungle, a core area of the Maoists, after the rebels forced Kadati to undergo vasectomy, a must for the cadre wanting to get married. Kadanti said vasectomy is done to keep the cadre away from the allure of raising a family, which could turn out to be a potential reason to abandon the Maoist ideology.As the years passed by their desire for a child grew. And when they surrendered before Chhattisgarh police in 2018, the first thing they wanted was to have a child. “After surrendering, I along with three others wanted to get a reversal of vasectomy done because we wanted a kid and met the superintendent of police (SP). The SP assured help” said Kadati, who is now a constable with the district reserve guard in Dantewada.In August 2019, Kadati got his reverse vasectomy done in a private hospital in Raipur along with two others and in March 2020, Meena gave birth to a child. Surrendered Maoist commander, Sannu Katran, said that his vasectomy operation was conducted somewhere in Odisha and he got a reversal of vasectomy done in 2019. “I am waiting for a kid now.” They are among 10 other former Maoist cadres, who have got reverse vasectomy done and now have children. In all, 23 surrendered cadres have got the procedure done since 2011, said Sunderaj P, inspector general of police, (Bastar range). “The purpose of providing free reverse vasectomy is to create well-being among the surrendered Maoists because they feel they are a family man now. Many surrendered Maoists have applied for the surgery and we are considering the request one-by-one,” said Sunderaj. The low awareness of the fact that vasectomy can be reversed is one of the reasons for many surrendered cadre not applying. Abhishek Pallav, Dantewada’s SP, said, “Some of them are hesitant in coming up and most of them don’t know that vasectomy can be reversed.” As per the surrender policy of the government, reverse vasectomy is offered free of cost at any government empanelled hospital to surrendered cadres. Also Read: Suspected Maoist killed in encounter in Bijapur, combing operation still on: Bastar PoliceA senior police officer, requesting anonymity, said Maoists ask their lower-rung cadres to get a vasectomy done at a young age so that they do not understand the implications of the surgical procedure.“Procreation is strongly discouraged in the Maoist organisation as pregnant and lactating women would be a liability and love for the child would push them out of the organisation.“To guard against mass resentment and attrition for want of sexual and familial relationships, Maoists promote marriage and have strict rules regarding the frequency of physical relationships,” Pallav said. But, the new cadre is resisting vasectomy and therefore, Maoists leaders allow them to opt for oral contraceptives.Also Read: Chhattisgarh DGP calls for fair trial of 120 tribals in Burkapal attack case “Reverse vasectomy resulting in child bearing is a success story. There has been a spurt in surrenders of Maoist couples and the option of undergoing reverse vasectomy is one of the main reasons,” said another Indian police service officer posted in Bastar, who was not willing to be named. Human rights activists said that state police’s initiative should be appreciated but surgery should not be forced either by Maoists or the police. “I am glad that the concerned persons could reverse the vasectomy successfully. As long as they were not forced to do it, as long as it was their own decision, there is no problem. Problem is only if they did not have a choice in the matter,” said Bela Bhatia, a human rights lawyer working in the Bastar region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-dream-returning-maoists-to-mainstream-reverse-vasectomy-making-it-possible/story-ZwxHRisMME91Fk3X1FPvvK.html
30-09-2020||India||Supreme Court, hearing plea seeking postponement of civil services exam, asks petitioners to be polite and persuasive if they expect relief from UPSC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the petitioners seeking postponement of civil services examination to be “polite and persuasive” if they expect relief from the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).The comments were made by the Supreme Court bench after the lawyers of the petitioners said that the UPSC is “bent upon to hold exams.“They are duty bound to hold exam. You have to be polite and persuasive if you expect some relief from UPSC,” the court said.The petitioners argued that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is unprecedented and extraordinary situation as they pleaded that the exams should be deferred.The court then said that the UPSC has asked the state authorities to arrage for the transport of candidates.The UPSC has already told the top court that it has incurred expenses of over Rs 50 crore for conducting the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination 2020 scheduled for October 4.In an affidavit filed on Tuesday, the commission said that any further delay would result in a huge loss to the public exchequer.Several exams conducted by the Commission have already been postponed, but the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination (CSP) 2020 was crucial to fill up vacant posts in government services, the Commission stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-hearing-plea-seeking-postponement-of-civil-services-exam-asks-petitioners-to-be-polite-and-persuasive-if-they-expect-relief-from-upsc/story-oUKF0j9glxUGd312kRAktM.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: PM Modi speaks to UP CM Yogi Adityanath, seeks strict action||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said those responsible for the gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman shall not be spared.Adityanath further said prime minister Narendra Modi had spoken to him on the incident and asked for ‘strictest’ punishment against the accused.“Those responsible for the unfortunate incident with the girl in Hathras shall not be spared. A three-member special team has been formed to probe the case. It will submit its report in seven days.To ensure speedy justice, the case will be tried in a fast-track court,” Adityanath tweeted. हाथरस में बालिका के साथ घटित दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण घटना के दोषी कतई नहीं बचेंगे। प्रकरण की जांच हेतु विशेष जांच दल का गठन किया गया है। यह दल आगामी सात दिवस में अपनी रिपोर्ट देगा।त्वरित न्याय सुनिश्चित करने हेतु इस प्रकरण का मुकदमा फास्ट ट्रैक कोर्ट में चलेगा।“Honourable prime minister Narendra Modi has spoken to me on the incident and directed that strictest punishment be taken against the accused,” he posted in a subsequent tweet. आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी ने हाथरस की घटना पर वार्ता की है और कहा है कि दोषियों के विरुद्ध कठोरतम कार्रवाई की जाए।The woman died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday morning, nearly two weeks after she was sexually assaulted and tortured by four men from her village on September 14. The case has triggered nationwide protests, with many drawing parallels with 2012’s Nirbhaya incident in New Delhi.There was fresh controversy in the case with family members of the woman claiming that the Uttar Pradesh Police forcibly creamated her in the early hours of the day. The police and Hathras administration denied these allegations. Meanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra lashed out at the UP police for their treatment of the victim’s family.“A Dalit girl who was a victim of demoniac behaviour in Hathras has passed away at Safdarjung Hospital. For two weeks, she kept struggling between life and death in hospitals,” Gandhi said on Twitter.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the incident was very painful. “The Hathras victim was sexually assaulted by some brutes and then by the whole system yesterday. It is extremely painful.” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-pm-modi-speaks-to-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-seeks-strict-action/story-wwgVaSEqerXzH1YkJDplmL.html
30-09-2020||India||Sudarshan TV representatives asked to appear before inter-ministerial panel on Thursday||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the representatives of Sudarshan TV to appear before inter-ministerial panel tomorrow over airing of controversial programme ‘Bindaas Bol’, which alleged conspiracy by members of Muslim community to infiltrate civil services.On September 24, the Centre had told the top court that it has issued a showcase notice to the news channel for the programme ‘Bindas Bol’ where the focus is sudden rise in the number of Muslims in civil services; the channel calls it “UPSC Jihad”.On September 15, a three-judge Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud stayed the further telecast of the programme episodes. Four episodes had been telecast by the time the court issued the injunction.The petition against the programme has been filed by a lawyer, Firoz Iqbal Khan, who submitted that “Bindas Bol” contained statements which were derogatory about the entry of Muslims into the civil services. In the programme’s trailer, which was widely shared on social media platforms, the anchor and editor-in-chief of Sudarshan News, Suresh Chavhanke, was seen questioning how there had been a sudden increase in the number of Muslims succeeding in Indian Administrative Service and Indian Police Service examsKhan has contended in his petition that such views were derogatory to Muslims, had a divisive potential and was in violation of the programme code spelled out under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act of 1995 which regulates television content.Sudarshan News has maintained that the intention of the programme is not to vilify the Muslim community but to highlight the allegedly dubious sources of foreign funding received by an organisation that supports and provides coaching for civil service aspirants.On September 21, the top court had pondered over the nature and extent of its order regulating “Bindas Bol” saying it did not want to “curtail” freedom of speech as the programme has “public interest” involved on issues of “foreign funding” and “reservation”.The channel has urged the apex court to lift the stay on the telecast of the remaining six episodes of the controversial programme, saying the channel would abide by laws. But the Centre tol the bench of justices DY Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and KM Joseph that it has served a four-page notice seeking a written submission from the channel regarding violation of programme code and why action should not be taken against it.The bench has adjourned the hearing in the case till October 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/representatives-of-sudarshan-tv-in-trouble-over-airing-of-controversial-programme-bindaas-bol-asked-to-appear-before-inter-ministerial-panel-on-thursday/story-u9bgoyEPAdM2Jm8EmsssqI.html
30-09-2020||India||Odisha sarpanch alleges PDS corruption, fined Rs 1 lakh for organising protest||A sarpanch in Odisha has been asked to deposit Rs 1 lakh by the local block development officer over allegations that he violated Covid-19 regulations by organising a congregation of over 150 people.Sarpanch Malab Sahu of Gaurenmunda gram panchayat under Gaisilet block of Bargarh district was asked by block development officer Niranjan Sa to deposit the penalty within 3 days for allegedly organising a congregation of 150 villagers on the premises of the block office on Monday.The sarpanch had laid siege to the BDO office on Monday alleging black-marketing of kerosene to be distributed through the public distribution system (PDS). The BDO said the sarpanch had not taken prior permission to hold such a big congregation of people. “You had not taken any prior permission to allow such congregation of people, as any congregation by the general public beyond 10 persons at a place at any period of time is prohibited for containing the spread of the Covid-19 disease. Hence you are fined Rs 1 lakh for violating regulation 4C of the Odisha Covid-19 regulation,” said the letter issued by the BDO to the sarpanch.Also Read: School fees in Odisha likely to be reduced as govt submits proposal to High CourtThe BDO alleged that the sarpanch’s role in organizing the congregation to intimidate block officials was evident from CCTV footage of the block office as well as the video clips shared by the staff and their testimony. During the congregation the BDO was on a field visit.As per Covid-19 guidelines, any congregation by the general public involving 10 or more people at a place at any period of time is prohibited.Also Read: Odisha govt moves amendments to University and Factories Act as assembly session startsIncidentally, the state government is today moving a bill in the assembly to amend section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 to increase the punishment of imprisonment up to 2 years or with a fine which may extend up to Rs 1 lakh or with both for non-compliance of the pandemic guidelines.The action against the sarpanch comes just months after the government enlisted their support for managing the quarantine centres in villages and giving them the status of district collectors for enforcing the Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-sarpanch-alleges-pds-corruption-fined-rs-1-lakh-for-organising-protest/story-xiuqu1Q8SvWt1D1toW3X2H.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras gang-rape: UP CM Yogi Adityanath forms 3-member SIT to probe case||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the Hathras gang-rape incident. The announcement was made by the chief minister’s office (CMO) on Twitter.“CM Yogi Adityanath has ordered the formation of a three-member SIT to investigate the Hathras incident. It will be headed by state home secretary Bhagwan Swarup, and will have inspector general Chandraprakash and PAC Sena Nayak Poonam as members. The team has to submit a report within seven days,” a tweet from the UP CM’s office said. CM Yogi Adityanath forms a three-member SIT to investigate #Hathras gangrape incident, the team to submit a report within 7 days. CM also directs for trial of the case in a fast-track court. pic.twitter.com/9fVzJaNGdmThe chief minister also directed for trial of the case in a fast-track court.The 19-year-old victim was brutally gang-raped in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras on September 14. She was initially rushed to JN Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh, but was shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital after her condition deteriorated.She kept fighting for her life for 15 days, but finally succumbed to her injuries on Tuesday.All four accused, meanwhile, have been arrested by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gang-rape-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-forms-3-member-sit-to-probe-case/story-0AxoFYQMAOXqX3riEyBpnJ.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Harbouring offender’: NCB defends imposition of stringent law on Rhea Chakraborty||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has told the Bombay high court that if a person does not disclose the fact of drug consumption by another person, it will amount to ‘harbouring’ of an offender.The NCB made the submission on Tuesday to justify the invocation of Section 27A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act against film actor Rhea Chakrabory and four others in relation to alleged drug procurement for late actor Sushant Singh Rajput.Section 27A deals with ‘financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders’, and attracts a punishment in the range of ten to twenty years of rigorous imprisonment.The lawyers for Rhea and other co-accused submitted that the accused cannot be said to have ‘harboured’ Sushant as he was living in his own apartment and also Sushant was not under the apprehension of arrest at any point of time.Responding to this, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh submitted on behalf of the NCB : “If somebody known to me is consuming drugs...consumption is illegal..and I am not telling this to anyone...not disclosing it to police...then it can be brought under the definition of ‘harbouring’(under Section 27A).”Justice SV Kotwal asked if it was necessary to make arrest always under the NDPS cases if the intention is to reform drug addicts.Singh replied, any person who procures drugs needs to be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Act for deterrent effect.He also said that in drug cases, recovery is not necessary and if the court sees the entire syndicate, drugs were not delivered only to Sushant. “Brother of Rhea was in contact with every drug dealer. The person (Sushant) may not be alive. But that does not mean that the offence goes,” he added.Refuting the NCB allegation that Rhea, along with her brother Showik, “financed” the drug purchases of her boyfriend and late actor Sushant , her lawyer Satish Maneshinde told the Bombay high court that “Rajput was in no dearth of funds”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harbouring-offender-ncb-defends-imposition-of-stringent-law-on-rhea-chakraborty/story-kslmv2vgYyhg4s9U3M8SJO.html
30-09-2020||India||Kejriwal: Pained at mistreatment of Hathras victim’s family||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday expressed dismay over the way police and local authorities allegedly mistreated the Hathras rape victim’s family.“The Hathras victim was first raped by some barbarians. And yesterday she was raped once again by the system. The whole episode is very painful,” Kejriwal tweeted.हाथरस की पीडिता का पहले कुछ वहशियों ने बलात्कार किया और कल पूरे सिस्टम ने बलात्कार किया। पूरा प्रकरण बेहद पीड़ादायी है।The family said the woman’s body was cremated in the middle of the night and authorities ignored their pleas to let them take it home one last time.The body arrived in their village around midnight and the cremation was done by 3 am on Wednesday. The family said they wanted to take the body to her house, but administration pressed for cremation at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-pained-at-mistreatment-of-hathras-victim-s-family/story-jjcD2MfLMKCPMmMR0oPFUK.html
30-09-2020||India||‘No moral right to continue’: Priyanka Gandhi’s scathing attack on Yogi Adityanath after death of Hathras gang-rape victim||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi took on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the death of Hathras rape victim, saying he doesn’t have any moral right to continue as chief minister.“I was on the phone with the Hathras victim’s father when he was informed that his daughter had passed away. I heard him cry out in despair. He had just been telling me that all he wanted was justice for his child. Last night he was robbed of the chance to take his daughter home for the last time and perform her last rites,” Gandhi said in her first two tweets on the issue on Wednesday.She also asked Adityanath to resign. “@myogiadityanath RESIGN. Instead of protecting the victim and her family, your government became complicit in depriving her of every single human right, even in death. You have no moral right to continue as Chief Minister,” Gandhi tweeted. @myogiadityanath RESIGN Instead of protecting the victim and her family, your government became complicit in depriving her of every single human right, even in death. You have no moral right to continue as Chief Minister. 3/3The 19-year-old died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday. The woman was admitted there in a critical condition after being brutally raped by four men in her village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district.The incident took place on September 14. She was first admitted to JN Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh, but was shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital after her condition deteriorated where she breathed her last.The UP government has been facing flak from Opposition parties over the issue. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had said that “no hope” is left from the “insensitive government”.Reacting to the incident, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati tweeted in Hindi, “The news of the death of the Dalit girl after gangrape in Hathras, UP, is very sad. The government should provide all possible help to the victim’s family and ensure quick punishment to the culprits by prosecuting them in a fast-track court.”The Congress has questioned the “silence” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and women leaders of his party and alleged that Uttar Pradesh under the Yogi Adityanath government has become the country’s “crime capital”.At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate alleged that for eight days no gangrape charges were pressed in the matter and that the UP chief minister’s information advisor and Agra Police kept calling the incident “fake news”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-moral-right-to-continue-priyanka-gandhi-s-scathing-attack-on-yogi-adityanath-after-death-of-hathras-gang-rape-victim/story-A2tIAEcUjHiPRO1ftyrXiP.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition case live: Satyamev Jayate, tweets Yogi Adityanath after Babri verdict; jabs Congress||Special CBI judge Surendra Kumar Yadav has delivered his verdict in the Babri Masjid demolition case on Wednesday, 28 years after the 16th century structure was razed by a mob in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town. The court ruled that the CBI had not been able to produce evidence to back up its charge that there was a conspiracy to demolish Babri Masjid. The judge acquitted the 32 accused in the case including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former Union ministers MM Joshi and Uma Bharti and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh. The court ruled that the CBI had not been able to establish that there was a conspiracy to demolish the structure, holding that the demolition was not preplanned but a spontaneous act primarily carried out by mischievous elements. The 32 accused face charges under several sections of the IPC, including criminal conspiracy, rioting , promoting enmity between different groups and unlawful assembly. During the trial, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) produced 351 witnesses and 600 documents as evidence before the CBI court. The court had initially framed charges against 49 accused; 17 accused have died.Also read: Babri demolition case verdict today, D-day for Advani and 31 othersHere are the live updates:-Vindicates my and BJP’s belief in Ram Janmabhoomi movement, says Advani after Babri verdictFormer deputy prime minister LK Advani welcomed the verdict. In his first comment after the Lucknow court delivered its finding in the Babri demolition case, Advani said he “wholeheartedly welcome the judgment”. “The judgement vindicates my personal and BJP’s belief and commitment toward the Ram Janmabhoomi movement,” Advani said, according to news agency ANI. A founding member of the BJP, Advani led a Rath Yatra in 1990 that criss-crossed north India, whipping up sentiment for a Ram temple. He had earlier denied all charges and said he was dragged into the case because of politics.-Satyamev Jayate, tweets Yogi Adityanath after Babri verdict; jabs CongressUttar Pradesh chief Minister Yogi Adityanath welcomed the CBI special court verdict. “Satyamev Jayate,” he tweeted before going on to accuse the then Congress government of acting with political bias, indulging in vote bank politics and defaming BJP leaders, saints, VHP leaders and various social organizations by lodging false cases. “The people involved in the conspiracy (over Babri demolition ) should apologise to people of the country,” he said.- Justice has been done, says Mahant Ram Vilas Vedanti after Babri verdictMahant Ram Vilas Vedanti emerged from the court flashing a victory sign. “It’s good. Justice has been done. The court agreed that we did no wrong,” said the former Bharatiya Janata Party MP who had on previous occasions, said he was ready to go to jail.- Stand vindicated, says Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan after acquittal in Babri demolition case Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan, one of the 32 accused in the Babri demolition case, expressed happiness over the verdict. “I had no connection with the demolition as I was not even present in the spot. My stance has been vindicated and I finally got justice,” said the former Rajya Sabha MP.- Good that this is over, says Iqbal Ansari, petitioner in Ram Janambhoomi case; welcomes acquittalIqbal Ansari, the petitioner in the Babri title case, welcomed the CBI court’s acquittal of 32 accused. “It’s good that this is now over. Let’s all live in peace. Let there be no fresh trouble of this nature. Hindu and Muslim have always lived in peace in Ayodhya,” he told reporters.-Court ruled video recording was tampered, CBI didn’t follow procedure: Defence lawyerSpecial CBI judge Surendra Kumar Yadav did not admit the videos produced by the Central Bureau of Investigation, holding that the recording had been tampered with, defence lawyer Manish Tripathi said. The judge also did not admit the photographs submitted by the CBI since it could not produce the original negatives. The judge also agreed with the defence that the CBI did not follow provisions of the Evidence Act.- Court said RSS, VHP didn’t have a role in demolition, says defence lawyer Manish TripathiDefence lawyer Manish Tripathi told reporters that the court ordered acquittal on grounds that the evidence against them was insufficient, “The court said the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad did not have a role in the demolition. It was carried out by mischievous elements,” Tripathi said, giving details of the court verdict.- This ends long-pending dispute over December 6 incident, says defence lawyer“The CBI court has acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. This ends the long pending dispute related with the December 6, 1992 incident, “ said lawyer KK Mishra who is representing 25 out of 32 accused in the case - CBI court acquits LK Advani, MM Joshi, 30 othersFormer deputy prime minister LK Advani, former ministers Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti and former chief minister Kalyan Singh along with 28 other accused of conspiring to demolish the Babri Masjid in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town 28 years ago have been acquitted by CBI special judge Surendra Kumar Yadav. In a hearing that lasted just about 10 minutes, the judge ruled the CBI had not been able to establish charges against the accused.- Babri Masjid demolition verdict: On high alert, UP police told to prevent gatheringsThe UP police have issued a high alert across the state in view of the verdict, in the Babri mosque demolition case, to be delivered by the special CBI court (Ayodhya case) in Lucknow on Wednesday, said senior police officials.- CBI Judge Surendra Kumar Yadav reaches CBI court. The court will pronounce verdict in the Babri mosque demolition case, nearly 3 decades after the 16th century structure was demolished in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.- While top accused including LK Advani, MM Joshi, Kalyan Singh, Uma Bharti are unlikely to attend as Kalyan and Uma Bharti are recovering from Covid-19, various other accused are expected to be present. Also read: Babri Masjid demolition verdict: On high alert, UP police told to prevent gatherings- Shiv Sena leader admits to role in Babri Masjid demolition Accused Jai Bhagwan Goyal, 62, who was Shiv Sena’s north India chief at the time of demolition arrives. On the issue of demolition Goyal while talking to HT said the CBI court had directed them to bring guarantor along and said he won’t comply with the order. “Yes, I admit to my role in demolition,” he said.Also read | Babri verdict: BJP leaders Advani, Joshi, Bharti unlikely to be present in court- BJP leader denies roleBJP leader Vinay Katiyar, who is among the accused in demolition case, denies hand in the criminal conspiracy. Katiyar and other leaders were on a stage that was away from the site where mosque was felled. - ‘Ready to face gallows for Lord Ram’, says former BJP MPFormer BJP MP and accused in the case Ram Vilas Vedanti has said that he is “ready to face anything, including gallows, for Lord Ram.”- Several accused reach CBI court ahead of verdictAmong the accused, Vinay Katiyar, Jai Bhagwan Goyal, Sadhvi Rithambhara, Acharya Dharmadas, Lallu Singh, Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, Ram Vilas Vedanti, Champat Rai and Sakshi Maharaj are present in the court. - All the accused, barring 6, inside the court; judgment shortly - Lal Krishna Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi attend proceedings via video conferencing. - Babri demolition was spontaneous, not pre-planned’: CBI judge reads out verdict- 32 Babri case accused acquitted. Judge says demolition was spontaneous, not pre-plannedThe Special CBI court acquits all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case ending 28 years of trial in the case.“The CBI court has acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. This ends the long pending dispute related with the December 6, 1992 incident, “ said lawyer KK Mishra.Mishra is representing 25 out of 32 accused in the case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-case-live-cbi-court-s-verdict-in-historic-case-shortly/story-Iyp1OlFhjzymMNUB8evtGI.html
30-09-2020||India||Bird calls were sweeter this spring, thanks to lockdown, says Science journal||Less noise during the lockdown restrictions, which were enforced in various parts of the world to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic during this spring, may have allowed birds to sing sweeter and softer songs, according to a study published in the journal Science last week.Ornithologists and birders reported hearing more bird songs and calls even from the species they had never heard before, but always knew were in the vicinity.Also read: Centre convenes meeting to review anti-pollution stepsThe study found that sparrows in the United States of America’s (USA) San Francisco Bay area responded to the new acoustic space during the lockdown in April and May by singing higher performance songs — those involving trills or other vocal ornamentation and at lower amplitudes.Despite the reduced amplitude, communication distances more than doubled, which could both reduce territorial conflicts and increase mating potential, the study suggested.Titled Singing in A Silent Spring: Birds respond to a half-century soundscape reversion during the Covid-19 shutdown. The study, led by the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Tennessee, USA, also found that the low-frequency noise generated by traffic and vehicle crossings in April and May returned to levels not heard since the 1950s.Usually, birds that have breeding areas, where ambient noise is high, sing higher amplitude songs. This is called the Lombard effect, an involuntary vocal response to the presence of background noise, because people tend to speak louder in noisy environments.The study revealed that male birds produce songs with higher minimum frequencies in areas with high energy. While low frequency noise is typical of traffic in urban surroundings.The study concluded that birds managed to maximise communication and salience. “These findings illustrate that behavioural traits can change rapidly in response to newly favourable conditions, indicating an inherent resilience to longstanding anthropogenic pressures like noise pollution,” it said.“This is interesting, but, perhaps, not unexpected. Birds can modulate their song amplitude in response to noise levels. One might expect them to lower amplitudes in quieter backgrounds. More interesting is that they could then use the energy saved to sing higher performance songs…we certainly had much less ambient noise in urban spaces in India as well, but to comment on how birds may have changed their amplitude or song structure will require quantitative data, which I do not have,” said Professor Rohini Balakrishnan of the Centre for Ecological Sciences at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, and a specialist in bio-acoustics.Veteran ornithologist Asad R Rahmani, a former director of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), said he could hear several species, despite living in a crowded part of Lucknow, where there are fewer trees, during the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions.“I live in a crowded area, where there are not too many trees, bushes or shrubs. Nevertheless, during the lockdown when there was no traffic on the streets, I could hear Indian Cuckoo because March to June is its breeding season so it is very vocal, Greater Coucal, Laughing Dove, Jungle Babbler, Golden Oriole, Peafowl, Brown Rock Chat, Rose-ringed Parakeet, House Sparrow, Spotted Owlet, Indian Scops Owl (both at night), Brown-headed Barbet, Coppersmith Barbet, Black-rumped Flameback (woodpecker), Red-vented Bulbul, Common Iora, and a few other species of birds,” Rahmani said.“The initial months of lockdown --- from March to June --- were the main breeding season when the males call and become territorial. They must have had a peaceful breeding season in which their calls were not drowned by the incessant noise of traffic, loudspeakers, and horns, which are all human creations,” he said.However, the calls have stopped following the gradual easing of lockdown restrictions, he added.In Gurugram, author and ornithologist Bikram Grewal said he heard birds which he knew were in the vicinity but hadn’t heard before the 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced from March 25.“It could just be that noise levels were low. As a result, we paid more attention. I heard the Ashy Prinia, Tailorbirds, Indian Grey Hornbill, Spotted Owlet and the Rufous Treepie from my house in Gurugram. We definitely heard bird calls and bird songs a lot more this spring,” Grewal said.Some birders reported watching more birds in April and May. “I live in suburban Bengaluru, where birdlife is already quite rich. There has been a further spurt in bird activity since the lockdown restrictions were lifted. They were exhibited in two distinct phenomena – an increase in birdsong and also an uptick in their presence,” said Ramki Sreenivasan, a Bengaluru-based wildlife photographer and co-founder, Conservation India. “Notable examples are grey francolins (partridge) and peahen. Both are large birds and are, otherwise, wary of human presence. The peahens made their first visible appearance in the neighbourhood, thanks to the lockdown. I could see and hear them from my balcony. Birdsong moved to another level during the onset of monsoon. Either, there were more birds calling or we had just not heard them due to the traffic and ambient noise. For example, Ashy Prinias is always vocal wherever it is. But this monsoon the species of the bird erupted with incessant and loud vocal battles,” he added.Anand Krishnan, a scientist at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, who specialises in interdisciplinary studies of bird sensory signals, cautioned about several contradictory papers on the impact of noise on birdsong.“This paper’s quantitative assessments are nice. However, the conclusions about amplitude changes are not novel in and of themselves. The effects of noise on birdsong are a field with many, often contradictory papers, and the effects on reproduction and behaviour are also still unclear. For example, it is difficult to tease apart the effect of noise on mating and reproduction versus say air pollution or other factors. Lower amplitude songs in lower noise are something called the Lombard effect, which is known in many birds. A lot more work is needed to show that birds are responding to the ‘new acoustic space’ versus other environmental changes. Where this paper differs is in taking advantage of a one-off ‘noise reduction,’ as opposed to comparing birds singing in more and less noisy areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-calls-were-sweeter-this-spring-thanks-to-lockdown-says-science-journal/story-FcGGqkH3vCa7huWOGxc5DO.html
30-09-2020||India||Maximum impact of Covid-19 faced by women, children and adolescents: Harsh Vardhan||The maximum impact of Covid-19 has been felt by women, children and adolescents, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said Tuesday.Participating in a programme on maternal, newborn and child health via a video link, Vardhan said his ministry issued guidance to states to ensure that women, children and adolescents continue to get all the healthcare services, according to an official statement.“We are in a constant dialogue to ensure that these services are made available to women, children and adolescents and remain in focus despite the health systems being under severe strain due to COVID epidemic,” he was quoted as saying in the statement.“From instilling a behavioral change to help more women deliver in hospitals to entitlement for absolutely free services, we have come a long way now in providing quality care throughout pregnancy and childbirth with interventions like LaQshya and midwifery care,” Vardhan said.“The idea is to have a fully responsive and accountable health system that will not only result in a positive birthing experience but also help end preventable maternal and newborn deaths,” he said.He mentioned that India is transitioning “towards a phase of moderate levels of maternal mortality and analyses have shown that many of the maternal deaths occur due to delay in timely provision of comprehensive obstetric care” which could have been prevented.He also talked about protecting primary health care workers from the pandemic.“We have taken actions to create a safer work environment for our COVID warriors through uninterrupted supply of essential logistics, personal protective gear and also made provision of life insurance cover for the people dedicated to COVID and healthcare services.  “We have also been carrying out a spirited campaign to celebrate the Corona warriors and address stigma and discrimination that has come to be associated with this disease. I would say that this is not a single department’s effort, it is actually a whole of government approach that is helping us deliver to the last mile.”  The event was co-hosted by the White Ribbon Alliance (WRA) and Every Woman Every Child (EWEC). A recurrent theme this year was the effort to protect hard earned gains in the field of Reproductive, Maternal and Child Health from the COVID pandemic. PTI PLB ABH ABH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maximum-impact-of-covid-19-faced-by-women-children-and-adolescents-harsh-vardhan/story-Aab9zfMCVyQSqpO3mX6n3J.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition verdict: On high alert, UP police told to prevent gatherings||The UP police have issued a high alert across the state in view of the verdict, in the Babri mosque demolition case, to be delivered by the special CBI court (Ayodhya case) in Lucknow on Wednesday, said senior police officials.(Babari Masjid case full coverage)The officials said all district police chiefs have been asked to keep the force vigilant and in alert mode to counter any type of law and order situation that may arise after the verdict. They said extra police force has been kept in reserve in Lucknow and other sensitive districts including Ayodhya.A senior police official aware of the developments said the police officers have been directed to keep a check on movement of people in Lucknow as well as Ayodhya and to not allow gatherings before and after the verdict. “In Lucknow, along with civil police, CRPF personnel will also be deployed in and outside the high court campus where the special CBI court will be giving its verdict,” he said.WATCH| Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) Sujeet Pandey said a three-layer security has been deployed in and around the court including the personnel of units of civil police, anti-terror squad and the bomb disposal squad. He said over a 1000 police personnel are deployed for the three-layer security.The CP said the roads in the area were barricaded strategically for mob management and CCTV cameras have been installed at different strategic points to capture every activity. He said heavy route diversions have been enforced since Wednesday morning to ensure no chaos is caused around the court. “As part of the security arrangements, no one will be allowed inside the courtroom except the defence and CBI lawyers and the accused,” another Lucknow police official informed. He said entry will only be allowed from gate number 8 of the court. Barricades have been put up on all adjoining roads in the vicinity of the court to restrict movement of vehicles, he added.Also Read: Babri demolition case verdict today, D-day for Advani and 31 othersTwenty-six of the 32 accused in the case are likely to be present in the court when the verdict is delivered, said an official on condition of anonymity. All the 32 accused are facing charges under several sections of the IPC, including criminal conspiracy, rioting, promoting enmity between different groups and unlawful assembly.The official quoted above said senior BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti will most likely not be present in court due to health reasons when the verdict is delivered.Also Read: Mosque in Ayodhya may be square-shaped like Kaaba: Trust officialShiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan and chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das are also unlikely to be present in the court. The remaining 26 accused will reach the CBI court at 10 am on Wednesday morning before judge Surendra Kumar Yadav reaches the courtroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-demolition-verdict-on-high-alert-up-police-told-to-prevent-gatherings/story-fHXbW7vO42o6Ici4FPxeEN.html
30-09-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 6.2 million mark with 80,472 fresh cases, 1,179 new fatalities||India recorded 80,742 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry website on Wednesday. This pushed the nationwide tally to over 6.2 million.The country also saw 1,179 new fatalities in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative death toll at 97,497, according to health ministry.The ministry’s bulletin on Wednesday showed 9,40,441 active cases in the country, which account for 15.42 per cent of the total cases India has seen so far.India has increased its testing capacity significantly in the last six months with tests per million population for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossing the 50,000-mark, shows Union health ministry data.In the past 10 days alone, Covid-19 testing has gone up from about 46,000 tests per million population to about 53,000 tests currently.Overall, 51,87,825 people have recovered from the disease so far, the ministry data showed.The national recovery rate crossed 83 per cent on Tuesday and the number of cases under treatment were less than 1 million.Ten Indian states which have seen the most number of coronavirus deaths in the last 24 hours include – Maharashtra (430), Karnataka (136), Punjab (75), Tamil Nadu (70), Uttar Pradesh (63), West Bengal (62), Delhi (48), Madhya Pradesh (39), Chhattisgarh (39)and Andhra Pradesh (35).The slight dip in India’s Covid-19 number comes on the day when the central government is likely to release guidelines for the fifth phase of relaxations (Unlock 5).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-6-2-million-mark-with-80-472-fresh-cases-1-179-new-fatalities/story-w4u3QPZwsPLyJFTg7agJMM.html
30-09-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 am: 6.6% population above 10 years of age exposed to Covid-19: Sero survey results and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.One in 15 above 10 yrs of age exposed to Covid-19, reveals ICMR sero survey resultsNearly one in 15 (6.6%) above 10 years of age in the country was exposed to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), till August, shows the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) second sero prevalence data that was made public on Tuesday. Read moreIPL 2020: Shreyas Iyer fined Rs 12 lakh for Delhi Capitals’ slow over rate against Sunrisers HyderabadShreyas Iyer, captain of the Delhi Capitals, has been fined after his team maintained a slow over-rate against Sunrisers Hyderabad on Tuesday. He was fined Rs 12 lakh given this was his team’s first offence of the season under the IPL’s Code of Conduct relating to minimum over-rate offence. Read moreShah Rukh Khan’s daughter Suhana Khan shares hate messages, says she was called ‘kaali chudail’: End colourismShah Rukh Khan’s daughter, Suhana Khan, shared screenshots of messages and comments criticising her complexion, adding translations for the benefit of non-Hindi speakers. She said that she has been called ugly since she was the age of 12 and added that it was sad, as Indians were brown by default, and ‘hating on your own people just means that you are painfully insecure’. Read moreArtist creates model house with mini wooden logs, video is amazing to watchIf you’re a regular user of the Internet, then there’s a possibility that you have come across those videos which capture incredible artistic skills of people. Case in point, this video of a person creating a model house using mini wooden logs. Not just the making video, the end result is so incredible that it may make you think if only you could stay in that beautiful house. Read moreIPL 2020: Sunrisers Hyderabad beat Delhi Capitals by 15 runsSunrises Hyderabad picked up a win over Delhi Capitals by 15 runs. Rashid Khan was the star for Sunrisers Hyderabad’s bowling unit as SRH defended the target of 163. Jonny Bairstow scored a fifty for SRH. Delhi saw brief cameos from Shikhar Dhawan and Rishabh Pant, but both were dismissed by Rashid. The spinner also dismissed Shreyas Iyer. DC posted 147/7 in 20 overs. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-6-6-population-above-10-years-of-age-exposed-to-covid-19-sero-survey-results-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WtPhFldqhjv7aHWYAQDM9H.html
30-09-2020||India||MP custodial death: Kin refuse to cremate victim until cops are booked for murder||Tension prevailed for second consecutive day in Narayanpur village of Satna district in Madhya Pradesh as the family members of the man killed in police custody, from a bullet fired from the service revolver of a police inspector on Sunday night, refused to accept his body unless the policemen alleged to be responsible for the man’s death are booked for murder, as per villagers and police. Two cops including an inspector Vikram Pathak and a constable Ashish Kumar of Singhpur police station of Satna district were booked under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC on Monday after death of Rajpati Kushwaha, a resident of Narayanpur village, in the police custody. Rajpati’s body has been lying in an ambulance for the past more than 12 hours in front of Rajpati’s house and police are trying to convince his family members to cremate the body, said a police officer. The family members, who are sitting on a dharna with Congress MLA Siddharth Kushwaha in the village, are demanding arrest of the cops and a case to be filed under section 302 of IPC instead of section 304, applied currently. Kushwaha’s daughter Shivani Kushwaha said, “I want to see the cops, who killed my father, behind the bar.” Congress MLA Siddharth Kushwaha said, “The state government is trying to suppress the matter. The government should ensure the cops are booked for murder and it should give ex-gratia of at least Rs 1 crore to the family. If the government doesn’t fulfil our demands, the dead body will not be cremated.” Also Read: Hathras rape victim’s body forcibly taken away for cremation by UP police, alleges family; police deny claimSatna, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Anil Singh Kushwaha said, “The body has started decomposing. We are trying to convince the family members that the legal procedure is being followed and a magisterial inquiry has also been ordered. The truth will come out but they should go ahead with the cremation.”A heavy police force has been deployed in the village to meet any eventuality. Also Read: Thoothukudi custodial deaths: CBI files charge sheet naming 9 police personnel for torturing father, sonSatna police claimed that Rajpati was called to Singhpur police station on Sunday for questioning in connection with a theft case on a complaint lodged by a former sarpanch of the village. But Rajpati committed suicide by shooting himself on his forehead after snatching the police inspector’s revolver.However, family of the deceased and other residents of the village have refused to accept the police’s theory and alleged Rajpati was murdered by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-custodial-death-kin-refuses-to-cremate-victim-until-cops-are-booked-for-murder/story-L5DofICaaRriKvQUQ339cN.html
30-09-2020||India||Fire breaks out at company office in Maharashtra’s Thane||A fire broke out at the office of a company in Thane West on Wednesday.The incident took place at the office of Raymond company in Thane West.Fire tenders along with two fire engines, two rescue vehicles and one water tanker reached the spot.Firefighting operation is underway.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-company-office-in-maharashtra-s-thane/story-g6fvNtzky0csi8VdO89aYM.html
30-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s tests per million population cross 50k-mark||India’s tests per million population for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have crossed the 50,000-mark, shows Union health ministry data.In the past 10 days alone, Covid-19 testing has gone up from about 46,000 tests per million population to about 53,000 tests currently.Keeping the pandemic situation in mind, India increased its testing capacity significantly within six months.“Till March, about 30,000 Covid-19 tests were being performed in a month on an average, which now has gone up to 29.7 million tests being performed in a month. We have made use of a calibrated approach to ensure testing facilities are made available as per requirement, with special focus on areas where infrastructure was inadequate,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).ICMR has been spearheading country’s Covid-19 testing initiative since the beginning of the pandemic. On January 23, the first test to detect Covid-19 was performed at ICMR’s apex virology laboratory, National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. Since then, at least 70 million tests have been performed in the country, with a testing capacity of close to 1.5 million tests in a day.From 121 laboratories approved for Covid-19 testing in March, the number of labs added to the testing network across the country has gone up to 1,836. Of the total testing labs approved across India, 1,089 are in the government sector, and the rest in the private sector. “On some days, we do more than one million tests, and then there are days when the number dips slightly due to various factors. What is important to note is that we have the capacity to test at least 1.5 million samples for Covid-19 in a day, and this capacity is constantly being increased,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, Union health ministry.“Covid-19 testing is adequately being done in most states; and the Centre has conveyed to states where more tests are needed. There are some states with high case load and the Centre is working with those states to effectively manage the situation,” Bhushan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-s-tests-per-million-population-cross-50k-mark/story-PlwioNILKihzWMTUa5sDNO.html
30-09-2020||India||Centre releases safety workplace guidelines for industry to prevent Covid-19||As part of Unlock 5, the Centre has come out with Safe Workplace Guidelines for Industry and Establishment to combat Covid-19 (coronavirus disease) and ensure safety measures at workplace.The guidelines have been prepared as a comprehensive plan for employers and workers to use to help identify risk levels of Covid-19 at individual workplace settings in their premises, and to determine appropriate control measures.These guidelines consolidate all important measures into a ready reckoner of action points to make the workplace safe based on the bulwark of infection-control measures like respiratory hygiene, frequent hand washing, social distancing and frequent sanitisation of the workplace.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayIt also details the structural and administrative measures and human resource (HR) policies that can be used to control the spread of Covid-19 at the workplace.Guidance for the assessment, categorisation and mitigation of risk related to varied work-related exposures to Covid-19 and contingency plan has also been provided in the reference material.Isolation and management of sickness at the workplace has been dealt with in detail, along with dos and don’ts for social behaviour that have also been listed.Also Read: One in 15 above 10 yrs of age exposed to Covid-19, reveals ICMR sero survey resultsUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan, and Santosh Kumar Gangwar, minister of state for labour and employment, jointly released the guidelines formed under the guidance of Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.“…workplace guidelines for industrial workers are of great significance in curbing the spread of Covid-19 disease. This is playing a critical role in ensuring that the production and economy of the country are not deterred by the pandemic. At the same time, industrial workers and their families should remain safe and free of fear. These guidelines are very timely and should be disseminated and embraced widely,” said Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-safety-workplace-guidelines-for-industry-to-prevent-covid-19/story-Lb694SZ0WKolUkphRasM8O.html
30-09-2020||India||Its season comes to an end but monsoon yet to withdraw from most parts of the country||Monsoon season officially comes to an end on Wednesday. Monsoon rainfall was 109% of the long period average (LPA) until Tuesday. The figure is higher than 102% of LPA with an error margin of +/-4%, which India Meteorological Department (IMD) had forecast in June.The final monsoon rainfall data will be released by the IMD authorities on Thursday. Also read: Sardar Sarovar Dam’s sudden water release flooded parts of Gujarat, suggests analysisA nationwide break-up shows that the southern peninsular India; central; and east and the north-eastern parts of the country have received 29%, 15%, and 7% excess rainfall, respectively, to date since June 1 while north-west India reported a 16% deficiency in rainfall during the corresponding period.Usually, monsoon is expected to withdraw from the country by October 15.However, IMD declares the end of monsoon on September 30. Monsoon months extend from June to September.The conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of monsoon from most parts of Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, western Himalayan region and some parts of Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Madhya Pradesh (MP) during the next two days, according to IMD’s bulletin on Tuesday night.A cyclonic circulation is lying over west-central Bay of Bengal off the Andhra Pradesh (AP) coast between lower and upper troposphere. Under its influence, scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning is likely to occur over southern peninsular India during the next two days, IMD’s bulletin said.There is a forecast for heavy to very heavy rainfall over Tamil Nadu (TN), Puducherry, Karaikal, AP, Telangana, Kerala and southern interior Karnataka until Wednesday. Rainfall activity is likely to increase over the north-eastern states from Thursday. Widespread and heavy rainfall is expected over Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura between Thursday and Saturday. Dry weather is likely over most parts of north-western parts of the country during the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-season-comes-to-an-end-but-monsoon-yet-to-withdraw-from-most-parts-of-the-country/story-NqNRd5e4oAeEz6Cm90P4AK.html
30-09-2020||India||Congress sets in motion organisational polls, asks states to update list of AICC delegates||The Congress has started the process of electing its full-time president as the newly constituted Central Election Authority (CEA) has asked all state units to send an updated list of All India Congress Committee (AICC) delegates, who form the electoral college for the organisational polls, people familiar with the development said. A Congress leader said on condition of anonymity that the CEA has asked the state units to submit a revised list of the AICC delegates and has struck out the names of those who had died or quit the party since December 2017. The state units have been asked to fill the vacancies immediately. The leader said finalising the list of AICC delegates, comprising state and central leaders, is one of the key tasks in conducting the organisational polls, as they elect the party president and the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the apex decision-making body of the 135-year-old party. Also Read: Bihar assembly election 2020: Congress, RJD in impasse over seat sharing in BiharThe AICC is the party’s central unit comprising around 2,000 members from across the country. Interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi had formed the CEA for holding internal polls while carrying out a major organisational reshuffle on September 11.The five-member CEA is headed by Madhusudan Mistry and its members are Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani and Arvinder Singh Lovely.Lovely is one of the 23 signatories, who had written a letter to Sonia Gandhi in August, seeking complete overhaul of the party and a full-time leadership to stem the steady decline of the organisation. Usually, the AICC delegates are elected for a fixed term of five years, as per the party constitution. The list is revised, as and when organisational polls are held. The tenure of the Congress president and the CWC is also for five years. The party had amended its constitution in 2010 to extend the term of its president from three to five years. Also Read: In farm bill protest, Cong finds a new inspiration: Arun JaitleyThe current AICC members were elected in 2016-17 and will complete their term in 2022. The list was finalised by the previous CEA, which was headed by current Kerala Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran. The previous CEA was dissolved soon after the election of Rahul Gandhi as the Congress president in December 2017. “The list only needs to be updated in a bid to elect the new AICC delegates. It will require an amendment in the Congress constitution,” said the leader quoted above. The election of AICC delegates is a long-drawn process. The AICC delegates are selected from among the members of respective state units, or Pradesh Congress Committees (PCCs). The PCC members, in turn, are elected from different blocks in each state. The number of AICC delegates for each state is decided on the basis of the size of the PCC. Around 15% of the AICC members are co-opted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sets-in-motion-organisational-polls-asks-states-to-update-list-of-aicc-delegates/story-dAwtiyfaP5uD7fbZ1DAI2K.html
30-09-2020||India||Make in India: In a first, citizens will buy Glock pistols armed forces use||Currently serving with the military, police and special forces in more than 70 nations, including India, America, England and France, the famous polymer-frame Glock pistols from Austria may soon be available to Indian citizens in non-service calibres. In 2019, the Tamil Nadu-based Counter measures technologies pvt. ltd. (CMT) and Glock Ges.m.b.H, Austria, entered into a partnership to produce the pistols at the CMT plant in Tiruvallur district, which is part of the state’s defence industrial corridor planned by the Centre. The joint venture was initially signed for supplying Glocks only to the government. With permission from the Centre, CMT has now set a target to sell the pistols to civilians by the end of March 2021, one of the Indian company’s directors and major shareholder, Jayakumar Jayarajan, told HT. For India’s civilian arms market, the arrival of the Glock will be a game changer, stakeholders feel. The pistol is sold to citizens in many countries, including the USA. “The Covid-19 lockdown delayed our project by more than six months. We are trying to pick up speed. Our first priority is to supply the 9 mm pistols to the armed forces. Civilians will get the .22 LR, .380, .357 Sig, .40 and .45 calibre pistols. We have permission to set up our own proof testing facility,” said Jayarajan. “A team from Glock landed in Chennai in January 2019 and flew to Delhi to meet Union defence ministry officials after visiting our site. In the delegation was a man who was part of the team that helped the designer, Gaston Glock, make the first pistol in 1981,” said Jayarajan. Today, Glock produces fifth generation pistols with competitors following its polymer technology. In India, the majority of licensed firearms owners are saddled with old or antiquated foreign handguns imported before 1984 or the ones being made by government ordnance factories. The erstwhile Congress government at the Centre banned import of all types of firearms in 1984, giving exemptions only to national and international shooters and state agencies. Though out of reach of India’s gun owners till now, the world’s first military service pistol to sport a light polymer frame and trigger safety feature, is a familiar name to the nation. Also Read: ‘No war, no peace in Ladakh,’ says IAF chief RKS BhadauriaA 9 mm Glock 26 compact pistol was the only weapon wing commander Abhinandan Varthaman was armed with when he was captured in Pakistan in February 2019 after the Balakot air strikes. Glocks also went into action with National Security Guard (NSG) commandos during the terror attack on Pathankot air force base in 2016 and in other operations. “We support any initiative that promotes the ‘Make in India’ programme and moves us closer to an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-sufficient India),” said Delhi-based Abhijeet Singh, spokesperson for National association for gun rights India (NAGRI), the only pan-nation organisation fighting for liberal gun laws for citizens. Prakash Simson, owner of Simson gun house in Mangalore, Karnataka, said, “Indians still pay a premium price for 50 or 70-year-old handguns because of their reliability. The India-made Glocks have to meet people’s expectations. But before that, the government must ensure that law-abiding citizens get gun licence without being caught in red tape for years. If licences are not issued there will no market. The companies will wind up their business.” Also Read: Defence ministry clears military purchases worth Rs 2,920 crore, rifles from US among themA gun owner and sports enthusiast, Yuvraj Yograjsinh of Mansa, Gujarat, said, “Glocks are not made in .32 ACP which is the most popular pistol calibre in India because the ammunition is made by our ordnance factory, the other one being .22 LR. Ammunition for the rest of the calibres being offered to civilians by CMT is not made here. Imported ammunitions are frightfully expensive. This needs to be addressed first.” Jayarajan said CMT has been given permission to manufacture ammunition of all calibres, ranging from the small .22 LR to the 12.7 x 108 mm heavy machine-gun cartridge used by the army. “We plan to make the ammunition factory operational by the end of 2021,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-in-india-in-a-first-citizens-will-buy-glock-pistols-armed-forces-use/story-Hp0SI7DwIC14FsZXb4fIPI.html
30-09-2020||India||Hathras rape victim’s body forcibly taken away for cremation by UP police, alleges family; police deny claim||The family of 19-year-old Dalit woman from Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, who died in a Delhi hospital of injuries sustained when she was gang-raped, has alleged that she was forcibly cremated.The family claimed that the woman’s body was taken away by the police in the middle of the night for final rites.“The police have forcibly taken the dead body, and my father along with them for cremation. When my father reached Hathras, he was immediately taken (to the crematorium) by the police,” the woman’s brother told news agency PTI.The body of the woman reached her village around midnight and the cremation was done by 3 am on Wednesday.The villagers claimed that they wanted to take the body of the woman to her house, but administration pressed for cremation at the earliest. The passage for ambulance was blocked and finally cremation took place in village.The police, meanwhile, said that the cremation of the woman was carried out by the family members. Superintendent of Police (SP) Vikrant Veer denied any “urgency” by police in cremation despite the fact that cremation usually do not take place in night.He added that the cremation was done as usual after the body reached Boolgarhi village in Hathras district.He claimed that the situation is calm in the village, but heavy police force has been deployed.Also read | ‘We hoped she will survive’: Unease shrouds Hathras rape victim’s villageThe woman was raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras village by four men on September 14 and died a fortnight later after battling serious injuries. The woman was first taken to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh, but shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi after her condition deteriorated.She was in a critical condition and on ventilator support.The brutality against the teenager has sparked outrage across the country with several political leaders, Bollywood actors and activists demanding justice for her.The case has drawn parallels with the gang rape of a 23-year-old student in Delhi, who was attacked on a moving bus and left to die on a roadside in 2012.“A Dalit girl who was a victim of demoniac behaviour in Hathras has passed away at Safdarjung Hospital. For two weeks, she kept struggling between life and death in hospitals,” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi said on Twitter. She added that incidents of rape in Hathras, Shahjahanpur, and Gorakhpur had shaken the state.Also read: Outrage, stir after Hathras rape victim’s deathDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal demanded that the guilty be tried and hanged at the earliest. “The death of Hathras victim is shameful for the entire society, country as well as for all the governments. It is highly sad that so many daughters are being sexually assaulted and we have not been able to protect them,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.The four people accused of raping the woman have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-rape-victim-s-body-forcibly-taken-away-for-cremation-by-up-police-alleges-family/story-mFbRkp7cwMLbZlzcMjAgVL.html
30-09-2020||India||Average 79 murder cases in India daily in 2019, marginal decline from 2018: NCRB data||India recorded an average of 79 murder cases daily in 2019, according to a latest government data.A total of 28,918 cases of murder were registered in 2019, showing a marginal decline of 0.3 per cent over 2018 (29,017 cases), the data compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) showed.‘Dispute’ (9,516 cases) was the motive in highest number of murder cases followed by ‘personal vendetta or enmity’ (3,833 cases) and ‘gain (2,573 cases), it showed.The country also recorded a decline of 0.7 per cent in cases of kidnapping and abduction in 2019. A total of 1,05,037 such cases with 1,08,025 victims were registered in 2019, down from 1,05,734 cases in 2018, the data showed.Of the total kidnapping and abduction victims, 23,104 were male and 84,921 female in 2019. Out of the total, 71,264 (15,894 male and 55,370 female) victims were children and 36,761 (7,210 male and 29,551 female) were adult, according to the data.During 2019, a total of 96,295 kidnapped or abducted persons (22,794 male and 73,501 female) were found, out of which 95,551 were rescued alive, it stated.In 2019, 2,260 cases of human trafficking were also registered as compared to 2,278 cases in 2018, showing a decrease of 0.8 per cent. A total of 6,616 victims were reported to be trafficked including 2,914 children and 3,702 adults, the data showed. Apart from this, 6,571 victims were rescued from clutches of traffickers. A total of 5,128 persons were arrested in 2,260 cases of trafficking, the NCRB said.The NCRB, which functions under the Union Home Ministry, is tasked with collecting and analysing crime data as defined by the Indian Penal Code and special and local laws in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/average-79-murder-cases-in-india-daily-in-2019-marginal-decline-from-2018-ncrb-data/story-yXdjguDuK1c1RI0MVfJWON.html
30-09-2020||India||Political tussle over new farm laws heats up||Political slugfest over the new farm laws intensified on Tuesday as Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused the protesting opposition parties of “opposing farmers’ independence”, while Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the laws were a “stab in the farmers’ hearts”.Accusing the opposition of working against farmers’ interests, the prime minister said, “A few days ago with the new laws, the country has freed its farmers from many shackles. Now a farmer can sell his produce to anyone, anywhere. But today, even when the central government is giving the farmers their rights, these people [opposition parties] have come down to protest and are opposing the independence of the farmer.”  Referring to Monday’s incident when members of the Punjab unit of Youth Congress set a tractor on fire at near the India Gate lawns in New Delhi , he said, “These people are now humiliating the farmers by setting fire to the goods and equipment that the farmer worships.”Modi was inaugurating six sewage treatment plants in Uttarakhand under Namami Gange via video conferencing.The three bills - the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - have become acts after President Ram Nath Kovind signed them into law.Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in his video interaction with a group of farmers from across the country, said, “The new farm laws will promote an East India company-like culture. This time, a West India company has come in. There is no difference between GST [Goods and Services Tax], noteban and these three laws. The only difference is that this is directly stabbing your heart with a knife. But I have clarity in my mind that these have to be opposed. Not for farmers, but for the future of India.”The Congress has launched a nationwide agitation against the farm laws and Gandhi too is expected to join the famers’ protest in Punjab later this week.West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee,too, hit out at the Centre saying that this legislation would devastate the farmers of the country and help the hoarders. “The farm laws will devastate the farmers of the country. It will only help the hoarders.”Farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the legislation, which the government says will enable them to sell their produce in any market of their choice rather than limit them to government-run mandis called APMCs. The protestors say the Centre’s farm reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big companies.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has walked out of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the centre to protest against the farm legislation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-tussle-over-new-farm-laws-heats-up/story-wEi8XbF8owy4Rjc64h1xYM.html
30-09-2020||India||How long will Mehbooba Mufti’s detention last, Supreme Court asks govt||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre and the Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) administration whether they intend to continue to keep former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti in detention, asking them to explain the maximum duration for which a person can be held in preventive custody under the law. An apex court bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul was hearing a corpus petition filed by Mufti’s daughter, Iltija, challenging her mother’s detention under the Jammu & Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA), which allows a person to be held without trial for a maximum one year for acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order and for two years for acting prejudicially to the security of the country.“You should address us on two issues — one, what is the maximum period for which a person can be detained and two, what is your proposal and how long do you propose to continue the detention,” the bench, which also comprised justice Hrishikesh Roy, told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre and the Union territory administration.Mufti was among hundreds of people detained in 2019 to prevent protests against the Centre’s move to divest J&K of its special status through the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 and to divide the region into two Union territories. Iltija alleged that her mother’s continued detention was because of her refusal to sign a general bond affirming that in case of release, she would not make any comment on, deliver any speech or attend any public assembly related to the changes pushed through in Jammu and Kashmir.Mehta told the court that Mufti had been detained on the grounds that her conduct could lead to public order issues, which allow a person’s detention for a period of one year under the PSA. “Considering the ground of detention, can you detain her beyond one year,” justice Kaul asked, asking Mehta to respond at the next hearing.Mehta informed the court that the J&K administration had filed a counter affidavit on the matter.The counter-affidavit filed by the district magistrate (DM), Srinagar, stated that the detention order was based on the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority and the sufficiency or adequacy of material cannot be a matter of judicial review.Iltija argued that Mufti’s detention was based on a dossier compiled by the Srinagar police superintendent which is replete with personal remarks against her and was in bad taste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-long-will-mehbooba-mufti-s-detention-last-supreme-court-asks-govt/story-WdV283QJaDc3EA2PoJzPsJ.html
30-09-2020||India||India trashes ‘1959 LAC’ claim||India on Tuesday asserted it has never accepted the unilaterally defined 1959 Line of Actual Control (LAC), and pointed out that several agreements with China committed both countries to confirming and clarifying the alignment of the boundary.The ministry of external affairs (MEA) was reacting to a report about China’s foreign ministry saying in an official statement to Hindustan Times that Beijing abides by the LAC proposed by premier Zhou Enlai to prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru in a letter dated November 7, 1959 — the first time in decades the Chinese side clearly outlined its stance on the notional boundary by reiterating a position India has consistently rejected since it was first made 61 years ago. Also read:China takes 1959 line on perception of LAC “We have seen a report in the Hindustan Times of 29th August, quoting a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement regarding China’s position on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the India-China border areas,” an MEA statement said. “India has never accepted the so-called unilaterally defined 1959 Line of Actual Control (LAC). This position has been consistent and well known, including to the Chinese side,” ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.  Srivastava pointed out that under several bilateral agreements — including the 1993 Agreement on Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC, the 1996 Agreement on Confidence Building Measures (CBMs) in the military field, the 2005 Protocol on Implementation of CBMs, and the 2005 Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles for Settlement of the India-China Boundary Question — India and China have “committed to clarification and confirmation of the LAC to reach a common understanding of the alignment of the LAC”. He added, “Therefore, the insistence now of the Chinese side that there is only one LAC is contrary to the solemn commitments made by China in these agreements.” Also read: Former envoys slam Beijing for invoking old LAC perceptionOn Monday, the Chinese foreign ministry, in a statement in Mandarin, said that Beijing abides by the LAC proposed by Beijing in 1959. “Firstly, China-India border LAC is very clear, that is the LAC on November 7, 1959. China announced it in the 1950s, and the international community including India are also clear about it,” the ministry said.Experts said India’s response reflected the wide gap in perceptions between the two sides amid the five-month standoff in the Ladakh sector of the LAC. More than five rounds of talks each through military and diplomatic channels have been unable to break the impasse in the disengagement and de-escalation process. The external affairs ministry also blamed the Chinese side for lack of progress in the process for clarifying and confirming the boundary for almost two decades.Also read: ‘1959 claim is wrong, but it punctures China’s theory’, say experts “In fact, the two sides had engaged in an exercise to clarify and confirm the LAC up to 2003, but this process could not proceed further as the Chinese side did not show a willingness to pursue it,” Srivastava said. In response to a query from HT on why the process of LAC clarification has been stalled since 2002, the Chinese foreign ministry on Tuesday blamed India. “Over the years, the Indian side has repeatedly crossed the line to encroach on China’s territory and deliberately created new incidents, making the process of verifying the Line of Actual Control between the two sides impossible to proceed smoothly,” it said in a second statement. India denies any transgressions.The statements this week from both sides have been perceived as a sign that the border standoff, which began in early May, is unlikely to be resolved soon. The standoff has taken bilateral ties to an all-time low, and both sides have mobilised more than 50,000 troops each in the region and are now preparing to dig in for the harsh winter. India on Tuesday pointed to an apparent dichotomy in the position adopted by the Chinese side — Beijing was insisting on abiding by the LAC of 1959 while stating in the latest discussions on the border standoff that the issue should be resolved on the basis of the existing agreements.“In the last few months, the Chinese side has repeatedly affirmed that the current situation in the border areas should be resolved in accordance with the agreements signed between the two countries,” Srivastava said. He said that even in the agreement reached between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during their talks on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Moscow on September 10, the Chinese side “has reiterated its commitment to abide by all the existing agreements”. During their meeting, Jaishankar and Wang agreed on a five-point road map to take forward the disengagement process, which included dialogue aimed at quick disengagement, maintaining proper distance between troops of the two sides and easing tensions, and abiding by all agreements and protocols on border management. The MEA said the Indian side has “always respected and abided by the LAC”, and defence minister Rajnath Singh stated in Parliament recently that “it is the Chinese side which by its attempts to transgress the LAC in various parts of the Western Sector, has tried to unilaterally alter the status quo”. Srivastava said: “We therefore expect that the Chinese side will sincerely and faithfully abide by all agreements and understandings in their entirety and refrain from advancing an untenable unilateral interpretation of the LAC.” Twenty Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 in a brutal clash in Galwan valley, which also resulted in unspecified Chinese casualties. Troops of both sides have fired warning shots on several occasions since late August, the first time shots have been fired along the LAC since 1975. Meetings of the corps commanders and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs have been unable to nudge forward the disengagement process, though the military officials agreed at their last meeting that both sides wouldn’t deploy any more troops to the frontline. The WMCC is set to hold another meeting soon. Military experts said that by raking up the 1959 LAC, China was hardening its position and making a resolution of the border row even more difficult.“India has never accepted the 1959 LAC. Not at the time it was brought up in 1959, not after the 1962 war when it was referred to in the unilateral ceasefire announced by China, or at any time after that. By referring to this, they seem to indicate that disengagement is unlikely,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). (With inputs from Rahul Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-trashes-1959-lac-claim/story-idkhp3ldJL18MetZHgYt6M.html
30-09-2020||India||China row in focus ahead of Jaishankar’s Quad meet||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will visit Japan on October 6-7 to participate in the second ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, and to hold a series of bilateral meetings against the backdrop of India’s border standoff with China.The objective of the meeting on October 6 is to tighten strategic cooperation and advance the goal of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. The meeting is expected to be followed by consultations at senior officials’ level in November. Jaishankar is visiting Tokyo for bilateral consultations with his Japanese counterpart Toshimitsu Motegi and the two ministers are expected to discuss bilateral and regional issues of mutual interest, the external affairs ministry said. “During the visit, the external affairs minister will also participate in the second India-Australia-Japan-USA ministerial meeting on 6 October, 2020, in which the foreign ministers of the respective countries will participate,” the ministry said in a statement. The foreign ministers of Quad, which was upgraded to the ministerial level in September last year, will discuss the “post-Covid-19 international order and the need for a coordinated response to the various challenges emerging from the pandemic”, according to the statement. The ministers will also discuss regional issues and “collectively affirm the importance of maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific”. Jaishankar will also hold bilateral consultations with Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and US secretary of state Mike Pompeo during the visit. The Quad meeting will discuss collaboration among Quad countries in counter-terrorism, cyber and maritime security, development finance, humanitarian assistance and disaster response, according to South Block officials. The ministers are also expected to discuss practical collaborations in developing advanced technologies including 5G and 5G-plus telecom standards as well as securing the sea lanes of communications in the Indo-Pacific.There has been a sea change since the ministers met informally on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly on September 26, 2019. Quad is expected to take steps towards an institutionalized dialogue at the meeting, where Chinese actions since the rise of global pandemic from Wuhan will come under the magnifying glass.The Quad ministerial comes at a time when the Donald Trump administration has made a U-turn on US polices towards China, which were guided by the rapprochement policy tailored by Henry Kissinger 50 years ago under the Republican administration of Richard Nixon. The tough, new US policy towards Communist China was defined by US secretary of state Mike Pompeo in his Nixon Library address on July 24.The Indian relationship with China has taken a 180-degree turn since the Chennai summit on October 11-12, 2019, after the People’s Liberation Army’s aggression in eastern Ladakh in May. The armies of the two countries are still locked in a staring match in Ladakh with both sides losing soldiers in the June 15 Galwan Valley flare-up; firing in the air followed in the first week of September after the Indian Army pre-empted the PLA south of Pangong Tso. Australia’s relationship with China, its largest trading partner, has nosedived with Beijing imposing an 80% tariff on barley, launching an anti-dumping investigation of Australian wine, blocking Australian beef, arresting an Australian journalist and banning two academics from visiting China.The situation with Japan is no different, with Chinese warmongering over the Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea forcing Tokyo to increase its defence budget to a record. Tokyo is also upset over new security laws in Hong Kong and pressure put on democratic Taiwan by Beijing.The members of Quad, especially India, Japan and Australia, have also stepped up work on forging partnerships with like-minded countries in the region, or those with interests in the Indian Ocean, with an eye on China’s increasing assertiveness and aggressiveness. Jaishankar recently said India and Japan were looking at cooperating on projects in Bangladesh and Myanmar as part of their efforts to work together in third countries. In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin took aim at the Quad meeting, warning that no “exclusive clique” should be formed.“Peace, development and global cooperation is the overriding trend of today’s world. Multilateral and plurilateral cooperation should all be open, inclusive and transparent. No one should seek an exclusive clique,” he said.“Efforts should be made to enhance regional countries’ mutual understanding and trust, instead of targeting a third party or harming a third party’s interests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-row-in-focus-ahead-of-jaishankar-s-quad-meet/story-qT9XaIgVCJtXOivSqOeuMI.html
30-09-2020||India||Babri demolition case verdict today, D-day for Advani and 31 others||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court will deliver its verdict in the Babri Masjid demolition case on Wednesday, almost three decades after the 16th century structure was razed by a mob in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town, sparking communal tension and riots.Shortly around 10:30 am, CBI judge Surendra Kumar Yadav is expected to start reading out the verdict in a court room where many of the top accused are unlikely to be present. Watch| Babri case: Court acquits Advani & 31 others; says ‘demolition not pre-planned’ Some of the key accused, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former Union minister MM Joshi, former Union minister Uma Bharti and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, are likely to attend the proceedings through video conference because of the coronavirus pandemic. “At present I am not in a position to say who will be present in court for the final judgment. I have informed all my clients about the judgment date (September 30). Who will be present in court will only be clear on the judgment day,” said KK Mishra, who is representing 25 out of the 32 accused persons. Also read| CBI court to pronounce Babri verdict today: All you need to knowIn all, 26 of the 32 accused are likely to be present in court. Ahead of the verdict, security has been tightened in the court premises in Lucknow and no one is allowed inside the court room except the defence and CBI lawyers, and the accused persons. Entry is permitted through only one gate and barricades have been put on nearby roads to restrict traffic. All 32 accused are facing charges under several sections of the Indian Penal Code, including criminal conspiracy, rioting , promoting enmity between different groups and unlawful assembly. Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan and Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust chief Mahant Nritya Gopal Das are likely not to be present in court. Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh have tested positive for Covid-19 and are hospitalised.  Some of the accused exuded confidence. Jai Bhagwan Goyal, 62, who described himself as the international working president of United Hindu Front, said he won’t be complying with the CBI court’s order to bring a guarantor worth Rs 50,000 with him. “I am not going to comply with the order for sure as I feel by bringing down the disputed structure, I did no wrong.”Also read| Mosque in Ayodhya may be square-shaped like Kaaba: Trust officialFormer Rajasthan governor and UP chief minister at the time of the incident, Kalyan Singh, said in a July 30 interview to HT that the demolition paved the way for a Ram temple. “I am proud of the fact that I denied permission to fire on kar sevaks,” he said. Jaibhan Singh Pawaiya, former national chief of Bajrang Dal, is also an accused. “I am coming to Lucknow. If I get sent to jail, then too I will work for Lord Ram and if I remain free, then too I will spend the rest of my life for the sake of the lord and my country,” he said. Both Pawaiya and Goyal were arrested soon after the demolition. “We were arrested back then and on December 7, 1993 when we decided not to seek bail, we were sent to Lucknow jail. On December 8, we were shifted to a makeshift prison at Matateela and later to Varanasi. From there, me along with Giriraj Kishore and Satish Pradhan were kept at Chunar jail in Mirzapur,” he said.The verdict in the criminal case comes roughly 11 months after the Supreme Court, in November last year, ruled in favour of building a temple at the 2.77 acre site in Ayodhya. A ceremony to mark the beginning of the construction was held on August 5 and attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-demolition-case-verdict-today/story-KVqZonm4sPz2YleId3tOML.html
30-09-2020||India||Odisha govt moves amendments to University and Factories Act as assembly session starts||The monsoon session of the Odisha Assembly began on Tuesday with the Naveen Patnaik government bringing in 7 Bills including the amendment Bill allowing companies with up to 300 workers to sack people or close down units without government approval and another Bill allowing greater government control on state universities.With one-third of the 147 MLAs including deputy Speaker Rajani Kant Singh infected by Covid-19, less than 100 MLAs attended the Assembly as they sat away from each other with clear plastic boards separating them. While chief minister Naveen Patnaik took part in the proceedings through video-conference from Naveen Niwas, a few MLAs including BJP leader Bishnu Sethi attended it from their respective district headquarters through V-C mode. The first half of the session was adjourned after obituary references to former President Pranab Mukherjee, several sitting and former MLAs, Indian Army soldiers and policemen. Labour minister Sushant Singh moved the Industrial Disputes (Odisha Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeking to amend the Industrial Disputes Act for allowing companies with upto 300 workers now to sack employees without seeking the prior approval of the government. The old Act had the provision for companies with employee strength of 100 or less.The state government said the Act has been brought to facilitate investment, generation of employment and counter the hardships caused to MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) due to the Covid-19 pandemic by way of creating a more conducive and business friendly atmosphere. The Act once passed by the Assembly would be applicable retrospectively to all industrial units from July 16 this year.In May this year, the state government had increased the overtime limit from 75 hours per quarter earlier to 115 hours quarter while allowing engagement of women in factories with their consent between 6 am and 7 pm.The second most important Bill to be moved today was the Odisha Universities (Amendment) Bill 2020 that saw Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati tearing up a copy of the Bill protesting government control on the working of the state universities. “It’s a Black Bill. It should be sent to Select Committee of the House for consideration,” he demanded.The Odisha Universities (Amendment) Bill 2020 seeks to amend Odisha Universities Act, 1989 and repeal the Ravenshaw University Act, 2005 which led to the formation of the Ravens haw University as well as other unitary universities like Gangadhar Meher University and Khallikote University. It also seeks to abolish the system of Senate in universities terming it as an ornamental body and restructure the Syndicate for smooth academic and administrative functioning of the Universities.The Bill seeks to hike the tenure of Vice Chancellor from 3 to 4 years and the upper age limit to 67 years from 65 years. It also seeks to have an eminent academician, nominated by the state government as a member of the search committee for appointment of V-C in place of the nominee of the Syndicate of the University.The Bill also proposed that Odisha Public Service Commission would now do the recruitment of teaching and non-teaching staff of the universities instead of the universities themselves. Moving the Bill, higher education minister Arun Sahoo said the amendment Bill would make the universities function in a better and more professional way.Opposing the Bill, Congress leader Narasingha Mishra asked why the state government was in a hurry to pass the Odisha Universities (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 in this pandemic situation. “Will the Covid-19 cease to spread if the Bill gets passed? This bill will end the autonomy of Universities in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-moves-amendments-to-university-and-factories-act-as-assembly-session-starts/story-r5ni9SsyMPd0xUF59qdfCL.html
30-09-2020||India||Amnesty says India ops shut||Stung by a multi-agency probe and the subsequent freezing of all its bank accounts in India, human rights watchdog Amnesty International said on Tuesday that it was winding up its operations in the country because of a “witch-hunt” by the government. The complete freezing of its India bank accounts has halted all the work in which it has been engaged in the country, Amnesty International India said in a statement. “The organisation has been compelled to let go of staff in India and pause all its ongoing campaign and research work. This is latest in the incessant witch-hunt of human rights organizations by the Government of India over unfounded and motivated allegations,” said the rights group.The home ministry, however, said in a statement that the stand taken by Amnesty International is “unfortunate, exaggerated, and far from the truth” and accused the body of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) violations, and “interference in domestic police debates” despite being funded by foreign donations.The rights group denies the financial violations charges and says it has been in full compliance with all laws.On October 22, 2019, Amnesty International testified at the US Congressional hearing on human rights in South Asia, with specific focus on Jammu & Kashmir after the Indian Parliament on August 5 pushed through constitutional changes that divested J&K of its special status and reorganised it into two Union territories.This August 28, the rights group released an investigative brief on the complicity of the Delhi Police in the February communal riots that claimed the lives of at least 53 people. Delhi Police rebutted the claim, saying Amnesty’s report was “lopsided, biased and malicious”. Also read: On Amnesty row, BJP leader quotes ex-PM Manmohan Singh to defend govtAmnesty has also accused the government of suppressing free speech and demanded the release of activists Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen, Sudha Bhardwaj, Surendra Gadling and others arrested in connection with the January 1, 2018, caste clashes in Bhima-Koregaon near Pune in Maharashtra. “This is the fifth time Amnesty India is being shut down. The first time was when George Fernandes led it 50 years ago,” Aakar Patel, former executive director of Amnesty India, tweeted on Tuesday. The last time the group shut its operations in India was in 2009. The rights group is being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), since October 2018 when the agency raided its Bengaluru head office and froze its accounts because of which it had to let go of some staff at the time. In early 2019, the Income Tax department wrote to Amnesty’s office-bearers seeking certain clarifications. In November 2019, CBI filed a case against Amnesty, alleging it received ₹36 crore in funding without the mandatory permission required under the FCRA and raided its offices. In August 2016, a sedition case was filed against the organisation that was quashed by a court last year. Investigative agencies have alleged that the fund-raising model of Amnesty International India was in violation of FCRA that amounts to money laundering, a charge denied by the rights group.The ministry said that Amnesty’s “glossy statements” about humanitarian work and speaking truth to power are nothing but a “ploy to divert attention” from their activities, which are in clear contravention of laid down Indian laws. Owing to illegal practices of Amnesty, the previous government had also rejected the repeated applications of Amnesty to receive funds from overseas, the home ministry said.The government earlier this month brought in a new amendment to FCRA which disallows transfer of any foreign funds received by any non-government organisation (NGO) to any other organisation or individual. “The continuing crackdown on Amnesty International India over the last two years and the complete freezing of bank accounts is not accidental. The constant harassment by government agencies including the ED is a result of our unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of the Delhi Police and the government of India regarding the grave human rights violations in Delhi riots and Jammu & Kashmir. For a movement that has done nothing but raise its voice against injustice, this latest attack is akin to freezing dissent,” said Avinash Kumar, executive director of Amnesty International India. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rejected Amnesty’s allegations and said the organisation was receiving funds from abroad in contravention of the Indian laws. “The Reserve Bank of India told all banks that Amnesty should be put in the category for prior reference. Before receiving money from outside India they would need to be in the prior permission category. There has been shifty money transfer to the companies and there is suspected flow of money into the trust of the Amnesty International, the party’s national spokesperson Rajyavardhan Rathore said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amnesty-says-india-ops-shut/story-YuvD0qLl3a6WaM0nxuxeiP.html
30-09-2020||India||With 493 new Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand’s tally touches 47,995||With 93 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, Uttarakhand’s tally of total cases touched 47,995. The state reported below 500 cases for the second consecutive day on Tuesday.The state also reported the death of 11 Covid-19 patients, taking the death toll to 591. Out of the 591 deaths, 192 cases were due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. On Tuesday, the state reported 1413 recoveries with a maximum of 411 from Dehradun, taking the tally of total patients who have recovered to 38,059. With this, the recovery rate now stands at 79.30% and the rate of doubling of cases stands at 44.58 days. According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Tuesday evening, a maximum of 174 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by Tehri (65), US Nagar (60), Haridwar (53), Nainital (47), Uttarkashi (40), Champawat (15), Pithoragarh (15), Chamoli (13), Bageshwar (6), Rudraprayag (4) and Almora (1). Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 12,867 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Haridwar (9228), US Nagar (8377) and Nainital (5796). The state has so far tested over 7.01 lakh samples of which results of over 11,000 are awaited. The positivity rate stands at 7.09% in the state at present. Uttarakhand currently has 454 containment zones in nine districts including maximum 297 in Haridwar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-493-new-covid-19-cases-uttarakhand-s-tally-touches-47-995/story-vFiP0Pdakf2SXyrTwAqW3M.html
30-09-2020||India||Bypolls to 1 MP, 56 MLA seats in November||The Election Commission on Tuesday set the dates for elections to 56 assembly seats across 11 states and a lone parliamentary constituency in Bihar that will take place amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The bypolls will dovetail with the three-phase assembly elections in Bihar, set for October 28, November 3 and 7.In the by-elections, voters in 54 assembly constituencies across 10 states will choose their legislators on November 3;the electorate in two assembly constituencies in Manipur will vote on November 7, together with electors in Bihar’s Balmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency.The results of the elections will be declared by November 12 at the latest, with counting taking place on November 10.A team from the Election Commission, meanwhile, left for Patna on Tuesday to assess the situation in Bihar by holding discussions with district- and state-level officials ahead of the first full-fledged electoral exercise following the outbreak of Covid-19. Nearly 72 million voters will choose their representatives to the 243-member Bihar assembly with strict health protocols in place to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease. The Election Commission has put off elections to seven assembly constituencies across Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal where the term of the legislature is due to lapse in either May or June next year. People familiar with the matter had earlier told Hindustan Times that it does not make sense to hold the elections in Kerala, where there are only two vacancies and the assembly is due to be re-elected before June 2021. “In the midst of this pandemic and considering the devastation caused due to the floods, it would be unnecessarily expensive to hold the bypolls,” one person had said, adding that a representation to defer the polls had been sent to the Commission in August. The Commission will hold bypolls to assembly constituencies in Chhattisgarh (1), Gujarat (8), Haryana (1), Jharkhand (2), Karnataka (2), Manipur (2), Nagaland (2), Odisha (2), Madhya Pradesh (28), Telangana (1) and Uttar Pradesh (7). It will also hold a by-election to the Balmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency, which fell vacant on the death of Baidyanath Prasad Mahato in February.In Madhya Pradesh, three seats fell vacant because of the death of their assembly representatives and 25 because of Congress lawmakers switching sides to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress government of Madha Pradesh collapsed in March because of a rebellion by MLAs owing allegiance to Jyotiraditya Scindia, who left the party for the BJP. Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana had also written to the Commission to defer the polls in the wake of the pandemic, aside from Kerala, Hindustan Times reported on August 10.“The Election Commission had received representation from these states,” said a second person familiar with the matter. “At that point, it had temporarily deferred the elections. But now these states have re-evaluated the situation and feel polls can be held in line with the Election Commission’s schedule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-to-1-mp-56-mla-seats-in-november/story-ODmQUUAr3kbZ2WAJPVAHqI.html
30-09-2020||India||‘Glossy statements’: Home Ministry’s sharp comeback to Amnesty on ‘witch-hunt’ barb||The Union home ministry on Tuesday refuted claims made by Amnesty International India of a witch-hunt by the government, underlining that human rights cannot be an excuse for defying the law of the land. In an official statement, the ministry said that “Amnesty is free to continue humanitarian work in India, as is being done by many other organisations.”“However, India, by settled law, does not allow interference in domestic political debates by entities funded by foreign donations. This law applies equally to all and it shall apply to Amnesty International as well,” it said. Taking a dig at Amnesty over its work, the home ministry statement added: ““All the glossy statements about humanitarian work and speaking truth to power are nothing but a ploy to divert attention from their activities which were in clear contravention of laid down Indian laws. Such statements are also an attempt to extraneously influence the course of investigations by multiple agencies into the irregularities and illegalities carried out over the last few years.”The ministry said, “India has a rich and pluralistic democratic culture with a free press, independent judiciary and tradition of vibrant domestic debate.”The statement said “Amnesty’s failure to comply with local regulations does not entitle them to make comments on the democratic and plural character of India.”Accusing Amnesty of violating the law, the home ministry said the stand taken by the rights group and statements that blamed the government action for its decision to close down are “unfortunate, exaggerated and far from the truth.”Giving a chronology of events, the home ministry said Amnesty International had received permission under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) only once and that too 20 years ago, on December 19, 2000. Since then, Amnesty International, despite its repeated applications, has been denied approvals for receiving foreign funds by successive governments in accordance with the law.Also Read: On Amnesty row, BJP leader quotes ex-PM Manmohan Singh to defend govt“In order to circumvent the FCRA regulations, Amnesty UK remitted large amounts of money to four entities registered in India, by classifying it as Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). A significant amount of foreign money was also remitted to Amnesty (India) without MHA’s approval under FCRA. This mala fide rerouting of money was in contravention of extant legal provisions,” it said.“Owing to these illegal practices of Amnesty, the previous government had also rejected the repeated applications of Amnesty to receive funds from overseas.This had led Amnesty to suspend its India operations once during that period as well. This bipartisan and purely legal approach towards Amnesty, under different governments, makes it clear that the entire fault lies in the dubious processes adopted by Amnesty to secure funds for its operations,” said home ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glossy-statements-home-ministry-s-sharp-comeback-to-amnesty-on-witch-hunt-barb/story-abt4Jjf7ln0BIeJAeAWABP.html
30-09-2020||India||Another 8 weeks needed to bring Baghjan gas well under control: OIL||It could take another 6-8 weeks to bring the natural gas well in Assam’s Baghjan, which had a blowout on May 27 and caught fire weeks later, completely under control, Oil India Limited (OIL) stated on Tuesday. “We are in the process of bringing in a snubbing unit from Canada for the job. It will take them 3-4 weeks to reach the site and another 3-4 weeks to complete the operation,” CMD Sushil Chandra Mishra told journalists during an online press conference on the occasion of OIL’s 61st annual general meeting. Four weeks ago, Assam industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary had also told the state assembly that it would take 6-8 weeks for the snubbing team to arrive and bring the well under control. The gas well in Tinsukia district had a blow out (uncontrolled release of oil or gas) during a work over operation. It caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters. Another engineer died at the site this month due to electrocution. While the well was capped August, the fire at the wellhead had not been doused till this month. “About two weeks back, we have been able to douse the fire at the wellhead and divert the gas for production. Now things are coming under control,” Mishra said. Though the fire at the wellhead has been doused and a portion of the released gas has been diverted for production, the unused gas directed to a flare pit near the well is still blazing. Efforts are now on to ‘kill’ the well by snubbing-a process to install or remove tubular from a well while it remains pressurized (alive). This technique is used when it is not possible or desired to kill a well using a mud-sludge called ‘kill fluid’, a technique which was tried unsuccessfully earlier. Mishra informed that OIL has suffered Rs 6 cr in losses because of the blowout at the well and a total loss of Rs 179 cr due to forced closure at other oil and gas wells in the area by various organizations. The company has also spent around Rs 70 cr on foreign experts who had reached the site in June and have tried to bring the well under control for the past four months without complete success. Replying to a query on the damage to the ecology near Baghjan, which is located close to the Maguri Motapung Wetland and the Dibru Saikhowa National Park, Mishra said that there had been no major harm. “Studies by various agencies have revealed no major harm to the ecology and environment of the area. There has been some impact on the area near the well and that can be addressed only after the well is brought under control,” he said. The blowout and subsequent fire had damaged over a dozen houses in the vicinity and uprooted nearly 7,000 local residents-some of whom are still staying in relief camps. Mishra informed that OIL has already paid an interim amount as compensation to some of the affected families and once the district administration completes its survey, will compensate others as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-8-weeks-needed-to-bring-baghjan-gas-well-under-control-oil/story-ZyuNxa5p7uzRgKZ7eg2MFM.html
30-09-2020||India||One in 15 above 10 yrs of age exposed to Covid-19, reveals ICMR sero survey results||Nearly one in 15 (6.6%) above 10 years of age in the country was exposed to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), till August, shows the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) second sero prevalence data that was made public on Tuesday.ICMR’s first countrywide sero survey that was conducted between May 11 and June 4 showed overall infection prevalence to be 0.73%.The second survey was conducted during August 17 and September 22, in the same 700 villages and wards from 70 districts in 21 States that were covered in the first survey. Blood samples were collected from 29,082 individuals. All other parameters about the two surveys have been the same except for the age bracket— in the first phase population selected was 18 years and above, and in the second phase samples were included from 10 years and above.“We changed the age group in the second survey from 18 years to 10 years and above because infection was also seen in younger population. Sero survey gives us virus exposure prevalence, but you may or may not have developed the disease,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR. About 3-5 ml of blood sample as collected to study the presence of IgG antibodies against Sars-Cov-2 virus. IgG antibodies are the longer lasting antibodies that help determine a past infection.“How much time in the past is a work in progress but these develop about 2-3 weeks after having contracted the infection and approximately stay for about 2-3 months,” said Dr Bhargava.Urban slum (15.6%) and non-slum (8.2%) areas had higher Sars-Cov-2 infection prevalence than that of rural areas (4.4%), and prevalence in adults (above 18 years of age) was also higher at 7.1%, the data shows. “It goes on to show that a large percentage of population is still susceptible to contracting the infection which is why it becomes really important to follow covid-19 appropriate behavior like wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing, and observing hand hygiene,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.Experts say these types of sero surveys do not present the current picture. “This doesn’t tell us about the current situation and that’s the reason why it may not be really beneficial at making policy-level decisions. However, for academic purposes, if anyone wants to study the pandemic trajectory in India some time later, it will be of help,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-in-15-above-10-yrs-of-age-exposed-to-covid-19-reveals-icmr-sero-survey-results/story-B4NG4cu0oNORa3y46W6C5N.html
30-09-2020||India||For the first time, Karnataka logs more than 10K Covid-19 cases in a single day||Karnataka for the first time recorded more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day as it stepped up testing. On Tuesday the state recorded 10,453 new Covid-19 positive cases with the total recorded now approaching around six lakh cases till date, ever since the first one was detected on March 8.A senior official of the department of health and family welfare - who did not want to be identified as he is not authorized to speak to the media said, “Part of the reason why a high number of cases have been recorded is that we also conducted 87,475 tests, the highest ever in the last 24 hours. Nearly half of them are the more rigorous RT-PCR and the rest are the rapid antigen tests.”Urban Bengaluru continues to be a spot of concern accounting for 46,610 of the 1,07,737 active cases in the state. Only Mysuru with 6,752 cases is anywhere close to the state capital. Kodagu in deep south and Bidar at the other end of the state account for the least number of active cases at 470 and 480 respectively. “Of the 612 fever clinics nearly a quarter are located in Bengaluru alone. We will continue to increase testing in the state and more so in the capital city,” the official added.Till date, 8777 people have lost their lives due to Covid-19 including two legislators and one Lok Sabha and one Rajya Sabha member of parliament from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-the-first-time-karnataka-logs-more-than-10k-covid-19-cases-in-a-single-day/story-vz55F9Di2x5rOblu8TRCHM.html
30-09-2020||India||How can drug supply to Rajput be proven if he is no more: Lawyer tells court in bail plea hearing||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday heard the bail applications submitted by actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and others arrested in a drug case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. During hearing, lawyer for alleged drug peddler Abdel Basit Parihar, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), asked court how can the drug supply link to Rajput be proven now that he is dead.In Parihar’s bail submission before the Bombay High Court, senior advocate Taraq Sayed said that on August 28, Abbas Lakhani and Karan Arora were arrested by NCB with 13 grams of ganja (cannabis) in their possession and were granted bail. Based on their statements, the agency arrested Abdel Basit Parihar on September 3. Kaizan Ebrahim and Zaid Viltara were also arrested.Sayed reminded court that the mentioned people were arrested and questioned based on a single submission that Rajput was consuming drugs. However, no recovery has been made from the five bail applicants -- Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty, Sushant’s house helps Samuel Miranda and Dileep Sawant, and Abdel Basit Parihar. Appealing for bail on behalf of Parihar, his lawyer said that in cases where the offences are punishable with a maximum of one year jail sentence, such offences ought to be seen as bailable under the NDPS Act (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985).“If the recoveries are small quantities then such offences are bailable,” Sayed said.“What is the material to show that my client Parihar delivered a contraband to some person who took it further? In none of the statements have they shown the quantity to be more than a small quantity,” Parihar’s lawyer further said, as quoted by Bar and Bench. As Sayed pointed out the chronicle of arrests made in the drug link, he said: “There are two conspiracies, two set of people -- 1) There are people directly linked in to Sushant Singh Rajput, and 2) There are people who have been arrested from the names given by the accused, like my client (Parihar).”“Sushant Singh Rajput expired on 14th June. I am not admitting that there was a conspiracy. He expired on 14th June, and we are being charged to supply him drugs when he was alive,” he said.The lawyer asked how can the offence be proven today when Rajput has passed away.“How can the offence be proved today, when the man (Sushant Singh Rajput) is no more?” Sayed said in Bombay High Court during bail hearing.“Can a charge of conspiracy ever be higher than the offence? When an offence is bailable, and accused produced before Magistrate, we were never charged offences which are non-bailable,” he pointed out.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is currently investigating a drug link into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput and so far has arrested a dozen of people.In its reply, the NCB told court that the investigation has nothing to do with Rajput’s death and it’s a case of ‘drug syndication’.“All throughout arguments, applicants state that this is connected to Sushant Singh Rajput death case but this investigation has nothing to do with it,” ASG Anil Singh, lawyer for NCB, told the court, as quoted by ANI.The anti-drug agency further said that all the people arrested in the case are interlinked to each other and there were regular links and purchasing of drugs.After the day long hearing, the Bombay High Court reserved its orders on the bail pleas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-can-drug-supply-to-sushant-singh-rajput-be-proven-if-he-is-no-more-lawyer-tells-court-in-bail-plea-hearing-in-drug-case/story-wUKPXxi3ApGfacm13xcXbM.html
30-09-2020||India||CBI files case against Rotomac for cheating Bank of India of Rs 806 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against pen manufacturer Rotomac Global Pvt Ltd and its promoter Vikram Kothari, his wife Sadhna Kothari and and son Rahul Kothari for allegedly cheating Bank of India of Rs 806 crores, people familiar with the development said. This is the third CBI case against the Rotomac group, run by Kanpur based Kotharis, for cheating banks. In February 2018, CBI filed its first case against Rotomac and Vikram Kothari for allegedly cheating a consortium of seven banks including Bank of Baroda, Indian Overseas Bank, Union Bank of India, Allahabad Bank, Bank of Maharashtra and Oriental Bank of Commerce and Bank of India for allegedly defrauding them of Rs 3,695 crore. It was alleged that Kothari got loans disbursed based on foreign letters of credit (FLCs) on the pretext of making payments to his buyers and suppliers in places like Dubai, Sharjah and Hong Kong but they didn’t exist.The Kotharis allegedly provided incomplete documents or photocopies of bills of loading to the banks on the pretext that original papers were sent to the importer.The banks had alleged that Rotomac did not attach the packing list, mandatory insurance copies of goods, certificate of origin of goods, or the inspection certificate from third parties while submitting documents to it. When bank officials visited Rotomac’s suppliers and buyers abroad, they found that the import/export business was allegedly running through shell companies.Later, a second case was registered in February 2020 against the company for allegedly cheating Allahabad Bank of Rs 36 crore. In the latest FIR, CBI has alleged that the company took loans over a period of time from Bank of India for which there is outstanding of Rs 806 crore. It has been alleged that company diverted most of the funds taken from the bank. With three cases registered by CBI, total amount pertaining to bank fraud involving Kanpur based Kotharis comes to around Rs 4,500 crore. Kotharis’ legal representative could not be located by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-case-against-rotomac-for-cheating-bank-of-india-of-rs-806-crore/story-dsmP9Bw5HlnzeXqZNGyKVK.html
30-09-2020||India||88 million in India may have been exposed to Sars-Cov2: Sero survey||One in every 15 individuals, or 6.6%, of people above the age of 10 years in India, have been exposed to Sars-Cov2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), till August, according to the findings of Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) second national sero survey released on Tuesday.If extrapolated across the country’s population, this would mean that nearly 88 million people may have been silently exposed to the virus.The second iteration of ICMR’s national sero survey covered 29,082 individuals and was conducted between August 17 and September 22, in the same 700 villages and wards from 70 districts in 21 states that were covered in the first survey. The first countrywide sero survey (conducted between May 11 and June 4) showed overall infection prevalence to be 0.73%.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage All other parameters about the two surveys were similar except for the targeted age bracket — in the first phase population selected was 18 years and above, and in the second phase samples were included from 10 years and above.“We changed the age group in the second survey from 18 years to 10 years and above because infection was also seen in younger population. Sero survey gives us virus exposure prevalence, but you may or may not have developed the disease,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR.About 3ml-5ml of blood sample was collected to study the presence of IgG antibodies against Sars-Cov2 virus. IgG antibodies are the longer lasting antibodies that help determine a past infection.“How much time in the past is a work in progress but these develop about 2-3 weeks after having contracted the infection and approximately stay for about 2-3 months,” said Dr Bhargava.Also read: One in 15 above 10 yrs of age exposed to Covid-19, reveals ICMR sero survey resultsUrban slum (15.6%) and non-slum (8.2%) areas had higher Sars-Cov2 infection prevalence than that of rural areas (4.4%), and prevalence in adults (above 18 years of age) was also higher at 7.1%, the findings show.“It goes on to show that a large percentage of population is still susceptible to contracting the infection which is why it becomes really important to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing, and observing hand hygiene,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.Experts say these types of sero surveys do not present the current picture. “This doesn’t tell us about the current situation and that’s the reason why it may not be really beneficial at making policy-level decisions. However, for academic purposes, if anyone wants to study the pandemic trajectory in India sometime later, it will be of help,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital.Several state governments have carried out independent sero surveys which have shown a large variance in findings. Delhi had shown 23.5 % and 29.1% prevalence of infection during the first and second rounds of surveys. The initial findings of the third round of sero survey in Delhi showed that roughly 33% people have been exposed. Such studies have also been conducted in Mumbai (57.8% in slums, 17.4% in non-slum), Ahmedabad (17.6%), Chennai (21.5%), Puducherry (4.9%, 22.7%) and Indore (7.8%) as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/88mn-in-country-may-have-been-exposed-sero-survey/story-Zus9PdJBSCBMl7HG256QIJ.html
30-09-2020||India||Bihar assembly election 2020: Congress, RJD in impasse over seat sharing in Bihar||The alliance between the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress in Bihar has run into rough weather over the distribution of seats in the upcoming assembly elections, with neither side willing to relent on its position, people aware of the development said on Tuesday. While the RJD’s latest offer is 58 seats in the 243-member House, the Congress is demanding 75, leaders of the two parties said on condition of anonymity. The matter has now reached Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who is expected to take a call in a day or two after consulting other senior leaders. Bihar Election 2020: Full coverageA Congress functionary said both sides have in principle decided to fight the October-November elections in an alliance and are also keen to accommodate the three left parties, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) besides the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) of Mukesh Sahani. But getting to a deal has been tough. A senior RJD leader said his party, in the first week of September, offered 73 seats to the Congress after conducting a survey of all 243 seats and also expressed a willingness to accommodate smaller parties from its quota. At the time, this person added, the Congress told the RJD that it would revert within a week, but finally got back with a demand for 75 seats only on September 26, he added. Also read: Devendra Fadnavis takes a dig at Tejashwi Yadav’s promise of 10 lakh jobsThings worsened after Congress leader Avinash Pande, who heads the party’s screening committee for Bihar, stated that the alliance with the RJD would be firmed up only if there is a respectable seat-sharing understanding between the two parties. A screening committee shortlists the party candidates and forwards the list to the central election committee for final selection.Pande’s statement prompted an angry RJD to scale down its offer to 58 seats. It also decided to let the Congress fight the by-election to the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency in Bihar. A second Congress functionary said the RJD offer was “in no way” acceptable to his party and that now, party president Sonia Gandhi to take a call on the alliance. “She will consult other senior leaders and a decision is expected within a day or two. In the past too, during {jailed RJD chief} Lalu Prasad’s time, she saved the alliance with the RJD from the brink of collapse on several occasions,” he added. Also read: Bihar election gets a new political constituency - over 16 lakh migrant workersThe exit of Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) from the grand alliance or ‘mahagathbandhan’ on Tuesday eased the pressure on both sides. While the RJD wanted the RLSP to leave, the Congress was divided , with some of its leaders making serious attempts to retain Kushwaha despite the assessment that he brought “no value addition” to the alliance and also the fact that his party’s votes were not transferable to the partners. The RLSP on Tuesday announced a tie-up with the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Janwadi Party Socialist. A third Congress functionary said the delay in firming up the seat-sharing deal has impacted the alliance on the ground as had happened during last year’s Lok Sabha polls in which the ‘mahagathbandhan’ was wiped out. Out of the 40 Lok Sabha seats, the Congress managed to win one seat while the remaining 39 went to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), comprising the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Janata Dal (United) and Lok Janshakti Party. “The delay is also going to cost the candidates dear as any further delay will take away the crucial time from their limited number of days of campaign that has to be undertaken amid several restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-rjd-in-impasse-over-seat-sharing-in-bihar/story-OdjetDCzSz0Qv8Fg1qacZL.html
30-09-2020||India||Women do most of the heavy lifting in Indian households: NSO report||A first-of-its-kind National Statistical Office (NSO) report released on Tuesday puts numbers to a well known fact -- that Indian women bear the brunt of household work and domestic chores. According to the report, the average Indian woman spends 243 minutes, a little over four hours, on these , which is almost ten times the 25 minutes the average man does. Thanks to the greater burden of domestic work, men spend more time than women in every other activity -- working, studying, even just taking care of themselves. “It has been widely known, and for long, that Indian women undertake a lot of unpaid domestic work. The time use survey only reveals the extent of the disproportionate burden on women. Yet, it is an important first step towards recognition and greater appreciation of their contribution,” said Reetika Khera, associate professor of economics at Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi.Interestingly, there seems to be an inverse relationship between age and the amount of time spent by women on household chores, but a direct one between age and the time spent by men on these. While women above the age of 60 see a sharp fall in their domestic work burden, men tend to devote a greater time to domestic work when they cross 60. Also read: We must quantify the value of women’s unpaid workThe report is based on a survey of 138,000 households in 2019 and looked at anyone over the age of six. While this may seem too young, it is a fact that, especially in poor households, and in rural India, young boys, and more often, young girls, are asked to perform several domestic chores. An average Indian woman spends 19.5% of her time engaged in either unpaid domestic work or unpaid care-giving services, according to the survey conducted between January and December 2019. Men spend just 2.5% of a 24-hour period on these activities. In every other group of activities – from employment and learning to socializing, leisure, and self-care activities like sleeping and eating – men spend a higher share of their daily time than women.Chart 1: Share of daily time spent on different activities for men and women !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();In terms of participation, 81% women take on domestic chores, compared to just 26% of men. Even within domestic work, there is a gender-based division of responsibilities. Men shop, women cook and clean. When participating in unpaid care-giving services (14% of men and 28% of women did this), the maximum participation of both is in childcare and instruction. It is only when they turn 60 that women seem to find a respite from domestic work. A broad age-group wise breakup suggests that above the age of 60, the participation of women in unpaid domestic and care-giving services reduces drastically. Men’s participation in domestic work, on the other hand, increases with age, increasing most significantly after the age of 60.Also read: Billions of hours of unpaid care work by women go uncounted“The fact that women do less unpaid work after 60 could be the result the greater participation by men, and in joint families, it could be a reflection of the older women passing on the work load to their younger bahus,” Khera said. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();There are also differences in participation of women in daily activities depending on where they live. Rural women participate more on paid or unpaid work, whereas urban women participate more in learning, socializing or leisure activities. The survey also shows that urban women who participate in employment and related activities spend 375 minutes a day on these as compared to 317 minutes spent by rural women.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-do-most-of-the-heavy-lifting-in-indian-households-nso-report/story-EKQpkpQLEpXS85vFePH5NP.html
30-09-2020||India||27 jawans killed in 6 years due to faulty ammo: Army report||An internal army assessment has flagged concerns about faulty ammunition and armament supplied by the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) causing army casualties and bleeding the exchequer; 403 accidents over the last six years have resulted in the deaths of 27 soldiers and a loss of Rs 960 crore it said. The four-page note, reviewed by Hindustan Times on Tuesday, said that the army could have bought 100 medium artillery guns with Rs 960 crore that was lost due to poor quality ammunition. It significantly said some friendly foreign countries had even refused to accept OFB products on the grounds of quality and that its corporatisation was the only way forward. An army spokesperson refused to comment, while OFB spokesperson Gagan Chaturvedi said the army’s assessment is not factually correct and that the board will issue a statement on Wednesday. The government has set a one-year timeline for the corporatisation of OFB. The note said 159 soldiers were injured in accidents attributed to OFB-supplied ammunition and armament between 2014 and 2020. “Lack of accountability and poor quality of production result in frequent accidents. This results in injuries and death of soldiers. On an average, one accident takes places per week,” the note said. The highest fatal casualties in a single year were recorded in 2016 when 19 soldiers were killed, while the maximum non-fatal casualties were reported in 2018 when 43 were injured. The ammunition and armament in question was supplied to four wings of the army --- air defence, artillery, armoured corps and infantry. “The sub-optimal efficiency of this potential strategic asset (OFB) is one of the major contributing factors to the hollowness threatening the ammunition and armament holdings of the Indian Army,” according to the army’s assessment. The note added that it was a matter of concern that certain countries have refused to even accept ordnance factory-manufactured ammunition and equipment offered against Lines of Credit due to concerns regarding quality of output, procedures in the factories and inefficient post-sale service. The government announced on September 11, the setting up of an empowered group of ministers (EGoM) under defence minister Rajnath Singh to oversee the corporatisation of OFB, which controls 41 ordnance factories engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms, clothing and leather equipment for soldiers. The factories controlled by the board employ at least 80,000 people who are against the corporatisation. “The corporatisation of a system with modern technologies and advanced automated manufacturing will enable higher precision and minimal failures in production of sensitive munitions .The concept of centralised and state-controlled production is obsolete and needs to be addressed,” said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd). The corporatisation move will benefit OFB, the note said. “The corporatisation of OFB will put it on par with other defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) managed by its own board of directors with broad guidelines from the government. The government has envisioned growth of OFB post corporatisation expecting it to raise its turnover to Rs 30,000 crore by 2024-25 annually against the existing Rs 12,000 crore, and has set up a high-level panel to work out a roadmap to achieve the same.”. According to the army’s internal assessment, OFB has a monopoly over several products required by the armed forces, minimal focus on innovation and technology development , no incentive to improve quality and cost efficiency, and no accountability for its products. The note said OFB has performed below its potential over the last few decades and drained the defence budget by overpricing products. “Rs 658.58 crore worth of (ammunition) was disposed of within shelf life between April 2014 and April 2019 and Rs 303.23 crore worth of mines were disposed of within shelf life post Pulgaon accident in May 2016. Rs 960 cr loss roughly means 100 155 mm medium artillery guns could have been bought for this amount,” the note said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-jawans-killed-in-6-yrs-due-to-faulty-ammo-army-report/story-S3NoVBqSStzonfRwDnAccM.html
30-09-2020||India||Former envoys slam Beijing for invoking old LAC perception||China’s efforts to base the resolution of the boundary dispute with India on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) proposed by premier Zhou Enlai in 1959 are untenable as that does not conform with the actual situation on the ground, two former ambassadors involved in the border talks said on Tuesday. The external affairs ministry said on Tuesday that India has never accepted the unilaterally defined 1959 LAC and stressed that crucial agreements with China committed both sides to confirming and clarifying the alignment of the boundary. Former foreign secretary Shiv Shankar Menon, who played a key role in negotiations that led to the signing of the Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC in 1993, described the Chinese foreign ministry’s reference to the 1959 LAC as a “red herring”. Also read: China says it doesn’t recognise ‘illegal’ UT Ladakh, denies it’s building military bases near LACMenon has highlighted several problems with the 1959 proposal in a chapter of his 2016 book Choices devoted to the 1993 agreement. The Chinese side described the so-called LAC of 1959 “only in general terms on maps not to scale”, and the “Chinese concept was a disconnected series of points on a map that could be joined up in many ways”, he wrote. He also argued that the “vagueness of the Chinese definition left it open for China to continue its creeping attempt to change facts on the ground by military force” – something that experts contend has happened in the Ladakh sector of the LAC during the current standoff. “The fact is this is a red herring. Both sides know where the LAC is and have kept the peace for several decades. The 1959 LAC was never accepted by India. Why is it being brought up now?” said Menon, who served as the envoy to China during 2000-03 and as foreign secretary during 2006-09. Also read: 1959 claim is wrong, but it punctures China’s theory, say experts“It is being done to justify their behaviour and some people here are falling for it. The more we get into this discussion, the less sense it makes. The Chinese side changed the status quo and they should restore it,” he said. Ashok Kantha, who served as India’s ambassador to China during 2014-16 and is currently director of the Institute of Chinese Studies, described the 1959 LAC as a “notional and fictional line with no basis in facts”. “They have tried this in the past, and this notional LAC has been rejected by India, including during the 1993 negotiations,” said Kantha, who was involved in negotiations for the 1996 Agreement on Confidence Building Measures in the military field during his stint as director (China) in the external affairs ministry. Also read: ‘No war, no peace in Ladakh,’ says IAF chief RKS BhadauriaThe reference to the 1959 LAC is in line with China’s attempts to maintain ambiguity about the alignment of the boundary instead of discussing differences in perception on the LAC, Kantha said. Noting that article 10 of the 1996 agreement clearly states that the two sides would “exchange maps indicating their respective perceptions of the entire alignment of the Line of Actual Control as soon as possible”, he said India and China had only exchanged maps for the middle sector, whereas the maps for the western sector were shown but never shared. “The Chinese side showed us their maps but then took them back, and so did we,” Kantha said, adding the Chinese side should instead resume the exercise of clarifying the LAC. Menon also notes in his book that during the negotiations for the 1993 agreement, the Chinese side insisted on the LAC of 1959 and “that if there were any doubts, they would tell the Indians where the LAC lay”. He wrote: “This arrogation was patently one-sided and unfair. Chinese Foreign Office mandarins seemed hard-pressed to justify this position to us, finally saying privately that they had no leeway as the PLA (People’s Liberation Army) were insistent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-envoys-slam-beijing-for-invoking-old-lac-perception/story-k0tU3BE8HpLnR9lNSDkWpI.html
30-09-2020||India||‘We hoped she will survive’: Unease shrouds Hathras rape victim’s village||Boolgarhi, a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, was tensely calm on Tuesday after a 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was gangraped and brutalised a fortnight ago, died in a New Delhi hospital. The police were keeping a wary watch on the village that has a mixed population of Dalits and upper-caste Thakurs to prevent the tension from flaring into violence.The death of the woman in New Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital sparked protests by the Congress party and other opposition groups, who said the gangrape was another illustration of how much law and order had deteriorated in Uttar Pradesh under the watch of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Nobody wants to speak about the incident. We never thought the incident would become so big. When the girl was shifted to a good hospital, we hoped she will survive,” said a resident of Boolgarhi, a village of just 750 people.The 19-year-old and her mother had gone to the fields on September 14, and the young woman went missing soon after. She was later found, having been raped, beaten and tortured and her tongue cut after she bit down on it when the rapists tried to strangle her, according to the police account. All the four suspects have been arrested; their family members are in a state of shock.Also read: Outrage, stir after Hathras rape victim’s deathUttar Pradesh police and the Provincial Armed Constabulary were patrolling Boolgarhi, where local residents watched their village make it to television news headlines for all the wrong reasons.Inspector general (Aligarh Range) Piyush Mordia has stationed himself at Chandapa Kotwali. “We are committed to ensure law and order,” Mordia said.The rape victim was first admitted in Jawarhalal Nehru Medical College of Aligarh Muslim University from where she was shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi when her condition didn’t improve. She died on Tuesday morning. The news of the death of the woman, who used to live in a house opposite those of the accused, shook the families of the suspects. Women and elders in their families locked themselves up from inside.One of the accused was married six years ago and has two children, but his wife has left the village with the children. Two other suspects are unmarried. The fourth suspect has shifted to the village from Agra.Back in the city of Hathras, there were protests all around. Congress party workers, who took out a candle march, pledged justice for Hathras ki beti (daughter of Hathras).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unease-shrouds-hathras-rape-victim-s-village/story-WJ31Tb131qFvaBUWezf5EP.html
30-09-2020||India||1959 claim is wrong, but it punctures China’s theory: Experts||China’s reference to a 1959 definition of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that was never accepted by India highlights Beijing’s reluctance to disengage, experts and senior army officer said, adding that the claim has also served to puncture the country’s claim that it did not transgress into Indian territory in the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh. “India doesn’t recognise the 1959 claim line. However, even as per the Chinese interpretation of the 1959 line, the LAC runs through Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan valley. But the June 15 skirmish took place 800 metres west of their own claim line. Their intention is to grab territory,” a senior Indian Army officer tracking the situation along the LAC said on condition of anonymity. China’s assertion that it abides by the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as proposed by Premier Zhou Enlai to Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru (who rejected it) in 1959 has complicated the border row . By bringing up the 1959 LAC, China is just hardening its position and making a resolution even more difficult, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). Also read: ‘Indian forces prepared for any eventuality’: IAF chief on Ladakh standoffBeijing’s position, made known in an exclusive statement to Hindustan Times amid the ongoing border friction in eastern Ladakh, is a reiteration of the long-existing differences on the boundary question and a sign that the ongoing military standoff is unlikely to be resolved soon. “India has never accepted the 1959 LAC. Not at the time it was brought up in 1959, not after the 1962 war when it was referred to in the unilateral ceasefire announced by China, or at any time after that. By referring to this, they seem to indicate that disengagement is unlikely,” Hooda added. China is attempting to justify its salami-slicing tactics by referring to the 1959 claim line, another senior Army officer added on condition of anonymity. Salami slicing refers to a string of small, clandestine operations meant to achieve a larger goal that would be difficult to accomplish in one go. The two serving officers said the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had gone beyond its own so-called claims of 1959 in the Galwan valley and triggered a deadly skirmish there on June 15 resulting in 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese deaths. Outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese in the seven-hour deadly conflict near PP-14 in Galwan valley. Also Read: Post Ladakh, PLA no longer a bogey for Indian Army | Analysis“The PLA claim has shifted to Nala junction or Y-junction where Galwan river meets the Shyok, which is 800 metres on the Indian side of China’s claim of 1959. In April 2020, the PLA objected to the construction of a bridge at the mouth of Galwan. This area was never contested and that’s why face-offs never took place here,” the first officer said, holding the PLA responsible for the brutal skirmish. “I don’t think there is any great clarity about the 1959 LAC. We do have some idea about their 1960 claim line, but a claim line does not automatically translate into the LAC,” Hooda said. “Over a period of the last 60 years, both countries have consolidated their hold over their own sides of the LAC. Areas where there are differing perceptions are also clearly known. This should form the basis for any negotiations and not some vague and undefined LAC that existed in 1959 when physical control by both sides was tenuous,” Hooda added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1959-claim-is-wrong-but-it-punctures-china-s-theory/story-9uzngxH3XyvixDmW3Ht60L.html
30-09-2020||India||Outrage, stir after Hathras rape victim’s death||The Congress on Tuesday questioned the “silence” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and women leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), attacking the ruling party over the gang-rape of a 19-year-old woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras who died in New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi led the charge against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the incident, saying the “class-specific jungle raj” in Uttar Pradesh had killed another young woman. The woman was left with her legs paralysed fully and hands partially after the assault by four men on September 14. “The government said that this is fake news and left the victim to die. Neither was this unfortunate incident fake nor was the death of the victim and the mercilessness of the government,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. The attack on the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government came after the Dalit woman from Hathras died at Safdarjung hospital in Delhi Tuesday morning, days after she was allegedly raped by four men. The woman was allegedly gang-raped following which she was admitted to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh. She was referred to the Delhi hospital on Monday after her condition failed to improve . The woman had gone to the fields with her mother and then went missing. She was later found injured, with her tongue cut because she bit it when the rapists attempted to strangulate her, the police said. The Congress on Tuesday protested at Vijay Chowk in New Delhi, demanding justice for the victim. Its leaders PL Punia, Udit Raj and Amrita Dhawan, along with other functionaries were later detained at the Mandir Marg Police station. Party general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government, alleging that there was “no semblance of security” for women in the state. “A Dalit girl who was victim of demoniac behaviour in Hathras has passed away at Safdarjung Hospital. For two weeks, she struggled between life and death in hospitals,” she tweeted in Hindi. Priyanka Gandhi said incidents of rape in Hathras, Shahjahanpur and Gorakhpur had shaken Uttar Pradesh. “Law and order in UP has deteriorated beyond limits. There is no semblance of safety for women. Criminals are committing crimes in the open,” she said and demanded that the killers of this girl be punished severely. “You are accountable for the safety of women in UP,” she said, referring to chief minister Adityanath. At a press conference at the party headquarters in Delhi, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate alleged that for eight days, no gang-rape charges had been pressed and only after the media reported the incident did the police register a case. She said the UP chief minister’s information advisor and the Agra Police, up until September 24, kept calling this “fake news”. “Questions still remain. Why did it take eight days for the UP police to register a gang-rape case on her complaint, why was she immediately not transferred to a premier institute like AIIMS {All India Institute of Medical Sciences}, and instead was left to die in UP?” she asked. “Why is it that these men who brutally assaulted, raped and murdered her, do not face NSA (National Security Act) charges and why is it that the UP chief minister is absolutely quiet on this?” Shrinate said. The Congress leader alleged the police were “hand in glove” with criminals in UP while the state government extends “political patronage” to them. “I will also raise questions on the absolute conspicuous silence of the Prime Minister, and women leaders of the BJP who had at one point in time said it is their moral duty to raise their voice on crimes against women and today when they are in charge of those departments, they do not utter a word,” she said. “If one does not condemn this, then one is very much hand in glove with the criminals,” Shrinate added. BSP chief Mayawati and Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav also spoke out. In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, “The news of the death of Dalit victim after gangrape in Hathras, UP is very saddening. The government should provide all possible help to the victim’s family and ensure fast punishment to the culprits by prosecuting them in a fast track court. This is the demand of the BSP.” Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav condoled the death of a “Dalit daughter”. “A Dalit daughter, who was a victim of gangrape and brutality, ultimately died. I condole her death. No hope is left with the present insensitive government,” Yadav wrote in a tweet in Hindi. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the young woman’s death was a shame for the entire society and the country as well as for all governments. “It’s highly sad that so many daughters are being sexually assaulted and we have not been able to protect them. The guilty must be hanged at the earliest,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outrage-stir-after-hathras-rape-victim-s-death/story-WLYL2T7JFRN6qMPcdxgcxN.html
30-09-2020||Today's||Affordable housing is the solution to urban inequality, exclusion||In the Delhi elections, the promise of “Jahan jhuggi, vahan makaan” (where the house, there the home) resounded across party manifestos. Today, it faces a grave challenge — a recent order from the Supreme Court directing the possible forced eviction of 48,000 households on railway land. The order is currently stayed with the railways promising no “coercive action” for four weeks. The court has tasked the railways, the Delhi government and the central government to instead come up with a comprehensive housing plan for these households. What should such a “plan” look like?First, any plan must be understood within the realities of housing in Delhi. Despite the language of “encroachment” and widespread “land grab,” bastis (slums) are on a minute portion of city land — less than 0.6% of total land area, and 3.4% of residential land in the 2021 Delhi Master Plan. This tiny percentage supports no less than 11-15% but possibly up to 30% of the city’s population, most settled for decades. One example shows how skewed this number is. In 2017, parking Delhi’s 3.1 million cars used 13.25 sq km of land, or 5% of all residential area. Cars, then, have more space than the housing of workers, residents, and families. The basti is not an encroachment for personal gain, it marks State and market failure to provide affordable and legal housing. It is, instead, the only affordable housing stock built at scale by any actor in the city. It is the starting of a solution to urban inequality rather than a problem to be solved.Second, settlements are not just houses, but housing. The difference between the two is how workers survive in cities despite low wages. Housing requires not just a pucca structure but the possibility of employment and affordable mobility. It is linked to admission for children in local schools, employers’ homes that domestic workers can walk to, public institutions were trust has been built, arrangements for child-care with known neighbours, and streets that vendors and rickshaw drivers have mastered as markets. This is why both the central and state governments are right to promise “jahan jhuggi, vahan makaan”. A house can be resettled, perhaps, but housing cannot simply be transplanted. Media reports on the plan, however, indicate a worrying reliance on peripheral resettlement, often to sites in the northwest and southwest corners of the city despite a clear limit of five km in the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) 2015 policy. Repeated studies on peripheral resettlement show that it is a shock that pushes a generation back into poverty, let alone when it comes amid an economic recession. These under-construction units must not become the default plan. How can in-situ upgradation be prioritised and peripheral resettlement minimised? Regularising settlements on an “as is where is” basis (as was done with unauthorised colonies) is the fastest, cheapest, safest and most effective way to secure tenure and respect a lifetime of investment. At a mere one sq km of built-on railway land in total, it is also efficient. No new houses need to be built — households will do this themselves over a period of time as their economic security grows with legal tenure. Communities and experts can even offer solutions on how to manage restrictions in a safety zone, with mitigation ideas not based on forced evictions. Resettlement plans similarly must not limit themselves to the sites already in progress. Instead, they must leverage all available land — land that the three largest landholders in the city certainly have — and remain strictly limited to the five km rule. A pandemic is raging. More have already left our cities than during the Partition. Evictions and peripheral resettlement would mean that we have learnt little from it about the exclusionary nature of our urbanisation. Delhi has, in the recent past, found land for large infrastructure projects, transport, stadiums and malls. Jahan jhuggi, vahan makaan is possible. The decision is not if it can be done but if we are willing to do it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/affordable-housing-is-the-solution-to-urban-inequality-exclusion/story-2lxI9nIzrMekwC1s9nX3KI.html
30-09-2020||Today's||Donald Trump in attack mode, but fails to dent Joe Biden | Opinion||United States (US) President Donald Trump had a choice when he went into this election’s televised presidential debate: Woo the undecideds or woo his base. He decided to do the latter, resulting in the most acrimonious and bad-tempered such debate in US history. The initial run of instant polling, focus groups and commentary give Democratic candidate Joe Biden a slight edge among watchers. But the 30 to 40% who said they felt Trump was the winner indicate his followers liked his tough guy act.Trump deliberately sought to throw off the Democratic Party hopeful with constant interruptions, attacks on his family members and a stream of non-facts about his opponent’s record. The Republicans have sought to portray Biden as too forgetful and doddering to be serve in the White House. Biden is 77, Trump just three years younger. On this point Trump failed. Biden rolled with the punches. A number of undecided voters in focus groups said they didn’t buy Trump’s talk of “Sleepy Joe” any more. Biden’s campaign netted $3.8 million during the debate, a record one-hour haul for him.Trump’s second line of attack was to paint Biden socialist red. He has long claimed the Democratic Party’s support for full healthcare, green energy and welfare would herald the beginning of “socialism” in the US. Biden was not vigorous in his defence, perhaps because he fears alienating the leftwing of his party – which backs many of these policies. Or because he does plan to introduce watered-down versions if he makes it to the White House. The result was Biden failed to outline a vision, leaving the impression of a nice guy whose strongest point is that he is not Trump.Trump, who dominated the debate in the worst possible way, declined to disavow white supremacists who have been the main source of bloodshed at the anti-racist protests and riots still taking place across the US. The race card remained in play with code phrases like “law and order” and claims that Biden was disliked by the police. Climate change was played down and declared to have no role in the record wildfires burning across the Pacific coast.Trump doubled-down on what worries the US commentariat the most: That he will use batteries of lawyers to contest a Biden victory. He insinuated mail-order ballots, which are likely to be skewed towards Democrats, were suspect and airily said “it could be months” before it is clear who would win. “If I see tens of thousands of ballots being manipulated, I’m not going to accept it.” Biden sidestepped attacking the conservative Christian supreme court nominee Trump has chosen, knowing she may cast the deciding vote if the contest has to be decided by the judiciary. Burying his rivals with legal cases was a standard operating procedure for Trump the real estate man. Which is why the Democrats are already lining up hundreds of lawyers in expectation.The President’s nemesis in this election is less Biden than the Covid-19 virus. The pandemic wrecked a roaring US economy. The memory of that growth is strong enough that US voters still say they have more faith in Trump than Biden when it comes to the economy. The virus also sharply revealed the depths of the Trump’s administration’s dysfunctionality. Suburban women, “soccer moms” and similar social groups, are a large chunk of the vote and the most concerned about family and community safety. They voted for Barack Obama, but dumped Hillary Clinton in favour of Trump. They have been tracking consistently for Biden largely because they are appalled by the President’s handling of Covid-19. In this debate, as in real life, Trump fumbled in his responses about the pandemic, noting he carried a mask, claiming a vaccine was around the corner and claiming India and Russia – two of the few countries he has had positive things to say about – lie about their Covid numbers.US voters who wanted a genuine election debate about policies and vision will have to wait when the vice-presidents, seasoned politicians Mike Pence and Kamala Harris, meet on October 6. Biden continues to lead Trump by 3.5% in the battleground states, the number that matters. This debate won’t change that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/donald-trump-in-attack-mode-but-fails-to-dent-joe-biden/story-saQlJClOCbfryjPfl7z1sL.html
30-09-2020||Editorials||Resolve the Hathras rape case swiftly||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention asking for strong action against the perpetrators and the statement by the Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, that a Special Investigation Team will look into the Hathras case and submit its report in a week offer hope that this crime will not fall by the wayside. The victim was reportedly attacked and gangraped while working in a field; she died in Delhi on Tuesday. That she was a Dalit and her attackers upper caste has opened up old wounds in a state where such distinctions matter. The attack happened on September 14, but the hospital where she was first treated did not even confirm the rape. Already spin factories are busy preferring alternative facts about how she was beaten up, not raped. Meanwhile, the UP police has added insult to injury by hastily cremating the body, in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday even though the family wanted to take her home and then cremate her on Wednesday. A state machinery that was inefficient in preventing the crime or even acting promptly on the complaint, suddenly turned efficient in managing the aftermath. The real issues, that of filing an FIR in time, of proper forensic investigation, and of meticulous evidence-gathering have not been addressed. The case should prompt a review of security for women and accountability both on the part of the state and the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/resolve-the-hathras-rape-case-swiftly/story-njpQDHyR973T13IhYRkmbO.html
