01-06-2020||India||Cash-strapped Odisha asks departments to plough back money in bank accounts to treasury||Facing huge shortfall in revenue collection, Odisha has asked government departments to route their money parked in bank accounts back to the government treasury to improve the cash balance to meet Covid-19 related emergent expenditure and other committed expenditure .In a letter to the drawing and disbursing officers of different departments last month, the finance department said government money parked in bank accounts without authorization has to he ploughed back to the state government account. It said money in respect of closed schemes or schemes no more in operation for more than two years should be considered for this.“As the tax and non-tax revenue is adversely affected, any parking of the state government money in bank accounts is not only affecting the cash balance of the State, but also having a negative carry on the interest accrued against such idle government money when compared to the cost of borrowing. The Covid-I9 related lockdown has affected the activities across all the sectors of the economy resulting in limited resource flow to the state exchequer. The state will have to discharge its committed liabilities and also finance Covid-19 management activities,” the letter said.Odisha finance secretary AKK Meena said the departments were still in the process of compiling the money kept in bank accounts in respect of several schemes and the final amount would be known in next fortnight. “In case there would be requirement for expenditure in respect of any of the existing schemes in future, funds would be made available through rebudgeting under those schemes,” he said.Meena said in the first two months of the current fiscal, Odisha has been able to garner only 45 per cent of the revenue collection compared to same period of last fiscal due to Covid-19 lockdown. In the two months, Odisha has managed to collect about Rs 1,700 crore revenue through mining royalty, GST and Inter-State GST. Even the mining revenue collection has gone down by almost 65 per cent compared to same period last fiscal.“We expect the situation to improve from June onwards as industries have started operating. But we have to undertake austerity measures in the coming months as revenue collection is likely to go down,” he said. Compared to other States, Odisha was in a fiscally better position as it reported a fiscal surplus of Rs 9,509 crore in 2020-21 Budget.In its 2020-21 Budget, Odisha had estimate total revenue receipts at Rs 1,24,300 crore, of which Rs 56,000 crore were to be raised through state’s own resources while the rest has to come from central transfers. But with the national economy facing contraction, officials said the central transfer will also take a major hit.Finance department officials said the State may have to go for borrowings to fund its budgeted expenditures as well as committed liabilities like salary and pension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cash-strapped-odisha-asks-departments-to-plough-back-money-in-bank-accounts-to-treasury/story-Xg192X3dGhyzGEkmI2UjGK.html
01-06-2020||India||OIL sends show cause notice to Gujarat firm for gas well blowout in Assam||Six days since blow out took place in a natural gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district, Oil India Limited (OIL) on Monday sent show cause notice to a Gujarat based company involved in the drilling operations. Addressing media persons in Assam’s Duliajan on Monday, OIL chairman-cum-managing director Sushil Chandra Mishra said show cause notice has been issued to John Energy Private Limited.He also assured that action would be initiated on employees of OIL if there is any prima facie evidence of human error. A five-member inquiry committee has been formed to probe the blow out.Meanwhile, gas and condensate continued to flow “uncontrollably” from the well in Baghjan area, which witnessed a blow out on Wednesday. Nearly 2,500 persons from 650 families residing near the well have been evacuated as a safety measure and are now residing in three camps.A blow out is uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well when pressure control systems fail. Condensate is a low density high gravity hydrocarbon phase that is generally found along with natural gas.In a release issued on Monday, OIL said that a crisis management team was able to reach the well and started pumping water continuously into the well head by opening a casing valve.Water is pumped into the well and nearby areas to ensure there is no breakout of fire. A pipeline is being laid from a nearby river to ensure continuous supply of water and a big pond is being excavated to store water.“OIL has also contacted global experts to control the blow out. Offers with action plan and time line received from Boots and Coots, Alert Disaster Control and Wild Well Control. The offers are being examined and are under consideration,” OIL said in a press release.According to local residents, condensate from the well has covered nearby trees and houses with a layer of oil.An oil-like layer was also witnessed in the water bodies of the Maguri wetland close to the well. Carcass of a Gangetic dolphin was found in the wetland on Friday which led to fears that it might have died from oil contamination.The OIL well in Baghjan is close to the Dibru Saikhowa national park. According to Tinsukia district officials, though there is not much threat from the blow out to the park, it could impact the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) near it.On Monday OIL CMD Mishra said that they were also concerned about reported impact on bio diversity of the area and are awaiting findings of district administration, forest department and pollution control board to take necessary action.Mishra reaffirmed that OIL is not carrying out any exploration inside the ESZ.Last month, the union forest, environment and climate change ministry had given environmental clearance for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations by OIL under Dibru-Saikhowa national park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-sends-show-cause-notice-to-gujarat-firm-for-gas-well-blowout-in-assam/story-JFZirw7nxxlfMLErKBwyDI.html
01-06-2020||India||Paid quarantine for returnees helps Sikkim hotels recover lockdown losses||Sikkim’s hotel industry has suffered huge losses due to the lockdown and the state’s decision to ban the entry of foreigners and Indian citizens before other states did so, has also led to financial loss for hotel owners. But, hotel owners now are a happy lot since local people are paying for rooms to stay in quarantine. Many of these are star hotels but the Sikkim government has fixed the rate at Rs 1000 a day plus taxes including all food.According to the hotel owners, there has been a huge response from local people returning from other states as they are barred from staying at home but have the option of staying in paid quarantine at hotels. For those who cannot afford hotels, the Sikkim government offers institutional quarantine. Returnees have to stay in free or paid quarantine facilities for 14 days before going for home quarantine for another 14 days. Sikkim so far has only one Covid-19 positive case.In sharp contrast, hotels in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Siliguri in adjoining West Bengal, where the Trinamool Congress government offers a similar option, have practically done no business because staying at home is an option in the state. Also, the hotels in Bengal’s hill districts are more expensive. Raj Yadav, District Collector of east Sikkim district, said, “30 to 40 per cent returnees are going for paid quarantine in hotels where we have fixed the rate at Rs 1000 a day plus taxes including breakfast, lunch, snacks and dinner. Most of the hotels requisitioned by the government belong to star category.”Arun Tamang, front office manager of Royal Plaza Hotel in Gangtok said, “Most of our 55 rooms are occupied for paid quarantine.”Bishnu Acharyay, front office manager of the Lemon Tree Hotel, a four-star property, said, “We have hosted 127 people living in paid quarantine.”“In Siliguri, where the Bengal government has earmarked 21 hotels for paid quarantine, there are hardly any takers,” said Ujjal Ghosh, joint secretary, Greater Siliguri Hoteliers Welfare Association.Biplab Ghosh, owner of Swastik Hotel in Siliguri, said, “I have only two guests staying in paid quarantine.”“There are not even 21 people in 21 hotels in Siliguri,” said a hotel owner who requested anonymity. “The Bengal government has not made free or paid quarantine mandatory for returnees. It has allowed returnees to stay at home. Who will come to stay in a hotel?” he asked.Though they did not speak on record, hoteliers in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Siliguri said guests have to pay more than their counterparts in Sikkim despite a 40 per cent discount being offered. Moreover, guests have to pay for food separately. The room rates vary from Rs 960 to Rs 3000 per person exclusive of taxes.Samden Dukpa, executive director and nodal officer for Covid-19, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) in Darjeeling, said hotels expressed their regret that they could not offer their services for free.“Only three hotels in Darjeeling are hosting returnees for free while meals are being provided by GTA,” said Suraj Sharma, assistant director, tourism department, GTA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paid-quarantine-for-returnees-help-sikkim-hotels-recover-lockdown-losses/story-fczqOGMyRGqJNooxJdViuM.html
01-06-2020||India||J&K exempts armed, paramilitary personnel from mandatory Covid-19 test||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday exempted defence and paramilitary personnel returning to UT for joining duties from compulsory rapid tests for Covid-19 and subsequent administrative quarantine.“Armed Forces and CAPF personnel returning to join their duties in J&K are exempted from RTPCY and administrative quarantine. They will be sent to their respective battalions and units,” said an official spokesperson.He, however, informed that travellers from red districts to orange districts within the UT will undergo Covid-19 test followed by 14-day quarantine.“If tested negative, they will go home for quarantine and in case tested positive, they will go to hospital,” he said.The government, however, has exempted certain categories from mandatory administrative quarantine of 14 days and they include pregnant women, cancer patients, chronically ill and dialysis patients, mothers with infants below one year old child, children below 10 years travelling alone, government of India personnel on duty and passengers with negative RTPCR test results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-exempts-armed-paramilitary-personnel-from-mandatory-covid-19-test/story-niqTTLRoheYPikoi88ch3M.html
01-06-2020||India||Should Delhi hospitals be reserved for city residents only? Govt seeks suggestions||New Delhi: With cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the rise, the Delhi government announced a week-long border closure to ensure that beds in Delhi hospitals are utilised for the treatment of Delhi residents. The government has sought opinion from citizens as to whether the health services in Delhi should be restricted for Delhi residents during Covid-19 pandemic.Delhi recorded 990 cases of Covid-19 on Monday with the total cases breaching the 20,000 mark at 20,834.“The moment we open the borders people from across the country will come to Delhi for treatment. There are about 9,500 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Delhi; currently, there are only 2,300 patients. The beds will fill up in just two days if patients from across the country come for treatment to Delhi. Should we open the borders? Some say, borders should be opened but the hospitals services should be reserved for those living in Delhi till Covid-19 pandemic,” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a press briefing.The CM has asked for people’s suggestions till Friday 5pm on WhatsApp (8800007722), email (delhicm.suggestion@gmail.com), or voice message (1031). A decision will be taken next week, he said.So far, Delhi has 3,755 beds in government hospitals – including central government-run hospitals All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Safdarjung, Ram Manohar Lohia, and Lady Hardinge Medical College. Among the 5,390 beds the government plans to add by June 15 are 100 beds in the railway hospital and 70 beds in the Army Base hospital.These hospitals cannot refuse any patients.“RML has a no refusal policy. We treat whoever comes to our hospital,” said Dr Minakshi Bhardwaj, medical superintendent of the hospital. Similarly, at AIIMS – an autonomous institute under the central government – patients cannot be restricted based on where they stay as per hospital policy.“As far as AIIMS is concerned, we treat patients from across the country – almost 50% of our patients are not Delhi residents. Being a central government-run hospital, we will continue to do so,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS.Experts, however, say the Delhi government can restrict the services under such unusual circumstances. “The (state) government can choose to close the border and restrict health services. Currently, the state has the right to requisition each and every bed in the city irrespective of the ownership. Every state has a capacity and it is naturally justified that they want to utilise it for the treatment of their own patients,” said K Sujatha Rao, former union health secretary.Legally, however, advocates say that such a move will be violative of the right to life.“The government is seeking public opinion to justify an action it wants to take. However, all citizens in this country are equal and should have equal access to healthcare services. Plus, all healthcare facilities in Delhi are not run by the Delhi government – there are centre-run hospitals, MCD-run hospitals. Plus, in private hospitals that received subsidised land from the government, the guidelines say anybody from anywhere in India is eligible for free treatment under the economically weaker section category,” said advocate Ashok Agarwal, who works on cases of access to healthcare.He had filed a petition in the high court when the Delhi government had restricted certain services – such as free medicines and diagnostics – to Delhi residents in its Guru Teg Bahadur hospital in the trans-Yamuna region, which receives about 70% of the patients from outside Delhi.“The high court had ruled against the Delhi government decision then. In that matter, the high court had said that it was violative of right to life,” said Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-delhi-hospitals-be-reserved-for-city-residents-only-govt-seeks-suggestions/story-y1KLrP0u7GjLDey61lY25M.html
01-06-2020||India||Tripura CM says Covid-19 spread among BSF for violating social distancing and quarantine norms||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb said on Monday that Covid -19 spread among Border Security Force (BSF) personnel and their families in the state because they violated social distancing.. Out of the 319 Covid-19 cases in the state till Monday, as many as 166 were found among BSF personnel and their families in the 138th and 86th battalions in Tripura. Soon after the outbreak of the virus in the two BSF battalions, Tripura asked BSF inspector general Solomon Kumar Minz to submit a report regarding reason for spreading of the disease in a week. But they are yet to submit the report. Later, the state government requested the National Centre for Disease Control ( NCDC) to investigate the matter. Accordingly, a three-member central team from North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health & Medical Sciences (NEIGRIHMS), Shillong visited the state to investigate the source of the outbreak among the BSF personnel. After visiting the affected areas including the BSF camps in the state, the team submitted the report to the state government on Sunday. “ We got the report and forwarded the same to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. During investigation, the central team observed that many BSF personnel had travel history and they returned to the state after their leave in February and March. Still, they didn’t maintain social distancing and quarantine norms. Even their samples should have been collected and tested on the basis of 1:10 ratio, if it was not possible on the basis of 1:5 ratio. If this was done that time, the disease would not have spread among the BSF and their families at such high rate,” Deb told reporters at his official residence.Out of the tally of 319 Covid-19 cases, 173 have recovered. Many of the BSF jawans were also released from isolation wards. “ We are taking initiatives to test all people who are returning to the state. I have visited certain villages to see the situation at the quarantine facilities. I have seen people are much aware of the quarantine and social distancing norms ,especially in villages,” the CM.After spread of the disease, the BSF suspended all physical activities and other gatherings. They even stopped interaction between the BSF and the civilians outside their camps, said one senior BSF official on the condition of anonymity.However, he did not comment on the Chief Minister’s statement that the BSF was yet to submit a report on how the disease spread so fast among the force..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cm-says-covid-19-spread-among-bsf-for-violating-social-distancing-and-quarantine-norms/story-xVF9941i4Rra3JAYHfLawO.html
01-06-2020||India||BSF DG visits Indo-Pak international border in Jammu to review security scenario||Amid spike in ceasefire violations and intrusion bids along the Line of Control, the director general of Border Security Force (BSF) SS Deswal visited the Indo-Pak international border in Jammu sector to review the security scenario on the strategic frontier.“Director General BSF SS Deswal visited the area of Jammu frontier on Saturday and Sunday He was accompanied by Additional DG S Panwar, IG BSF Jammu Frontier NS Jamwal and other officers,” said a BSF spokesman.Jamwal briefed the DG about complexities of management of Jammu border under prevailing security scenario.“DG BSF also reviewed the border domination plan. He visited the critical areas of entire border stretch and held discussions with various field commanders and senior police officers regarding border domination and other security measures being adopted,” said the spokesman.The BSF field commanders apprised Deswal about various ongoing construction works on the border and constraints being faced during their implementation. DG BSF also interacted with jawans and patiently attended to their issues.He stressed about the importance of physical fitness and exhorted the border troops to engage themselves in regular fitness exercises and games.He also planted various saplings in the border posts of the BSF to give it a look of green border. Deswal also stressed upon the idea of cultivation of land ahead of fencing with the help of BSF, which can provide security to the farmers.Amid stiff resistance by Pakistan, the BSF recently restored Ranbir canal in RS Pura and Arnia sectors on international border.Much to the glee of farmers, BSF stood guard to workers, who desilted the canal.Ranbir canal is the major source of irrigation for farmers in Jammu region. Constructed in 1905, it is considered to be the lifeline of Jammu. Total length of canal is 59.55 kms and it was the game changing project, which laid the foundation of rapid transformation of rural agricultural economy in Jammu. The famous Basmati rice of RS Pura owes its cultivation primarily to Ranbir canal.DG BSF also reviewed the prevailing Covid-19 situation and precautions being taken and advised the troops to indulge in physical activities and increased immunity to deal with this pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-dg-visits-indo-pak-international-border-in-jammu-to-review-security-scenario/story-n05m3pNvVSrEBZYoBK2Q1L.html
01-06-2020||India||With 23 new Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand, state tally reaches 929||With 23 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, Uttarakhand’s tally reached to 929 on Monday, whereas 98 people were declared successfully recovered by the state health department.In a bulletin issued on Monday afternoon, the state health department stated that 23 new cases were detected from Haridwar (8) and Champawat (15) on Sunday. All the 23 patients who tested positive had returned to the state from Maharashtra.On Monday, 98 Covid-19 patients recovered from the virus and were discharged from different districts. The patients had recovered from districts like Udham Singh Nagar (8), Champawat (7), Nainital (71), Bageshwar (5) Uttarkashi (6) and Pauri Garhwal (1).With this, the recovery percentage of Covid-19 patients in the state now stands at 21.53 %. On Sunday, the rate of recovery was recorded to be 12.72%. The rate of infection stands at 3.82% in Uttarakhand.As of now, districts like Nainital (260), Dehradun (233), Udham Singh Nagar (82), Tehri Garhwal (77), Haridwar (76) and Almora (63) have the highest number of cases. Rudraprayag district with six cases has the least number of positive cases reported so far.Till May 30, over 1.83 lakh migrants had returned to the state, while over 2.64 lakh migrants had registered to come back to the state from different parts of the country.On Sunday, a 20-year-old Covid-19 positive man had died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh, two days after he tested positive.The health department on Monday clarified that the cause of death was severe sepsis and septic shock.Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh, on Sunday had said that the 20-year-old boy had been admitted to the hospital on May 27 for a procedure and he had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 29.“The boy who was a resident of Shyampur area had been electrocuted last month when a part of his body had to be amputated. On May 27, he was admitted to the hospital again as he developed an infection. Before the procedure, his samples were taken for Covid-19 testing and he tested positive on May 29 and he died on Sunday morning,” said Thapliyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-23-new-covid-19-cases-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-reaches-929/story-veOdcudV0wndAk5LFV5qWL.html
01-06-2020||India||Bengal BJP enters poll mode, Amit Shah to kick-start virtual meetings on June 8||The West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has entered poll mode with about a year to go for the Assembly elections, announcing a series of ‘virtual meetings’, the first of which will be addressed by union home minister Amit Shah on June 8. The party also named its new state executive that would lead the party to the elections.Monday’s announcements came barely four days after the party released a 9-point charge-sheet against Mamata Banerjee’s nine-year rule and called for toppling the state government in 2021. That day, they also launched a campaign branded as ‘Aar Noi Mamata’, which literally means ‘no more Mamata’.“In these virtual meetings, there will be a dais, with two-three speakers. 1,000 party workers would be able to directly participate and ask questions. Another 1,000 would be able to watch the proceedings using a link,” BJP state unit president Dilip Ghosh said. Amit Shah will be the main speaker in the first such meeting, scheduled at 11 am on June 8. This event is slated to be aired live on social media. There will be four other such meetings, to be addressed by other national and state-level leaders. Ghosh said that they had to make this move because political meetings had come to a halt due to the lockdown and social distancing norms. While party workers will be the attendees at such events, the proceedings would later be shared on social media.“We will highlight the achievements of the Modi government in the past one year and also during this unprecedented crisis over coronavirus. Besides, the Mamata Banerjee government’s failures in dealing with the pandemic, the ration scam, the apathy towards migrant workers, and the lack of preparation in handling the post-cyclone situation would also be highlighted,” Ghosh said. TMC secretary-general and state education minister Partha Chatterjee said that the party was not going to indulge in politics at this hour, as it was busy with relief work. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said a few days ago, “We’ll fight the political battle later.” BJP, however, has accused the government of playing politics by disallowing BJP leaders from carrying out relief work. BJP’s new state leadership, comprising 12 vice-presidents, 5 general secretaries, and 10 secretaries has several of those who switched over from the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Left, which has been a weaker opponent of TMC than the BJP.Former TMC MP-cum-youth wing chief Saumitra Khan, who switched over to BJP in January 2019 and got elected to the Lok Sabha, has become BJP’s new youth wing chief.Former Left MLA Mahfuza Khatun, who joined BJP in 2018, has been made one of the vice-presidents, along with Arjun Singh, a former four-time TMC MLA-turned BJP MP. Former three-time Left MLA-turned-BJP MP Khagen Murmu has been made head of the Scheduled Tribes morcha of the party. Former TMC-MLA Sabyasachi Dutta has been made a secretary.BJP emerged as TMC’s principal opponent in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, bagging 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats, against 22 won by TMC. In the 2016 Assembly elections, TMC won 211 of the state’s 294 seats, while BJP won only 3. The rest were won by the Left-Congress informal alliance. Political analysts said that the timing of the launch of the campaign was wrong. Psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty said, “Open indulgence in general political activities at this hour may backfire and turn some people’s sympathy towards Mamata Banerjee.”Political scientist Amal Mukhopadhyay, former principal of Presidency College, called BJP’s move unfortunate. “They should have waited for the situation to improve and should have focussed on dealing with the people’s distress. This may boomerang,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-enters-poll-mode-amit-shah-to-kick-start-virtual-meetings-on-june-8/story-RVpzZc5US65HOinLlHSuOM.html
01-06-2020||India||30 who returned from Kuwait test positive for Covid-19, Assam’s tally crosses 1,400||Thirty people who returned to Assam from Kuwait by air on Friday were among the 124 new Covid-19 cases reported from the state on Monday taking its tally to 1,464 with the numbers more than tripling in a week.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted about the 30 passengers from Kuwait testing positive for Covid-19. Assam now has 1,179 active cases while 278 have recovered and four have died. Three patients migrated to their own states before recovery.As part of Vande Bharat mission to bring back Indians stranded abroad, a Jazeera Airways flight carrying 155 passengers from Kuwait had landed at Guwahati’s Lokapriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport on May 29. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.This was the first international commercial flight which landed in Guwahati since the lockdown started on March 25. Nearly 100 of the passengers from that flight were quarantined in hostels of Gauhati University.Seven more flights from foreign countries including Philippines, Ukraine, Russia, Singapore, UK, USA and Kyrgyzstan carrying Indians are expected to land in Guwahati by June 14, according to Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna.Over 2.3 lakh people have returned to Assam since ban on inter-state movement was lifted on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-who-returned-from-kuwait-test-positive-for-covid-19-assam-s-tally-crosses-1-400/story-HOM1LjjlnbdFGeqvTKKZNO.html
01-06-2020||India||CBI reports first coronavirus cases as 2 junior officials test positive||Two officials posted at the CBI headquarters here have tested positive for Covid-19, in first cases of the infection in the investigative agencies, sources said Monday.  The junior-level officials have been sent on leave and asked to remain in quarantine till they are in perfect health to join duty, they said.  The senior officers refused to disclose the identity of their two affected colleagues.The agency is likely to carry out a contact-tracing exercise and advise those who came in their contacts to start work from home and follow quarantine protocol, they said.The CBI had initiated strict social-distancing and sanitisation norms from the third week of March with every visitor being checked for temperature and asked to wear face masks mandatorily.  The agency had installed two new handwashing systems on its campus outside its building, besides deputing dedicated staff to ensure hands and feet are sanitised at every level of the 11 storey building, they said.The agency enforced strict social distancing norms when Janata Curfew was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 22, followed by lockdowns announced by the Delhi government and the Centre, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-reports-first-coronavirus-cases-as-2-junior-officials-test-positive/story-LmLvbHZ9e0ZtKq5HLyXHMM.html
01-06-2020||India||Over 3,400 infected with Covid-19 in Karnataka, Bengaluru tops list||Karnataka reported 187 fresh positive Covid-19 cases and a related fatality, taking the total number of infections in the state to 3,408 and the death toll to 52, the health department said on Monday.It said 117 out of 187 cases are returnees from other states, mostly from neighboring Maharashtra, while three returned from the UAE.As of June 1 evening, cumulatively 3,408 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 52 deaths and 1,328 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin.It said that out of 2,026 active cases, 2,014 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 12 are in Intensive Care Units.On Monday, 110 patients were discharged.A 90-year-old man from Bengaluru Urban became the 52nd Covid-19 related fatality in the state.The elderly patient was secondary contact of a patient earlier tested positive.He was admitted on May 24, in view of de-saturation. On May 24 the sepsis worsened along with multi-organ failure and he died on May 31 at a designated hospital, the bulletin said.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Udupi accounted for 73, followed by Bengaluru urban 28, Kalaburagi 24, Hassan 16, Mandya 15, Shivamogga 9, Chikkaballapura 5, Dakshina Kannada 4, Ballari 3, two each from Bidar, Bagalkote and Dharwad, and one each from Vijayapura, Kolar, Haveri and Ramanagara.Bengaluru urban district still tops the list of positive cases with a total of 385 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 305 and Yadgir and Mandya 285.Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total of 237, followed by Kalauragi 128 and Davangere 121.A total of 3,04,816 samples have been tested so far, out of which 11,241 were tested on Monday alone.So far 2,97,052 samples reported as negative and out of them 10,807 reported negative on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-400-infected-with-covid-19-in-karnataka-bengaluru-tops-list/story-ZLUrEQbQABSCipWE2BfzIO.html
01-06-2020||India||Social distancing norms flouted across Bengal on first day of Unlock 1||Overcrowded buses, long queues of office goers at bus stands and thousands of private cars choking traffic at crucial junctions marked the first day of Unlock 1 in West Bengal, and in Kolkata too, even as the state reported 271 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, including 54 in the capital city.Mostly government buses operated in Kolkata but in the districts some private buses hit the roads as well. While the government has allowed buses to operate only with passengers up to its seating capacity, reports of crowded buses emerged from different districts, and even Kolkata. Most private buses stayed off the roads, however, because the government did not agree to their proposal for increasing the fare. In public transport, though masks and gloves have been made mandatory for taking a bus ride, virtually no one wore gloves, but most people wore masks. Ferry services also started from Monday but were less crowded. ALSO READ | Unlock 1: Bengal prepares for new normal with restrictions, less public transportAuto-rickshaws mostly complied with the guidelines and plied with two passengers, instead of four as was usual, and charged double the previous fare. Private buses were often seen carrying many more passengers than allowed. Some government buses too carried more passengers after commuters deliberately boarded them.“The seats are getting filled up at the starting point. People waiting at the next stoppages are getting impatient as all buses are coming with full capacity. They are forcefully boarding the buses. How could I alone stop them?” said a conductor of a bus of S5 route that plies between Garia in South Kolkata and Howrah Station. A conductor of a bus of AC39 route that plies between Esplanade in the heart of Kolkata to the NSCB Airport area echoed his views. “I am helpless. You control these people,” said the conductor. ALSO READ | Amid Centre’s Unlock 1.0, these states will have their own lockdown rules“I waited for an hour in vain but no bus came with a vacant seat,” said Shantpriya Chowdhury, whose office at Esplanade area asked him to join on Monday. Chowdhury commutes from Sulekha area in South Kolkata, a distance of about 14 km. Private offices have been allowed to choose their staff strength in office from June 8 but can now operate with 50% of the workforce. A number of private offices in the city and the state started operations from Monday after a gap of two months.On social media, too, people shared their experience of going to their office for the first time after more than two months. “First day back in office today. The situation on the roads is absolutely frightening… Traffic in full force, buses crowded, autos and cabs full... Kids on bikes, most of them without helmets and/or masks,” Stephanie Sweeney, who works at a private firm in south Kolkata, wrote on Facebook.Sougata Bali, a writer based in Serampore, Hooghly district, shared a similar experience. “While travelling from Serampore to Hind Motor by motorbike, I saw all private buses crowded, people even hanging from the door. There was absolutely no social distancing.”The business districts in central Kolkata, such as Burrabazar, Posta, Canning Street and Rabindra Sarani saw packed crowds on streets and wholesale markets.Kolkata’s famous book market of College Street also opened on Monday. However, due to lack of transport, all shops will not be getting all their employees, especially those who travel from distant areas by local train.“I will keep my shop open for three days a week, from 11 am to 4 pm, for the time being,” said Subrata Das, owner of Setu Publishing.Even though religious places have been allowed to open, major religious places such as the Kalighat temple and Belur Math remained closed. Several restaurants opened, while some of those with bars have not opened yet because there is no clarity on whether liquor can be served and bars operated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-norms-flouted-across-bengal-on-first-day-of-unlock-1/story-JDC54WNBhw5ouhCfVNJTmI.html
01-06-2020||India||Five of family killed as truck rams into car in Rajasthan’s Churu||Five members of a family were killed when a truck rammed into a car in Rajasthan’s Churu district on Monday. Senior district administration and police officials reached the spot as soon as they received information. The accident in Lodhsar village on NH-52 was so severe that the district administration had to use cranes to take out the bodies from the damaged car.Police officials said three people died on the spot while two died while undergoing treatment.The deceased, natives of Khetri town of Jhunjhunu district, have been identified as Rajpal Singh (43), Sada Kanwar (55), Nishu Kanwar (30), Bhoomi Singh (2) and Mahipal Singh (29).“The family had gone for treatment of Nishu Kanwar in Churu from Jhunjhunu,” the police official added.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed grief over the incident. “The news of a road accident in Churu is very tragic in which five people have lost lives. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. May God give them strength to bear the loss. Prayers for speedy recovery of those injured,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-of-family-killed-as-truck-rams-into-car-in-rajasthan-s-churu/story-XWoIvaxkacMUBoAm4QATdP.html
01-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM, 2 ministers quarantine themselves despite DM’s clean chit||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and two of his cabinet ministers have decided to quarantine  themselves despite the  Dehradun district magistrate on Monday saying  that all three were ‘low risk contacts’ and  they just need to follow May 18 guidelines issued by the Centre, one of the ministers said.On May 18, union health ministry had issued guidelines on preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19  in workplace settings, including maintaining physical distancing of at least one meter, using  masks, frequent hand washing, following respiratory etiquettes, self-monitoring, reporting any illness, whether in self or office staff.After tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, four of his family members and  17 staffers tested positive for the deadly virus on Saturday, chief minister Trivendra Singh  Rawat and two Cabinet ministers Madan Kaushik and Harak Singh Rawat  were facing a  quarantine as Maharaj had attended a Cabinet meeting on Friday in which all three were present. On Saturday,  Mahaaraj’s wife tested positive for Covid-19. Minister Madan Kaushik who is also the government spokesperson said, “On Monday, the Dehradun district magistrate in a written communication to the CM and two ministers, including me informed us that none of us will need to be quarantined as we were all low-risk contacts of Maharaj.”“The administration has said that we can carry on with our work without being quarantined. However, as a precautionary measure all three of us have decided to go for  self-quarantine in our homes,” he said.According to the DM’s  letter, the CM and the ministers are low-risk contacts  and they need to follow the directions and protocol issued by the Union health ministry on May 18 regarding the workplace.Earlier on Sunday night, health secretary Amit Singh Negi had said that the department had sent a report of all those present in the Cabinet meeting under categories of high-risk contacts and low-risk contacts of the tourism minister to  the Dehradun district administration. “As per the evaluation, all the ministers in that meeting fall under low-risk contacts which means they didn’t come in direct physical contact with the infected person and were at a distance of one metre. Under such conditions, they don’t need to be put under quarantine but CM has voluntarily put himself in self-quarantine as a precautionary measure,” said Negi. Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress on Monday demanded that a case of attempt to murder be registered against Maharaj while accusing him of gross negligence and posing health risk to others. Garima Dasauni, party state spokesperson said, “Maharaj being in such a responsible position, has shown gross negligence. Even after a notice was out on his house for quarantine, he continued to meet people and even attended the Cabinet meeting where CM, other ministers and top officials were present.”“All these people are responsible to handle the pandemic in the state but he has now put them at grave health risk. We demand him to be booked for attempt to murder case like the jamaatis were booked by government,” said Dasauni. On May 20, the Dehradun district administration had pasted a notice on  Maharaj’s personal residence to put it in quarantine after two of his guests had come from Delhi. Maharaj had then said that the portion of his house which has been quarantined is not the one where he lives with his family but includes his office and guest room.Government spokesperson Kaushik however, refuted Congress’s demands by saying that it should not pass such a statement when “Maharaj acted with full responsibility after knowing that he and his family members tested positive a day after his wife tested positive.”“In political life, one has to go among the public to solve their problems or meet his staff members. In that one may get infected, which is unfortunate. But that cannot be termed as gross negligence as the Congress is saying,” said Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-2-ministers-quarantine-themselves-despite-dm-s-clean-chit/story-v83Q7IRXzjEIPeXDHosXYJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Goa designates its first Covid-19 containment zone as Unlock 1 gets underway||The Goa government  on Monday designated the first state’s  containment zone in Mangor Hill -- a locality in the port town of Vasco da Gama after a man and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 on the first day of Unlock 1 Health Secretary Nila Mohanan told reporters that  the process of investigating the travel history and contact tracing was on. “These are two residents members of a family from Mangor Hill in Vasco. They have confirmed positive in our RT-PCR test as well so we are now doing very concentrated contact tracing and taking all efforts to see what are the links and what are the possible contacts. Our investigations are going on ,“  Mohanan said. “We are still trying to trace their contacts but as of now we have not been able to establish a clear travel history link,” she said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Their three sons, a daughter-in-law and the doctor who referred the patients to the Goa Medical College and Hospital who have been identified as primary contacts, are under focus. . The duo were admitted to hospital complaining of breathlessness following which  tests were carried out.“Because Mangor Hills is a very tightly packed area we have also taken a decision to declare Mangor Hill in Vasco as a containment zone. We will ensure that we do comprehensive testing of the residents of Mangor Hill and we want to ensure that we do that very comprehensively putting in all our efforts that is why we have decided to declare Mangor Hill in Vasco as a containment zone,” Mohanan added. As per protocol, the State Health Department has set up a containment zone at Mangor Hill with the residence of the family as the centre of the zone. “We will have the most extensive and immediate testing (in areas) next to their residence -- then slowly we will be expanding that circle outwards. So our target is to test as quickly as possible as many as possible in that containment zone. But our primary focus will be the immediate vicinity of where this family resides,” Mohanan said.Prior to Monday, all persons found positive in the state were those who had travelled from outside the state. This is the first instance of a person without a clear travel history who has been found positive. Health authorities have, however, sought to assuage fears. “There is no need for fear in the minds of any members of the public, even those who are residing in Mangor Hill. We have taken this step as declaring Mangor Hill as a containment zone as a measure of abundant caution,” Mohanan said. The two new cases  came at a time when Goa was gearing up to grant further relaxations as part of the reopening of economic activity including the reopening of restaurants, malls and gymnasia and allowing of religious services. Goa’s Covid-19 tally has now climbed to 73  with 29 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-designates-its-first-covid-19-containment-zone-as-unlock-1-gets-underway/story-FP7e0H2gcX3eFcz6DzjXZL.html
01-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Kerala eases norms but curfew in containment areas till June 30 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala eases norms but curfew in containment areas till June 30The Kerala government on Monday announced a series of measures to ease lockdown 5.0 but decided to enforce curfew in containment areas and made entry passes mandatory for all inter-state travels. Read moreOn resuming international flight ops, minister Hardeep Puri cites ‘several factors’Domestic passenger flight services resumed in the country from May 25 after a break of two months since the first lockdown was announced on March 25. Read moreWith 2,361 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra crosses 70,000-markMaharashtra on Monday breached the 70,000-mark with 2,361 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state coronavirus positive patients’ tally to 70,013. Read more‘They are the most defining pair of modern era,’ Sri Lanka legend in awe of India’s batting stalwartsFormer Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara has weighed in on two of India’s most prolific batsmen – Rohit Sharma and Virat Kohli – calling them the most defining pair of the modern era. Read moreIIT Delhi lays down policy for graduating batch, offers ‘early graduation’ optionThe Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) here has laid down a policy for the graduating batch to ensure future plans of students do not get impacted due to the lockdown and is offering them an “early graduation” option, officials said. Read moreVivo launches its new flagship X50 series: Here’s all we know so farVivo has announced three phones under its new flagship X50 series - the Vivo X50, the Vivo X50 Pro and the Vivo X50 Pro+. Read moreScreening your pages, the #bookstagram wayWith dazzling pictures, simple-to-understand book reviews and all things books, bookstagrammers have formed a niche that helps out readers, one at a time. Read moreWatch | Aaditya Thackeray on unlocking Maharashtra | On The RecordAfter Centre announced Unlock 1, Thackeray talks about starting colleges and schools in the state. Thackeray also answers why shops, markets are allowed to open but not malls. Watch the video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-kerala-eases-norms-but-curfew-in-containment-areas-till-june-30-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VV0bGguHKwkxhu4pmvkk8J.html
01-06-2020||India||Telangana allows inter-state travel, but Andhra stops people at borders, says restrictions still on||The decision of the Andhra Pradesh government not to open its borders yet for inter-state movement of vehicles and people created confusion for the commuters at the Andhra-Telangana borders on Monday, when Unlock 1, aimed at containing spread of Covid-19 came into force all over the country.As the Telangana government issued orders on Sunday lifting restrictions on the inter-state transport and travel in line with the Centre’s latest guidelines, hundreds of people from Hyderabad and parts of Telangana left for Andhra Pradesh but were stopped by the AP police at the border check posts.It was only at around 11 am that Andhra Pradesh’s Director General of Police Gautam Sawang issued a statement that restrictions on inter-state movement of people and goods would remain in force “till a further decision is taken by the government.”The statement said all those who were seeking to come to Andhra from other states in private vehicles should obtain an e-pass through the government’s ‘Spandana’ web portal and undergo medical tests.“Those seeking to come from less coronavirus-affected states will be sent to home quarantine. Those from highly-affected states will be sent to institutional quarantine for seven days and they have to undergo tests for Covid-19. If they test positive, they should be sent to hospital and if they test negative, they would have to be home quarantined for another seven days,” the DGP said, adding that these restrictions would continue till specific instructions were issued by the government.However, even before the orders came from the DGP office, the Andhra residents held up in Hyderabad had already started for their respective places. There was a huge rush of vehicles on Hyderabad-Vijayawada highway, but the AP police stopped them at the Garikapadu check-post and allowed only those who had valid passes. Those who did not have passes were sent back to Hyderabad.For people arriving by rail and air, the Andhra government made it mandatory to undergo tests either at the railway station or district reception centre near the respective station. “The seven-day institutional quarantine, followed by seven-day home quarantine, is mandatory for all those coming to AP,” state nodal officer for Covid-19 Arja Sreekanth said.Those who were coming from abroad will have to undergo quarantine either at the state-run quarantine centres or paid quarantine facilities at hotels, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-allows-inter-state-travel-but-andhra-stops-people-at-borders-says-restrictions-still-on/story-JrA0vMlaUboEQbLDaUufBL.html
01-06-2020||India||Up to India and China to resolve border standoff, says Australian envoy||Against the backdrop of a standoff between border troops of India and China, Australia on Monday said it was for the two countries to resolve the face-off as no third country could interfere in the matter.In an online media briefing ahead of the June 4 virtual summit between Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi, Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell said his country’s foreign policy is set by its national interests, including a desire for stability in the South China Sea.O’Farrell reiterated Australia’s support for India’s call for the reform of multilateral bodies such as the World Health Organization (WHO) so that they are better placed to deal with future challenges and crises.Asked specifically about the India-China standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and whether such issues would figure in the upcoming summit, the envoy replied: “In relation to the border issue, that’s a matter for China and India to resolve and not a matter for Australia to interfere with.”In an apparent reference to the US president’s attempts to mediate in the matter, which have already been rebuffed by India, O’Farrell added: “That’s reflected by what we’ve seen over the past week, when others have sought to suggest that they could step in and provide some advice. Clearly it’s going to be a matter that India and China will resolve.”Australia, he said, has a “substantial interest in stability and adherence to international law” in the South China Sea, where it is “concerned about the militarisation of disputed features” and has urged all parties to take meaningful steps to ease tensions.While Australian vessels and aircraft will continue to exercise their rights to freedom of navigation in the South China Sea, all claims in that region should be resolved according to international law, and the “most sensible place” to resolve such matters is the UN, he said.The virtual summit, organised after Morrison called off a visit to India in January because of bushfires in Australia and also due to the impact on the Covid-19 crisis, is expected to see the signing of several agreements, including the Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) for reciprocal access to military logistics facilities.O’Farrell said the summit is also expected to advance an ambitious agenda that will include working together to improve regional and multilateral institutions, including on Covid-19 and public health, boosting science and tech cooperation, stronger collaboration on cyber-security and critical technology, maritime issues in the Indo-Pacific, critical mineral supply chains, education, and water resource management.“It’s as crucial as ever for like-minded democracies and important partners like Australia and India, at this time, to work together to shape the type of region and type of world in which we want to live presently but importantly, post-Covid,” he said.India and Australia are committed to a free, open, inclusive and secure Indo-Pacific and strengthening and making their economies more resilient, have a shared goal of strengthening international institutions, he added.“I think there are many opportunities for India and Australia to assist each other’s supply chains. We support India’s policy of Make in India…but we have elements and resources that can strengthen and make more resilient the supply chain here in India,” O’Farrell said.The MLSA will make it easier for the militaries of both countries to conduct complex exercises and facilitate access to each other’s bases. Asked if Australia still hopes to be part of the Malabar naval exercise conducted by India, the US and Japan, the envoy replied: “Would we like to join Malabar? Yes, but we recognise that’s a matter for the partners who run the exercise to decide.”Defence ties between Australia and India, he said, are at a historic peak and activities have quadrupled in the past six years. The two sides also have a shared commitment as Indian Ocean powers and an obligation to secure a free and inclusive Indo-Pacific, he added.“That alone is going to ensure that our defence relationship in this part of the world is maintained,” O’Farrell said, adding last year’s edition of AusIndex, a bilateral naval exercise, witnessed Australia’s largest ever military deployment to India and MLSA will assist in future submarine patrols in the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-india-and-china-to-resolve-border-standoff-says-australian-envoy/story-x38tDy3QQJhpQ1IvFwpTgP.html
01-06-2020||India||With 2,361 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra crosses 70,000-mark||Maharashtra on Monday breached the 70,000-mark with 2,361 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s coronavirus positive patients’ tally to 70,013, according to state health department data.The state also recorded 76 deaths and the death toll now stands at 2,362.Of the total number of people who have succumbed to the deadly coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours in Maharashtra, 40 are in Mumbai, 8 in Pune, six each in Navi Mumbai and Mira Bhayandar, Vasai Virar, three in Aurangabad, two each in Kalyan Dombivli and Raigad, and one each in Thane, Nashik, Pimpri Chinchwad, Jalna, Beed and Nagpur.ALSO READ | Covid-19: Maharashtra likely to persist with stringent curbsThe number of active coronavirus cases in the state now stands at 37,543, and a total of 4,71,473 samples have been tested till date.Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state in the Covid-19 pandemic, with the highest number of coronavirus positive cases is now bracing for severe cyclonic storm, Nisarga, due to make landfall in Palghar district by late evening on Wednesday.Coming amid the huge spike in fresh Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the cyclonic storm will pose a fresh challenge for the state government already dealing with escalating coronavirus cases from a number of districts.Financial capital of the country Mumbai, too, crossed the 40,000 mark in Covid-19 cases on Monday registering at least 1,413 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours.The city now has a total count of 41,099 coronavirus positive patients. Among them, there are 22,789 active cases.A total of 779 coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the tally of those who have recovered to 30,108 so far, the health department data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-2-361-new-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-crosses-70-000-mark/story-HIBE8lzMrsWSkDPWvUQDIN.html
01-06-2020||India||Personal data of over 7 mn Indians collected for BHIM sign-ups exposed online: Researcher||Sensitive information of at least seven million Indians, including scans of their Aadhaar cards and snapshots of their banking transactions, was exposed online, according to Israel-based cybersecurity researchers who said they flagged the issue to government agencies which took nearly a month to plug the leak.The researchers said that the database ran into 409 GB and included data and images collected by the CSC BHIM website. A review of the website by HT showed that this data was collected by government-employed volunteers who were tasked with getting merchants and shopkeepers in small towns and villages to use BHIM, a state-supported payments application promoted during a drive to promote cashless transactions. Such data is a source of profit for cyber criminals who can either sell it on the dark web or use it for identity theft, which can then be help gain access to a person’s bank accounts. “The scale of the exposed data is extraordinary, affecting millions of people all over India and exposing them to potentially devastating fraud, theft, and attack from hackers and cybercriminals,” the researchers said in their blog post on vpnmentor.com.The data was stored without security safeguards on an Amazon Web Services (AWS) server “S3 bucket”, the researchers said. “S3 buckets are a popular form of cloud storage across the world but require developers to set up security protocols on their accounts. The exposed S3 bucket was labelled ‘csc-bhim’, and our team was quickly able to identify the developers behind the website ‘www.cscbhim.in’ as the owners of the data,” they said. CSC is a government agency that helps e-governance projects. According to the CSC BHIM website, it sends village-level entrepreneurs (VLE) – people who sign up to help with grassroots volunteer work, to train “merchants on BHIM App and will tell them the benefits of the BHIM App. After training the merchants, VLEs will install BHIM App on their mobiles and will link their respective bank account with BHIM App”.The data appears to be Know Your Customer (KYC) documentation for this purpose. Snapshots of such information uploaded by the Israeli researchers with sensitive details redacted showed Aadhaar cards, caste certificates and a database of UPI payment IDs along with the name and the type of business of merchants.In a statement, CSC e-Governance Services India Ltd denied that personal information was exposed by the server and said that it does not collect Aadhaar data. “Static pages of the portal including e-text content, pdf files, pictures, awareness videos etc was kept public. The project did not involve taking Aadhaar data of any merchant, therefore there is no question of personal identifiable information such as Aadhaar data to be made public,” it said.The researcher, however, said that Aadhaar card information was part of the database. “We sampled files from the bucket, trying to determine the sensitivity of the data, and its owners; we confirmed the existence of personally identifiable information (Aadhaar cards, caste certificates, photos of electricity poles - probably to determine address),” said Ran Locar, one of the two researchers who found the data. According to the blog, the leak was first found on April 23 and not fixed till at least May 22. “We reached out to the website’s developers to notify them of the misconfiguration in their S3 bucket and to offer our assistance. After not receiving a reply, we contacted India’s Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), which deals with cybersecurity in the country. Many weeks later, we contacted CERT-In a second time. Shortly thereafter, the breach was closed,” Locar said, adding that it was eventually Cert-In that appears to have acted.Cert-In did not respond to requests for a comment on the incident. The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) said no BHIM data had been breached, but did not reply to a specific question about the information that appears to have been collected in order to sign-up traders for the app.According to Locar, it was unclear how long the 409GB of data sat on the internet unsecured. “We cannot know for how long it was open, or who accessed it. There is a good chance it has been accessed by parties with criminal intentions. The only ones who can know that are CSC-BHIM themselves - the owners of the data - by conducting a thorough investigation and publishing a forensic report,” the researcher, who is based in Tel Aviv, said.Cyber security researchers and intelligence experts have warned that such mass data leaks can additionally be used to create citizen profiles that can be used by more sophisticated adversaries, such as state-backed hackers, for national security threats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/personal-data-of-over-7-mn-indians-collected-for-bhim-sign-ups-exposed-online-researcher/story-NZ8zhAyZootAjeEjsNe6vL.html
01-06-2020||India||Man, 32, killed in clash between two groups over land dispute in Andhra||A man was killed in a clash between two groups over a land dispute in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada on Saturday evening, the police said. Thota Sandeep, who was attacked with a knife, succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital on Sunday night. He was 32. The deceased’s rival, Manikantha alias Pandu, is battling for his life in another hospital. Another six people also sustained injuries in the fight, which took place in an open ground at Patamata in the city.Sandeep’s body was cremated on Monday amidst tight police security.The incident was initially believed to be a petty clash between two student groups, but subsequent investigations by the police revealed that it was a battle between two gangs involved in land settlements.Videos of the two gangs attacking each other with sticks, swords and boulders went viral on social media, creating a tense atmosphere in the city.According to deputy commissioner of police (law and order) V Harshavardhan Raju, Sandeep and Manikanta were involved in a dispute over settlement of a residential apartment at Yanamalakuduru. Both of them had warned each other over the phone on Friday.On Saturday evening, both came to Patamata to settle the matter. What began as an argument between the two, soon led to a clash and youth belonging to both the groups started attacking each other, the DCP said.Soon, policemen from the Patamata police station rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. While members of both the groups fled the spot, the police shifted the injured to the local hospitals. “We have formed six teams to launch a manhunt for those who indulged in the fight. Such incidents have not taken place in the city in the recent past. Stringent action would be initiated against those involved in such group clashes,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-32-killed-in-clash-between-two-groups-over-land-dispute-in-andhra/story-1T3y2a6yTZq1pYQ1vw0lyH.html
01-06-2020||India||PM Modi launches one-stop platform to help MSMEs grow, solve problems||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the technology platform CHAMPIONS, a one-stop-shop solution of the MSME Ministry that would attempt to make smaller entrepreneurships evolve and grow by solving their grievances.The acronym CHAMPIONS stands for Creation and Harmonious Application of Modern Processes for Increasing the Output and National Strength.This ICT-based system has been set up to help the MSMEs in the present difficult situation and also to handhold them to become national and international champions, an official statement said.It would work to resolve the problems of MSMEs including those of finance, raw material, labour, regulatory permissions etc particularly in the Covid-19 created difficult situation. It would also help them capture new opportunities including manufacturing of medical equipment and accessories like PPEs, masks, etc and supply them in national and international markets.It would also identify the potential MSMEs who are able to withstand the current situation and can become national and international champions.It is a technology packed control room-cum-management information system. In addition to ICT tools including telephone, internet and video conference, the system is enabled by Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics and Machine Learning. It is also fully integrated on real time basis with GOI’s main grievances portal CPGRAMS and MSME Ministry’s own other web based mechanisms.The entire ICT architecture has been created in-house with the help of NIC with no cost. Similarly, the physical infrastructure has been created in one of the ministry’s dumping rooms in record time, the official statement said.As part of the system, a network of control rooms has been created in a Hub and Spoke Model. The hub is situated in New Delhi in the Secretary MSME’s office. The spokes are in the states in various offices and institutions of the MSME Ministry. As of now, 66 state-level control rooms have been created and made functional. They are connected through video conference also in addition to the portal of Champions. A detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) has been issued to the officers and staff have been deployed and training has been conducted for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-one-stop-platform-to-help-msmes-grow-solve-problems/story-llgV9U3ByYGq4Vr9Y9smnN.html
01-06-2020||India||Under Unlock 1, Assam to open religious places, malls, restaurants||The Assam government on Monday issued fresh  guidelines on relaxations and restrictions to be followed in the state during Unlock 1 to control the spread of Covid-19.Chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna directed government departments and district administrations to implement the guidelines while ensuring strict compliance of social distancing, hygiene and other safety protocols.Religious places have been allowed to open from June 8 subject to a gathering of a maximum of 20 people  per hour. Disposable paper tokens should be given to regulate the number of visitors.Hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services have been allowed to function from June 8 while restricting customers/guests to 50% of total capacity and ensuring adherence to social distancing. Shopping malls have also been allowed to operate from June 8.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Open spaces, public parks can be used for jogging, morning walk, yoga etc from June 1. Film and video shooting has also been allowed from June 1 in open spaces and studios while adhering to social distancing.Barber shops and beauty parlours have been allowed to open from June 1 only for the purpose of hair trimming. Social distance, use of masks and gloves and frequent sanitization should be maintained, said the order.Similar to guidelines issued by the Centre, night curfew will remain in force in Assam too from 9 pm till 5 am.Persons above 65 years, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years have been asked not to step out of their homes except for essential and health related reasons.Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and other such places where large numbers of people can gather will remain closed.Schools, colleges, universities and coaching centres will also remain closed and social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, academic, religious functions and other large gatherings will not be allowed.No activity would be allowed in containment zones. All other restrictions given is previous order on May 18, like not more than 50 attendees in marriages and 20 in funerals, will remain in force.Assam has recorded a total of 1391 Covid-19 cases out of which 278 have recovered and four have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-unlock-1-religious-places-malls-restaurants-to-open-assam/story-P8ZLEnodlXSwdJBXpsl7yJ.html
01-06-2020||India||On resuming international flight ops, minister Hardeep Puri cites ‘several factors’||As the airlines inch toward the critical mass of 50 to 60 percent operations in the domestic circuit, aviation minister Hardeep Puri underscored on Monday that it will help in their ability to resume international flights also. He added he will help “facilitate a calibrated reopening of the sector”.International flights have been banned in the country since March 22. Soon after the Centre’s Unlock 1 guidelines, with an “economic focus”, allowed for reopening of the economy in a phased manner, the aviation regulator DGCA on Saturday said the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger flights will continue till June 30.Domestic passenger flight services resumed in the country from May 25 after a break of two months since the first lockdown was announced on March 25.“MHA guidelines for lockdown 5.0 have further opened up inter & intra-state travel, will facilitate calibrated reopening of the sector. As we move towards the critical mass of 50-60% operation of domestic flights, our ability to resume international operations will also improve,” said Hardeep Puri. Numerous citizens have been approaching us to restart international flights. Several factors need to be addressed. Many international destinations are not allowing incoming passenger traffic, except for their own citizens or diplomats.The minister cited the lockdown situation in many metros and how they are still in varying stages of opening up thus proving to be an impediment in resuming international flight operations. “Within India, most international flights operate from the metros where travellers arrive from neighbouring cities & states. Our metro cities were under various degrees of lockdown which are beginning to be lifted. Some of them are still allowing only limited flights to operate,” said Puri.International air travel, metro rail services, cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, bars, entertainment parks, and auditoriums will remain closed and open only in the third phase. Large gatherings, including social, political, religious, and sporting events are also banned for now. The third phase of the un-lockdown plan will focus on the resumption of these activities. No date, however, has been set for this.Another problem, as pointed out by the minister, is that many foreign destinations are not taking in incoming passengers. “Numerous citizens have been approaching us to restart international flights. Several factors need to be addressed. Many international destinations are not allowing incoming passenger traffic, except for their own citizens or diplomats,” said he.Earlier last month, the minister said if the situation improves and the “virus behaves in a predictable manner”, then the commercial international flight operations could start as early as the middle of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-resuming-international-flight-ops-minister-hardeep-puri-cites-several-factors/story-HgHKDGyOXbZUN9MVQqTfNL.html
01-06-2020||India||Amid pandemic, vector-borne diseases worry Kerala as monsoon breaks||Monsoon clouds have made Johnson, a cobbler who also repairs umbrellas sitting outside the Kerala secretariat, happy. Usually he works till 8 pm but he leaves his makeshift tent by afternoon these days for lack of customers. But his hopes have soared as the monsoon  hit Kerala on Monday.“Usually people flood me with old umbrellas, school bags and shoes. I used to repair 40-50 umbrellas a day. With no children or school around I hardly get five to six a day. But these clouds come with a silver lining,” he said. Farmers are also happy at the monsoon arriving on time. “It heralds a fresh beginning,” said a farmer tilling a leased  agricultural plot  for plantain cultivation in Vellayani on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram.  The build-up was quite visible on Sunday itself as thunder and  lightning accompanied early drizzles. Usually people come out in large numbers to drench themselves in the first monsoon rain but the Covid-19 pandemic  kept most people indoors. While the monsoon’s timely arrival has been welcome,  it has also added to the worries of  the  government  which is busy fighting the pandemic. Usually monsoon brings in a lot of diseases like dengue, leptospirosis, H1N1, chikungunya and other ailments. The government has revised the fever protocol and made covid-19 tests mandatory for all cold-related diseases.“We know the situation is tricky. That is why we started cleanliness drive much early this time. What we need is care, not panic. Since people are really conscious this time we are not expecting much load of the monsoon-related viral ailments,” said State health minister K K Shailaja. She also said the ongoing pandemic fight will not affect the state’s preparedness to tackle other diseases. Every year vector-borne diseases claim many lives in the state.Fearing covid-infection many people dread to frequent hospitals these days and some resort to self-treatment also. But medical experts have warned not to take  medicines without advice. Like online education, tele-medicine has also become active these days.The state is doubly cautious this time as it witnessed two consecutive floods in the last two years.In 2018 , torrential rains had filled 40-odd dams forcing authorities to open sluice gates of many that submerged many areas in the flood of the century.  In the last two years the state had received at least 40 % more rain than usual. State Dam Safety Authority chairman Justice R Ramachandran Nair said water level in all major dams was in control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-pandemic-vector-borne-diseases-worry-kerala-as-monsoon-breaks/story-O347wmeNnFAFYI4A9uTabP.html
01-06-2020||India||Home Minister Amit Shah holds meeting to review preparations to deal with Cyclone Nisarga||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday held a meeting to review preparations for dealing with Cyclone Nisarga brewing over the Arabian Sea that is expected to hit parts of Maharashtra and Gujarat on June 3.Senior officials of concerned agencies NDMA, NDRF, IMD and the Indian Coast Guard attended the meeting with the home minister, according to a statement released by the Home Minister’s Office (HMO).  Union Home Minister @AmitShah held review meeting with senior officials of NDMA, NDRF, IMD & Indian Coast Guard on preparedness for dealing with Cyclone brewing in Arabian sea which is expected to hit some parts of Maharashtra & Gujarat. MoS @nityanandraibjp was also present. pic.twitter.com/qxmeKkUUqtAccording to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the depression in south-west Arabian Sea is likely to intensify in the next 12 hours and will turn into Cyclone Nisarga in the next 24 hours.Maharashtra and Gujarat are on pre-cyclone alert as the Met department has predicted very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in parts of these states on June 3 and 4. Cyclone Nisarga is likely to make landfall over Palghar district, around 100 km north of Mumbai by Wednesday evening or at night. In preparation to deal with Cyclone Nisarga, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Monday deployed nine teams in Maharashtra. Of these, three are on standby in Mumbai, two in Palghar, one each in Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, NDRF officials said.In Gujarat, the NDRF has deployed 11 teams besides one team each in Daman&Diu and Dadra&Nagar Haveli.The looming threat of Cyclone Nisarga comes just days after super cyclonic storm Amphan wreaked havoc in parts of coastal West Bengal and Odisha on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-holds-meeting-to-review-preparations-for-cyclone-nisarga/story-NBW79BvTMfC0znBKermSPL.html
01-06-2020||India||AirAsia India offers 50,000 seats without charging base fare to doctors amid pandemic||No-frills airline AirAsia India on Monday said it is offering 50,000 seats without charging base fare to the doctor community who, along with other frontline workers, are working to save lives amid the coronavirus pandemic. “As a mark of respect to our doctors and in recognition of the admirable values they have displayed through the last few months, we at AirAsia India wanted to express our gratitude for their tireless efforts in keeping the nation safe and healthy,” Air Asia India Chief Commercial Officer Ankur Garg said.Under the RedPass initiative, AirAsia India will give away 50,000 seats without any base fare on flights across its domestic sectors to doctors as a gesture of gratitude for their commendable efforts in support of the nation, the airline said in release. However, airport fees, charges and statutory taxes will be borne by the traveller, it said. To avail the offer, doctors can submit their contact details and desired sector and date of travel between July 1 and September 30 with their registration number or ID as proof on its website, the airline said adding that the applications can be submitted by June 12. Besides these base free passes, they would also be given special privileges like priority boarding at the airport. The RedPass would be valid for a one way flight for the successful applicant doctors on the AirAsia India domestic network, the airline said in the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airasia-india-offers-50-000-seats-without-charging-base-fare-to-doctors-amid-pandemic/story-NntS8VRzsR3WS2xh00udNK.html
01-06-2020||India||Cooking gas price hiked by Rs11.50 per cylinder as India starts to lose advantage of low oil prices||India is losing the advantage of substantially low international oil prices as its cost of crude imports in rupee terms has surged 69% in just two months, forcing state-run companies to raise the cooking gas price for the first time since February by Rs 11.50 a cylinder.State-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the country’s largest fuel retailer, issued a notification at midnight on Sunday raising the price of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) used as cooking fuel from June 1.“For the month of June 2020, there has been an increase in international prices of LPG. Due to increase in the prices in international market, the RSP [retail selling price] of LPG in Delhi market will be increased by Rs 11.50 per cylinder,” it said.A 14.2-kg cooking gas cylinder in Delhi is now priced at Rs 593. Prices of the fuel in other cities vary, depending on local levies, according to the company’s website.IOC said the retail price of cooking gas in Delhi had been slashed by Rs 162.5 a cylinder last month to Rs 581.50 because of a steep decline in global oil prices.India’s average crude oil import price (Indian basket) surged about 69% to Rs 2,516.77 a barrel in just two months, up from Rs 1,491.57 a barrel on April 1, according to the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC), the oil ministry’s official data-keeper.Benchmark Brent crude, which plunged from more than $51.9 a barrel on March 2 to below $20 a barrel by April 21 due to slack demand and oversupply, is now hovering around $38 a barrel, amid hope of a prolonged supply cut by the producers’ cartel and demand revival due to lifting of the Covid-19 lockdown in many countries, including India.There are indications international oil prices may move further north as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies, particularly Russia (together OPEC+), are expected to meet on June 4 to discuss extending production cuts beyond this month.In a historic decision on April 12, OPEC+ decided to cut its overall crude oil production by 9.7 million barrels per day (bpd), or a 10th of global output, from May 1 for an initial period of two months ending on June 30. The producers’ cartel decided to shun the price war among them and agreed on a synchronised supply cut to stabilise crude prices after they plunged.“Although rising prices of oil in the international market is always a matter of concern for an importer like India, current prices are well within our comfort levels. It is likely that prices will remain in the range of $40 to $45 a barrel for quite some time due to subdued demand, overflowing global oil storage facilities and tension between the US and China,” a government official said, requesting anonymity.Experts, however, said rising global oil prices are a matter of concern for import-dependent India, especially at a time when demand is expected to surge as the country opens its economy from June, after a prolonged lockdown since March 25 to check the spread of Covid-19.SC Sharma, former officer on special duty at the erstwhile Planning Commission, said two signs of international oil prices firming up are that global demand is picking up fast, and OPEC+ could further extend production cuts.“That may lead to oil prices going beyond $40 a barrel. In that situation, oil companies may have to hike petrol and diesel prices by Rs 5 and Rs 6.5 a litre [respectively] or the government may have to reduce additional excise. As the prices have not been revised by OMCs [oil marketing companies] for a month, any increase in import price beyond $30 a barrel may adversely impact OMCs,” he said.The Union government could raise excise duties on petrol and diesel twice without affecting retail prices of the two fuels because of low prices of crude in the international market. On May 6, it raised the central excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 10 a litre and Rs 13 per litre, respectively. On March 14, it raised the levy on the two fuels by Rs 3 a litre each. An additional rupee that comes to the exchequer by way of excise duty on petrol and diesel means an additional Rs.14,500 crore in revenue.Nilaya Varma, co-founder and CEO of consultancy firm Primus Partners, said, “International crude oil prices are still on the lower side, which is favourable for India. The country needs fund to revive economic activities that were disrupted due to the prolonged lockdown because of Covid-19. Low international oil prices will reduce the country’s import bill and help the exchequer to raise additional funds through increased excise duty.”India is the third largest importer of energy after the US and China. It imports more than 80% of the crude it processes. It imported crude oil worth $ 101.4 billion in 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cooking-gas-price-hiked-by-rs11-50-per-cylinder-as-india-starts-to-lose-advantage-of-low-oil-prices/story-vqmB1WfnTlJjjfAP7ocS8J.html
01-06-2020||India||Odisha orders complete weekend shutdown in 11 districts as state posts highest single-day surge||The Odisha government on Monday announced a complete shutdown on weekends all through June in 11 of its 30 districts, where coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases are rising, as the state posted the highest single-day spike of 156 cases and the overall tally stood at 2,104.Odisha chief secretary Asit Tripathy said all services in these 11 districts would remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays in June except for hospitals, nursing homes, medicine stores, and petrol pumps.Of the 11 districts, the state capital Bhubaneswar, Khurda, and coastal districts of Ganjam and Kendrapara account for 75% of the 2,104 Covid-19 positive cases. Cuttack, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Nayagarh, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, and Bolangir are the other districts, where the weekend shutdown will be enforced.Tripathy attributed the spike in Covid-19 positive cases to the return of the stranded migrant people to the state amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were introduced from March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.So far, around 4.26 lakh migrant workers have returned to Odisha of whom 2.49 lakh are still lodged in quarantine centres. Over 95% of the Covid-19 positive cases have been reported among migrant returnees.On Monday, of the 156 Covid-19 positive cases, 50 were reported from Kendrapara district, and a day before another 129 cases were recorded, largely among the migrants who have come back home. Odisha reported the first 1,000 Covid-19 positive cases in 67 days, and the next 1,100 were recorded in only 11 days because of the influx of migrant workers.The state government has also tweaked the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ order, issued on Saturday evening, on the opening of the places of worship, as it plans to keep them closed till June 30.The state authorities plan to conduct the annual Rathaytra of Lord Jagannath and his siblings in Puri without the participation of any devotees, and the doors of the Lord Jagannath shrine would remain closed till the first week of July, when the chariot festival concludes.The government said schools, colleges, and coaching centres would remain closed till July 31. Similarly, shopping malls, cinema halls, gymnasiums, and swimming pools would remain closed till June 30. However, hotels can function with 30% of their capacity, while restaurants would be open to in-house guests and also allowed to operate their takeaway services.Odisha has decided not to ease the lockdown restrictions on night curfew, which will continue to be enforced between 7pm and 5am.The government also raised the penalty for people not wearing face masks and spitting in public places.“People, who’re found not wearing face masks in public places, will be fined Rs 500 for the first two offences and the fine will be increased to Rs 1,000 for the subsequent violation. Spitting in public places will lead to arrest,” said Abhay, director-general of police (DGP), Odisha. “We have been observing that people have become carefree as if we’ve developed an immunity to SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. However, we need to be extremely cautious all through June. We’ll strictly enforce the guidelines to prevent the spread of the viral outbreak,” the DGP added.So far, 1,245 Covid-19 positive patients have recovered, and another 850 are still undergoing treatment.Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Niranjan Patnaik has accused both the state and the central governments of the spike in Covid-19 positive cases and singled out the state authorities for putting more curbs on the movement of the general public, causing inconvenience in earning their daily livelihood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-odisha-orders-complete-weekend-shutdown-in-11-districts-as-state-posts-highest-single-day-surge/story-ZBn9R9JquTAx4n3jvBLmiK.html
01-06-2020||India||Eye on Cyclone Nisarga, NDRF deploys 9 teams in Maharashtra, Amit Shah chairs review meet||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Monday deployed nine teams in Maharashtra to prepare for Cyclone Nisarga which is brewing in the Arabian Sea and is likely to reach the Northern Maharashtra coast by the evening of June 3.Of the nine NDRF teams deployed in Maharashtra-- three are on standby in Mumbai, two in Palghar, one each in Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, NDRF officials said.Home Minister Amit Shah too on Monday held a review meeting with officials of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) for on preparedness for dealing with Cyclone Nisarga.ALSO READ | Cyclone Nisarga will cross close to Mumbai, shows IMD trackCyclone Nisarga is likely to make landfall over Palghar district, located around 100 km north of capital city Mumbai by Wednesday evening or at night, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. The cyclonic storm is likely to hit Maharashtra barely days after severe cyclonic storm Amphan battered parts of Gangetic West Bengal, the Sunderbans and four districts of Odisha on May 20. Cyclone Amphan is believed to have destroyed about one-third of the Sunderbans—the world’s largest mangrove forests.The IMD has predicted damage in a few districts of Maharashtra lining the west coast of the country.The intensity of the approaching storm was scaled up from a cyclonic storm to a severe cyclonic storm with maximum wind speed expected to climb to 105-115 km per hour (kmph) gusting to 125 kmph at the time of landfall, the IMD said.ALSO READ | Cyclone Nisarga may make landfall over Palghar district, near Mumbai, on June 3“Palghar, Thane, Mumbai, and Raigad districts are likely to be the most affected by this severe cyclonic storm. We are expecting damages in the form of uprooting of trees and the collapse of kutcha and pucca buildings. A more detailed list of likely damages will be shared soon. State governments are being updated constantly, as the weather system develops,” Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, Director-General, IMD said.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a severe cyclonic storm like Nisarga will pose a fresh challenge for Maharashtra already grappling with the highest number of coronavirus positive patients in the country with the number of cases increasing daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-cyclone-nisarga-ndrf-deploys-9-teams-in-maharashtra-amit-shah-chairs-review-meet/story-1X7oT9UhYGCNisIHIDjXxJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Summer crop prices hiked 50-80% for farmers in big Cabinet decision||The Union Cabinet on Monday approved federally fixed minimum support prices (MSP) for 14 kharif or summer-sown crops, which will offer 50-83% profit over cultivation cost, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said.The announcement came as the June-to-September monsoon for 2020, predicted by the India Meteorological Bureau to be normal, made its onset over Kerala, its first port of call in the Indian mainland, on June 1, as predicted.A normal monsoon will likely lessen the strain on the agriculture economy from widespread disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The summer rains are critical because nearly 60% of India’s net arable land lacks irrigation and nearly half the population depends on a farm-based livelihood.The MSP for paddy, the main summer staple, has been raised by Rs 53 to Rs 1,868 per quintal for the 2020-21 crop year, which will give a return of 50% over cost of cultivation, according to an official statement. “(The) government has increased the MSP of Kharif crops for marketing season 2020-21, to ensure remunerative prices to the growers for their produce,” a Cabinet statement said.The highest increases in MSP are for nigerseed (Rs 755 per quintal) followed by sesamum (Rs 370 per quintal), urad (Rs 300 per quintal) and cotton (Rs 275 per quintal). “The differential remuneration is aimed at encouraging crop diversification,” the official statement said.For cotton, the MSP has been increased by Rs 260 to Rs 5,515 per quintal, Tomar said. The support prices of arhar or tur, a type of lentil, has been fixed at Rs 6,000, which represents a 58% return over cost of cultivation.The increase in MSP for kharif crops is in line with the Union Budget 2018-19 announcement of fixing the MSPs at a level of at least 1.5 times of the countrywide weighted average cost of production, which aims to give at least 50% returns for each crop.According to official calculations, the returns to farmers over cost of production are estimated to be highest in case of the coarse cereal, bajra (83%), followed by urad (64%), tur (58%) and maize (53%). “To correct demand-supply imbalances, the government has realigned the MSPs more in favour of oilseeds, pulses and coarse cereals to encourage farmers to shift to these crops,” said Abhishek Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.Fresh indicators show the country’s farm sector, which employs nearly half the population, has coped well with the Covid-19 crisis, with a larger summer crop area than last year, higher sales of fertilisers and seeds, and better prices, leading Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das to last month call it a “beacon of hope”.The farm sector is poised to grow at least 3% in 2020-21, despite disruption in the economy due to the coronavirus pandemic. According to government think tank Niti Aayog’s assessment in April, agriculture will aid overall growth.There are other indicators too, ranging from sowing to input sales, which show the agriculture economy is heading into the summer-sown or kharif operations in decent shape.Farmers have planted rice in about 3.48 million hectares (1 hectare equals 2.4 acre) compared to 2.52 million hectares during the corresponding period of last year, an increase of nearly 37%, official data as on May 21 show.The area under pulses -- a major summer crop with up to 70% share in farm incomes in some states – stands at nearly 1.28 million hectares against 0.96 million hectares during the same period of last year, which is higher by one-third (33%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/summer-crop-prices-hiked-between-50-80-for-farmers-in-big-cabinet-decision/story-djDKt1eN44jXrR8H3ka7fO.html
01-06-2020||India||Elections to pending 18 Rajya Sabha seats on June 19: EC||Elections to fill 18 vacancies in the Rajya Sabha will be held on June 19, said a person aware of details.The Election Commission, which had earlier deferred the elections scheduled for March 26, has decided to give its nod for filling the 18 seats.According to the person aware of details, polling will be conducted for filling four seats each in Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat, three seats each in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, two seats in Jharkhand, and one seat each in Manipur and Meghalaya.The counting of votes will be conducted on the same day. The commission also decided that the chief secretaries will depute a senior officer from each of the states to ensure that extant instructions regarding Covid-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the elections.Earlier this year, 55 vacancies has arisen in the upper house of Parliament, and 37 members were elected unopposed. The oath-taking ceremony of these 37 is yet to take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elections-to-pending-18-rajya-sabha-seats-on-june-19-ec/story-VHLF5rxvx45Uh6uAJkfseK.html
01-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga: Mumbai to get extremely heavy rains and face inundation in parts||The depression over the south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area, which is likely to intensify into cyclone Nisarga by Tuesday, will largely impact Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg districts and neighbouring areas in Konkan, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities.Very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is predicted on Tuesday and the following day, the IMD said on Monday.Nisarga, which is likely to make landfall on Wednesday afternoon as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 90 to 105 kilometres per hour (kmph) gusting to 125 kmph, can inundate the low-lying areas, especially in Mumbai and its adjoining areas, and can cause severe structural damages, IMD scientists said at a press briefing on Monday afternoon.“Central and state government agencies are trying to take all possible steps to prevent damage. We’re advising fishermen in Maharashtra, Kerala, coastal Karnataka, Gujarat, Goa, and Lakshadweep to avoid venturing out to the sea till Thursday. Those out should return immediately, as the sea can be very rough for the next three days,” said Dr. Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.“We can expect very heavy to extremely heavy rains (more than 20 centimetres) in all these districts of Maharashtra. Inundation is also expected in low-lying areas,” he added.It is very unusual for a cyclone to make landfall in or near Mumbai or even on the Maharashtra coast. The storms that form during the onset of monsoon over the Arabian Sea usually move towards Oman in the Persian Gulf.Cyclone Phyan in 2009 had last impacted these districts and even Mumbai had recorded extremely heavy rains. “It’s very rare that a cyclone hits Mumbai. Even Nisarga may not hit Mumbai directly but may cause damage. We’re trying to get the exact track of the cyclone. Last year Vayu had skirted the Gujarat coast, when it re-curved and later weakened,” said Sunita Devi, head of cyclones at IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-mumbai-to-get-extremely-heavy-rains-and-face-inundation-in-parts/story-VtqbxTvdUv8jk6Lz4vlWwN.html
01-06-2020||India||Roosting site with rare vultures found near Madhya Pradesh’s Panna Tiger Reserve||While out on lockdown duty in April, a forest officer in Madhya Pradesh’s Panna stumbled upon one of the very few roosting sites for vultures in India. The officer’s rare spotting included 150 to 160 vultures of four species, along with the critically-endangered white-rumped vulture and endangered Egyptian vulture, roosting off the Katni-Panna highway, about 60 km from the Panna Tiger Reserve.Hemant Yadav, deputy conservator of forests, Panna south division, came across this roosting site on his surveillance duty. “I saw four species of vultures—white rumped vulture; Egyptian vulture; King vulture and the Indian vulture or the Long-billed vulture. I also saw several juveniles there. It’s possibly a habitat favourable for their breeding,” said Yadav. A cowshed (gaushala) nearby, which usually disposes dead cattle in a perennial stream (nallah), provides the food and water needed.Yadav says, the state forest department had found close to 6,000 vultures during an estimation exercise of the bird’s numbers in protected areas, including national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in 2016. However the department didn’t conduct any estimation of vultures outside of the protected areas. The forest officer says has pointed to two factors that could have led to this newly developed suitable habitat for vultures. “I found that the ravines in this roosting site and the availability of food has led to development of a suitable habitat,” Yadav added.Vultures disappeared in large numbers in the mid-’90s largely due to ingestion of residues of the veterinary non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug diclofenac in cattle carcasses. According to a study published in Journal of Bombay Natural History Society in 2007, the decline of vultures was first documented at Keoladeo National Park, Bharatpur, Rajasthan. Subsequently, their numbers declined across the country. Surveys were conducted in 2007 on the same tracks as surveys conducted in the 90’s and early 2000’s. Repeated surveys conducted from March to June 2007 found three species of vultures — White rumped vultures, Long billed and Slender billed vultures — continued to decline at an alarming rate. Numbers of White-rumped Vulture, for example, declined by 99.9 per cent between 1992 and 2007. Another survey was conducted and published by Bird Conservation International in 2017 which found that populations of all three species continued to remain very low but the rapid decline of White-rumped vulture has slowed and may have even reversed to an extent since ban of diclofenac in 2006. The numbers of Long billed vultures continued to decline while the trends for Slender billed vultures cannot be determined.Experts have suggested strict discontinuation in usage of diclofenac can bring vultures back in India’s biodiversity. “There were millions of vultures in the open countryside and even in cities 30 years ago. More than protecting the sites, its important the use of diclofenac is stopped completely. Its use is banned but it is available and people give it to cattle. Vultures will be back. We are seeing that their decline is not as rapid now as it used to be in the 90’s and early 2000’s,” said Asad Rahmani, former director of BNHS and veteran ornithologist.“The discovery of a yet-unrecorded roosting site for critically endangered vultures is heartening news and only underlines the importance of stepping up protection of forests outside of protected areas, which are wildlife rich. This area also has other important species-tigers, bears, leopards among others, and must be managed and conserved from the wildlife perspective as part of the Greater Panna landscape,” said Prerna Singh Bindra, conservationist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roosting-site-with-rare-vultures-found-near-madhya-pradesh-s-panna-tiger-reserve/story-d1IT6jogxnvOI3kkvmt2WI.html
01-06-2020||India||Should hospitals be reserved for Delhi residents amid Covid-19 crisis? CM Kejriwal seeks public vote||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has sought public suggestion on whether hospitals across the national capital should be reserved only for residents amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The chief minister’s office (CMO), in a tweet, stated that the suggestions can be sent by June 5, 5pm.  Also read: Delhi to open hair salons, all shops, announces CM Arvind KejriwalHon'ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal has sought suggestions from the people of Delhi on whether Delhi hospitals should be reserved for Delhi residents during the Corona pandemic. Send in your suggestions by 5th June, 5 PM. #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/FW3E7MkA9OPeople can share their suggestions by dialling 1031 or dropping in their messages via WhatsApp or an email.“Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal has sought suggestions from the people of Delhi on whether Delhi hospitals should be reserved for Delhi residents during the Corona pandemic. Send in your suggestions by 5th June, 5 PM,” the tweet read. Watch l Delhi seals borders for a week, CM Kejriwal seeks suggestions for futurePeople can send their suggestions by dropping a WhatsApp text to 8800007722 or emailing at delhicm.suggestions@gmail.Earlier in the day, the chief minister held an online address on the Covid-19 situation in the national capital and the fifth phase of the lockdown. Kejriwal announced that Delhi’s borders will be sealed for the next week with an exemption to essential services. “We will take a decision again in one week to open borders after suggestions from citizens,” he said. “In autos, e-rickshaws and other vehicles, as per earlier orders, the number of passengers was fixed. But now we are lifting the restrictions on the number of passengers travelling in auto, e-rickshaws and other vehicles,” Kejriwal said today. Covid-19 cases in the national capital now near the 20,000-mark. On Monday, as per the data shared by the Ministry of Health, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally stood at 19,844. There have been 473 fatalities while 8,478 have recovered from the deadly contagion in the national capital till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-hospitals-be-reserved-for-delhi-residents-amid-covid-19-crisis-cm-kejriwal-seeks-public-vote/story-POuc1tBFHtFcHNhLBYqqvN.html
01-06-2020||India||How the lockdown impacted our tiger reserves | Analysis||Nadia, a four-year-old Malayan tiger, inhabitant of Bronx Zoo (New York, USA), tested positive for Covid-19 in early April this year and soon six other feline zoo inhabitants showed similar symptoms. These animals had got the virus during a lockdown from a zoo employee, a human.It seems that no species is safe from the clutches of this deadly virus.The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) in India responded to the situation with specific guidelines on how to protect the wild animals from Covid-19 in the Indian subcontinent. But what will be the impact of this lockdown on the tigers and tiger reserves across the country?No tiger reserve in the country has reported any case of wildlife being infected by this Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease.There were reports that the camp elephants in Uttarakhand’s Rajaji Tiger Reserve were showing symptoms of Covid-19. But these reports were wrong and many senior veterinarians confirmed that elephants cannot be infected by Sars-CoV-2.Also, the Sariska Tiger Reserve in Rajasthan has reported that two tigresses have given birth to four cubs during this lockdown and the total tiger population of the reserve has risen to 20. This is a cause for celebration as the tigers had become locally extinct in Sariska around 2005 and the species had to be re-introduced from the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve. Initially, a few cubs were born to these tigers but then for a long period, no new births were recorded.Now there is less plastic and pollutants in the clear water of the rivers that originate from outside the boundaries of the tiger reserves. Because of the lockdown, incidents of illegal collection of honey have not been reported. This activity, along with the presence of tourists in the buffer zones of the reserves, contributed immensely to the incidents of forest fires. As a result, there has been a drastic reduction in the number of forest fires this year as a result of the lockdown.Another way in which this lockdown may have had a positive impact on the wildlife is by the reduced levels of glucocorticoids, a stress hormone in tigers. There are some scientific studies that indicate lower levels of glucocorticoids in tigers during the closed season when tourists are not permitted inside national parks.A higher level of this stress hormone has been linked to an adverse impact on the reproduction of the tiger, and consequently, the very survival of this creature. Therefore, these studies would suggest that this lockdown has been a boon in disguise for the tigers in India. But I would like to point out that in the last four estimates of tiger population in India, a constant rise in tiger numbers proves that tourism is not as lethal for tigers as concluded in these studies. If tourism, and the presence of humans around, did lead to a much higher production of stress hormones in tigers, then zoos all over the world would not have had any tiger in their enclosures. Because tigers in zoos are generally more stressed due to limited space and constant flow of the visitors throughout the year. But tigers are breeding well, producing litters, and surviving more in zoos than in the wild.So this takes us to the next part, the humans (officers and front line staff) involved in conservation work to figure out how this lockdown is affecting the tigers and tiger reserves? One has to take into consideration the impact on these people to get a complete picture of the impact of the lockdown on the wildlife.A discussion with them has revealed more about the ground situation in these areas.As per the guidelines of NTCA, tourism is permitted only in 20 percent area of a tiger reserve and most of our tiger reserves are open either for five or six months in a year. As per the policy of the government of India, tourism in Protected Areas (PAs) is permitted to educate people to elicit public support for conservation. I agree that unregulated tourism should not be permitted, where encircling tigers by tourist vehicles becomes a common sight and the management should come up with strict regulations to save the animal from such behavior by the tourists.Such regulations could include a ban on the driver of the vehicle and accompanying guide for a duration which should give them a chance to realise their mistake (but such scenarios are confined to only a few tiger reserves in India). Therefore, the lockdown is a big relief to the management of tiger reserves as the inflow of tourists has stopped and such untoward incidents are not happening.The constant phone calls to officers with requests to facilitate trips that are out of the usual routine have stopped completely. As a result, they are able to spend more time protecting the tigers. There is also more time available to the management of the reserves to contain poaching of animals, illicit felling of trees and land encroachment.Villagers within the vicinity or in the enclaves of the tiger reserves have limited access to resources for livelihood and food. Initially the lockdown aggravated the situation. To combat the issues of unemployment and lack of supply of essential commodities, the management of these reserves have come up with innovative initiatives to provide employment, health care and supply of rations from their own resources during this lockdown. The frontline staff in remote posts of the tiger reserves had it worse. They were not prepared for the lockdown and could not store food items, medicines and other essentials as they do during the monsoon when the tiger reserve is closed to tourists. Their regular supply of food, medicine and other essentials items are either delivered by vehicles involved in tourism or departmental vehicles every six to ten days. That supply chain got disrupted for staffers living inside the reserves.Let us take the example of Corbett Tiger Reserve to understand the initial impact of the lockdown on the frontline staff, where these frontline staffers live 40 to 65 km from the nearest habitation. The staff is totally dependent on camp elephants or boats for supply of essential items. But these vehicles weren’t coming. On many days, they slept without proper food, surviving by eating boiled potatoes, wild fruits or rice with salted water. That ended only after the nationwide lockdown was eased and the supply chain was restored.It was a difficult time for the frontline staffers on the personal front too. Their families live either in small neighboring towns for the education of the children or in their native villages. They visit them at the beginning of the month after getting their salaries and make payments to shop keepers for groceries and other items purchased on credit.But they are putting in extra efforts. Some of them described their own problems as miniscule, comparing their plight with that of villagers in the forest enclaves. The villagers, they told me, neither have a permanent source of income nor a steady supply of essential items. The staffers called it their duty and privilege that they were able to help the villagers during the lockdown despite their limited means. And for this, I salute the zeal and spirit of the frontline forest staff of the tiger reserves.Now focusing on the people who work in the area around the reserve and are a part of the tourism sector. The nature guides, vehicle drivers, lower staff in resorts are helpless and many have lost their livelihoods. Resort owners, vehicle owners, and suppliers of goods and services have not been able to repay their loans because of the lockdown. With the closure period of the tiger reserves just round the corner, the recovery will take some more time. They need an alternate source of income and employment to sustain themselves.Overall, this means that the tiger reserves benefited from the lockdown because the managers had more time to focus on the protection and preservation of the wildlife. The animals were also positively affected because of the reduced human presence in their territories. And the frontline staff, in spite of the hardships, had been very effective in maintaining their areas and in performing their duties. Of course, the situation is not perfect but things are under control and the majestic beast with black stripes is safe.(Digvijay Singh Khati is a former Indian Forest Service officer and retired as principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-lockdown-impacted-our-tiger-reserves-analysis/story-tpof0sKjh7kK5oYIQ9ffwO.html
01-06-2020||India||‘Virtual interview between 2 friends’: Australian envoy on PM Modi’s meeting with Scott Morrison||Relations between India and Australia will scale greater heights following the summit-level meeting between the two countries, the Australian high commissioner said on Monday.Barry O’Farrell’s comment came ahead of a virtual meeting on June 4 between Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Soctt Morrison.Calling both the prime ministers ‘people person’, the high commissioner also said that the two Premiers will discuss how to work together to improve people’s lives.“Both (Prime Minister Modi and PM Morrison) are people person; they’ll be talking about how to work together to improve the lives of people. Both believe that the government is not about the number of agreements signed but improving the lives of citizens and generating jobs,” news agency ANI quoted O’Farrell as saying. Apart from bilateral ties, the two leaders are expected to discuss the prevailing situation due to the coronavirus pandemic.The Australian PM told reporters on Sunday that he was looking forward to discussing the countries’ responses to the Covid-19 pandemic, said PTI quoting a report in Australian Associated Press. “Prime Minister Modi and I will also discuss new opportunities in defence, trade, maritime safety and security, science and technology, and education,” Morrison said.“As like-minded democracies and natural strategic partners, Australia and India are in full agreement that our strong bilateral relationship is key to a more open, prosperous and inclusive Indo-Pacific,” he said.Thursday’s meeting will be Prime Minister Modi’s first bilateral summit to take place virtually given the embargos on travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The Australian High Commissioner said it will be “like a virtual interview between two friends”.“The virtual summit meet will be like a virtual interview between two friends, discussing how each country is dealing with Covid-19. They may share commentary on the hard task of how to ease restrictions,” ANI quoted Barry O’Farrell as saying.Australia has reported a total of 7,193 confirmed Covid-19 cases along with 103 deaths so far, according to PTI. India’s Covid-19 tally, on the other hand, is inching towards the two lakh-mark. With more than 8,000 new cases and 230 deaths between Sunday and Monday morning, India’s tally rose to 190,535 on Monday.On Sunday, the two Premiers indulged in some light-hearted banter on Twitter when Scott Morrison shared images of ‘ScoMosas’ and mango chutney made by him on his Twitter feed. “Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him,” Morrison posted on Twitter and tagged PM Modi.Prime Minister Narendra Modi responded to his Australian counterpart’s offer, saying they look delicious.“Connected by the Indian Ocean, united by the Indian Samosa! Looks delicious, PM @ScottMorrisonMP! Once we achieve a decisive victory against COVID-19, we will enjoy the Samosas together. Looking forward to our video meet on the 4th,” PM Modi tweeted.Morrison, who was due to visit India in January this year, had to cancel his trip following the bushfire crisis in south-eastern Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virtual-interview-between-2-friends-australian-envo-on-pm-modi-s-meeting-with-scott-morrison/story-lfPHdw3x3C6w3sJjKciR4J.html
01-06-2020||India||OTT releases set to get big boost||Film and TV producer Pradeep Kumar feels that OTT releases will increase big time seeing the current scenario. “Coronavirus has changed the world. The lockdown has distressed the globe. Since the GDP has been affected, companies will need to re-examine their budget. See, it’s a chain -- the show makers depend on the broadcasters who in turn depend on sponsors and so on. We don’t know where we will stand once the lockdown opens.”Giving his take on the recent announcements of a number of Bollywood biggies among others releasing on, Over The Top (OTT) platforms, instead of the age-old practice of releasing movies in a cinema hall, he said, “There will be almost no takers for films for the time being as it will be difficult to bring in audience to theatres. That is why many producers have decided to give their films an OTT release. At least this way it will reach the audience and also all the people involved will be able to survive the ongoing crisis. We all know that TV and digital space will limp back since the audience for these two will remain. Even at home, people want entertainment and working for these platforms does not require expansive techniques. So shooting for shows and series is still doable with all the norms intact.”Pradeep co-produced a recent OTT release ‘Bamfaad’ that was extensively shot in Kanpur and Lucknow, “See even our even our film was made for 70 mm release. Because when we started the film it was planned in a different manner, but when it was set for release, things changed completely. We were stuck in COVID crisis and a lockdown. So to save us and our team from any kind of losses, we decided to give it an OTT release. And today our decision stands absolutely accurate for all departments of film making.”Starting as a production assistant for TV show ‘Kagaar’ way back in 2000, Pradeep believes that patience pays, “I came to Mumbai with different plans but got associated with TV and today I am thoroughly enjoying my job. I am glad to have produced TV shows like ‘Meri Durga’ and the ongoing daily ‘Chhoti Sarrdaarni’. I and Shaika Parween from Shaika Films collaborated with Ajay Rai for this film that was presented by Anurag Kashyap and saw the debut of Aditya Rawal, who happens to be veteran actor Paresh Rawal’s son.”Pradeep is glad with the response he got from the state government and public during the shoot of his film, “Our story was completely set up in Kanpur and partially in Lucknow so to bring in the exact flavours of UP, we decided to shoot it there itself. And we are glad we made the decision as there were numerous unexplored locations and situations, so real that you just love being there. Soon another of project can be set up there again. But through your newspaper I would like to request the state government to come with something on the lines of Ramoji Film City as UP is the next big shooting hub of the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ott-releases-set-to-get-big-boost/story-LOmWcOH0uI3ctjVL9OVUJN.html
01-06-2020||India||‘Railways first isolation coach deployed in Delhi to aid treatment of Covid-19 patients’: Official||Indian Railways’ first isolation coach has been deployed to aid the treatment of coronavirus patients in Delhi, a ministry official was quoted by news agency PTI. As per the official, the Railway isolation facility, which has been deployed on Delhi government’s request, has 10 non-AC coaches with 160 beds, one AC coach for healthcare staff. Last week, in an online address, Delhi Chief Minister shared details of the state of healthcare infrastructure in the national capital in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also read: Delhi borders sealed for one week, only essential services allowedKejriwal said that 117 private hospitals across Delhi have been asked to reserve 20% of beds for Covid-19 patients. The chief minister added that the administration is getting ready to tackle a sudden spike in severe cases of coronavirus for which over 5,000 hospital beds will be made available.“This will lead to the availability of 2,000 more beds for Covid-19 patients. Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital will provide another 1,500 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. In total, more than 5,000 beds will be available for fresh Covid-19 patients,” Kejriwal said last Monday. Also read: Hospitals only for Delhiites amid Covid-19 crisis? CM seeks public voteAs the country enters the fifth phase of Covid-19 lockdown billed as ‘Unlock 1’, the chief minister, in an online address today, said that Delhi’s borders will be sealed for a week. The chief minister said hair salons can resume service in the national capital, spas cannot. “In autos, e-rickshaws and other vehicles, as per earlier orders, the number of passengers was fixed. But now we are lifting the restrictions on the number of passengers travelling in auto, e-rickshaws and other vehicles,” Kejriwal stated today.The national capital has been struggling with a surge in coronavirus cases. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 19,844 cases, as per the Ministry of Health. There have been 473 fatalities while 8,478 have recovered from the deadly contagion in the national capital till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-first-isolation-coach-deployed-in-delhi-to-aid-treatment-of-covid-19-patients-official/story-HAlcuvIAC9M0Cjl5QB1kvO.html
01-06-2020||India||MLAs, MPs and journalists are bosses in Bhind, says cop in leaked audio clip||A 16-minute audio clip purportedly  of a  senior police officer in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind district  telling another officer how the  police is working on directions of some politicians and journalists and how sub-inspectors have become “businessmen”  may point towards some serious trouble in the force.The audio clip went viral during transfers of inspector general of police, Morena zone, DP Gupta, and superintendent of police and collector of Bhind district Nagendra Singh and Chhote Singh on Saturday night.Bhind has been in news in the last fortnight after deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Rajesh Hingankar  twice raided  illegal sand mines and seized machines used for illegal mining. After the raids, he suspended in-charges of five police stations and two constables. The constables were posted in Sheopur and were allegedly patronising  the sand mafia in the district. One of the constables, who belongs to Bhind, allegedly ran an office from his native place to facilitate illegal sand mining. The then SP of Bhind, Nagendra Singh, who was shifted to Bhopal on Saturday, defended the constables saying they were stranded in Bhind because of the lockdown and charges against them were unfounded.The audio clip, the authenticity of which HT cannot vouch for, features a senior police officer  trying to motivate the police personnel by saying that they should speak to their senior officials and public representatives about right or wrong in the district.Another officer talks about how police were working on directions of some politicians and journalists.  “Don’t get demotivated by what is happening. Let all senior officers and public representatives’ phones ring with your calls about what is going on here. Do talk to them. Tell them what is correct. If I am wrong tell them that too,” the first  officer is heard saying.Appreciating the police force’s work in containing the spread of Coronavirus in the district the officer says, “I receive many phone calls for (postings) in two police stations. Such sub-inspectors should be asked if Madhya Pradesh police has stopped paying salary to them. Why this craving? Why go to these places? How many criminals were arrested by you?....Many inspectors call me up to make a request to let them spend their time in police lines instead of sending them to Dehat and Kotwali police station. I feel ashamed of them.”On being asked by the officer during the conversation to express their opinions another police officer is heard saying, “Sir, you should have come here 20 years back. Then you and myself would have worked together to improve the situation in Bhind. But the sub-inspectors and police stations in charge of the new generation are thoroughly corrupt. You are not their boss. Their bosses are MLA, MP and journalists. They have pledged their police uniform. They have become businessmen.”The conversation ends with the first officer  saying he didn’t expect that everyone would become honest overnight but they should work hard while keeping the priorities of the police department in their mind. “No goonda even if he is a politician should have courage to sit in the chair in front of a police station in charge,” he said. When contacted Nagendra Singh said, “I have been transferred now. I would not like to make any comment on this.”Deputy inspector general of police, Morena range Rajesh Hingankar said, “I have not received any complaint regarding any such audio clip.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mlas-mps-and-journalists-are-bosses-in-bhind-says-cop-in-leaked-audio-clip/story-WBrxlpC7yYhPO3kRbcDb3O.html
01-06-2020||India||78-year-old cancer patient recovers from Covid-19 in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad||Paramjit Kaur, a 78-year-old resident of Jharkhand’s Dhanbad district, has recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected lakhs of people and claimed thousands of lives across the country.Kaur is among the more than 250 people who have been cured of the highly-infectious disease in the eastern state.However, as a cancer patient, Kaur from Jharia stands out in that list.Kaur and her 39-year-old son, Manjit Singh, were discharged from the dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Dhanbad on Sunday evening following 23 days’ of treatment after they tested positive for Sars-Cov-2.“Trauma of being infected from Covid-19 was more horrifying than cancer as everyone including doctors said there is no treatment for this disease,” Kaur said. She added, even after being released from the hospital, it yet to sink in that she has recovered from the coronavirus infection.Kaur and her son were declared positive after they returned to the coal city on May 8 from Mumbai after she received treatment for cancer for eight months.“Report of corona infection was shocking as the doctors in Mumbai asked me to return to Dhanbad immediately as the situation of Covid-19 there (in Mumbai) was taking an alarming shape, especially because it has no treatment,” said Kaur. Kaur was lived in a gurdwara during her treatment in Mumbai and they were screened when they left for Dhanbad by an ambulance.“We don’t know where and how did we pick this infection,” Singh, her son, said.His son said Kaur is suffering from bone metastatic cancer. Besides, she also has other medical condition such as TB, hypertension and epileptic complications. Kaur gave all the credit to Dr Alok Viswakarma, the nodal officer of the Covid-19 hospital, and his team for helping her overcome from the trauma.Doctors attending to her in the Covid-19 hospital said because of cancer, her body was deteriorating day by day. But doses of vitamin, food intake and protein helped in recovery.“It was a rare case and we had to take telemedicine services from expert doctors at Apollo Hospital in Hyderabad when her condition was not improving. However, our team under Dr UK Ojha of Patliputra Medical College Hospital (PMCH) succeeded in curing her,” Dr Vishwakarma said.Kaur and her son are now at their Digwadih home under Jharia police station after being discharged from the hospital.Official figures show, 610 people have tested positive in Jharkhand and five have died. Till Sunday evening, 256 Covid-19 people had recovered and discharged from hospitals and 349 people were undergoing treatment across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/78-year-old-cancer-patient-recovers-from-covid-19-in-jharkhand-s-dhanbad/story-byFT9GvAslGK2cWx7maxKK.html
01-06-2020||India||‘Over 11 lakh migrant workers tracked for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh; 1,027 found symptomatic’: Top health official||The Uttar Pradesh administration has been tracking incoming migrant labourers and have found over 1,000 symptomatic for Covid-19, state principal secretary (Health), Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters on Monday.  “We are tracking migrant labourers returning to the state with the help of ASHA workers. 11,47,872 labourers have been tracked till now, out of which 1,027 are symptomatic. Their samples have been collected for testing,” Prasad said. Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Awanish Awasthi, said that so far 1587 trains carrying migrants have arrived in the state.“Sixteen trains are arriving today. 60 trains will be arriving in 2-3 days. With this, the number of people arriving in UP by trains will reach around 22.5 lakh,” Awasthi said.  We are tracking migrant labourers returning to the state with the help of ASHA workers. 11,47,872 labourers have been tracked till now, out of which 1,027 are symptomatic. Their samples have been collected for test: State Principal Secretary (Health), Amit Mohan Prasad https://t.co/cY7qknsv4VPrasad also said that the state has reported 373 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours after the which Uttar Pradesh’s number of active Covid-19 cases jump to 3,083. As many as 4,891 people have been cured or discharged while the death toll stands at 217 in the state. Uttar Pradesh has seen over 7,800 total cases of Covid-19 infection till date. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday held a review on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state and directed officials to ensure the availability of thermal scanners at all railway stations as 200 interstate passenger trains resumed operation today. Till 2 pm today,1587 trains carrying migrants have arrived in Uttar Pradesh, 16 trains are arriving today. 60 trains will be arriving in 2-3 days. With this, the number of people arriving in UP by trains will reach around 22.5 lakh:UP Additional Chief Secy (Home), Awanish Awasthi https://t.co/EG6tUZg7UO pic.twitter.com/PSnPzNes5m“Everyone going inside stations should be thermally scanned and handbills regarding coronavirus prevention should be given to the passengers,” Adityanath said.The chief minister also emphasised the cleanliness of hospitals and proper power supply to all medical facilities to avoid any inconvenience to the patients amid the Covid-19 crisis.“Both health and medical departments should make good arrangements at COVID hospitals,” the chief minister said.In its guidelines on the fifth phase of Covid-19 lockdown, the Uttar Pradesh government largely stuck to the directions issued by the Centre.While inter-state travel has been permitted, people from Covid-19 hotspot areas/containment zones in Delhi will not be allowed to travel to Noida and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Shopping malls, religious places, hotels and restaurants will open from June 8 while the decision on reopening schools and colleges will be taken in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-11-lakh-migrant-workers-tracked-for-covid-19-in-uttar-pradesh-1-027-found-symptomatic-top-health-official/story-JZnZFutMyJ2KVpAxe2CqGO.html
01-06-2020||India||2 blocks of Andhra Secretariat shut for next 2 days after employee tests Covid-19 positive||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday shut two official blocks in the state secretariat at Velagapudi in Amaravati and asked the employees working in these blocks not to come to the offices for another two days.The decision was taken following an employee of the Secretariat testing positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.The man and two other government employees working in Guntur were among the around 250 state government employees who had returned to Andhra on May 24 after being stranded in Hyderabad since the beginning of the lockdown. They were brought back in special buses arranged by the APSRTC. As part of the mandatory health protocol, all of them were tested for Covid-19. Three of them tested positive for the infection on May 27.The Secretariat employee, an attendant in the agriculture department, is learnt to have carried files between Block-3 and 4. Following his positive test, both these blocks of the Secretariat building at Velagapudi in Amravati were shut and employees working there were asked not to come to office for the next two days.“Both the blocks have been shut for sanitisation. We have asked the government to allow the employees in these blocks to work from home. So, for the two days, they were asked not to come to the offices,” AP secretariat employees’ association president K Venkatrami Reddy said.The Covid-19 positive man has been shifted to a hospital in Vijaywada for treatment. The two other government employees who tested positive for Covid-19 worked in the department of cooperation at Chittigunta in Guntur and were also hospitalised for treatment.The medical and health department authorities have identified primary contacts of the three and shifted them to various quarantine centres.Meanwhile, 105 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Monday, taking the total count to 3,674. The death toll now stands at 64 with two fatalities reported from Kurnool district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-blocks-of-andhra-secretariat-shut-after-employee-tests-covid-19-positive/story-NhmzfeGUwHIoqyp4iyGwGJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Govt removes 1,026 items from CAPF canteen in swadeshi push, then hits pause||The Home Ministry issued an order to remove ‘imported’ products being sold at canteens run for personnel of central police force personnel over the weekend but rescinded the list, reportedly after confusion over some of the products classified as imported. A government official said a reworked list would be issued soon.The list of imported items sold at the government-run canteens had been issued to implement Home Minister Amit Shah’s orders last month that the canteen should sell only Made in India products. Shah’s decision came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed to people last month to opt for ‘Made in India’ products.The coronavirus crisis, he told the country in his televised address, has taught us that local is going to help us. “So, we should become vocal for local - not only buy local, but advertise it too,” the prime minister had said.But figuring out which product can be classified as ‘Made in India’, or imported may have turned out to be a tad more complicated than what the officials had initially believed.AP Maheshwari, the director general of the CRPF and head of the Welfare And Rehabilitation Board of central police forces said the order regarding “delisting of certain products has been erroneously issued at the level of CEO. The list has been withdrawn and action is being initiated for the lapse”.A DIG rank officer RM Meena, who is the chief executive officer of the Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandars (KPKB), had issued the order on 29 May.The Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandars (KPKB), the body that runs paramilitary canteens across India, had created three categories. In category 1 were produced that had been made in India from scratch. Category 2 was classified to comprise products which had been manufactured or assembled in India but the raw material was imported. Category 3 will refer to ‘Purely Imported Products’, a home ministry order seen by Hindustan Times said.Every product sold by the canteens was classified under one of the three categories. In category 3, the KPKB identified 1,026 products that included chocolates manufactured by an Italian firm and air conditioners and televisions being sold by a South Korean company.There were, according to the home ministry order, seven companies that had been importing finished products and rightaway selling them. Identifying these companies was the easier part of the deal included Skechers, Ferraro India and Redbull India. Products of Victorinox, Safilo (Polaroid) were also banned from being sold at the central paramilitary force canteens.The order had anticipated there would be some disputes and underlined that they had categorised the products “on the sole information provided by the firms only”.“In case of any litigation, the information provided by the firm will be used as evidence and the onus to prove the information is correct will be on the respective firm,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-026-imported-goods-go-off-capf-canteen-shelves-in-amit-shah-s-swadeshi-push/story-jypi76heq0MnmknaGkgPLO.html
01-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga may make landfall over Palghar district, near Mumbai, on June 3||A developing tropical cyclonic storm called Nisarga in the Arabian Sea is likely to make a landfall over Palghar district, located around 100km north of Mumbai, on Wednesday evening or at night. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities expect damages across four districts in north Konkan because of Nisarga.The IMD on Monday issued a yellow message – a cyclone alert issued 72 hours prior to the weather event -- directing district administrations across a 370km area between Harihareshwar in Raigad, Maharashtra, to the Union Territory of Daman, which is closer to south Gujarat, to be on high alert.“As per the trajectory of the system, it’s expected to make the landfall somewhere near Palghar district on Wednesday evening or at night,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD. “We’re closely monitoring the movement of the system (currently a depression). An orange alert (be prepared) will be issued 48 hours before the landfall, while a red alert (take action) will be issued 12 to 24 hours for the affected areas,” she added. The Palghar administration said that they had been informed that the landfall was expected in the district. “One team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has moved into Palghar after details were shared by the IMD authorities. We’ve issued a cyclone alert to all those living within 3km of the coast, and stopped the fishing community from entering the Arabian Sea till Thursday. We’re currently collating a list of people, who need to be evacuated from the low-lying areas and those areas that are most susceptible to damages,” said Kiran Mahajan, deputy collector (general administration), Palghar.The intensity of the approaching weather system was scaled up from a cyclonic storm to a severe cyclonic storm with maximum winds expected to be ranging from 105-115 km per hour (kmph) gusting to 125 kmph around the point of landfall, the bulletin said.“Palghar, Thane, Mumbai, and Raigad districts are likely to be the most affected by this severe cyclonic storm. We’re expecting damages in the form of the uprooting of trees and the collapse of kutcha and pucca buildings. A more detailed list of likely damages will be shared soon. State governments are being updated constantly, as the weather system develops,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.Mahesh Narvekar, chief officer, disaster management cell, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “Our preparations are on based on the regular updates from the IMD authorities.”Another BMC officer said, “Strict warnings have been issued to the fishing community to avoid entering the Arabian Sea. We’re analysing the critical areas, where our officers will visit on Monday, including coronavirus disease (Covid-19) centres that need to be shifted because of a likely increase in the intensity of the rainfall.”IMD’s latest bulletin at 8.30am on Monday said the system was a weather depression located 670 km south-southwest of Mumbai and 900km south-southwest of Surat. “It’s very likely to intensify into a deep depression over the east-central and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea during the next 12 hours and intensify further into a cyclonic storm over the east-central Arabian Sea by Tuesday morning. Initially, it’s likely to move nearly northwards till Tuesday morning, and then recurve north-northeastwards and cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar at Raigad and Daman by Wednesday evening or at night,” the bulletin said.Mumbai and its surrounding areas may receive moderate rainfall or thundershowers on Tuesday and heavy to very heavy rain, measuring between 64.5 millimetres (mm) and 204.4 mm, and on the following day. Palghar district can expect extremely heavy rainfall of over 204.5 mm on Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-may-make-landfall-over-palghar-district-near-mumbai-on-june-3/story-PWsZZHlpSng6EffjuK4iAJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Hustle-bustle returns to railway stations, long queues of passengers as 200 trains resume service||Scores of passengers were seen scurrying, queueing up in long lines as the Railways commenced operation of 200 interstate passenger trains from today amid the coronavirus pandemic. Passengers at most railways stations were seen observing proper social distancing measures, wearing masks and following other mandatory norms amid the Covid-19 crisis.   While social distancing norms were maintained at most places, the stations were not bereft of long queues as the hustle-bustle returned to the train stations.   In order to avoid chaos at railways stations, the Northern Railways on Sunday issued an entry and exit plan for passengers at Hazrat Nizamuddin, Delhi Junction and New Delhi Railway Station. Also read: Full list of trains to resume from June 1Tamil Nadu: Passengers arrive at Madurai Railway Station to board trains to their respective destinations, as Indian Railways has started operations of 200 passenger trains today. pic.twitter.com/uSk3E4iYSRAs per the plan, for Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station the entry and exit will be from Bhogal side. For Delhi Junction Railway Station, the entry and exit will be from Chandni Chowk side. For New Delhi Railway Station, the entry and exit will be from both Ajmeri Gate and Paharganj side. “It is advised to carry food and water from home and travel with light luggage. Bedroll and linen will ‘NOT’ be provided by Railways,” the statement read. Also read: Airlines urged to keep middle seats empty or give ‘wrap-around gowns’Bihar: Passengers arrive at Patna Railway Station to board their respective trains, as Indian Railways has started operations of 200 passenger trains today. Social distancing norms being followed at the railway station as part of precautionary measures amid #COVID19 outbreak. pic.twitter.com/cxZvEMJu7NThe Ministry of Railways suspended its operation in March, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the first phase of 21-day lockdown on March 25. Shramik Special trains, to ferry stranded migrant labourers to their native states, were started from May 1. Pair of 30 Special AC trains were started from May 12. The resumption of 200 interstate passenger trains from today comes as an important step in Centre’s plan to restore passenger rail services across the country in a graded manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hustle-bustle-returns-to-railway-stations-long-queues-of-passengers-as-200-trains-resume-service/story-JlpbJnV2XIqXK0KF2E54BO.html
01-06-2020||India||Orange alert issued as Goa braces for cyclone-fuelled rain, wind||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for Goa, predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall until Thursday with the low pressure in the Arabian Sea off India’s west coast set to intensify into a cyclonic circulation.While not unusual at this time of the year, the spell of rains is set to coincide with the reopening of the state as people scramble to complete monsoon preparations on hold because of the Covid-19 lockdown. “Light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy to very heavy falls [is] very likely over Konkan and Goa on 2nd June and over south Konkan and Goa on 3rd June,” IMD said in its forecast late on Sunday evening. “Light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy to very heavy falls [is] very likely over Konkan and Goa on 2nd June and over south Konkan & Goa on 03rdJune,” it added.The warnings have rendered the ‘reduced’ fishing ban period infructuous since fishermen haven’t been allowed to venture into the sea owing to the rough to very rough over sea condition along and off Karnataka-south Maharashtra coasts from June 2. Earlier, heeding a notification from the central government, the state had granted fishermen an additional 15 days after it reduced the 61-day fishing ban to 47-day ban that would come into effect from June 15 instead of June 1 as has been the practice. The coastal belt will also witness fast currents and high waves in the range of 2.8 to 4 metres high.Drishti Marine, the state-appointed professional lifeguard agency, has issued an advisory instructing visitors to the beach not to venture into the sea during the next 48 hours with heavy pre-monsoon showers expected over the next two days.“Citizens are advised to be cautious as rough weather and sea conditions will prevail during these days. Drishti especially cautioned adults to keep a very close eye on children while on the beach and to not allow children to venture into the waters unattended, no matter how shallow it may be,” Drishti Marine said in a statement.Despite the advisories, people have been flocking to beaches of the state to make the most of the last few days of sunshine before the onset of the monsoon. Heavy rain and wind are not usually deadly in Goa and incidents of flooding are rare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orange-alert-issued-as-goa-braces-for-cyclone-fuelled-rain-wind/story-fUFxoUQ6oOjXNGQefRwTkI.html
01-06-2020||India||Monsoon to be normal, around 102% of average, says weather department||The weather department on Monday announced the onset of southwest monsoon in the country and said it will be normal in India this year.“We have declared monsoon onset in Kerala based on the favourable conditions today,” Dr M Mohapatra, director general of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said at a press conference on Monday to give long-term details about the monsoon season in the country.He further said that Kerala will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next three days due to the southwest monsoon.“Widespread rainfall is predicted in Kerala in three days. More than 80 per cent stations of IMD have recorded more than 2.5 mm rainfall,” said Dr Mohapatra.Dr Madhavan Nair Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, who accompanied Dr Madhavan at the press conference, said that conditions are becoming more favourable for a good monsoon.“Quantitatively, the monsoon rainfall between June to September over the country would be 102 per cent of its long period average,” said Dr Rajeevan.Dr Madhavan talked about a new low-pressure system forming in the Arabian Sea which will have its impact on the monsoon system too.“Another monsoon system, a vortex, has developed in the Arabian Sea. This depression is currently 690 km away from Mumbai, in the south-southwest direction,” said Dr Mohapatra.He said that the low-pressure system is expected to move northwards and then turn North-East and will hit the Gujarat and Maharashtra coast on June 3.“Maharashtra and south Gujarat will receive heavy rain on June 3. More than 20 cm rainfall is expected in coastal districts of Maharashtra like Sindhudurg, Thane, Mumbai etc,” said Dr Mohapatra.“Sea condition is very likely to be rough to very rough over South-East Arabian Sea in the next 48 hours,” he said adding that fishermen are advised not to venture out during this period.The country’s annual monsoon arrived on the Kerala coast on Monday, marking the start of the four-month rainy season that is crucial for the country’s farm-dependent economy.The monsoon delivers about 70% of India’s annual rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-be-normal-around-102-of-average-says-weather-department/story-afLuh8l5bDi25VE9KOQPGN.html
01-06-2020||India||Raigarh district: Woman, two kids die in LPG cylinder explosion||Raipur: A 25-year-old woman and her two children were killed in a liquid petroleum gas (LPG ) cylinder blast at their home in Chandai village in Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh district on Monday morning.Police said the deceased has been identified as Lata Sahu and her two sons, Tikesh Sahu (7) and Jhalak Sahu (3).“The woman was cooking when the LPG cylinder blast occurred at her home in Chandai village under Sarangarh police station of the district. All three died and the house was also damaged,” said Santosh Singh, superintendent of police (SP), Raigarh.“Her husband had gone out on work when the accident took place. A case has been filed and an investigation is on,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raigarh-district-woman-two-kids-die-in-lpg-cylinder-explosion/story-nENhbC2BNqxA283EhsrMtL.html
01-06-2020||India||Airlines urged to keep middle seats empty or give ‘wrap-around gowns’||The aviation regulator DGCA on Monday urged airlines to try and keep the middle seats vacant. In case it cannot be done, it added, the passengers should be provided with “wrap-around gowns”. Social distancing is a big part in the battle against coronavirus.“Attempts should be made to keep the middle seat empty to the extent possible... If the middle seat is occupied due to high load, the flyer should be provided with a ‘wrap-around gowns’,” said the DGCA.India resumed domestic flight operations from May 25, kickstarting a gradual reboot of air travel that was halted two months ago on account of a lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The government has capped the air fares for three months (till August). Soon after, possibly as a trade off, the DGCA withdrew its earlier circular on keeping the middle seat vacant on every flight.The latest move by the regulator seems like an attempt to balance the interests of the airlines and also to protect the fliers. Earlier, the Supreme Court had also questioned the logic behind allowing bookings for the middle seats on Air India’s non-scheduled relief and rescue flights on international routes.“How can you say it will not affect anyone? Outside (aircraft), there should be a social distancing of at least 6 feet. Will the Virus know it is in the aircraft and is not supposed to infect?,” the court questioned.However, it allowed Air India to book middle seats till June 6.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast on Sunday, warned people against letting their guard down while noting that a big part of the economy has opened and train and flight services have begun operating partially with more relaxations on the anvil. After such “austere penance and after so many hardships”, the country’s deft handling of the situation should “not go in vain”, he said.Modi said, “Whether it is the mandatory ‘do gaz ki doori’ (two yards of distancing), wearing face masks or staying at home to the best extent possible, there should be no laxity on our part in complete adherence to the laid down norms.“We must not let this fight weaken. Becoming careless or lackadaisical cannot be an option. The fight against coronavirus is still equally serious. You, your family, may still face grave danger from coronavirus,” he cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-try-to-keep-middle-seats-vacant-aviation-regulator-dgca-to-airlines/story-Kz5kiXFUsUFNojszkuQ0vK.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Thane Municipal Corporation commissioner announces more ambulances||In his first-ever public address, Thane Municipal Corporation’s commissioner, Vijay Singhal, asked residents to cooperate and follow rules to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. In a live session on social media, Singhal announced that provisions for 16 more ambulances are being made, so that there will be around 100 ambulances in all within the TMC jurisdiction. Moreover, shops in markets within TMC can be open using the odd-even formula for each side of the street.“I urge residents to not panic and act responsibly, do not step out unnecessarily. Follow social distancing, wear gloves and masks at all times when outdoors. If we have proper support and coordination from everyone, we can easily bring down the Covid-19 positive figures within the TMC. Along with increasing the number of beds, we are also providing more ambulances. A list of the restrictions that will be lifted shall be released soon by the TMC,” said Singhal wjo joined as the commissioner on March 19.Also read: Mumbai sees rise in vehicular traffic due to ‘Mission Begin Again’A list of the containment zones within the TMC is provided online, regular sanitation of hotspots and public toilets especially in slum areas are being carried out. “There are around 3,000 people who go out of Thane regularly for work. Being adjacent to an equally populated Mumbai city and having 60% of slum population, we have maintained a 45% recovery rate. Moreover, Thane is not an isolated city at all, still, we are doing our best,” added Singhal. The TMC has 3,032 positive cases till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-thane-municipal-corporation-commissioner-announces-more-ambulances/story-0w7juvE2D3NGKPNeucWiwJ.html
01-06-2020||India||To abate suicide and fratricide, Chhattisgarh police to get regular counselling and medical check-up||The Chhattisgarh government has decided to provide regular counselling, medical check-ups and easy leave procedures for the state’s police personnel in its bid to lessen incidents of suicides and fratricides among the stressed law enforcement employees, especially those deployed in the Communist Party of India (Maoist)-hit Bastar region. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has directed the state’s director-general of police (DGP), DM Awasthi, to take special steps to relieve the mental stress of the police personnel.“The CM directed me on Sunday to take special measures to improve the mental health of the police personnel. I’ve called a meeting of senior IPS (Indian Police Service) officers and a psychologist on Tuesday. We’ll formulate a mechanism to help the police personnel relieve their mental stress,” said DGP Awasthi.“The CM told me that the police personnel are working in challenging conditions, especially those deployed in the Maoist-affected Bastar region, and steps should be taken at the earliest to lessen their stress levels,” he added.“We’re planning to create a conducive environment for the police personnel. They’ll be provided regular counselling. Yoga sessions, sports, and other recreational activities are being planned. Plans are also afoot to give music therapy to them as well, and a group has been formed at the zonal level to that effect,” the DGP said.Chhattisgarh has reported around 50 suicidal deaths of security personnel, including both police and paramilitary forces, over the past two years. The Maoist-hit Bastar division has recorded 18 of those suicidal deaths.“The primary reasons behind suicide among the state’s police personnel are depression, difficulty in getting their leaves sanctioned, and homesickness. Our records show that over 50% of these suicides occurred due to personal or family reasons, illness (11%), work-related dispute (8%), and other reasons (13%),” said an IPS officer.Last December, six Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel died at their camp in Narayanpur district because of fratricidal killings. While a similar incident claimed two CAF jawans’ lives at their camp in Mingahcal village of Bijapur district on June 19, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-provide-regular-counselling-and-medical-check-up-to-jawans/story-lTf0cJ2wlBZi46YEg0CFEJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Kanpur college principal caught on camera making controversial comment against Muslims, says video morphed||Amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic in Uttar Pradesh, the principal of GSVM Medical College in Kanpur has made controversial comments about the Muslims.In remarks which have been caught on camera, Arti Lalchandani is heard calling the Muslims - being treated in one of the hospitals for Covid-19 - as terrorists who deserve to be put in jail and tortured.She is also seen accusing Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of being soft and indulging in appeasement politics. “They are terrorists, we are exhausting our resources on them. We are extending our hospitality to these terrorists. Yogi (chief minister) should have given a clear order that they would not be treated here,” she is heard saying in the video which surfaced on Sunday.Lalchandani further complains in the video that district magistrate suppressed her for bringing this issue up because he takes order from Yogi Adityanath. “I am writing to the Union health minister (also her batchmate at medical college) Harsh Vardhan because no one listens to me and continues to extend hospitality.”The principal says there was just a single case before 22 members of Tablighi Jamaat were admitted at the LLR hospital for Covid-19 treatment. “The GDP of India will contract and there will be a economic emergency, and the reason for this will be these 30 crore and not the 100 crore,” she said.“These terrorist,” she says, “do not deserve to be put in jail and beaten up in solitary confinement than the hospital. They needed to be abandoned in the jungle.”The video was shot during an interaction of Lalchandani with a group of people, few of them reporters. The members of the Jamaat had accused her in turn of harassment.The Jamaat members had said that in April the medical college administration snapped the electricity and water connections in the isolation wards they were in. More so, they alleged that the staff misbehaved with them and things normalised only after intervention of district authorities.When asked for her side, Lalchandani said the video was 70 days old and morphed to malign her. The words like Tablighi, she said, were superimposed by a journalist to blackmail and extort money from her. “I will lodge an FIR with the police. This video was made at my home when I was complaining about the bad behaviour of Jamaatis who were harassing the health workers,” she said in a written statement to Hindustan Times.“Some people are construing it as anti-Muslim. I had never anything against the Muslims. My most loved friends are Muslims faculty and students. The words were added by the journalist; I never mentioned them,” she said.Meanwhile, CPI(M) Politburo member Subhashini Ali said that the language the principal has used is unconstitutional and highly objectionable. In a statement, she said that the district administration should get the video examined and Lalchandandi should be removed from her position and criminal charges needed to pressed if the video is found authentic.She has broken her oath and the constitution, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-college-principal-caught-on-camera-making-controversial-comment-says-video-morphed/story-cmmmvs6MNBr5Sw2ODtuxrK.html
01-06-2020||India||Migrant worker found dead in Odisha quarantine centre, eighth such death in 52 days||A migrant worker staying in a quarantine centre in Odisha’s Cuttack district was found dead on Monday, taking the total number of deaths reported in its quarantine centres to eight in the last 52 days.The death came on the day the state reported 156 Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day surge taking the total number of cases to 2,104. Of the cases reported today, 153 were from various quarantine centres of the state.Officials said 40-year-old Brajabandhu Rana was supposed to complete his mandatory seven-day quarantine on Monday and go home for another seven-day quarantine. “However, his body was found near the boundary wall of the centre this morning,” said Narasinghpur BDO Prashant Tarai.Rana had returned from Mumbai on May 26 and was not keeping well since the day he arrived at the quarantine centre. There are speculations that he died while trying to scale the wall of the quarantine centre. Police recovered the body and sent it for post-mortem.There have been at least half a dozen deaths at quarantine centres of Odisha since April 9 when the first such death was reported.A 29-year-old tribal man of Sundargarh district, who had returned from Himachal Pradesh in February, had hanged himself from a tree near a quarantine centre. On May 28, a tribal man in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district had died in home quarantine after he returned from Surat where he worked. Similarly, on May 21, a 54-year-old man who came back from Andhra Pradesh, died at an quarantine centre in Gajapati district. On May 20, a youth who had returned from Surat, was found dead under mysterious circumstnces at a quarantine centre under Nuagaon block of Nayagarh district.Though the state government has been advertising its 16,651 quarantine centres as the best model to contain the spread of the virus, their management have left a lot to be desired. Over last one-and-half-months, there have been numerous complaints from the migrant workers over the quality of food, sanitation facilities as well as the behaviour of the people running those. Last month, the video of a sarpanch of Jagatsinghpur district thrashing an inmate of a quarantine centre had gone viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-worker-found-dead-in-odisha-quarantine-centre-eighth-such-death-in-52-days/story-qjvJPFLbtxAu0R9johiAMO.html
01-06-2020||India||List of districts in India with more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases||As India heads towards the 2,00,000-mark in the number of coronavirus disease cases, some cities and districts stand out by the sheer number of infections they have recorded in the last few days.Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, has seen its Covid-19 tally increasing rapidly since the outbreak was reported in India. Its capital Mumbai is among the districts hardest hit by the pandemic.Here’s a look at some of the districts in India with the highest caseload of coronavirus:Mumbai: The capital of Maharashtra has recorded 41,206 cases of Covid-19 so far. According to the data provided by the Union health ministry and National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), the city recorded 4,284 Covid-19 positive cases in the last two days (till Sunday). Some of the hotspots identified in Mumbai are Dharavi slums where the outbreak is fast turning into a big issue. With 1,333 deaths, Mumbai has also reported the most deaths among all districts.Chennai: The capital of Tamil Nadu, and a big urban centre in south India, Chennai stands next in the tally of districts with highest number of Covid-19 positive cases. As per the last government data, Chennai has 14,800 cases - less than half of Mumbai’s tally - and recorded 132 deaths from the coronavirus disease. The district recorded 1,420 cases in the last two days.Ahmedabad: Gujarat’s capital Ahmedabad is next in the list. The district has 12,180 cases of Covid-19 but when it comes to fatalities, the number is more than Chennai. The number of Covid-19-linked deaths in Ahmedabad is 842.Thane: This is the second district in Maharashtra where Covid-19 has spread rapidly. Thane has 10,488 cases of the coronavirus disease and 227 fatalities. The more worrying fact is that Thane has seen one of the highest spike in Covid-19 cases - it recorded 2,405 cases in the last two days, according to NDMA data.Pune: This is the third district in Maharashtra which has become a Covid-19 hotspot and is seeing rapid spread of the coronavirus disease. Pune has recorded 8,560 cases of Covid-19 and 348 deaths. In the last two days, the number increased from 6,737 to 8,560, an increase of 1,823.These five districts account for 54 per cent of new cases in the last two days. Other hard-hit districts are Indore in Madhya Pradesh (with 3,449 cases), Kolkata in west Bengal (with 2,167 cases) and Jaipur in Rajasthan (with 2,029 cases).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-districts-in-india-with-more-than-10-000-covid-19-cases/story-2d9VAJ9UEq6VhhnOabM4mK.html
01-06-2020||India||Southwest monsoon hits Kerala: IMD||India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities announced the onset of monsoon in the country on Monday morning, keeping its annual date with June 1. According to IMD’s National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC), the monsoon has advanced into all of the south Arabian Sea; Lakshadweep, most parts of Kerala and even some parts of Tamil Nadu. Kozhikode in Kerala received 15 centimetres (cm) of rainfall from Sunday morning till Monday 8:30 am, Thiruvanthapuram and Kannur also received 6 cm each.“Kerala received very good rains and monsoon is advancing well. The very strong winds are moving towards the westerly and south-westerly direction. All the parameters for the onset of monsoon have been met,” said K. Sathi Devi, head, NWFC.IMD’s monsoon onset guidelines stipulate that 60% of its 14 stations enlisted in Lakshadweep, Kerala and coastal Karnataka must report rainfall of 2.5 millimetres (mm) or more for two consecutive days after May 10 along with strong westerlies. Usually, southwest monsoon sets in over Kerala around June 1. It advances northwards and spreads across the country by July 15.Monsoon rains are critical for the country’s farmers.Around 60% of the country’s net-sown area does not have any form of irrigation. Millions of farmers wait for the rains to begin sowing of major Kharif crops such as rice, sugar, cotton, coarse cereals, and oilseeds. Half of India’s farm output comes from summer crops dependent on monsoon rains.The Gujarat and Maharashtra coasts have been put on pre-cyclone watch amid the onset of monsoon in the country on Monday.The well-marked low-pressure area over the south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area have concentrated into a depression on Monday morning.It is located about 370 kilometres (km) southwest of Panjim; 690 km south-southwest of Mumbai and 920 km south-south-west of Surat. The depression likely to intensify into a deep depression in the next 12 hours and a severe cyclonic storm, called Nisarga, by Wednesday.IMD authorities show that Nisarga will cross very close to the Mumbai coast while entering the land.Initially, Nisarga is likely to move nearly northwards till Tuesday morning and then recurve north-northeast wards and cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar (Raigad, Maharashtra) and the Union Territory of Daman on Wednesday evening. When it crosses the coast as a severe cyclonic storm it will have a wind speed of 105 to 115 km per hour (kmph) gusting up to 125 kmph. Very heavy to extremely heavy rain is expected in Konkan, Goa, parts of Maharashtra and Gujarat till Thursday, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southwest-monsoon-hits-kerala-imd/story-zQIpBaMOvEn0KF2yP5nCWN.html
01-06-2020||India||NITI Aayog official tests positive for Covid-19, floor of Delhi office sealed||A floor of NITI Aayog’s office in Delhi has been sealed for sanitation after a staffer tested positive for Covid-19. The third floor of the NITI Aayog office in Delhi has been sealed and sanitisation work is underway.Earlier this week, at least two officials working with the External Affairs Ministry tested positive for coronavirus. One person who tested positive worked as a consultant in the ministry’s Central Europe (CE) division in New Delhi, while the other worked as a legal officer in the law division, news agency Reuters reported.  A NITI Aayog official tests positive for #COVID19. Third floor of their office in Delhi sealed, sanitisation underway.“As per protocol, all members of the CE Division have been asked to go for self-quarantine for 14 days and work from home,” the ministry advised in an internal e-mail on May 27, which was reviewed by Reuters. Besides this, a sanitation employee of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), who was deployed in Badarpur, died of Covid-19, an SDMC official said on Sunday.This comes at a time when Covid-19 cases in the country near the grim 2 lakh mark. On Monday, the Ministry of Health updated the national Covid-19 tally to total 190,535 cases. There are 93,322 active cases of coronavirus in the country. The death toll stands at 5,394 while 91,818 people have beaten the deadly contagion or have been discharged from hospitals across the country. The fourth phase of the nationwide coronavirus lockdown has come to an end, marked by the beginning of ‘Unlock 1’ to see a staggered lifting of lockdown curbs across the country from today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-official-tests-positive-for-covid-19-a-floor-of-delhi-office-sealed-for-sanitation/story-GxxKheejkinj0I5WTmcREO.html
01-06-2020||India||Govt to announce changes in essential commodities act, dismantling of APMC: Sources||Amendments in the essential commodities act, dismantling of Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and a new price signalling system for farmers will be among the major agricultural reforms to be announced after the Union Cabinet’s meeting on Monday, sources said.Officials, in the know of the developments, also said a new definition of Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises will be put in place.Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired the meeting of the Union cabinet on Monday as the country entered the first day of the Centre’s three-phased unlocking plan throughout the country.This was the first meeting of the Union cabinet after the central government entered into its second year in office.The Centre had said in May it will amend the Essential Commodities Act to deregulate food items like cereals, pulses and onion besides bringing a new law to give marketing choice to farmers for enhancing their income.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the government will amend the EC act to make the agriculture sector more competitive and ensure better price realisation to farmers. This will also help in attracting investment in the farm sector.The government had also said it will also frame a new law to provide marketing choices to farmers.The central law will be formulated to provide adequate choices to farmers to sell their produce at an attractive price. It will enable interstate trade without restrictions and create a framework for electronic trading of farm products.Farmers currently are bound to sell agriculture produce only through APMC mandis, which restrict the free flow of farm products. At present, farmers lack an enforceable standard mechanism for predictable prices of crops at the time of sowing, the government had said.The Economic Survey had earlier this year pitched for the scrapping of the essential commodities act, saying the law is “anachronistic” that leads to harassment and is of no help in checking price volatility.The act was enacted to control production, supply and distribution of, and trade and commerce in, certain goods considered as essential commodities. The act does not lay out rules and regulations but allows states to issue control orders related to dealer licensing, regulate stock limits, restrict the movement of goods and requirements of compulsory purchases under a levy system.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-announce-changes-in-essential-commodities-act-dismantling-of-apmc-sources/story-TOBYYq5XvLW2fNMz0mUIYL.html
01-06-2020||India||IMD says Nisarga likely to turn into ‘severe cyclonic storm’ on June 3: All you need to know||The depression in the south-west Arabian Sea is likely to concentrate into a deep depression in next 12 hours and will turn into a cyclone, named Nisarga, in the next 24 hours, Anand Kumar Sharma, deputy director-general, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. Cyclone Nisarga is likely to reach Northern Maharashtra coast and the southern coast of Gujarat on June 3 evening/night, the IMD stated. This comes just days after super cyclonic storm Amphan lashed parts of coastal West Bengal, Odisha and Bangladesh on May 20. Here’s all about cyclone Nisarga:• According to the IMD, cyclonic storm ‘Nisarga’ will cross north Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar in Raigad district and Daman on June 3.• Maharashtra and Gujarat are on pre-cyclone alert as very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is expected in parts of the states on June 3 and June 4. • According to IMD’s scientist Ananda Kumar Das, the depression is located about 370 kilometres southwest of Goa’s Panjim, 690 kilometres south-southwest of Mumbai and 920 kilometres south-south-west of Gujarat’s Surat.Also read: Here’s how to live track Cyclonic storm Nisarga• “It is very likely to move nearly northwards initially till June 2 morning and then recurve north-northeastwards and cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar (Raigad, Maharashtra) and Daman during evening or night of June 3,” Das said.• The depression is likely to intensify into a deep depression by Monday evening. It will turn into a cyclonic storm in the early hours of June 2.• Cyclone Nisarga is likely to turn into a severe cyclonic storm by the evening or night hours of June 3, the IMD stated in its bulletin on Monday.• Nisarga, as a severe cyclonic storm, will have a wind speed of 105-115, gusting to 125 kilometres per hour at 5.30 pm on June 3, the Met department’s bulletin read. • According to the IMD, ‘Nisarga’ will weaken into a cyclonic storm in the second half of June 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-says-nisarga-likely-to-turn-into-severe-cyclonic-storm-on-june-3-all-you-need-to-know-and-latest-updates/story-mZblr69XbT7pnXVD00AxCM.html
01-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cyclone Nisarga will cross close to Mumbai, shows IMD track and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cyclone Nisarga will cross close to Mumbai, shows IMD trackThe well-marked low-pressure area over the south-east and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area has concentrated into a depression on Monday morning. Read moreSenior ICMR scientist tests positive for coronavirusA senior scientist at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has tested positive for novel coronavirus following which the entire ICMR building is being sanitised, sources said. Read moreMumbai Police uses mangoes for not so ‘aam’ awareness initiative. Seen it yet?The summer season may be responsible for all the sweaty discomfort but it does come with some yummy gifts too. One of them is the widely loved king of fruits- Mango. This deliciously special fruit can be used in numerous recipes. But did you ever think that it can also be used in other areas, such as technology? If you’re confused, let this tweet by Mumbai Police clear it up. Read moreUnlocking begins today, cautious states ease several restrictionsHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 unlocking and free inter-state movement, lockdown in Spain and more. Read more If he scores 100, we’d have to jump off: Ishant Sharma recalls hilarious episode with KL Rahul during Windies Test seriesIndia fast bowler Ishant Sharma recalled the time he was challenged by teammate KL Rahul to score more runs than him in a Test innings. Read moreOur very existence is rooted in empowering everyone: Satya Nadella speaks up about racismProtests against George Floyd’s murder by the Minneapolis Police and against police brutality has gripped America. While Twitter chose to flag US President Donald Trump’s post ‘glorifying violence’, tech heavyweights like Apple, Google, YouTube, Netflix etc have spoken up about racism and have conveyed their stance against it. Read moreRIP Wajid Khan: The man who made music of Salman Khan’s films ‘dabangg’As the distressing news of the death of composer-singer Wajid Khan broke, his colleagues in the film and music industries remembered a smiling man who was passionate about his craft. Wajid died on Monday in Mumbai at the age of 42. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cyclone-nisarga-will-cross-close-to-mumbai-shows-imd-track-and-all-the-latest-news/story-EC6sYtJ5oz4WYp34Em886J.html
01-06-2020||India||Delhi to open hair salons, all shops, announces CM Arvind Kejriwal||The hair salons can open again in Delhi but not spas, declared chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at a press meeting on Monday afternoon as the country entered Unlock 1 phase.With an “economic focus” in mind, the Centre on Saturday said it is reopening the economy but in a phased manner. However, the lockdown will continue to be observed strictly in containment zones till June 30.“Apart from whatever was allowed till now, barbershops and salons will be opened but spas will remain closed,” said the chief minister.ALSO WATCH | Delhi Unlocks: What next in the capital’s battle against Covid? Detailing the plan, Kejriwal said from the earlier odd-even rule, all shops can open now.The restrictions on the number of passengers in auto and other vehicles has been lifted, said the CM.“In autos, e-rickshaws and other vehicles, as per earlier orders, the number of passengers was fixed. But now we are lifting the restrictions on the number of passengers travelling in auto, e-rickshaws and other vehicles,” said Kejriwal.In an earlier press conference, CM Kejriwal underlined that the Delhi government is “four steps ahead of the coronavirus” and that there can’t be a permanent state of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-open-hair-salons-all-shops-announces-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-ccLtgG3Owe97vGzUSMt6lN.html
01-06-2020||India||Manipur government to extend lockdown till June 30||The Manipur government has decided to extend the lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, till June 30, chief minister N. Biren Singh announced at a press conference on Sunday.He cited the extension of the lockdown restrictions as a preventive measure that would help save people’s lives from the raging viral outbreak.The CM announced that micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), agriculture and horticulture-related activities and work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) have been exempted from the prevailing lockdown restrictions. However, he urged the public to maintain social distancing norms and also strictly follow the advisories and protocols laid down by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) Singh said a 100-bed dedicated Covid-19 facility would be set up in Imphal within 10 days to ensure general patients could undergo treatment at the state-run Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS).“The daily Covid-19 testing capacity at RIMS and the Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS) has been increased to 1,000. Thermal scanning facility has been installed at Bir Tikendrajit International Airport in Imphal,” he added.The CM said that chief medical officers of districts have been instructed to recruit volunteers and trained nurses because of the medical emergency. Manipur has also increased the number of institutional and community quarantine facilities to accommodate the stranded people who are returning to the state amid the easing of lockdown restrictions.The CM said 28,149 stranded people have come back to the state to date.Singh that the state consultative committee for Covid-19 is holding a weekly meeting to take stock of the situation and chalk out plans to prevent the pandemic. A joint panel has also been formed that comprises members from several civil society organisations to create mass awareness about the viral outbreak among the people. Leaflets have been published in 24 tribal dialects to create awareness about Covid-19, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-government-to-extend-lockdown-till-june-30/story-DCtDGYlMuLxfWw8q1iJAyN.html
01-06-2020||India||DGCA extends deadline for IndiGo, GoAir to replace PW engines to August 31||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has extended the deadline for IndiGo and GoAir to replace all the 60 unmodified Pratt&Whitney (P&W) engines on their A320neo planes by three months.This decision comes as the low-cost carriers could not meet the original deadline of May 31 after the supply chain was hit because of the coronavirus pandemic. “We took a call couple of days back and instructed both the airlines. Both taken together about 60 engines are yet to be replaced and the obvious reason was Covid-19 impact and the resultant lockdowns,” Arun Kumar, the aviation regulator’s director general, said.“Supply chains and production lines all got impacted and in turn disturbed the process. Keeping all this in view, we have extended the deadline by three months up to August 31, 2020,” Kumar said.“We also instructed that for the current times, aircraft with both engines modified should be flown and this should not be difficult as the curtailed operations are likely to last for some more time,” he added. Both the airlines were instructed by the regulator in March to replace their unmodified engines by May 31 following a series of serious snags in aircraft fitted with the engines.IndiGo has 106 PW powered A320Neo planes in its fleet while GoAir has 43 of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-extends-deadline-for-indigo-goair-to-replace-pw-engines-to-august-31/story-rsE7viKXuEOhF2MOBYztpM.html
01-06-2020||India||Army foils infiltration attempt in Jammu and Kashmir, 3 terrorists killed||The Indian Army soldiers foiled an infiltration attempt from across the border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Naushera sector in Rajouri district.Three terrorists who were trying to cross over to India were killed in the operation, the army claimed. The operation has been going on since May 28 (Sunday), it further said.An army officer said that the terrorists had entered Indian territory where they were eliminated.The troops have launched a search operation in Rajouri and half a dozen villages in Poonch district.A separate search operation has also been launched by the Border Security Force (BSF) and police in the Hiranagar area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua-Samba sector, news agency PTI reported. The operation was launched on Sunday night after security forces received information about the movement along the international border, it further reported.The operation is going on in Samba sector’s riverine areas of Basantar and Eik Nalah areas, which are adjacent to Hiranagar, PTI quoted officials as saying.In the last few years, terrorists have infiltrated into India through Hiranagar and Samba and carried out attacks on army camps, police stations in Samba, Kathua, Jammu and Nagrota areas.Checkpoints along the International Border and on the Jammu-Pathankot highway are on alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-foils-infiltration-attempt-in-jammu-and-kashmir-3-terrorists-killed/story-mBNo9uZae3GNTC4i3FSPiM.html
01-06-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 crisis, PM Modi calls for ‘maximum discussion’ on three things including tele-medicine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that he would urge maximum discussion and participation on three things in healthcare sector amid the Covid-19 crisis, one of them being advances in tele-medicine. He also pushed for the ‘Make in India’ cause in health sector and developing more “IT-related tools” for healthcare.“Can we think of new models that make tele-medicine popular on a larger scale?” the prime minister said. “During the last six years, the Central government gave top-most priority and impetus to reforms in health and medical education,” PM Modi said on Monday.Also Watch | ‘Virus may be invisible enemy but Covid warriors are invincible’: PM Modi The prime minister outlined the four broad pillars of healthcare development in the country and pushed for ‘Make in India’ cause in the health sector. Also read: PM Modi chairs Union Cabinet meeting as India enters Unlock 1 At the root of India’s brave fight against COVID-19 is the hardwork of the medical community and our CORONA warriors.In fact, doctors and medical workers are like soldiers, but without the soldiers’ uniform: PM @narendramodi“The initial gains in this make me optimistic. Our domestic manufacturers have started production of PPEs and have supplied about 1 crore PPEs to Covid warriors,” he said. PM Modi also emphasised the importance of developing more “IT-related tools for healthier societies”. “I am sure you have heard of Arogya Setu. 12 crore health-conscious people have downloaded it. This has been very helpful in the fight against Coronavirus,” he said. There are three things on which I would urge maximum discussion and participation.One is - advances in tele-medicine.Can we think of new models that make tele-medicine popular on a larger scale: PM @narendramodiHe said that India needs to have proper medical infrastructure and medical education infrastructure. “Work is underway to ensure a medical college or post-graduate medical institute in every district of the country,” he said. The prime minister described coronavirus as “an invisible enemy” and said that nation’s warriors, “medical workers are invincible”. “In the battle of Invisible vs Invincible, our medical workers are sure to win,” he said, reiterating that violence, abuse and rude behaviour against frontline workers will not be accepted. Third is- IT related tools for healthier societies.I am sure you have heard of "ArogyaSetu."12 crore health-conscious people have downloaded it. This has been very helpful in the fight against Coronavirus: PM @narendramodiThe prime minister also reflected on the strides made by the country in the field of healthcare services, developments and infrastructure in the past years. “I would like to highlight the success of India’s National Nutrition Mission that is helping youngsters and their Mothers. India is working twenty four by seven to eliminate TB by 2025. This is five years ahead of the global target of 2030,” the prime minister said, adding that India has seen rapid progress in setting up 22 more AIIMS. He said, the world’s largest healthcare scheme - Ayushman Bharat - belongs to India and in less than 2 years, 1 crore people have benefitted from it. The prime minister’s comments came while he spoke at the 25th foundation day of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Karnataka via video conference on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-pm-modi-pushes-for-make-in-india-in-health-sector-advancements-in-tele-medicine/story-MYnikWdV1yugh8NKHsz4SP.html
01-06-2020||India||Unlock 1.0: Uttar Pradesh government releases guidelines, here are important points||The Uttar Pradesh government has released the guidelines the the fifth phase of lockdown, often dubbed as the first of the three-part exercise to ease the severe restrictions imposed to check the spread of Covid-19.The Uttar Pradesh government has largely followed the guideline released by the Centre.According to the new order, the government has permitted inter-state travel, but said people from Covid-19 hotspot areas/containment zones in Delhi will not be allowed to travel to Noida and Ghaziabad.Though the lockdown will remain in place in the state till June 30, shopping malls, religious places and hotels and restaurants will open from June 8. The decision on reopening schools and colleges will be taken in July.Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Awanish Awasthi, said that if any Covid-19 positive case is found, an area of 250 metres around it will be declared a containment zone. And if there are more than one case, the containment zone will be increased to 500 metres. Only essential services and goods will be allowed in containment zones during this period.Here are the important points from the guidelines issued by the Uttar Pradesh government:• All offices are allowed to open from Monday, June 1• Markets can open on rotation basis from 9 am to 9 pm• Supermarkets, beauty parlours and salons are allowed to open• No passes are required for inter-state travel, but this rule is not applicable for Noida and Ghaziabad• Taxis and rickshaws can take passengers as per the seating capacity in the vehicle• Roadways buses are allowed to ply, but no passenger is allowed to stand in these buses• Sweet shops have been allowed to open, but without the dining space• International flight services and metro trains will remain shut till the next order• The health department can conduct door-to-door surveys and other essential services are also allowed• Wedding halls can open, but they are not allowed to accommodate more than 30 people• Two people (rider and pillion) are allowed on two-wheelers but with face masks• All the restrictions will continue in containment zones, as pet the Union Home Ministry’s guidelines||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-0-uttar-pradesh-government-releases-guidelines-here-are-important-points/story-CZ6clMPy4LXsEKJlyhep3M.html
01-06-2020||India||As unlock 1.0 begins, here’s a look at top states battling the coronavirus menace: Covid-19 tally||As India lifts a major chunk of lockdown restrictions on Monday in Central government’s bid to gradually unlock the country, national Covid-19 tally nearly touched the 2 lakh-mark as per the figures updated by the Ministry of Health. On Monday, the country’s coronavirus tally jumped to 190,535 cases. While Covid-19 death toll in the country stands at 5,394, 91,819 people have been cured or discharged from hospitals. As states gradually prepare to unlock the lockdown, the challenge is to keep the rising the number of coronavirus cases in check. Two hundred inter-state trains also resumed service from today. Here’s taking a look at Covid-19 statewise figures across India:Top 10 worst-affected statesMaharashtra Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are struggling with a rapid rise in the number of coronavirus infections. Both states have reported over 20,000 Covid-19 cases till date. Maharashtra on Monday reported a total of 67,655 coronavirus cases. As many as 2,286 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra - highest in the country.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu has seen 22,333 coronavirus cases till date. One hundred and seventy-three people have died of Covid-19 in the state. Chennai is the most affected city in Tamil Nadu. Also read: Lockdown 5.0 - Delhi-Noida border remains sealed, Gurugram border openDelhiThe national capital and PM Modi’s native place are two such states in the country where the Covid-19 cases have crossed the 15,000-mark. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally rose to 19844 on Monday, 8,478 patients have recovered here while 473 died due to Covid-19. GujaratThe total number of Covid-19 cases reached 16,779 in Gujarat on Monday. The state has seen 9,919 people recover from coronavirus while 1,038 people have died. Ahmedabad is the worst-hit district in Gujarat. Rajasthan Covid-19 cases here reached 8,831 on Monday. The state has reported 194 fatalities while 5,927 patients have recovered from the infection here.Madhya PradeshCoronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh are inching toward the 10,000-mark. The state has registered 8,089 infections till date. Three hundred and fifty-three people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 4,842 have recovered.Uttar PradeshThe number of Covid-19 positive cases has jumped to 7,823 in Uttar Pradesh. While 4,709 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 213 have died from the infection here. West Bengal The number of infected cases in West Bengal crossed the 5,000-mark on Sunday. There have been 5,501 Covid-19 cases and 317 deaths in the state. As many as 2,157 patients have recovered from coronavirus in the state till date. BiharThe state is rapidly inching toward the 5,000-mark. Covid-19 cases in the state stand at 3,815; death toll has jumped to 21. More than 1,700 people have recovered from the deadly contagion in the state. Andhra Pradesh The southern state has reported 3,679 Covid-19 cases till date. While 62 people have died in the state, 2,349 people have recovered from the deadly contagion. Situation in other statesTelangana, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Assam and Haryana are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. Karnataka has reported over 3,000 coronavirus cases till date. Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura have reported around 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Nagaland and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.Union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli has reported two cases of Covid-19, Sikkim has one. Arunachal Pradesh has four Covid-19 patients and one of them has recovered.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Mizoram have recovered. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-unlock-1-0-begins-here-s-a-look-at-top-states-battling-the-coronavirus-menace-covid-19-tally/story-y3xUuFjYSsPOxokw47177M.html
01-06-2020||India||Earning potential of woman no ground to deny maintenance: Bombay HC||The earning potential or actual earning of a woman is insufficient to deny a claim of maintenance, the Bombay high court has said while upholding a family court’s order granting alimony to a woman who runs a beauty parlour.Justice NJ Jamadar passed the order on Tuesday in response to a petition by a Pune resident, who challenged the February 7, 2019 order of the family court at Pune that ordered him to pay a monthly maintenance of Rs 15,000 to his ex-wife.The marriage was solemnised in November 1997 and the couple had no children. The 52-year-old businessman claimed his wife suffered from psychological illness and the marriage couldn’t be consummated because of his wife’s mental condition, even after she was treated by a sexologist.In April 2007, the couple applied for divorce by mutual consent and the family court in Pune dissolved the marriage by issuing a decree of divorce in October the same year. Four years later, the businessman remarried.In 2016, the woman applied for maintenance, contending she had no source of livelihood and the man, though having resources, had not made any provision for her. The family court accepted her plea and ordered the man to pay her Rs 15,000 a month.The businessman then approached the high court, challenging the family court’s order on the ground the lower court didn’t consider that his ex-wife was earning by running a beauty parlour.Justice Jamadar accepted the husband’s contention and said that against the backdrop of material on record, the family court ought to have accepted the woman’s claim that she had no source of income “with a pinch of salt”. The material on record suggested the woman was carrying on the business of running a beauty parlour. “However, the fact that the wife carries on some business and earns some money is not the end of the matter,” said the judge, adding her earning potential or actual earning is insufficient to deny her claim of maintenance.“In this era of inflationary economy, where the prices of commodities and services are increasing day by day, the income from a beauty parlour, which has an element of seasonality, may not be sufficient to support the livelihood of the woman, and afford her to maintain the same standard of living as that of her husband,” said the court, upholding her right to maintenance.The high court, however, reduced the alimony to Rs 12,000 a month.It also rejected the business man’s argument that his ex-wife relinquished her right to maintenance and it formed part of the consent terms approved by the family court while dissolving their marriage.“The object of the provisions contained in section 125 of the CrPC cannot be lost sight of. Indisputably the provision is a measure of social justice and its object is to prevent destitution and vagrancy,” said the judge. “The statutory right of wife of maintenance cannot be permitted to be bartered away or infringed by setting up an agreement not to claim maintenance. Such a clause in the agreement would be void under section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, being opposed to public policy,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earning-potential-of-woman-no-ground-to-deny-maintenance-bombay-hc/story-5buPuv4tYHuko6lAuEK4PO.html
01-06-2020||India||Solar power lights up some Sunderban villages soon after cyclone||Large parts of West Bengal went days without electricity after cyclone Amphan , which crossed the coast near the Sunderbans on May 20, battered the state with winds gusting to a top speed of 185 kmph.Most of the Sunderbans remained without power for up to a week. Some villages were luckier Lahiripur and Kumirmari were illuminated even on May 21 after repairs on the solar microgrid immediately after the storm. A microgrid is a small energy grid that can function autonomously.Surojit Roy, a primary school teacher in the Lahiripur says the solar microgrid is the islanders’ only friend when disaster strikes.Lighting kept people safe as many parts of the Sunderbans were inundated and toppled trees blocked roads.“When Amphan struck, we thought everything is over. The village was rocking with the winds. I have never seen such a deadly view of the river across our village,” said Roy, who is among 3,000 people using solar microgrids installed by World Wide Fund for Nature India in phases since 20 11.Today, the solar microgrids have a combined capacity of 84.12 kW which electrifies about 700 households.“The best thing is we are not dependent on the main grid. In the rest of the Sunderbans, power only came back yesterday (Friday, May 29). Even now some villages are in the dark. Some trees had fallen over wires of the microgrid which electrifies households but committee members who are trained technicians managed to fix the wires in a few hours. These lights have really saved us during times of distress, they also protect us from the tigers in the forests just across the river,” added Roy.In villages lit up by solar microgrids, there is no load shedding, or power rationing, a common problem faced by people in the Sunderbans; tigers don’t venture into a a lit-up village, according to Roy.Prakriti Gharai, panchayat pradhan of Lahiripur, said:: “Earlier tigers would often swim across the Dutta River and stray into the villages. On one side of the river you have villages like Rajat Jubiliee, Jamespur and Anpur (tribal villages) and on the other side it is the forest where tigers live. The tiger straying has, however, stopped now because of the solar lighting in the villages and the nylon net fencing put up by the forest department on the forest boundary.”According to WWF India, electricity from the microgrid enables each household to use three LED lamps, a fan, two switchboards with plug points for cell phone charging, and other appliances; they can also power village institutions and street lights.The first area to be lit up by grid solar power in the Sunderbans was Rudranagar on Sagar Island in South 24 Parganas in 1994. The solar power grid and rooftop panels became popular on other remote islands as well. Gosaba, an island located on the fringes of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve, received solar power in 1997.“Sunderbans now has the world’s highest concentration of solar rooftop panels. Around 200,000 rooftop panels have been installed by individual villagers living on remote islands,” said SP Gon Choudhury, who was then director of the West Bengal Renewable Energy Development Agency (WBREDA)Not only houses and local shops, but even street lights and schools are running on solar power.“While on one hand people can stay outside their homes even after dark and the fear of the tiger has totally vanished, school children can now work on computers and photocopying machines can run in local shops. In some houses there are televisions too. Solar energy has changed our lives,” said Amal Mondol, secretary of the cooperative that maintains the solar microgrid set up in Anpur-Rajat Jubilee village....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solar-power-lights-up-some-sunderban-villages-soon-after-cyclone/story-d3HCmb7BYm0ChfnLvDT6kL.html
01-06-2020||India||Locust swarms enter Chhattisgarh’s Koriya, district on alert||Desert locust swarms entered in two villages in Chhattisgarh’s Koriya district bordering Madhya Pradesh on Sunday evening, prompting the agriculture department to issue an alert and set up a control room.DM Rathore, Koriya’s collector, said a chemical was sprayed in Kirri and Jwaratola under the Bharatpur block and the administration has managed to control the movement till now.“On Sunday, it was a small swarm and we managed to contain their movement by spraying chemicals and using sirens of fire brigades. Most of them have died. We have not been affected till now,” Rathore said.On May 27, the Chhattisgarh agriculture department and farmers of districts bordering Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra had been alerted after swarms of locusts attacked crops in the neighbouring states.India is currently seeing the worst locust attack in more than seven decades as locust swarms from Pakistan now threaten to devastate crops and vegetables over thousands of hectares in states like Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. Rajasthan is now the most affected state.The desert locust is a species of locust, a swarming short-horned grasshopper that devours everything in their path. Entomologists have said the current swarm of locusts contains immature locusts that could gorge on the crops before getting ready for mating.Besides, villagers have been advised to form groups and make noise by beating plates and tin boxes to drive away the crop-destroying insects.“Every bordering district of Chhattisgarh is on alert. Since they don’t have any fixed trajectory, it is wind direction which carries them. Every morning they track the wind direction and move forward,” Maninder Kaur Dwivedi, principal secretary (agriculture), said while speaking to HT. “Earlier Bhandara (Maharashtra) locust swarm was expected to arrive in Kawadha district but the wind changed direction so it went towards Nagpur. On Friday, a swarm of locust which was reported in Balaghat and Mandla (Madhya Pradesh) went towards Mirzapur (Uttar Pradesh). On Sunday, one of the swarms reached Koriya,” Dwivedi added.The United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) may declare the locust invasion a “plague” if it takes a turn for the worse by end of this year following successful breeding in India, Pakistan, and in west Africa. The locust invasion has been currently categorised as an “upsurge” by FAO.The desert locust was expected to remain limited to its desert habitat, but it scattered to Madhya Pradesh (MP), Uttar Pradesh (UP), and Maharashtra because of the strong north-westerly winds following super cyclone Amphan last week.And, now eastern states such as Jharkhand and Odisha have been asked to remain on alert against the locust swarms. Jharkhand’s agriculture department has issued an alert across all 24 districts in the state and has set up state, district and block level task forces to deal with the impending threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locust-swarms-enter-chhattisgarh-s-koriya-district-on-alert/story-Sh0PE2Py8WflpkmUQCHHlI.html
01-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surges beyond 190,500 with highest single-day spike of 8,392 cases||More than 8,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 230 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours pushing India’s tally to 190,535 on Monday, the first day of the Centre’s move for a phased unlocking of public activity after the rigorous lockdown since March 25.India has reported a daily rise of more than 8,000 Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row as the Union health ministry data showed there were 8,392 new Covid-19 cases between Sunday and Monday morning.There are 93,322 active cases of the coronavirus disease in the country so far, the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed.Also read: Driving in lockdown 5.0 - Delhi-Noida border remains sealed, Gurugram border openAs the death toll stood at 5,394, the number of people who have been cured of the highly-infectious disease went up to 91,818 from 86,983 from Sunday. It brings the rate of recovery in the country to 48.18%.Maharashtra with 67,655 Covid-19 cases is among four states with more than 10,000 cases. The western state has also reported most of the 8,392 deaths with 2,286 fatalities.Tamil Nadu has 22,333 cases of the coronavirus disease and its death toll is at 173, while Delhi has 473 fatalities and 19,844 patients so far. Gujarat has a lower tally at 16,779 but it has reported that 1,038 people have died across the state till date.A day after the Centre unveiled the first of a three-phase plan to lift lockdown curbs in a graded manner, several states, including those worst hit by Covid-19 such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, announced a conditional easing of several restrictions on Sunday.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan issued their own guidelines. Apart from them, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab and Karnataka too announced their rules effective Monday.While several states allowed the resumption of public transport and interstate travel from Monday, many remained undecided on reopening hotels, restaurants and places of worship — which, according to the central guidelines, can be opened from June 8. States such as Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala were yet to announce the new norms. Delhi will release its guidelines on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surges-beyond-190-500-with-highest-single-day-spike-of-8-392-cases/story-Uk5VOisUHTPCIXxsO3hoUP.html
01-06-2020||India||Unlock 1.0: Madhya Pradesh lays down rules, decision on schools later||Madhya Pradesh Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday night announced opening of religious places, hotels, restaurants, shopping malls and other hospitality services in non-containment zones in the state from June 8.However, he said, “Cinema halls, gymnasium, swimming pool, amusement park, theater, bar and auditorium, assembly room, marriage garden will not run and activities like social, political, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious and other big gatherings will be completely banned. The decision about them will be taken later.”In his digital address to people, Chouhan said, “After Lockdown 4 ends, the 5th stage of lockdown will be Unlock 1.0 phase. We will fully follow the guidelines of the Government of India. We will also conduct economic activities in a phased manner in the state.”As per Chouhan’s announcement, the lockdown will remain in force in containment areas till June 30. Only essential services will be allowed in these areas.The night curfew has also been relaxed, it will now be in force from 9 pm to 5 am in line with the Union Home Ministry guideline. During this time, the movement of people will be completely restricted except for essential services.“Educational institutions will remain closed. But schools will be opened for Class 12 exams. The decision to open schools, colleges, educational, training, coaching institutes etc will be taken in July in consultation with all the people,” Chouhan said.“One-fourth of the shops in the urban areas of Indore, Ujjain, Neemuch and Burhanpur will be opened turn by turn. One-third of the shops in Bhopal will open turn by turn. Half the shops in Dewas, Khandwa municipal corporation and Dhar and Neemuch municipality areas will open but standalone shops and neighbourhood shops will be free from this ban. Apart from these, there will be no restriction on opening of shops in the rest of the state,” announced Chouhan.He also said that all government and private offices would function in Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal municipal corporation areas with 50 per cent employees and in the rest of the state with full capacity. All precautions and measures would be undertaken for safety of employees as per the Government of India’s guidelines. There would be no need for any type of pass for vehicles going in and out of the state.The operation of inter-state buses would be closed throughout the state till June 7. A decision would be taken thereafter. Public transport buses will be able to operate with 50% in all other divisions except Indore, Ujjain and Bhopal.The number of guests in the wedding ceremony should not exceed 50. Similarly, the number of persons in the funeral should not exceed 20. Spitting in public places would be punishable. Similarly, consumption of alcohol, betel leaf, gutka, tobacco etc would remain prohibited in public places.Talking about the return of more than six lakh migrant labourers to the state, the chief minister also announced setting up of a migrant labourers commission to look after the welfare of such labourers.He said that the government had decided to postpone the recovery of fixed charges in the electricity bills relating to all non-domestic, non-industrial, low tension and high tension industrial consumers such as shops, showrooms, hospitals, restaurants, marriage gardens, parlours, MSMEs and large industries till June. This amount could be deposited in six equal installments between October 2020 and March 2021.Chouhan also announced different amount of concessions in electricity bills as per different slabs for the next three months to such consumers who had power bills up to Rs 400 in the month of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-0-madhya-pradesh-lays-down-rules-decision-on-schools-later/story-8aU4Z6hCL8TpEs8yjWRxPK.html
01-06-2020||India||PM Modi chairs Union Cabinet meeting as India enters Unlock 1||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is chairing a meeting of the Union Cabinet as the country entered the first day of the Centre’s three-phased unlocking plan throughout the country.This is also be the first meeting of the Union Cabinet after the central government entered into its second year in office.During the meeting, several important decisions are expected to be announced, according to officials.There were 8,392 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 230 deaths in the last 24 hours pushing India’s tally to 190,535 on Monday.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayIndia has reported a daily rise of more than 8,000 Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row as the Union health ministry data showed there were 8,392 new Covid-19 cases between Sunday and Monday morning.There are 93,322 active cases of the coronavirus disease in the country so far, the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed. The death toll stood at 5,394 and the number of people who have been cured of the highly-infectious disease went up to 91,818 from 86,983 from Sunday. It brings the rate of recovery in the country to 48.18%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-union-cabinet-meeting-today-as-india-enters-unlock-1/story-dBGhpQ1tgN0mmUhEx8jTsL.html
01-06-2020||India||Mumbai receives first spell of pre-monsoon thundershowers||Mumbai woke up on Monday morning to its first spell of pre-monsoon thundershowers of 2020 that brought some respite from record temperatures.The showers arrived eight days earlier than last year when the city recorded its first rains on June 9, 2019. Light rain with lightning flashes and thunder were witnessed across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) from 4 am onwards on Monday morning. Between 4.30 am and 8.30 am, the Mumbai suburbs recorded 0.2 mm rain. 2 mm was recorded in south Mumbai. Rain intensity reduced considerably post 7 am in most parts of the city that witnessed drizzling.The minimum night temperature in the suburbs dropped from 29.2 degrees Celsius over the weekend to 26.8 degrees Celsius, and 24 degrees Celsius in south Mumbai which reported 27 degrees Celsius during the weekend.HT had reported on Sunday that the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted rain and thundershowers for Mumbai from June 1 onwards.Also read: 23 long-distance train services to begin today from MaharashtraRain intensity, however, could increase in the coming days as the IMD on Sunday issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) for Mumbai and Thane, and a red alert (extremely heavy rain) for Palghar for Wednesday and Thursday in view of the developing cyclonic storm, Nisarg, in the Arabian Sea by Tuesday.“Pre-monsoon showers over the city are under the influence of the low-pressure weather system over the Arabian Sea, which is moving steadily closer to the west coast and is likely to intensify into a (weather) depression soon. It has brought relief to Mumbaikars from high humidity experienced over the past week,” said an IMD official. Under the influence of the prevailing weather systems in the Arabian Sea, the Maharashtra coast, especially north Konkan, is very likely to experience an active wet spell between June 1 and 4, the official added.Also read: IMD warns of cyclonic storm Nisarga over Maharashtra, Gujarat coast. All you need to know The IMD will be releasing information later on Monday on the further intensification of the weather system and where it may make landfall between north Maharashtra and south Gujarat. The Maharashtra government on Sunday said it was prepared to deal with the tropical cyclone if it made landfall along the coastline. “A cyclone may land on our western coast in a couple of days. Though I feel this may not happen and the cyclone may change its direction, we are prepared. I am telling people from Sindhudurg to Mumbai, to be prepared. I urge our fishermen from going to the sea for four to five days,” said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in his address to the state on Sunday.Meanwhile, if the weather system in the Arabian Sea intensifies into a tropical cyclone, it will be the first cyclonic storm to make landfall along the Maharashtra coast during June since 1891. Only two weather depressions, one in 1948 and the other in 1980 came close to the coastline but did not intensify into a cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-receives-first-spell-of-pre-monsoon-thundershowers/story-kkFBq1ljVpUiCphnYVanUO.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh town puts barriers to regulate entry of people||The district administration in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur, nearly 350 kilometre North-East of capital Bhopal, has decided to put up barriers at villages to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. The barriers will check the entry of people from outside without being examined.Chhatarpur in Bundelkhand region is known for UNESCO world heritage site at Khajuraho.The town has 17 Covid-19 positive cases as per the health department’s bulletin released on Saturday evening while the neighbouring districts - Sagar, Damoh, Panna and Tikamgarh - have 164, 19, 11 and 9 cases respectively. Sagar, which has of late emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot, has reported seven deaths.Chhatarpur, with a population of more than 17.62 lakh as per 2011 census and 1,210 villages, reported its first Covid-19 case on May 20, almost two months after the outbreak in the state. The district administration placed two of its towns - Khajuraho and Rajnagar - under curfew on March 25 after a tourist tested positive for Covid-19.District collector Sheelendra Singh said, “Barriers will be put up at all the villages to be able to get information about the migrant labourers returning to their native villages from other states. In all the villages and wards of the town monitoring committees will be constituted which will keep a watch on movement of migrant labourers.”He said, “Each of the committee will comprise at least 5 people including those from among health department workers, angwanwadi workers, local teachers, gram rozgar sahayak, panch, sarpanch etc. There will be sector in-charge too engaged with the task of monitoring. The labourers coming from outside will be quarantined before their visiting homes.”He said each of the committee will have a meeting every two days to assess the situation in its respective area and will compulsorily apprise the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) concerned of its decisions. “The committee will have a responsibility to ensure quarantine of those labourers who have returned in less than 15 days period, lodge FIR with police against those who are not complying with quarantine guidelines”, he added.Sub-divisional magistrate of Rajnagar town IAS officer Swapnil Wankhede said, “The district’s self-help groups of women are manufacturing PPE kits too to provide it to Corona warriors in the district. A kit that includes a disposable gown, shoe cover, face mask, hand gloves and face shield is helping the warriors to discharge their duties efficiently and check spread of Coronavirus.”Kalapani gram panchayat Sarpanch Kamlesh Patel said, “A few days back a migrant labourer who returned from Delhi was found Covid-19 positive. After that several others tested positive for the coronavirus disease. So far, 168 migrant labourers have returned and more than 60 are expected in coming days. The barrier will certainly help us as it’s difficult to make understand sometimes some labourers about importance of their being quarantined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-madhya-pradesh-town-puts-barriers-to-regulate-entry-of-people/story-sk3trnai2WGm079Putec4I.html
01-06-2020||India||Printer sparks minor fire in Delhi’s Nirman Bhawan, no injuries reported||A minor fire broke out on fourth floor of Nirman Bhawan in central Delhi on Monday morning. Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the incident was brought under control by 9:15 am. The fire was caused by a printer in the government office, chief fire officer of Delhi Fire Services (DFS) Atul Garg said, following which a call was made to the fire department at 9:01 am. No injury has been reported, the fire department officials confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-in-delhi-s-nirman-bhawan-4-fire-tenders-present-at-the-spot/story-boEUgYa2SQBy0DbC6coMBL.html
01-06-2020||India||Locust swarm 250 km away from Jharkhand, say officials; issue alert||With the swarm of desert locusts having entered neighbouring Chhattisgarh, the Jharkhand agriculture department has issued alert across all 24 districts in the state and has set up state, district and block level task forces to deal with the impending threat.Jharkhand agriculture secretary Abu Bakar Siddique said, “We have issued alert for all 24 districts of Jharkhand. The districts sharing border with Chattisgarh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have been asked to be more vigilant.”Siddique said though there was no immediate threat to Jharkhand, they have constituted state, district and block level task force to deal with it in case of locust invasion.Jharkhand’s bordering districts with Chhattisgarh and Bihar, including Garhwa, Latehar, Gumla, Deoghar, Chatra, Giridih and Godda are stated to be more vulnerable. Several districts have issued guidelines in light of the alert from the state agriculture department. Garhwa was the first district to issue guideline on locust.Garhwa agriculture officer Laxman Oraon said, “The swarm of locusts has entered Chattishgarh and the swarm is estimated 250 kilometre away from Jharkhand. Since the swarm could travel up to 200 kilometre in a day, we have taken all precautionary measures to deal with the situation.”Oraon said it was not necessary that Jharkhand would be invaded by the locust swarm. “The movement of locusts depends upon the wind pattern. However, we are concerned about the way the locust swarm is moving,” he said.Senior agriculture scientist and head of Krishi Vikas Kendra (KVK), Deoghar, PK Sannigrahi said, “The locust swarm has invaded several districts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh. It might enter Bihar and other Jharkhand bordering state now. We are hoping it would not reach Jharkhand. But, we should be alert, as we know its movement depends upon the wind pattern.”He said a swarm comprises around 1.5 crore to 2 crore locusts and it could travel up to 200 kilometre depending upon the speed of the wind and could eat out food of 35,000 people.The Deoghar district had issued detailed guidelines on Saturday and a toll-free number 18001801551 to help farmers in case of locust invasion. In the guideline, details about pesticides to be used to keep the locusts away and their quantity have been mentioned. The guideline asked the farmers to arrange fire and crackers and use them if they face locust attack. Last month, Jharkhand’s Lohardaga forest division had conducted a study and predicted possible locust attack in the state, which, the divisional officials said, could pose a threat to vegetation in forests as well as farm fields.The division, in its study, found unprecedented rise in population of butterflies and locusts due to prolonged wet weather. The insects were causing damage to forest vegetation. The division had sought a scientific study into the threat so that precautionary measures could be taken in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locust-swarm-250-km-away-from-jharkhand-say-officials-issue-alert/story-0YrB4g6GwqDAuH6xs67jNJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Domestic cooking gas price raised from June 1 in metros||The price of non-subsidised liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder of Indane has been increased between Rs 11.50 to Rs 37 in four metro cities, including Delhi, from June 1.In Delhi, the price rose to Rs 593.00 with an increase of Rs 11.50 per LPG cylinder and in Kolkata, it will now cost Rs 616.00 after an increase of Rs 31.50.Customers in Mumbai will have to pay Rs 590.50 for an LPG cylinder after an increase of Rs 11.50 and it will be sold at Rs 606.50 in Chennai after an increase of Rs 37.“The Retail Selling Price of LPG in Delhi market for the month of May 2020 was reduced from Rs 744 to Rs. 581.50 per cylinder for all consumers in line with a drop in international prices,” the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL) said in a statement.“For the month of June, there has been an increase in international prices of LPG. Due to an increase in the prices in the international market, the RSP of LPG in Delhi market will be increased by Rs 11.50 per cylinder,” it added.However, the state-owned oil and gas company has said the hike will not impact beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala (PMUY) as they are covered by the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana and are entitled to a free cylinder till June 30.Under the government’s Ujjwala scheme, 83 million below poverty line (BPL) families will be provided with free cooking gas cylinders for three months as part of the coronavirus relief package.Prices of LPG cylinders are revised by fuel retailers on the first day of every month depending mainly on the international benchmark rate of LPG and the exchange rate of the US dollar and the Indian rupee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-cooking-gas-price-raised-from-june-1/story-KHLyN2d8pXOQfisv5pun7M.html
01-06-2020||India||Bank holidays in June 2020: Here’s a state-wise holiday list||There are no major festivals in June and banks will be functioning all days, except specified, during the month. However, several banks have reduced their working hours to promote social distancing in the midst of nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic.Both private and public sector banks remain closed on the second and fourth Saturday and all Sundays of each month, as per the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).According to the RBI website, banks in some states will be closed to observe certain regional holidays. Jammu and Kashmir will observe Guru Hargobind Ji’s birthday and Remna Ni and YMA Day will be celebrated in Mizoram.Here’s a list of June bank holidays in different states:June 5 (Friday)There will be a bank holiday in Sikkim on the occasion of Saga Dawa, which is celebrated to mark the birth, enlightenment and the attainment of nirvana of the Buddha.June 15 (Monday)Banks will be closed in Mizoram on YMA Day, a regional public holiday which commemorates the establishment of the Young Mizo Association, an important voluntary association, in the state on this day in 1935.In Odisha, banks will be closed on the occasion of Raja Sankranti.June 18 (Thursday)Jammu & Kashmir will observe Guru Hargobind Ji’s birthday and banks will not open on this day.June 23 (Tuesday)Banks in Odisha will not open on this day due to Ratha Yatra.June 30 (Tuesday)Mizoram will be banks closed on Remna Ni, a regional public holiday which commemorates the signing of an agreement on this day in 1986, that brought peace to the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-holidays-in-june-2020-here-s-a-state-wise-holiday-list/story-9zJPqXIngHhtUem1slEfwJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Cong hits out at govt over handling of Covid-19 crisis||The Congress on Sunday took a jibe at the central government’s handling of Covid-19 crisis, saying that the government’s social distancing with the people has increased so much that it does not know what is happening on the ground and how to address the problems faced by the people, especially the poor.“The future history books will recognise this government as the harbinger of doom. Prime Minister Narendra Modi talks about protecting democracy. Until March 24, they throttled democracy,” senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said.He said that, prior to March 24, the agenda of the government focussed on Article 370, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the National Register of Citizens, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the Triple Talaq law, and not education, health care or concerns of the poor. “Had this government concentrated on the issues concerning people, India would have been different today,” Sibal told reporters.“I want to ask the Prime Minister that at least now tell us what is your definition of your fellow Indians? Does that definition fit into what happened prior to March 24? At least now change the way you are handling the future of this country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-hits-out-at-govt-over-handling-of-covid-19-crisis/story-Rnq8ZxyfBpHwcVySJyaUsJ.html
01-06-2020||India||Full list of trains to resume from June 1; Jan Shatabdis, Durontos included||The Indian Railways will begin operating 200 special trains, or 100 pairs with both AC and non-AC coaches, from Monday, June 1, and more than 1.45 lakh passengers will travel on the first day.These 200 trains will run in addition to the premium passenger trains connecting New Delhi with 15 cities across India being run since May 12 and the Shramik Special trains ferrying stranded migrant labourers to their hometowns.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to the national transporter, around 26 lakh passengers have booked for Advance Reservation Period (ARP) from June 1 to June 30.The ministry of railways’ key train services, such as Duronto, Sampark Kranti, Jan Shatabdi and Poorva Express, are set to resume services from June 1 in the government’s bid to restore rail services across the country in a graded manner amid the coronavirus crisis.All passengers must download and use the Aarogya Setu mobile application, the ministry has said. Passengers will also have to face masks at the entry and during travel, reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance to facilitate thermal screening at the station and observe social distancing norms.Only travellers with confirmed or RAC tickets will be allowed to enter railway station and board trains, it has said.According to the guideline of the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), all travellers will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to enter or board a train.Here is the list of trains which will resume from June 1:  .tablewrap {width:100%; border:0px solid #FFF; color:#000; float:left}table,th,td {font-size: auto; font-family: "Open Sans"; color:#242424; border-collapse: collapse; border: 1px solid #CCC; text-decoration:none} table{width:100%; text-decoration:none; color:#242424} th,td{width:auto; text-align:left; padding:5px; text-decoration:none; color:#242424; list-style:none}th.center{text-align:center; text-decoration:none}tr:nth-child(odd) {background-color: #fff; text-decoration:none} tr:nth-child(even) {background-color:#efefef; text-decoration:none} th {width:auto; background-color:#dedede; color: #242424; font-weight: bold} .sportshead {width:100%; background-color:#1f77b4; color:#FFF; padding:5px; font-size:140%; font-weight:bold; float:left}.sportssubhead {width:100%; font-size:110%; font-weight:normal; float:left}a {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}a:visited {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}.base {width:100%; color:#242424; text-decoration:none; display:inline-block;}.cont1 {width:49%; float:left}.cont2 {width:49%; float:right}.divider {width:100%;}@media only screen and (max-width:480px) {.cont1 {width:auto; float:left}.cont2 {width:auto; margin:0; float:left}}  .tablewrap {width:100%; border:0px solid #FFF; color:#000; float:left}table,th,td {font-size: auto; font-family: "Open Sans"; color:#242424; border-collapse: collapse; border: 1px solid #CCC; text-decoration:none} table{width:100%; text-decoration:none; color:#242424} th,td{width:auto; text-align:left; padding:5px; text-decoration:none; color:#242424; list-style:none}th.center{text-align:center; text-decoration:none}tr:nth-child(odd) {background-color: #fff; text-decoration:none} tr:nth-child(even) {background-color:#efefef; text-decoration:none} th {width:auto; background-color:#dedede; color: #242424; font-weight: bold} .sportshead {width:100%; background-color:#1f77b4; color:#FFF; padding:5px; font-size:140%; font-weight:bold; float:left}.sportssubhead {width:100%; font-size:110%; font-weight:normal; float:left}a {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}a:visited {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}.base {width:100%; color:#242424; text-decoration:none; display:inline-block;}.cont1 {width:49%; float:left}.cont2 {width:49%; float:right}.divider {width:100%;}@media only screen and (max-width:480px) {.cont1 {width:auto; float:left}.cont2 {width:auto; margin:0; float:left}}  .tablewrap {width:100%; border:0px solid #FFF; color:#000; float:left}table,th,td {font-size: auto; font-family: "Open Sans"; color:#242424; border-collapse: collapse; border: 1px solid #CCC; text-decoration:none} table{width:100%; text-decoration:none; color:#242424} th,td{width:auto; text-align:left; padding:5px; text-decoration:none; color:#242424; list-style:none}th.center{text-align:center; text-decoration:none}tr:nth-child(odd) {background-color: #fff; text-decoration:none} tr:nth-child(even) {background-color:#efefef; text-decoration:none} th {width:auto; background-color:#dedede; color: #242424; font-weight: bold} .sportshead {width:100%; background-color:#1f77b4; color:#FFF; padding:5px; font-size:140%; font-weight:bold; float:left}.sportssubhead {width:100%; font-size:110%; font-weight:normal; float:left}a {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}a:visited {color:#242424; text-decoration:none; color:#000}.base {width:100%; color:#242424; text-decoration:none; display:inline-block;}.cont1 {width:49%; float:left}.cont2 {width:49%; float:right}.divider {width:100%;}.headline { font-size:40px; margin-bottom:10px}@media only screen and (max-width:480px) {.cont1 {width:auto; float:left}.cont2 {width:auto; margin:0; float:left}}||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-full-list-of-trains-to-resume-from-june-1-jan-shatabdis-durontos-included/story-ZLCfNpiNEJwMkGYsTRKsoM.html
01-06-2020||India||Lockdown 5.0: From Punjab to Tamil Nadu, how states have planned for easing restrictions||Several states, including those worst hit by the coronavirus disease, such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, announced conditional easing of curbs on Sunday, a day after the central government unveiled the first of a three-phase plan to lift lockdown restrictions in a graded manner.While most states allowed the resumption of public transport and inter-state travel from Monday, many remained undecided on reopening hotels, restaurants and places of worship. Some states like Delhi are expected to come out with their own guidelines on Monday.Here’s a look at how states have decided to ease the restrictions in the first phase of unlocking:Maharashtra• The Maharashtra government extended till June 30 the lockdown in the state, but announced phase-wise resumption of activities under its “Mission Begin Again” plan.• All markets and shops - but not malls - can reopen from June 5 on an odd-even basis, which means half of the shops in an area will open on every alternate day to avoid crowding.• Only 10-15% of the staff can work from office beginning June 8 in red zones.• Intra-district bus travel will resume with 50 per cent passenger capacity, but not inter-district bus travel.• Morning walks and cycling will be permitted in public areas from June 3.• Religious places are allowed to open from June 8. However, the Union home ministry’s guidelines also said there will be no relaxations for containment zones.Gujarat• In Gujarat, all shops and businesses outside containment zones can reopen on alternate days, while most restrictions on movement have been lifted.• Four-wheelers with six seats can carry three passengers, pillion riders allowed on two-wheelers and state transport buses can operate with 60 per cent capacity.Tamil Nadu• Chief Minister K Palaniswami announced partial resumption of public transport such as a reduced fleet of buses from Monday, barring in Chennai and some adjoining districts with high number of Covid-19 cases.• The ban on places of worship and inter-state bus transport will remain.• E-pass will be compulsory for inter-state travel.Uttar Pradesh• The Uttar Pradesh government permitted inter-state travel, but said people from hotspot areas/containment zones in Delhi will not be allowed to travel to Noida and Ghaziabad.Rajasthan• All government and private offices can work with full capacity from Monday, but private workplaces should encourage working from home as much as possible.• Inter- and intra-state movement allowed, but only on approved routes.Telangana• The lockdown has been extended in Telangana till June 30, but restrictions on inter-state transport and travel have been lifted.• The government also decided to implement the guidelines issued by the Centre with regard to relaxations outside the containment zones with effect from June 8.Karnataka• Starting June 8, in line with the home ministry suggestions, Karnataka has decided to open religious places.• It also has decided to reopen hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services as well as shopping malls.• As recommended by the Centre, there will be a curfew from 9 pm to 5 am daily with all non-essential movement restricted.Punjab• Liquor and barber shops, beauty parlours, and spas to open from Monday in non-containment zones.• The state government has directed the health and transport departments to come out with detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for permitted activities and movement between June 1 and June 30.The Home Ministry on Saturday said ‘Unlock-1’ will come in force from June 8 under which the lockdown norms will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, while strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country’s worst-hit areas.A total of 30 municipality areas in the country are considered to be the worst-hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-5-0-from-punjab-to-tamil-nadu-how-states-have-planned-for-easing-restrictions/story-S7rMkUtcB03ZEo9PIhGV7O.html
01-06-2020||India||Sharing unverified messages creating fake news: SC judge||Mindless and incessant forwarding of WhatsApp messages without verifying the correctness of such messages is leading to spread of fake news and such messages assume racial and religious overtones, Supreme Court judge Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said on Sunday.Kaul also made a case for individual discretion and responsibility with respect to sharing fake news. “Any regulation of social media may impinge on free speech and right to privacy. The struggle is to regulate social media without affecting free speech, so it is everybody’s responsibility to see that content is verified before it is sent.”Justice Kaul was speaking on the topic ‘Fake News and Misinformation’ at an online lecture series organised by Madras Bar Association.“There are a lot of messages about Covid (coronavirus disease) including its ‘remedies’, the origin, people who are ‘helping spread of the virus’ and so on. These messages can take religious and racial undertones,” the SC judge warned.“When the press is writing, they are accountable... they write with a certain sense of responsibility. But others may not have anything at stake and no accountability...” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharing-unverified-messages-creating-fake-news-sc-judge/story-BJBPIEEcZuleHlR5kdsyML.html
01-06-2020||India||Nearly 50,000 Covid-19 cases in a week: How India reached 7th spot in global tally||India on Sunday achieved a milestone no country will be proud of - it is now the seventh worst-hit nation by the coronavirus pandemic.It took about a week for India to move from 10th place to seventh on the global tally of coronavirus disease cases. And in this period, the country has seen its Covid-19 tally increase by almost 50,000.On May 25, when India overtook Iran to become the 10th worst-hit nation, the number of cases stood at 1.38 lakh. On Sunday, it reached almost 1.82 lakh.However, India is still way behind the US, the country hit the hardest by the coronavirus pandemic. It has over 18 lakh Covid-19 positive cases. At number 2 is Brazil with five lakh cases and Russia with four lakh cases is placed third.India, despite its large population, has not been affected as badly by the coronavirus pandemic as many other countries. In his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’ on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised this fact and hailed the help being provided by individuals to others. He also said that the government is opening up the economy after four phases of lockdown but asked people to exercise caution.The recovery rate in India too has increased to 42 per cent from 47 per cent a week ago. The Union health ministry has said that India has also not seen the rapid spread as reported in many other countries.India, meanwhile, registered its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 8,380 new infections reported in the last 24 hours (between Saturday and Sunday).The number of active Covid-19 cases stood to 89,995, while 86,983 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the Union health ministry said.The death toll has gone up by 193 since Saturday morning, of which 99 deaths were reported from Maharashtra, 27 from Gujarat, 18 from Delhi, nine each from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, seven from West Bengal, six each from Tamil Nadu and Telangana, five from Bihar, three from Uttar Pradesh, two from Punjab, and one each from Haryana and Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-50-000-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-how-india-reached-7th-spot-in-global-tally/story-0ctRwImE7EyYoXMQ3DhJOJ.html
01-06-2020||India||From petrol price, new trains and flights: What will change in Unlock 1||There will be a hike in fuel prices and several trains and flights will resume from Monday, June 1, as the country will enter the fifth phase of the coronavirus lockdown with a three-phased exit plan.Public transport in some states will also resume and as will the central government’s ambitious food security scheme. Here are some of the things that will change or start from June 1:Price of petrol to go up in these statesPetrol and diesel prices will increase by Rs 2 from June 1 in Maharashtra, following the state government’s decision to hike the cess levied on the two fuels. Petrol price in Mumbai will increase to Rs 78.31 per litre from Rs 76.31. The diesel retail rate will go up to Rs 68.21 per litre from Rs 66.21.The government had on Saturday issued a notification increasing the cess for petrol to Rs 10.12 per litre from Rs 8.12. The cess on diesel is to rise to Rs 3 per litre from Re 1.Besides the 26% and 24% value added (VAT) on petrol and diesel, respectively, the state government levies a cess on the fuels. The Jammu and Kashmir government has also increased the rate of tax on the sale of petrol and diesel by Rs 2 per litre and Re 1 per litre, respectively.Himachal Pradesh has also enhanced rates on the sale of diesel and petrol effective from June 1.GoAir flights to resumeThe low-cost carrier had announced in May that its final flight schedule has been approved and the airline will re-commence flying from June 1. Online bookings for one-third of its pre-Covid summer schedule will be open from May 25 to May 31.The airline said that it is prepared to resume safe flight operations and is awaiting clarity on the readiness of respective states and their airports with regards to acceptance of flights and conditions applicable to passengers arriving there.“Without clarity on these conditions, GoAir does not wish to inconvenience its passengers by putting on sale flights immediately post May 25 which may have conditions for arriving passengers of which they may be unaware. On receiving clarity, GoAir will open its site for bookings after May 25 up to May 31, as, when and where appropriate,” the airline spokesperson said.Assuring its passengers that it is fully equipped to execute Covid-19 specific safety procedures, the airline claimed to have received positive initial customer response. GoAir is the only airline to commence its flight operations from June 1 instead of May 25. 200 passenger trains to resume servicesThe Indian railways will begin operating 200 non-AC special passenger trains per day from June 1 onward, in a step aimed at gradually restoring normal services.These train services will be in addition to the existing Shramik Special trains and special AC trains started by the railways earlier to help stranded migrant workers in various states get back home. Jan Shatabdi trains, Sampark Kranti, Duronto Express and other regular passenger trains are among those that will ply from Monday. No linen, blankets and curtains will be provided on these trains and only those passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter railway stations. On arrival at their destination, the passengers will have to adhere to strict health protocols as prescribed by the destination state or Union Territory.Religious places to reopen in Bengal West Bengal has allowed the opening of religious places from June 1 with not more than 10 persons gathering at a time. Restaurants and shopping malls have been allowed to open on June 1. Monuments, museums open doors in RajasthanMonuments and museums run by the state government will be opened from Monday. Entry will be free for tourists for the first two weeks. These monuments will open from 9am to 2am on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays in the first week starting June 1. For the next week, they will open on four days from 9am to 1pm and from 3pm to 5pm.Passenger busesGovernment and private passenger buses will operate from June 1 in Himachal Pradesh. Buses will be able to ply from 7am to 7pm after a gap of 70 days. Buses will carry 60% of the total capacity but air conditioners will not run.Pubic transport will resume with reduced services within districts in Tamil Nadu but buses will not be operated in worst-affected Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts.One Nation, One Ration Card schemeThe government’s ambitious scheme providing subsidized food grains to 81 crore people of the country will be implemented in 20 states and Union territories of the country.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced this while declaring a stimulus package of Rs 20 lakh crore in May. She had said this system will be implemented in all the states of the country by March 2021.Once the national rollout is in place, any person holding a ration card under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) can buy his monthly ration from any public distribution system (PDS) outlet in the country just by mentioning his card number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-petrol-price-new-trains-and-flights-what-will-change-from-june-1/story-7M2vSpwcXdz7aD39XMlCTP.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On March 18, when the first edition of this column was written – it appeared the following day – India had 151 cases of the coronavirus disease.On March 24, when a three-week lockdown starting the following day was announced , India had 536 cases. On April 15, when the second phase of the lockdown began, the number of cases had risen to 12,330. On May 4, when the third phase of the lockdown started, the number of cases was 46,388. On May 18, the fourth phase of the lockdown, or the first phase of the staged exit from one, although the government scrupulously avoided describing it as such, kicked off. The number of cases: 100,311. And today, June 1, India enters what the home ministry calls Unlock 1.0, the next phase of the exit from the lockdown with 190,533 cases.The number of people with active infections on each of these dates were: 151 (March 18); 486 (March 24); 10,398 (April 15); 32,143 (May 4); 58,040 (May 18); and 93,362 (May 31).And the cumulative death tolls on those dates were: 3;10; 423; 1,494; 3,081; and 5,328 (May 31). Flights started last Monday; around 200 more trains (minus a few; not all states are ready to receive trains) will start running today, adding to 15 pairs of special trains that currently ply between Delhi and 15 major destinations (and to the Shramik specials for migrant workers); freer inter-state movement has been allowed (although states can continue to insist on special passes to cross into them); and restaurants, malls and temples will open in a week’s time (next Monday). It isn’t just India. The rest of the world is opening up as well. The United Kingdom, one of the worst hit by the crisis – 274,762 cases and 38,489 deaths as of Sunday – is actually opening primary schools today. And the English Premier League will start on June 17. Some countries in Europe are opening up international travel – and have said they will receive tourists from countries they deem safe. And on Sunday in Italy, one of the early hotspots of the disease (233,019 cases and 33,415 deaths as of Sunday), the Pope appeared to bless the crowds at St Peter’s Square, something he hasn’t done since March, when the country announced a lockdown. Sure, nothing will be the same – the children in the UK primary schools will have to follow a bunch of new rules, and the EPL will be for television only – but it is clear that nations around the world are slowly exhaling. That shouldn’t come as a surprise – despite the fact that infections continue to rise (the number of new cases around the world has steadily inched upward). The number of daily deaths around the world is off its peaks seen in mid-April, but still high. If countries are opening up it’s because of three reasons: one, they can no longer afford to stay locked up -- the impact on the economy is far too significant, although, as Paul Krugman recently wrote in the New York Times , “when we take the value of not dying into account, the rush to reopen looks like a really bad idea, even in terms of economics properly understood.” Two, many countries, including India, think they understand Covid-19 well enough to manage it and that whatever lockdowns they have imposed have given them time to do this and to also prepare their health care systems. Three, there is a growing realisation that all of us have to learn to live with the coronavirus disease – that the risk-return equation that pretty much drives everything in this world can be recalibrated towards returns by taking basic precautions. Such as masks. And hand washing. And social distancing. And accepting that there will be temporary setbacks – a school closed; a district contained; a city locked-up again. Welcome to the great unlock. And all the best.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-VvRUCOzfAa1bu7UywVQonI.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Recovery rate in India increases to 47.76%, says Health Ministry||The recovery rate of coronavirus patients has increased to 47.76 per cent, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday.“In the last 24 hours, 4,614 patients were cured. A cumulative total of 86,983 people have been cured. This takes the total recovery rate to 47.76 per cent,” reads an official statement issued by the Ministry.The Ministry said the number of cases under active medical supervision as of now is 89,995.“Through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach, Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for prevention, containment and management of Covid-19. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level,” adds the statement.As per the latest update by the Ministry, the total number of coronavirus cases in the country stands at 1,82,143, including 86984 recovered/migrated and 5,164 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-india-increases-to-47-76-says-health-ministry/story-dhBtCglgZlw5W2hC29fEpN.html
01-06-2020||India||Let’s not be complacent, long battle ahead: PM Narendra Modi||As India opens up after a 68-day lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday the battle against the pandemic is a long one, warned against complacency, and reiterated the need for citizens to adhere to social distancing norms, wear masks and wash their hands regularly. In his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, Modi also said although every section of the society has been affected by the viral pandemic, the pain felt by the poor cannot be measured in words. The PM’s remarks come in the wake of millions of migrant workers making their way back home during the lockdown, and sustained reports of their economic deprivation, hunger and even deaths. The PM also emphasised the need for economic self-reliance, sensitivity to the environment, expressed solidarity with those affected by Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal and Odisha, and placed importance on the power of yoga in building immunity and for good health. The address was broadcast a day after the Modi government unveiled guidelines for what it termed as Unlock 1.0 — in contrast to consecutive phases of the lockdown which was first been declared on March 25. The government announced that in the first phase of unlocking India, places of worship, shopping malls, and hotels and restaurants can open from June 8; in the next phase, state governments will consult various stakeholders on the opening of educational institutions; and in the third phase, the government will assess and decide on the opening up of international air travel, metro services, cinema halls and other activities. The new guidelines also remove restrictions on inter- and intra-state travel.In his radio address, coming just a day after he completed the first year of his second term in power, PM Modi said India has been able to contain the spread of infection and keep the death toll relatively low, compared to other countries, but cautioned against complacence. “Covid-19 is very much there and we cannot be complacent. The road ahead is a long one. We are fighting a pandemic about which little was previously known,” the PM said.Experts agreed with the PM’s note of caution and believe that the easing of restrictions — while necessary to mitigate the economic crisis — can lead to an increase in cases and the spread of the disease. “The Prime Minister is absolutely right. The coronavirus is going to stay with us for a long time. Although we are behind countries such as Brazil and USA as far as casualty is concerned, we have to conduct more tests, segregate infected people and make the masses more conscious,” said Koushik Chaki, secretary, West Bengal Doctors Forum, a prominent body of doctors. T Jacob John, former virology head, CMC, Vellore, said: “Now is the time to up your guard against the disease, and strictly follow preventive measures such as wearing of mask while stepping out, social distancing, hand hygiene etc. With lockdown being lifted the risk of disease transmission also increases as there will be greater public movement.”India ended Sunday with 190,533 cases and 5,328 deaths. The fatality rate in India remains much lower than the global fatality rate, and experts suggest that the lockdown, extended thrice, has pushed back the peak of infections, giving the country time to strengthen its health care infrastructure. Modi expressed his appreciation for the efforts made by both individuals and organisations in helping those in need during the pandemic and its aftermath. No section has been spared the impact of the pandemic, he said.“However, the worst affected are the poor and the labourers. Their pain, their agony, and their ordeal can’t be expressed in words,” he said.Millions of migrant workers in the cities, fearing the loss of their livelihoods, have headed home in states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal, braving hunger, thirst and heat, in an exodus triggered by the enforcement of the lockdown. Indian Railways is running special trains to transport them to their home states. The PM said the railways too has become a front line worker in the fight against the coronavirus disease.“The Centre, states, local bodies are all working day and night. The way our Railway forces are making efforts round-the-clock, they are in a way front line corona warriors transporting safely millions of migrant labourers to their homes; arranging for their food, managing quarantine centres in every district and arrangements for testing and treatment for everyone. All these efforts are going on continuously and at a large scale,” he said.But Congress leader Kapil Sibal criticised the Centre, saying the government has not able to handle the migrant crisis. He said “the government’s social distancing with people has increased so much that it does not know what is happening on the ground and how to address the problems faced by people, especially the poor”.“...the government has no data as to where they (migrant workers) are, what work they do, where they work, so if they don’t have the data, how will they reach the people, those shramiks, those migrants labourers, to give them ‘rahat’ (relief)?” Sibal asked.In his address, the PM also said the situation should serve as a lesson for India to make provisions for the future. He cited the situation of workers in the eastern states as a case in point, and said the problems suffered by the poor during the crisis had been exacerbated by the lack of development in the region.The PM reiterated his message of the need for building an Aatmanirbhar Bharat (Self-Reliant India) and said many problems being confronted now would not have arisen if the villages and towns of the country were self-reliant.“At some places work in skill mapping of the labourers is taking place, at some places startups are being encouraged, a migration commission has been commissioned somewhere and the Centre will also help open up opportunities for employment, self-employment and small-scale industries in villages. These decisions are aimed at resolving the crisis and building a self-reliant India,” he said.Experts believe that while this does present an opportunity for northern and eastern Indian states, which have received the maximum number of migrants, ensuring jobs for them will be very challenging. Ajay Kumar, an associate professor of development education at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said: “It is a structural issue. This is a problem of regional imbalances. Self-reliance doesn’t exist in a vacuum, and self-reliance cannot be created only by political will. A comprehensive approach is required to resolve this issue — which should be a combination of social, educational, political and economic development of the region.”The PM also urged people to tap the benefits offered by yoga; several international leaders have shown interest in knowing more about ayurveda and yoga in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic, he said.“We have to explore yoga for community, immunity and unity,” the PM said.“During this corona crisis, I had a chance to speak to many world leaders. I want to share one secret today, they expressed great interest in yoga and ayurveda. Some leaders enquired how these can help in these times of corona,” he said.Noting that International Yoga Day (June 21) is around the corner, he said during the lockdown, people from Hollywood to Haridwar have begun paying attention to yoga.With World Environment Day coming up on June 5, the PM also said it was imperative to pay attention to biodiversity and pay attention to the conservation of water.“In some parts of eastern India, we witnessed destruction caused by cyclone (Amphan) …I was in Odisha and West Bengal last week to take stock of the situation. The way people of West Bengal and Odisha showed courage in dealing with the situation is commendable. In this hour of crisis, the country is standing by the side of people of these two states” he said.The PM pointed out that the lockdown has given Indians an opportunity to understand the rich biodiversity around them. “Clean environment is directly linked to our life and the future of our children and therefore we have to be concerned about it individually, I request you to plan some trees on this environment day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-s-not-be-complacent-long-battle-ahead-modi/story-sLFxjJacWzDl7IcXUfp74J.html
01-06-2020||India||Managing non-Covid diseases in focus of latest ICMR review||How to adjust drug dose in cancer patients who are on chemotherapy or optimise dialysis benefits to avoid frequent hospital visits by patients with chronic kidney conditions is part of a large Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) review of management of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in the times of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions and increased infection risk.People with major NCDs run the risk of developing a severe form of Covid-19.ICMR’s National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR), the centre working on the guidelines on managing NCDs, is using its many registries— cancer, stroke, cardiovascular disease etc.— to track patients, and identify and address gaps in disease management.Hospitals will also be asked to link up with doctors in the periphery, who will be adequately trained, so that instead of a patient visiting a tertiary care hospital, he or she can have certain complications treated at smaller centres, and even make optimal use of telemedicine. “Since the virus is here to stay, we will have to work around the restrictions in place due to Covid-19 situation and look for solutions keeping in mind several advisories that are in place. There are non-Covid patients, especially those with major NCDs involving heart, kidney, brain etc. who need regular care but run the risk of contracting infection if they are made to frequent hospitals, and are likely to develop severe form of illness because of their co-morbid conditions,” said Dr Prashant Mathur, director, NCDIR, who is working on the guidelines.According to the Union health ministry data, of the 165,799 total confirmed Covid-19 cases reported from India, at least 70% of the patients were suffering from some underlying medical condition such as hypertension, diabetes, kidney or liver disease. Also, among 4,706 deaths that India has reported so far, at least 75% were suffering from at least one of these chronic conditions.The guidelines will have three aspects to it: one will focus on how to manage patients with existing NCDs, another will be to guide doctors and other medical staff involved in treating these patients, and the third aspect is to launch minor studies on coping mechanism during Covid by patients as well as doctors.“The main focus will be on how to ensure the number of visits to hospitals is reduced for this high risk category population. As for treating of most major NCDs, patients normally land up at tertiary care hospitals. The experts will be looking at how to adjust dosage of certain medicines such as in case of chemotherapy so that the side-effects are minimized. In chemo patients most hospital visits happen due to side effects of the drug; so lowering dosage might help patients tolerate it better and hospital visits will automatically reduce. In case of dialysis also we are trying to see how to optimize the benefits that could cut the number of visits,” said Dr Mathur. “We have several registries running, and we are following up with the patients to know their health status, and how they are coping.”Experts in the field say it will be a good idea if the centre comes up with consolidated guidelines to tackle this issue.“This change is the need of the hour; I am also consulting several of my patients using digital medium, but there are no guidelines as such to refer to. Smaller centres in the periphery can take care of a patient’s immediate requirements as you don’t always need to come to a super-speciality hospital. Some hospitals may be following this mechanism right, even reducing medicine dose based on patient requirements, now also but the process will get standardized if there are centre-issued SOPs{standard operating procedures} in place,” says Dr PK Julka, senior medical oncologist, Max Healthcare. As of now, the existing patients have been provided a list of precautions that they must take to keep their symptoms in control.Patients should continue to take prescribed medication regularly; keep in touch with their treating doctor, and not alter the medication without the doctor’s advice, the initial advisory says.A buffer stock of at least 1-month’s medication at home should be maintained; and in case there is any change in health condition due to the disease, the patient should visit the nearest non-Covid hospital immediately. The advisory prohibits smoking and consuming alcohol, and lays emphasis on eating a healthy and balanced diet, and remaining active as far as possible. It is best to keep a routine exercise schedule that can be maintained even at home, it says.“It will take some time before comprehensive guidelines in this regard are released; till such time we come out with the final document, existing patients must take care of these dos and don’ts maintain their health,” said Dr Mathur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/managing-non-covid-diseases-in-focus-of-latest-icmr-review/story-YxtFf2RmcxliezANiEaqeL.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19 Lockdown: UGC drafts plan to reopen campuses||Colleges and universities, when they eventually open after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown, may do so by first inviting only research scholars back to the campus and gradually open their doors wider to let in other students. All higher education institutions will also need to form strategic tie-ups with medical facilities and put protocols in place to deal with students who are unwell. Students and teachers with a history of health conditions will be asked to opt for online learning and teaching.As the human resource development (HRD) ministry readies for consultations on the reopening of institutions, teachers, students and parents, higher education regulator, the University Grants Commission (UGC), has drawn up an initial list of do’s and don’ts for campuses, officials familiar with the development said.While the final standard operating procedures ( SOPs) for schools and colleges will be published by the government after discussions between the health, HRD and other ministries, the UGC’s draft norms were part of the agenda at a meeting on the subject on Friday. According to an order issued by the Centre on Saturday, the health ministry may issue a protocol after discussions with the other ministries.In the draft prepared by the UGC, it was suggested that the process of admissions be conducted online to avoid visits by students to the campus.“It is advisable the admissions are done online so that students don’t have to come to campuses needlessly. It is also planned that some students, who have the online facility, should be encouraged to not to come to class and study on the web,” said one official, requesting anonymity.Students and faculty with a history of ailments like heart disease or diabetes would be told to prefer the online mode. For international students, too, the focus would be on promoting the online mode of learning.Institutions would be advised to stay in touch with health facilities and put in place a mechanism for quarantine; contact tracing would be followed in case a Covid-19 case emerges. Hygiene in common facilities like kitchens and libraries are among the issues raised.Regular screening of faculty and students and awareness drives are also part of the plan. In higher educational institutions, regular visits by counsellors to help stressed students are also planned.Another suggestion, especially for teaching of subjects that have a practical component, is to teach half the students in the classroom and engage the rest in laboratories. Even in common facilities like labs, it will have to be ensured that equipment is not widely shared.Varsities and colleges will also require to have plans in place to regulate the movement of outsiders.“This is a very serious matter because initially it may seem just an isolated case, but the disease may spread quickly. Therefore, the measures need to be elaborate and detailed. However, these are preliminary suggestions and a final draft will only come after discussions with all stakeholders,” said a second official, who also requested anonymity. Inder Mohan Kapahy, a former UGC member, said, “We should remember that implementing such SOPs shall be herculean task. The total number of students in higher education is about 40 million which is more than population of more than 150 countries. Numerical expansion has taken place without creation of matching infrastructure. Yet non conventional methods shall be required in post-Covid period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-drafts-plan-to-reopen-campuses/story-UTJCLGRYFPoTHf28CDUjoN.html
01-06-2020||India||As lockdown 4.0 ends, cautious states ease several restrictions||Several states, including those worst hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, announced conditional easing of curbs on Sunday, a day after the central government unveiled the first of a three-phase plan to lift lockdown restrictions in a graded manner.While most states allowed the resumption of public transport and inter-state travel from Monday, many remained undecided on reopening hotels, restaurants and places of worship — which, according to the central guidelines, can be opened from June 8. States such as Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala were yet to announce the new norms. Delhi is expected to release its guidelines on Monday.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan — among the top five states with the most Covid-19 cases — issued state-specific guidelines on withdrawing several restrictions. Apart from them, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab and Karnataka too announced their own set of rules effective Monday.The Maharashtra government extended till June 30 the lockdown in the state, but announced phase-wise resumption of activities under its “Mission Begin Again” plan. All markets and shops – but not malls – can reopen from June 5 on an odd-even basis, which means half of the shops in an area will open on every alternate day to avoid crowding.In the western state, only 10-15% of the staff can work from office beginning June 8 in red zones. Intra-district bus travel will resume with 50% passenger capacity, but not inter-district bus travel. Additionally, outdoor physical activities such as morning walks and cycling will be permitted in public areas from June 3.These relaxations will be applicable in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which includes Mumbai, and in Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik and Nagpur. However, places of worship won’t be allowed in the state. As per the Centre’s guidelines, religious places are allowed to open from June 8. However, the Union home ministry’s guidelines also said there will be no relaxations for containment zones.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray struck a word of caution in his televised address to state residents, saying people should tread cautiously while beginning the “new life”. “Even as we begin afresh, we have to take cautious steps,” he said.In Gujarat, all shops and businesses outside containment zones can reopen on alternate days, while most restrictions on movement have been lifted — four-wheelers with six seats can carry three passengers, pillion riders allowed on two-wheelers and state transport buses can operate with 60% capacity.Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami announced partial resumption of public transport such as a reduced fleet of buses from Monday, barring in Chennai and some adjoining districts with high number of Covid-19 cases. The ban on places of worship and inter-state bus transport will remain. E-pass will be compulsory for inter-state travel, he added.The Uttar Pradesh government permitted inter-state travel, but said people from hotspot areas/containment zones in Delhi will not be allowed to travel to Noida and Ghaziabad. Later, the Noida administration said strict border curbs will continue to remain in place.In Rajasthan, all government and private offices can work with full capacity from Monday, but private workplaces should encourage working from home to the “extent possible”. Inter- and intra-state movement was also allowed, but only on approved routes, an official notification said.While extending the lockdown in Telangana till June 30, the state government announced the lifting of restrictions on interstate transport and travel. The government also decided to implement the guidelines issued by the Centre with regard to relaxations t outside the containment zones with effect from June 8.A decision to this effect was taken by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao after holding discussions with senior officials, including chief secretary Somesh Kumar and director general of police M Mahender Reddy.Karnataka, too, extended the lockdown on Sunday, but with a broad array of relaxations for areas outside containment zones even as the state registered the single biggest day jump in Covid-19 positive cases. Starting June 8, in line with the home ministry suggestions, the state has decided to open religious places. It also has decided to reopen hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services as well as shopping malls. As recommended by the Centre, there will be a curfew from 9 pm to 5 am daily with all non-essential movement restricted.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh ordered the opening of liquor and barber shops, beauty parlours, and spas from Monday in non-containment zones. He directed the health and transport departments to come out with detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for permitted activities and movement between June 1 and June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-lockdown-4-0-ends-cautious-states-ease-several-restrictions/story-l46atF7idA6bvraL7N5DwL.html
01-06-2020||India||Amid Lipulekh rowm Nepal tables proposal for new political map||The Nepal government on Sunday tabled a constitutional amendment in Parliament to give legal backing to a new map that shows Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of the country’s territory, marking another twist in a border row with India.Law, justice and parliamentary affairs minister Shiva Maya Tumbahangphe’s proposal for approval to table the constitution (second amendment) bill in the House of Representatives or lower house of Parliament was unanimously endorsed.The government acted after the main opposition Nepali Congress, which had earlier sought more time to discuss the amendment within the party, directed its lawmakers to vote in favour of the proposal to make the new map a part of the Constitution. The central committee of the Nepali Congress made the decision at a meeting late on Saturday night.There was no word on the development from Indian officials.India had on Thursday called for “constructive and positive efforts” to end the border row with Nepal, saying mutual sensitivity and an environment of trust are needed for handling such issues among neighbours.The Nepal government earlier planned to move the amendment in Parliament on May 27 but had to hold off on it because of lack of support from the Nepali Congress, which is required for the two-thirds majority needed to pass the change to the statute.The delay allowed some breathing room for the two sides to tackle the border row, which began after Nepal protested against India’s opening of an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border earlier this month. Nepal claims Lipulekh but the external affairs ministry contended the road was “completely within the territory of India”.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said last week India is monitoring recent developments in Nepal related to the border issue. “We note this matter is receiving careful consideration in Nepal, taking its seriousness into account,” he said.“India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an environment of trust and confidence. This is a continuous process and requires constructive and positive efforts,” he added.Nepal released its new political map, depicting Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura within its borders, on May 20.“An amendment bill is necessary to change the country’s map in the country’s Coat of Arms which is defined in Schedule 3 of the Constitution,” Tumbahangphe was quoted as telling the House by The Kathmandu Post.Nepal’s Parliament functions on Sundays, with a weekly break on Saturdays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lipulekh-rowm-nepal-tables-proposal-for-new-political-map/story-JMRXQM7O5OutBrVStPxPWN.html
01-06-2020||India||Every train reached its destination, says Railway Minister Piyush Goyal||Railway minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday rejected allegations that special trains meant to ferry migrant workers back home were mismanaged and some of them took wrong routes and said every single train reached its desired destination, with only a fraction diverted, and in a five-day period that saw a rush of trains headed for East Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, to avert congestion.Several Opposition leaders, including Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, have alleged that the trains, labelled “Shramik Specials”, were running late by days. Others have alleged that a large number of trains was diverted. According to data collected by the Railway Protection Force and reported by HT, around 80 travellers on these have died, although, to be sure, some of them, according to the force’s own report, had pre-existing health conditions.The railway minister said the allegations on widespread delays and diversions were “completely baseless and wrong”. “Almost all trains up to May 19 were before time... (So far) only 71 out of 4,040, which is 1.75% trains, were diverted. Charges like ‘kahin se nikle, kahin chale gaye’ (they left from somewhere and went off somewhere else), all that is nonsense. Every train reached the destination, only took a slightly longer route to ease the congestion and keep the flow of trains running. Otherwise, I would have to stop the operation,” Goyal told Hindustan Times in an interview. It was only between May 20 and May 25 that a rush caused a congestion and resulted in diversions and delays, he added. And no train has taken seven or nine days to reach its destination as is being claimed, the minister said.So far, 4,040 Shramik Specials – necessitated by a national lockdown brought on by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) – have carried more than 5.4 million passengers. The minister said almost 80% of the trains were travelling to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, leading to congestion on the limited routes. And stations which received around three trains a day were being asked to deal with many more.On being asked why the special trains for migrant workers began operating only by May 1, Goyal said: “The purpose of the lockdown was containment and the idea was that we have to break the coronavirus chain and, therefore, starting the trains any earlier would have been counterproductive. The idea was that all migrants should stay where they are... We also requested states to ensure that they were well-looked after.”“It needed that five weeks at least to break that coronavirus chain but then, we found that people are getting very anxious... We decided on May 1 to start this and we continued to ramp it up,” the Union minister said.In March, the Centre halted all passenger rail operations in an attempt to stop the spread of Covid-19. It later announced that special trains for migrant workers and some other passengers would be allowed, but only with strict social distancing norms and other health care protocols.The Indian Railways said on Sunday it will begin operation of 200 special trains from June 1 and more than 145,000 passengers will travel on the first day as the lockdown measures are relaxed over the coming weeks. These services will be in addition to Shramik Special trains, and other special trains being run since May 12.Goyal said that the reasons for delays of most of the special migrant trains were not the journeys, but “at the end”. “There were only seven places where maximum trains were headed... Trains were just bunched up. Local administrations were taking precautions, taking three hours for each train or two hours for each train to disembark. Fewer platforms were there. So the bunching and delay happened because of the congestion at the end...”He said beyond a point, states demanded more stoppages for the trains that were initially origin-to-destination. They couldn’t bring people to the stations in time, the minister said, adding that this caused bunching up. “To ease that congestion, we took a considered view and diverted 71 trains.”These trains, he said, took a little longer to reach their destinations but that they took “seven to nine days” was a gross exaggeration. “No train took seven or nine days,” he said.“We never refused a single train. On the contrary, states could not use many of the trains that we provided. Nearly 250 Shramik trains which were provided had to remain unused because the states could not get the passengers in time. Maharashtra alone was over a 100 trains which could not be used. It’s a very unfortunate situation,” he said.The minister added that despite the diversions, and eateries being closed due to the lockdown, the railways provided food and water, five-six times in some journeys, in the diverted trains. He said 11.9 million meals were provided by the railways in addition to 5.4 million of them provided by the states at the point of embarkation. The railways also provided 15 million water bottles other than those provided by the states. And the states also provided food when the migrants disembarked, Goyal pointed out. On the issue of deaths – there have been about 80 deaths on board the Shramik Special trains between May 9 and May 27, according to data from the Railway Protection Force – Goyal said they found that in all cases, there were existing ailments. “Some of the stories are sought to be portrayed as if people died of hunger or starvation. I can say with confidence that no one died of hunger,” he said, adding that in long-distance travel, some deaths occur even in normal operations.He added that Railways has been transparent about the deaths, and insisted on compiling a list of them, and finding out causes even as news reports suggested that “eight or nine migrants” died on trains. The real number has emerged only because of this, he suggested.“We are very concerned... My heart goes out to the families (of those who have died),” the minister said.Goyal said some of the deaths could have been prevented with better medical screening but the doctors who were dealing with a heavy flow of people could not be blamed.He added that 36 pregnant women who were expecting to deliver were allowed to travel in the trains and they went into labour in the course of the journey. “They should have never have been on the train.” Praising the efforts of railway employees across the country, the minister said: “In such adverse circumstances, moving 54 lakh people, with all the associated health protocols, is certainly not an ordinary operation. And in the extraordinary circumstances, I will say that the railway employees put in their heart and soul... They are as much front-line corona warriors...”The minister said the special trains will run for as long as there is a demand from states. “We have been asking states... The current demand today is 250-300 trains. Maximum demand is now to West Bengal and to Odisha.”But the flow is also starting in the reverse direction, he suggested. “The good news is that a lot of people are travelling back from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Trains are getting booked in the reverse direction also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-71-of-4-040-migrant-trains-diverted-minister/story-pOCfSClgtjvL6jj57IBwvK.html
01-06-2020||India||Rain, thunderstorms bring mercury down in the north||Rain and thundershowers across northwestern India, accompanied by strong winds brought the mercury down on Sunday, with Delhi reporting a maximum temperature of 34 degrees Celsius, six degrees below normal, as weather officials said relief from the heatwave is likely to extend through the next week. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, said that the monsoon is set to arrive in Kerala on time on Monday, even as Maharashtra and Gujarat were place on “pre-cyclone alert” as a low-pressure area in the Arabian Sea threatened to intensify into a cyclonic storm in 36 hours.In northwest India, a fresh western disturbance will likely bring more rainfall and thundershower from June 3 to June 5, which will mean that a heatwave is not likely to return to Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) before June 8, weather officials said. Peak rainfall and thundershower activity is likely in the region on June 4.“Heat wave conditions are unlikely till June 8. The combination of the upcoming western disturbance and low-pressure area over Arabian Sea there will be thundershowers over parts of Delh- NCR and rest of northwestern India,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi.In Delhi, the maximum wind speed recorded on Sunday was 60kmph at Palam. The maximum temperature recorded at Safdarjung, which is taken to be a representative of Delhi, was 34.6 degrees Celsius, 6 degrees below normal, and the minimum temperature was 20 degrees Celsius, 7 degrees below normal.Meanwhile, IMD said the southwest monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on Monday as conditions on Sunday were favourable for its advancement into some parts of the Arabian Sea, Maldives-Comorin area, southwest and southeast Bay of Bengal.“We are expecting favourable conditions for monsoon onset over Kerala because a low-pressure area has developed over southeast Arabian Sea which is likely to intensify and strengthen the monsoon winds. With the intensification of monsoon flow we expect onset of monsoon,” said K Sathi Devi, head of the national weather forecasting centre.IMD had forecast in April that monsoon rains this year are likely to be normal at 100% of the long period average with a model error of 5%. IMD will issue a second stage long-range forecast for the monsoon on Monday.Monsoon rains are critical for farmers in India, where nearly half the people directly or indirectly depend on agriculture for a living. Around 60% of the country’s net-sown area does not have any form of irrigation and millions of farmers wait for the rains to begin summer sowing of major crops, such as rice, sugar, cotton, coarse cereals and oilseeds. Half of India’s farm output comes from summer crops dependent on these rains.In another development, Maharashtra and Gujarat are on a pre-cyclone alert as a well marked low-pressure area over southeast and adjoining eastcentral Arabian Sea is likely to concentrate into a depression during the next 12 hours and to intensify into cyclonic storm, “Nisarga,” in the subsequent 24 hours, IMD said on Sunday.The low-pressure area formed on Sunday around 5.30am and all environmental conditions are favourable for intensification of the low-pressure area into a cyclone, IMD scientists said. IMD officials said they will release details on the intensity and likely impact of Nisarga (if formed) only once they have clearer picture from the prediction models.Once formed, the cyclonic storm is very likely to move nearly northwards till June 2 morning and then recurve north-northeastwards and may reach near north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts in the morning on June 3.Under the influence of the storm, light to moderate rainfall with some heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Lakshadweep area, Kerala and coastal Karnataka on May 31 and June 1, the IMD said. Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is likely over south Gujarat, north Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra, Daman, Diu, Dadra & Nagar Haveli on June 3 and 4. “We are expecting rapid intensification of the cyclonic system once formed, because sea surface temperature is high, wind shear (variation in wind velocity) is low and ocean heat potential is also high. We want the state governments to be alert. But we cannot give the intensity of the cyclone now because models may not be able to simulate accurately immediately. We will give details as soon as possible,” said Sunita Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.The sea surface temperature in parts of Arabian Sea is 31 degrees C compared to a normal of 28 degrees C expected during this season. “Maharashtra and Gujarat can expect very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy rainfall in some areas,” she added.Gale wind speed reaching 65-75kmph gusting to 85kmph over eastcentral Arabian Sea and along and off Karnataka-south Maharashtra coasts is likely from June 2 morning and further becoming 90-100 kmph, gusting to 110 kmph over eastcentral and northeast Arabian Sea along and off Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts from June 3 morning.Fishermen are advised not to venture into southeast Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep area and along and off Kerala coast till June 2; eastcentral Arabian Sea and along Karnataka coast till June 3; eastcentral Arabian Sea and off Maharashtra coast and northeast Arabian Sea along and off Gujarat coast during June 3 and 4. Fishermen out at sea were advised to return to the coasts by Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-bring-mercury-down-in-the-north/story-KizG1eoTLFM4fS9gPmanIK.html
01-06-2020||India||Two officials from Pakistan high commission expelled for espionage||India on Sunday expelled two officials of the Pakistan high commission after they were apprehended by law enforcement authorities on charges of engaging in espionage, the external affairs ministry said.Officials of the special cell of Delhi Police, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said three officials of the Pakistani mission were detained at Bikanervala Chowk in Karol Bagh at 10.45am on Sunday while allegedly trying to obtain classified materials on the Indian security establishment.The three men – identified as Abid Hussain Abid, 42, an assistant in the Pakistani mission, Mohammad Tahir Khan, 44, a clerk, and Javed Hussain, 36, a driver – had been under surveillance for the past few months, the officials said.“They were caught red-handed while obtaining documents on the Indian security establishment from an Indian national and handing over cash and an iPhone to him,” said one of the officials cited above.The three men initially claimed they were Indians and even produced fake Aadhaar cards, the officials said. “Later, during interrogation, they confessed they were officials at the Pakistan high commission and worked for the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI),” a second official said.A case was registered against them under the Official Secrets Act, the officials said. The detentions were the result of an operation jointly mounted by Delhi Police and Military Intelligence, they added.Subsequently, the government ordered the expulsion of Abid and Khan, who both work for the visa section at the Pakistani mission. Abid had been posted in the mission since December 2018, while Khan was posted here in October 2015.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry, without naming the detained men, said: “Two officials of the high commission of Pakistan in New Delhi were apprehended today [Sunday] by Indian law enforcement authorities for indulging in espionage activities.”The government declared both these officials “persona non grata for indulging in activities incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission and asked them to leave the country within twenty-four hours”, the statement said.Pakistan’s charge d’affaires was issued a demarche or formal diplomatic representation, in which a strong protest was lodged about the “activities of these officials of the high commission of Pakistan against India’s national security”.The charge d’affaires “was asked to ensure that no member of its diplomatic mission should indulge in activities inimical to India or behave in a manner incompatible with their diplomatic status”, the statement said.There was no response from the spokesperson of the Pakistani mission despite attempts to reach him on phone.The development comes at a time when ties between India and Pakistan are at an all-time low. In 2016, India had expelled an official of the Pakistani mission after he too was nabbed by Indian security agencies while receiving classified documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-from-pak-mission-expelled-for-espionage/story-jJZJhU95UatlhJqA4ab61J.html
01-06-2020||India||80% dip in infection risk for health staff on HCQ: Study||As many as 80% of the health care workers (HCWs) on six or more prophylactic doses of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) were not infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to a new pre-print study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) -- a finding that could establishing the prophylactic properties of the drug against Covid-19, even as several international studies have dismissed its utility as a therapeutic. The study results were one of the driving factors behind India last week expanding the use of HCQ as a prophylactic drug beyond health care workers in Covid-19 hospitals and close contacts of infected people to frontline workers such as surveillance staff deployed in containment zones, and paramilitary or police personnel involved in Covid-19 related activities.Also read: From petrol price, new trains and flights: What will change in lockdown 5.0The results are based on a case control study for which participants were randomly drawn from the countrywide Covid-19 testing data portal maintained by ICMR. The test results and contact details of health care workers (HCWs), diagnosed as positive (cases) or negative (controls) for Sars-CoV-2 using the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, were available from this database.“The main conclusion that can be drawn after analyzing the data is that HCQ has beneficial effects in infection risk reduction from fourth dose onwards. The first loading dose of 800mg and then every week a dose of 400 mg for 4, 6 or more weeks as per your physician’s advice will help cut the risk of infection by 80% in healthcare workers who are not already sick,” says Dr Samiran Panda, director, ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute, the study co-author.Data collection for this investigation was done during May 8-23. HCWs tested between the first week of April 2020 and the end of first week of May 2020 formed the sample pool, from which cases and controls were drawn. About 378 and 373 individuals could be contacted in the case and control groups, respectively.Also read: Covid-19: What you need to know today“… Ability of this compound to inhibit the infection by SARS-CoV-2, as well as viral replication in cell cultures in a time- and dose-dependent manner made it a primary choice… These laboratory findings encouraged researchers to consider HCQ, originally used for malaria, as a repurposed agent for prophylaxis against SARS-CoV-219,” says the study.The National Task Force for Covid-19 in India took cognizance of this evidence and empirically recommended the use of HCQ as prophylaxis against Sars-CoV-2 infection among a select group of asymptomatic people.“Until results of clinical trials for HCQ prophylaxis become available, this study provides actionable information for policymakers to protect HCWs at the forefront of COVID-19 response. Also, it is to be kept in mind that merely taking HCQ is not enough, you cannot go easy on wearing personal protection equipment and other infection control measures,” says Dr Panda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-dip-in-infection-risk-for-health-staff-on-hcq-study/story-4Btz0DoDQtM0qacOCWZn7I.html
01-06-2020||India||Corporate tax cut a bad gamble||The Indian economy, like the rest of the world, is facing an unprecedented disruption because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Everywhere, governments are acting to minimise the economic damage. The Narendra Modi government has also announced a package amounting to 10% of India’s GDP, including past fiscal and monetary measures . To be sure, fiscal stimulus in this package is just 1% of India’s gross domestic product (GDP). This is lower than what most major economies have committed. Why did India hold back on the fiscal paddle? The Indian economy had been caught in a slowdown even before the pandemic hit. This made the case for a fiscal push even stronger. Statistics released by the ministry of finance give a hint to this otherwise perplexing question. India’s revenue projection and collection abilities are facing an unprecedented crisis. Gross tax collections in 2019-20 were less than those in 2018-19. This is only the second instance since 1961-62 of tax collections having declined on a year- on-year basis. This is largely the result of what can be described as a bad gamble on corporation tax cuts to revive economic growth. What makes it even worse is that the government did not see this coming until February. These figures raise serious questions on the government’s tax buoyancy assumptions. Tax buoyancy is the additional revenue generated per unit increase in GDP. If tax collections went down when the economy was growing, they could suffer a huge fall when it is headed for a contraction. This also raises serious questions on assertions about decisions such as demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax (GST) leading to a widening of the tax base.On May 29, the Controller General of Accounts, which works under the ministry of finance, released provisional figures for 2019-20. They put gross tax collections in 2019-20 at Rs 20.09 lakh crore. This is lower than the Rs 20.8 lakh crore collected in 2018-19. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database shows that it is only the second instance (after 2001-02) since 1961-62 that tax collection had fallen on a year-on-year basis. The 2019-20 provisional collections are just 81.7% of the Budget Estimates (BE) presented in July 2019. One quarter of the year was already over when the government presented its budget. They are 7% less than the Revised Estimate (RE) figures given in the 2020-21 Budget. A look at tax buoyancy numbers paints a grimmer picture. In 2019-20 India’s tax buoyancy was -0.05, the lowest since 1962-63. In 2001-02, this value was -0.01. The data also shows that this is not an aberration. Tax buoyancy has been falling since 2016-17 onwards.   !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();What explains the fall in tax collections? The government announced a reduction in corporation tax rates in September last year. It slashed corporate tax rates for domestic manufacturers from 30% to 22%, while for new manufacturing companies; the rate was reduced from 25% to 15% provided they do not claim any exemptions. This was expected to lead to a revenue loss of Rs 1.45 lakh crore. This was justified on the grounds that the move will revive the economy. The then revenue secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey had said that the decision was “one of the biggest tax reforms ever undertaken by India — one that would not only encourage new investments by domestic as well as foreign investors but also motivate them to reinvest their profit” (see https://bit.ly/2zI80lb) for details). The gamble seems to have backfired badly. The revenue loss is bigger than expected. BE for corporate tax collection was Rs 7.66 lakh crore in 2019-20. The provisional figures are just Rs 5.56 lakh crore, a shortfall of Rs 2.09 lakh crore. The investment scenario actually became worse. Gross fixed capital formation, which measures new investment activity, contracted 3.9% on a year on year basis in the quarter ending September 2019. It contracted at 5.2% and 6.5% in the quarters ending December 2019 and March 2020.Even this does not explain the entire shortfall. Other major tax heads such as income tax and GST have also fallen significantly short of the 2019-20 BE figures. However, they are not less than the 2018-19 collections, unlike corporation tax.CMIE data shows that income tax collection figures have been missing BE figures by an increasing margin since 2017-18. This raises serious questions about the efficacy of demonetisation in widening the direct tax base. GST collections have not been able to meet BE figures until now. In fact, the only major revenue head which had over performed vis-a-vis BE targets in both 2017-18 and 2018-19 was corporation tax. Thanks to September’s tax cuts, this item had the biggest shortfall in 2019-20.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Because of the pandemic, both growth and tax collections will face very strong headwinds. At a time when a fiscal push was most needed, the government has a huge tax crisis on its hands. And it has nobody but itself to blame for sacrificing the golden goose of corporation taxes in the false hope of boosting economic growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corporate-tax-cut-a-bad-gamble/story-mM1aiOUhEgB1oSHcdzCEFI.html
01-06-2020||India||Noida-Delhi border to stay sealed except for exempted services, people||The Noida-Delhi border will remain sealed for movement of people to and from the national capital, the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration said in its latest guidelines for the Covid-19 lockdown issued on Sunday. The decision has been taken as the source of infection in 42 per cent of coronavirus cases detected in the district in the last 20 days has been tracked to Delhi, the guidelines said.The district administration had on April 21 banned movement of people between Noida and Delhi.  The inter-state travel ban exempts ambulances, doctors, goods carriers, media, those directly involved in Covid-19 services and those with passes issued by the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-delhi-border-to-stay-sealed-except-for-exempted-services-people/story-z51dPb3tScGQW5L1T4ZEjP.html
01-06-2020||India||New ICMR plan for states to expand antibody tests||After completing a pilot sero-survey (a test of the blood serum of a group of individuals) last week to check the level of exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 in the community using Elisa-based antibody testing, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) on Saturday sent an advisory to all states to expand the survey.ICMR has prepared a comprehensive list of categories of people who should be tested as part of the sero survey, including high-risk or vulnerable populations (health-care workers, frontline workers, immune-compromised individuals, individuals in containment zones, security staff, prisoners) to know who has been infected in the past and has now recovered.“ICMR conducted the pilot survey to get a basic sense of how India is in terms of disease spread currently, for which the results should be out in some time. However, periodic sero-surveys are necessary to establish a trend and the states have been asked to take it forward and keep doing it periodically to know the prevalence of the disease at ground level,” said a senior ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified.The blood samples will be tested for detecting IgG antibodies using the Elisa method ((IgG is an antibody that develops later as compared to the other antibodies, hence, determines a past infection). The Elisa method is an enzyme-based laboratory test that detects and quantifies antibodies in blood that will determine a past infection due to the virus.For several viral infections, antibody tests are useful for disease detection after 5–7 days of illness. Understanding related to antibody tests for Covid-19 is evolving and several tests are being developed globally. The IgG antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of the onset of infection, once the individual has recovered after infection and last for several months. The IgG test is not useful for detecting acute infection but indicates episodes of Sars-CoV-2 infection in the past, say experts.“Sero-surveys help to understand the proportion of population exposed to Sars-CoV-2 infection including asymptomatic individuals. Depending upon the level of sero-prevalence of infection, appropriate public health interventions can be planned and implemented for prevention and control of the disease. Periodic sero-surveys are useful to guide the policy makers,” said ICMR in a statement.Scientists at ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune have developed and validated an indigenous IgG Elisa test for antibody detection for Sars-CoV-2.The test has undergone intense validation in three stages and has been found to have high sensitivity and specificity. To fast-track production and increase availability of the IgG Elisa test, ICMR has transferred this technology to many pharma companies such as Zydus Cadila, J Mitra & Company, Meril Diagnostics, Voxtur Bio, Trivitron Healthcare, Karwah Enterprises and Avecon Healthcare.“The technology has been transferred to various entities without exclusivity clause and therefore can be further shared with others as per demand and capability. ICMR has offered to provide technical support to States/ UTs, if required, in planning and carrying out sero-surveys using IgG Elisa test kits and also interpreting the results,” said the research body.Experts on infectious diseases, however, feel that merely knowing whether the population has developed antibodies against the virus is not enough.“Merely knowing the volume of people who have been infected will only provide the sense of the spread of the disease; what we must try to know is the quantity and quality of antibodies being produced against the virus. Also, for how long these antibodies stay in human blood so as to know if it’s enough to offer protection against the disease,” says Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology division at ICMR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-icmr-plan-for-states-to-expand-antibody-tests/story-LoxLV7mxMklp95nS8gGJFP.html
01-06-2020||India||Covid-19 infected 33.2 people per million in India, says ICMR||The attack rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India is 0.00332%, which means that only 33.2 people per million population are infected, according to an analysis of laboratory-surveillance data by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This is considerably lower than the attack rates in other countries; in the US it is 0.2523%, in France 0.3364%, in the UK 0.1962% and in Canada 0.0899%, according to the US National Library of Medicine. ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology scientist Dr Tarun Bhatnagar said the analysis is based on data from various ICMR laboratories and is comprehensive. “...we assessed that by dividing the number of positive cases by the total population, where it is assumed that everyone is at risk. ...we have used data from more than a million samples that were tested between a particular period in various ICMR labs, making it the most comprehensive surveillance data so far,” added Bhatnagar, who is the lead author of the study to be published in the second edition of speical Covid issue of the Indian Journal of Medical Research. Bhatnagar said the actual numbers may still vary as more testing data emerges, “but because of its sheer sample size, this by far is the most comprehensive projection.”India tested over 1.02 million people between January 22 and April 30, said the pre-print study. The study found the attack rate to be the highest, 63.3 (per million) among those aged between 50 and 69 years and the lowest, 6.1 (per million), among those under the age of 10 years. The attack rate was higher among men (41.6 per million) than women (24.3 per million).India reported 10.7 cases per 100,000 population till May 26, according to Union health ministry data, compared to 486 in the US, 504 in the UK, 499 in Belgium, and 52.2 in Mexico. ICMR formulated and established laboratory surveillance protocol for Covid-19 in January. The first sample was tested on January 22. India reported its first case on January 30. Cases of the viral disease have since been reported from 523 of India’s 736 districts . The proportion of positive cases has been at least twofold or threefold higher among symptomatic and asymptomatic contacts, than among those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), or with an international travel history or healthcare workers, according to the study.Of the total tested, for whom data was available, 19.6% were asymptomatic family contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases, 6.8% were patients of SARI and 4.8% were asymptomatic health care workers suspected to have come in contact with laboratory-confirmed cases, the study said. Of the 40,184 positives, 25.3% were asymptomatic family contacts, 10.6% symptomatic contacts and 10.5% SARI patients.Among the 12,810 cases with reported symptoms at the time of specimen collection, cough and fever were the most commonly reported symptoms (64.5% and 60%), according to the study. Around one-third of cases reported sore throat and breathlessness. Gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea were reported by less than 5%.At the national level, the average number of contacts tested per laboratory-confirmed case was 6. At the state level, the average number of contacts tested per positive case ranged from 1.3 in Jharkhand to 328 in Tripura.Dr T Jacob John, a former virology head at Vellore’s Christian Medical College, said: “It is nothing to be surprised about as if we look at the R0 of Sars-CoV-2 [the virus that causes Covid-19]. It is about 1.7, which means one positive case on an average will infect 1.7 persons. Since in a large number of positive cases there hardly are any symptoms, the disease gets transmitted faster to close contacts.” R0 or R-naught is a measure of the number of people infected by one infected person. The testing increased from about 250 daily in early March to 50,000 specimens by April end. Overall, 40,184 (3.9%) tests were reported positive. “This study data, especially on attack rate, is useful to know within the population who is driving the epidemic; whether it is the men or women, which area or age group is more vulnerable, so that interventions are planned accordingly,” said Bhatnagar.India is currently testing in excess of one lakh samples a day, on an average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-low-covid-attack-rate-icmr-study/story-5wF4Rqf4y0bkSoW7tehm3J.html
01-06-2020||India||‘Entire city not a hotspot’: Delhi minister on easing lockdown rules||There are 92 coronavirus hotspots in Delhi, but the entire city is not a hotspot, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain underlined on Saturday as the Centre relaxed lockdown rules.In a midnight order on Friday, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla had allowed neighbourhood shops, standalone shops and shops in residential complexes to open on the condition that they operate with half the strength and enforce social distancing norms.“There are 92 coronavirus hotspots in Delhi. The entire district or the entire city is not (a hotspot),” Jain said replying to a query on whether the Delhi government was considering easing the curbs enforced to contain the spread of novel coronavirus.Also Watch | Covid-19 Delhi update: Satyendar Jain on plasma therapy, lockdown extension Delhi has reported a total of 2,514 Covid-19 patients till last night, 128 of them within the previous 24 hours.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier this week said the lockdown will continue as usual in the national capital and no relaxation of prohibitions will be allowed before a review meeting of experts on April 27.The health minister also said the rate at which coronavirus cases are doubling in Delhi has now slowed down to 13 days.Of all the cases, 857 people have recovered completely, while 53 have died. Twenty-nine patients are in the ICU, the minister added. On plasma therapy trials, Jain said, “We have tried it on six patients. Two patients got it four days ago, two on Thursday and two on Friday. Those who got it four days ago have almost recovered. The results are encouraging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entire-city-not-a-hotspot-delhi-minister-on-easing-lockdown-rules/story-dBEvq7ro8O8cgCfsaeWO7O.html
01-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: HRD ministry to launch web portal for students in schools, colleges and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.HRD ministry to launch web portal for students in schools, collegesThe Union ministry of human resource development (HRD) is planning to launch a web portal with study material for students from Class 1 in school to those studying in colleges. Read more Is Kerala close to ‘flattening’ its Covid-19 curve?Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that recovery of more people and fewer new cases in the state are good signs but it should not let the administration “lower the guard” against Covid-19. Read more Nearly 7 crore farmers get Rs 2,000 each under PM-KISAN to tide over Covid-19 crisisAs part of Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package, the government announced free foodgrain and cash doles to women, poor senior citizens and farmers to mitigate hardship faced due to Covid-19 lockdown. Read more Covid-19 lockdown: What are red, orange and green zones and how will they impact lifeAn official said that the government was considering demarcating the country into three zones - red, yellow and green - depending on the scale of the Covid-19 outbreak. Read more Have to put Indian team over individuals: Former chairman of selectors picks wicket-keeper for T20 World CupFormer chairman of selectors Krishnamachari Srikkanth believes that if IPL does not happen this season, the doors will be shut on the comeback of MS Dhoni as the selectors will not have any option but to look beyond him for the T20 World Cup slated to be held in Australia later this year. Read more Ajay Devgn ‘angry and disgusted’ at those attacking doctors amid lockdownAjay Devgn is fuming at the reports of doctors getting attacked by their neighbours and patients while serving people during the coronavirus pandemic. On Sunday, the usually calm actor took to Twitter to share a rare, strong-worded and incensed tweet. Read more Whatsapp/ Zoom interview for medical practitioner posts, apply nowNorthern Railway has invited online applications for the post of staff nurse and CMP doctors (full time specialist and general duty medical practitioners). The hiring will be on contrctual basis for Lucknow division for three months only, for the coronavirus pandemic. There are a total of 134 vacancies. Read more Apple iPhone SE 2 launch still on track, iPhone 12 could get delayed: ReportApple is expected to launch the iPhone SE 2 by mid-April as rumoured, but the high-end iPhone 12 model could see a delay in availability. Read more Sports commentator Andrew Cotter is back at it again. This time narrating a game that could be called dog chessOver one-minute-long video was posted on Twitter from Cotter’s official account on April 9. Captioned “Some sports are slower. More about the strategy”, it shows his two doggo’s sitting on the floor facing each other. Read moreDiet Prada recalls when Emilia Wickstead claimed Meghan Markle’s £135k Givenchy wedding dress resembled her £7k creationIn light of Givenchy’s art director Clare Waight Keller stepping down, Diet Prada couldn’t help but set the record straight one last time. Reposting via their Instagram stories the series of posts they had shared in 2018 in regards to Emilia Wickstead’s claim. Read moreCovid-19: Italy exceeds 19,000 deaths, positive cases rise to over 150,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-hrd-ministry-to-launch-web-portal-for-students-in-schools-colleges-and-all-the-latest-news/story-msHUzButsZ2koblTuuU60J.html
