03-06-2020||India||South Korean embassy donates 25,000 masks to Korean War Veterans Association and Chikitsa Trust||The South Korean embassy on Wednesday donated 25,000 face masks to the families of Korean War veterans and the under-privileged to bolster the fight against Covid-19. A total of 5,000 masks for the families of the veterans were handed over to the Korean War Veterans Association (KWVA), while 20,000 masks for the under-privileged were donated to Chikitsa Trust, an NGO that works to ensure free access to quality healthcare for people in need. The donation to KWVA was meant to commemorate the dedication and sacrifice made by India’s non-combatant troop contribution to the Korean War, which broke out on June 25, 1950. South Korean ambassador Shin Bong-kil, together with defence attaché Col Lee In and representatives of KWVA, visited Chikitsa Trust’s charitable clinic in Gurugram and delivered the 20,000 masks. KWVA suggested the South Korean embassy should donate the masks to Chikitsa Trust, which has dedicated itself to providing primary healthcare to people in need just like the Indian 60 Para Field Hospital did during the Korean War, said a statement from the embassy. Ajai Malhotra, chairman of Chikitsa Trust,Trustthree Indian Army war veterans, one of whom commanded 60 Para Field Hospital, also joined the ceremony. Today’s event was part of the South Korean government’s “#StayStrongCampaign” and also commemorated the 70th anniversary of the start of the Korean War and the landing of India’s non-combatant troops in Pusan in November 1950, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-korean-embassy-donates-25-000-masks-to-korean-war-veterans-association-and-chikitsa-trust/story-pxDV73qETx0epamltffJQP.html
03-06-2020||India||No death in Shramik trains caused by starvation, issue being politicised: BJP||The BJP on Wednesday rejected the allegation that starvation was behind the death of passengers on ‘Shramik Special’ trains and said the manner in which the issue was being “politicised” was unprecedented. “None of the deaths in Shramik trains has been caused by hunger or starvation as per postmortem reports. Natural deaths have occurred on trains earlier too but the manner in which unfortunate deaths of shramiks (labourers) have been politicised is unprecedented without (critics) waiting to know about the exact cause of deaths,” the BJP said in a statement. Its spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain cited details of postmortem reports and comments of some of the deceased’s family members to claim that they suffered from pre-existing conditions. Dashrath Prajapati (30) suffered from chronic kidney disease, the health of Ram Ratan Ground (63) had been deteriorating, Ibrar Ahmed’s postmortem report found brain stroke as cause of death and not dehydration while Arbina Khatoon suffered from pre-existing mental ailment, Hussain said, referring to some of those who died during their journey. “We are not here to do petty politics. Government believes in tackling the problems head on, and addressing it,” he said. The BJP’s statement came after Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi hit out at the central government, saying this has been “admitted” that at least 81 deaths have happened and there are allegations that more fatalities occurred but were not being declared by the railways. The opposition party demanded resignation of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, accusing the government of distorting facts on payments for these train services.The Congress said the central government has not spent a single penny on running special trains for migrant workers returning home as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta has made it clear before the Supreme Court that state governments receiving or sending migrants were to pay for them. Hussain reiterated that the Railways bore 85 per cent of the total cost of getting the migrants back to their home states, while the remaining 15 per cent was charged from the states. The solicitor general also said the same in the Supreme Court when asked who will pay the fare which is covered by the state, Hussain said.‘Shramik Special’ trains are being supplied with multiple meals and adequate drinking water, with over 1.5 crore meals and two crore packaged water bottles having been provided by the railways free of cost, he said. As many as 4197 of these special trains have carried 58 lakh passengers to their home states between May 1 and June 3, the BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-death-in-shramik-trains-caused-by-starvation-issue-being-politicised-bjp/story-h1NZKA6ySluhBLtdoM2V9I.html
03-06-2020||India||Supreme Court sends plea to rename India as ‘Bharat’ to govt||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sent a petition seeking renaming of India as Bharat for the Centre’s consideration. The petitioner, Namah, a Delhi resident, said the word Bharat instilled national pride while India is of Greek origin. “Now the time is ripe to recognise the country by its original and authentic name Bharat, especially when our cities have been renamed to identify with the Indian ethos.” A Chief Justice of India S A Bobde-led bench was unconvinced and read out Article 1 of the Constitution to the petitioner’s lawyer that says “India that is Bharat.”The petitioner sought an amendment to the Article and referred to the Constituent Assembly debates that made a strong pitch for the adoption of Bharat and not India. “The removal of the English name will instill a sense of pride in our own nationality, especially our future generation,” the petition said.The bench refused to interfere but send the petition as a representation to the Centre for its consideration.Minutes later, it took up another plea to replace “Bombay” in Bombay High Court with Maharashtra. The plea has been filed by V P Patil, a retired judicial officer.Patil cited Clause 4(1) of Maharashtra (Adaptation of Laws-State and Concerned Subjects) Order, 1960, which substitutes “High Court of Bombay” with “High Court of Maharashtra”. “The word ‘Maharashtra’ denotes special significance in life of Maharashtrian and that its usage must also find expression in the name of the HC as an expression of culture and right to heritage as protected under Articles 19, 21 and 29 of the Constitution,” the plea said.The court issued a notice to the Centre for its response to the second plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-sends-plea-to-rename-india-as-bharat-to-govt/story-HU5XXwV6x8NRTzC8Ppgu2M.html
03-06-2020||India||75 more flights to US, Canada in Vande Bharat Phase 3||National carrier Air India will open bookings from 5 pm on June 5 for 75 additional flights to destinations in the US and Canada under phase 3 of the Vande Bharat Mission, civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri announced on Wednesday.These flights will be scheduled between June 9 and June 30 to cities including New York, Newark, Chicago, Washington, San Francisco, Vancouver and Toronto.“Those who wish to travel to US and Canada and fulfil required entry conditions can book themselves on these outbound flights. Some foreign airlines have already carried out evacuation flights and are planning to operate more flights. These flights will also take foreign nationals,” Puri tweeted.More than 57,000 citizens have returned to India on flights being operated under Vande Bharat since May 6, Puri said. On Wednesdsy 2,865 Indians return on flights from Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Kuwait, Doha, Bahrain, Dammam, Lagos, Bishkek, Muscat, Moscow and Jeddah.India is only allowing international repatriation flights; regular passenger flights have been suspended since March 22 because of the coronavirus disease pandemic and subsequent lockdown.Puri said regular international flights may take a while to resume.“Normal International civil aviation operations will only start when they can. Right now most of our metro cities are under some form of restrictions due to which people from other cities cannot travel to catch flights and we also have requirement for mandatory quarantine on arrival,” he said.“We have to wait for the domestic operations to touch about 50-60% and consider the behaviour of the virus & its spread to fully lift these restrictions and lockdown. Till then flights under Vande Bharat Mission are facilitating both inbound and outbound international passengers,” Puri added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-more-flights-to-us-canada-in-vande-bharat-phase-3/story-hD0XP5FxSNUA7GOS6eokqO.html
03-06-2020||India||Panel set up to facilitate investment||The Union cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday approved the setting up of an empowered group of secretaries headed by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba that would work to make India a more investor-friendly destination.In the midst of the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, India senses an opportunity to attract foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows, especially from large companies that seek to diversify their investments into new geographies and mitigate the risks they confront. Ramping up manufacturing capacity across product lines will also help to serve large markets in the US, European Union China and elsewhere. The idea is to take advantage of the emerging opportunities from the global economic situation to position India among the largest entities in the global value chain, the government said.“We know the world situation. Industries are looking to diversify in different world locations. So, to ensure investments are enhanced in India, an empowered group of secretaries has been formed. And simultaneously project development cells will be set up in every ministry,” Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said at a press briefing after the cabinet meeting.The step will help make India a more investor-friendly destination and also enable the government handhold new industries, the minister said. The step will also give a fillip to domestic industry, he added.The empowered committee of secretaries will reinforce India’s ambition of becoming a $5 trillion economy by 2024-25, said an official statement.The statement said the he Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) proposes strategic implementation of an integrated approach that will eventually bring about synergies between ministries/departments and among the central and state Governments in investment and related incentive policies.Apart from Gauba, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant would be a member of the empowered group of secretaries as would be the secretaries of the departments of commerce, revenue and economic affairs. The secretary of DPIIT would be the member-convenor, and the secretary of any related department would be co-opted onto the panel, the official statement said.Apart from facilitating top investors, the empowered group will evaluate investments put forward by the departments on the basis of project creation and actual investments that flow in. Further, these departments would be set targets for completion of various stages of projects by the empowered group.Project development cells would work to create projects with all approvals, land available for allocation and with complete detailed project reports for investment.“The decision is in line with the government’s strategy of Make in India and Make for the Wold, which was articulated by the Prime Minister yesterday. This is the characteristic of major economies like the United States and China. Focused attention and inter-departmental coordination is required to implement wide-ranging reforms announced recently; hence this is a move in the right direction,” said Nilaya Varma, co-founder and CEO of consulting firm Primus Partners. It is also necessary to involve states’ officials in the group for effective implementation of the policies and the government should create a forum to resolve business disputes speedily, he said. The cabinet also approved the renaming of Kolkata Port as Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port. The Board of Trustees of Kolkata Port Trust, in its meeting held on 25 February, 2020, also passed a resolution to re-name Kolkata Port. Mookerjee, a jurist, academician, thinker and leader, is also a prominent icon of the Bharatiya Janata Party.Prime Minister Narendra Modi made this announcement earlier, Javadekar said at the briefing.Another major decision taken by the cabinet on Wednesday was to re-establish the Pharmacopoeia Commission for Indian Medicine & Homoeopathy (PCIM&H) as a subordinate office under the ministry of AYUSH by merging into it Pharmacopoeia Laboratory for Indian Medicine (PLIM) and Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia Laboratory (HPL)-- the two central laboratories established in Ghaziabad in 1975.Presently, PCIM&H is an autonomous body under the ministry of AYUSH established in 2010. The merger is aimed at optimizing the use of infrastructural facilities, technical staff and financial resources of the three organizations||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-set-up-to-facilitate-investment/story-jKdQyLFQiDMqrHJ38rBqIO.html
03-06-2020||India||A tweet to Sonu Sood triggers Congress-BJP slugfest in Madhya Pradesh||A Madhya Pradesh BJP MLA’s tweet seeking Bollywood actor Sonu Sood’s help in facilitating return of stranded migrant labourers in Mumbai to their native place in the Vindhya region became fodder for Congress attack on Shivraj Singh Chouhan government on Wednesday.The Congress’ attack came in the backdrop of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s claims that the state government had facilitated return of more than 5.5 lakh migrant labourers from various states and also provided food and transportation for migrant labourers passing through Madhya Pradesh.MLA Rajendra Shukla, a minister in Chouhan’s previous cabinet until December 2018, tagged a Twitter post with a list of stranded migrants to Sonu Sood on Monday with an appeal, “@SonuSood ji these residents of Rewa/Satna are stranded in Mumbai for a long time and have not been able to return. Please help them get back home.”Sonu Sood has been in the spotlight for assisting stranded migrants in Maharashtra with food and transport to get home. In his reply Sonu Sood said, “Sir, now no brother will remain stranded anywhere. Your migrant brothers will be sent back tomorrow. Please treat me with Poha whenever I come to MP.”Reacting upon the former minister’s appeal, former state Congress president Arun Yadav alleged it was BJP MLA’s expression of loss of faith in his own party’s government run by Shivraj Singh Chouhan.“Exposing the bitter truth of Madhya Pradesh is this tweet of Rajendra Shukla. Shivraj ji! Please see ex-minister and incumbent BJP MLA from Rewa doesn’t have faith in your government. Hence, he has to seek help from Sonu Sood to facilitate return of migrant labourers stranded in Mumbai,” Yadav tweeted.Congress leader in Delhi, Alka Lamba, too, joined the attack and demanded the resignation of BJP MLA.“I don’t believe (my) eyes, who is an MLA and has been a minister, it’s his government in Madhya Pradesh and the Centre, CM/PM are from his party, in Maharashtra too there are BJP MPs and MLAs but he is seeking help from Sonu Sood, he should better resign,” she said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19As his tweet and reactions went viral on social media, Rajendra Shukla presented data to highlight the work done by the state government in ensuring migrants’ return.“My indolent friends in the Congress must note that 45 Shramik trains have brought back more than 42,000 people in the past 3 weeks. Besides, another 75,000 residents of Vindhya region have been brought back by 1,500 buses. This could be made possible with assistance and coordination between the state and the central governments.”State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai accused the Congress of doing politics over the sensitive issue of migrants’ plight.“It’s unfortunate that even the labourers’ pain and plight is a political issue for the Congress. The entire country has seen how Congress leaders were sincere in helping migrant labourers of Uttar Pradesh. If the Congress leaders don’t have compassion for migrant labourers, they should at least not make mockery of genuine efforts made by BJP leaders for the labourers stranded in other states,” Bajpai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-tweet-to-sonu-sood-triggers-congress-bjp-slugfest-in-madhya-pradesh/story-vOKcsHmBgByndlmotuhg7N.html
03-06-2020||India||Rajasthan health secy seeks report on PPE kits after complaints of poor quality||Rajasthan health secretary Rohit Kumar Singh on Wednesday sought a report from the Rajasthan Medical Services Corporation Ltd after complaints of poor-quality PPE kits being supplied to medical staff at SMS hospital in Jaipur.“I have asked RMSCL managing director Pritam Yaswant to submit a report on the tendering and procurement of the PPE (personal protective equipment) kits,” said Singh who is also the additional chief secretary (ACS).He said there was no shortage of PPE kits and procurement was in line with the Centre’s guidelines.“I can tell you there is no shortage of good PPE kits in the state,” he said. “We are procuring kits as per the guidelines set by the government of India. RMSCL procures kits and we get some from the central government. We are supplying the ones we get from the Centre to SMS hospital.” Singh’s directive came after SMS hospital principal Dr Sudhir Bhandari wrote about complaints regarding the quality of PPE kits, which are used by medical staff while tending to Covid-19 patients.Dr Bhandari said he had forwarded the complaint letter that was received 5-6 days back to the health secretary. “I received a written complaint from 8-10 nursing staff and I forwarded it to ACS asking that the matter be looked into,” he said.Dr Bhandari’s letter (HT has a copy) says complaints have been received that the PPE kits are of poor quality, torn and made from plastic. It says medical staff complained about suffocation and discomfort after wearing the kits.He said he did not think there was an issue with the quality of the PPE kits. “After I received the complaint, I enquired from professors and doctors about the quality of PPE kits but they did not express any dissatisfaction with the kits,” he said. “There are 1,800 nursing staff in the hospital but no major complaints have been received. A few of them have complained. It’s not a serious matter.”Meanwhile, a day after SMS hospital was declared corona-free and opened to the general public, a rash of cases from the hospital staff were recorded. The hospital administration was in a flap as 23 staff from various departments tested positive. Most of those infected are from Ramganj area which was a Covid-19 hotspot but the health department has said the situation is now normalising.Those who tested positive include a doctor from the microbiology department, seven ward boys, one ward lady, five helpers in the pharmacy, one computer operator, two sanitation staff, two trolleymen, three guards and one medical machine repairman, according to the health department.Meanwhile, tourism minister Vishvendra Singh took to social media to highlight alleged negligence by the Bharatpur medical college. He said the sample reports of his security guard and RTDC staff which had been negative after testing in SMS hospital were listed as positive by the Bharatpur Medical College.In his tweet, he said after the news came out, there was a feeling of fear among people. The minister said he had got the matter investigated and it came to light that the error occurred due to wrong data entry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-health-secy-seeks-report-on-ppe-kits-after-complaints-of-poor-quality/story-IA2J9SEnbvmRZV0Rm0KiHO.html
03-06-2020||India||In Sikkim’s second Covid-19 positive case, 56-year-old man contracts infection||The Himalayan state of Sikkim on Wednesday recorded its second Covid-19 case when a 56-year-old man, who returned from Delhi on May 25, tested positive.The state’s first coronavirus patient was a 25-year-old man who had also returned from Delhi on May 23. He tested positive two days later.“The 56-year-old man tested positive in a quarantine facility,” said Pempa Bhutia, Sikkim’s health secretary.Sikkim has made it mandatory for all people returning from other states to stay in paid or government quarantine for 14 days and in home quarantine for two more weeks. Paid quarantine facilities are available in hotels earmarked by the state. Both the patients are undergoing treatment at the STNM Hospital. The Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) started testing swab samples on May 29. Prior to May 23, Sikkim was the only Covid-19 free state in the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had congratulated the state government in his speeches.“The second man who tested Covid-19 positive was asymptomatic. However, two other men who were living with him in the same room have tested negative,” Bhutia said. Sikkim was among the few states that took drastic steps, such as sealing of borders and banning entry of domestic and foreign tourists and migrant workers, when the coronavirus pandemic started in India.Sikkim has decided to open educational institutions from July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-sikkim-s-second-covid-19-positive-case-56-year-old-man-contracts-infection/story-irh73SpYhYwlXvSOl6CuxN.html
03-06-2020||India||Passengers entering Delhi via flights, trains or buses to go into 7-day home quarantine||Passengers arriving to Delhi via flights, buses or trains will have to go into 7-day home quarantine as a mandatory process in order to combat the spread of coronavirus in the state, the Delhi government said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-entering-delhi-via-flights-trains-or-buses-to-go-into-7-day-home-quarantine/story-buf8qyoxROSYNo5EXCwd7M.html
03-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand preps for elephant census, will use drones for first time||Uttarakahnd will carry out an elephant census after a gap of five years and drones will be used for the first time in the exercise, forest officials said Wednesday.According to Wild Elephant Population estimation carried out in 2015 by the state forest department, Uttarakhand had 1,797 elephants with Corbett landscape emerging as the main bastion of the jumbos in the state with as many as 1,035. The Dhikala range alone had 242 elephants.In Rajaji national park, another stronghold for the elephants in the state, 309 elephants were recorded.“The elephant census after a gap of five years will begin on June 6. According to the last elephant census, there were 1,797 wild elephants in the state. We are expecting a good surge in the elephant numbers across the state this time”, said Parag Madhukar Dhakate, chief conservator forests, (western circle) Kumaun region.“The elephant census will be conducted from June 6 to June 8 in the morning and evening hours. This census will be done on the basis of direct sighting method,” Parag said.To avoid double-counting, elephants will also be tracked for all three days, he said.“If there is a possibility of the same elephant showing up at two or more places, then it will be counted only once. The forest staff has been trained for the census and as such we are expecting an accurate census. The data generated from the census will be analysed, after which the exact number of elephants will be ascertained,” he said.Dhakate, who is also the coordinator of the forest department’s drone force, said for the first time drones will also be used in the census of the jumbos. “We have divided forests into blocks. The drone will fly over these blocks in a zigzag manner and capture the elephants,” he said.“Use of drones will expedite the census process and increase the accuracy of the counting process via direct sight method through drone cameras,” he said.Around 2,000 personnel will be deployed for the exercise. Last year in January, Uttarakhand forest department had initiated drone-based crocodile counting in the Terai area of the state, claiming it to be first such initiative in the state. Also, in September last year, for the first time the state forest department had used a drone with a flying range of up to 15 km to reroute an elephant herd that had raided a sugarcane field in Tarai area of Udham Singh Nagar.The state forest department officials said that elephant census is carried out in the state after every four years. They said it helps them to deal with the man-elephant conflict and making policy changes in conservation initiativesMan-elephant conflict is on the rise in the state. The aggression of elephants in Uttarakhand’s Corbett landscape, Rajaji National Park landscape and Tarai areas is becoming a major concern for wildlife officials.People have been killed by elephants on a regular basis while many jumbos lost their lives due to electrocution and after getting hit by trains||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-preps-for-elephant-census-will-use-drones-for-first-time/story-EmiTa1i8ccPfEizAjZtBTM.html
03-06-2020||India||India conveys strong concern to Pakistan over vandalism of Buddhist heritage in Gilgit-Baltistan||India said on Wednesday it has conveyed its concerns to Pakistan over the reported vandalism, defacement and destruction of Buddhist heritage in Gilgit-Baltistan, which New Delhi claims as part of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir.Several images shared on social media in the past few days had purported to show the defacement and vandalism of several ancient Buddhist paintings and rock carvings.Responding to media queries on the matter, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We have conveyed our strong concern at reports of vandalism, defacement and destruction of invaluable Indian Buddhist heritage located in so called ‘Gilgit-Baltistan’ area of the Indian territory under illegal and forcible occupation of Pakistan.”He said it was a matter of “grave concern that the Buddhist symbols are being destroyed and the religious and cultural rights and freedoms are being trampled with impunity in the Indian territories under illegal occupation of Pakistan”.Srivastava added, “Egregious activities of this nature which display contempt for the ancient civilisational and cultural heritage are highly condemnable.“We have sought immediate access for our experts to the area in order to restore and preserve this invaluable archaeological heritage.“We have once again called upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all illegally occupied territories and end gross violation of political, economic and cultural rights of people living there.”Pakistan has given near-provincial status to Gilgit-Baltistan, a region that has witnessed several attacks by terrorist groups on the Shia Hazara minority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conveys-strong-concern-to-pakistan-over-vandalism-of-buddhist-heritage-in-gilgit-baltistan/story-fIrqxiOWOeBaXwbitHoX3I.html
03-06-2020||India||Doubts cast over US firm’s study linking HCQ with higher Covid-19 deaths||A research published last month in reputed medical journal Lancet, which claimed to have analysed data of 90,000 coronavirus patients admitted in 671 hospitals across the world to conclude that the use of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) was associated with increased mortality and heart disease has been questioned by a British daily. The Guardian claims to have conducted an investigation, which not only found contradictions in the study but also uncovered the alleged dubious record of the organization that carried out the study along with its owner, who co-authored it.The study which gained the world’s attention after it was published in Lancet led to several countries changing theCovid-19 treatment protocol and the world health organization (WHO) along with several other research institutions halting hydroxichloroquine trials.The Guardian investigation claims that the US-based company Surgisphere and its handful of employees had very little record in the field of scientific research and the company’s chief executive—Sapan Desai- a vascular surgeon, who had two lawsuits registered against him in the US, has been previously involved in ambitious projects that have not seen the light of the day. It further claims that the company has also not been able to explain in detail how it procured data from several jurisdictions and the research methodology employed to arrive at the conclusion.The Guardian also cites several doctors--120 to be precise- and experts who are equally suspicious of Surgisphere’s study which created a big shift in Covid-19 treatment protocols across the world and an “expression of concern” over the study published by Lancet to support its investigation. It says that Lancet has also decided to launch an independent audit of the provenance and validity of the data.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19According to The Guardian’s investigation, several of Surgisphere’s handful of employees have little or no data or scientific background. It says the company’s science editor “appears to be a science fiction author and fantasy artist” and another of its employees, listed as a marketing executive, is an “adult model” and events hostess.It also claimed that the company’s LinkedIn page has less than 100 followers and had listed just six employees last week, which was later changed to three employees as of Wednesday.Furthermore, Surgisphere has almost no online presence despite claims to run one of the largest and fastest hospital databases in the world, the publication claims. The firm’s Twitter handle has fewer than 170 followers, with no posts between October 2017 and March 2020, it says, to illustrate the point about the firm being nondescript.The investigation also refers to a 2008 crowd funding campaign launched on the website indiegogo by Sapan Desai for promoting a “next generation human augmentation device” that could unleash the full potential of any human being. The campaign flopped and the device never came into existence, says the UK daily.Also Read: India approves emergency use of remdesivir to treat COVID-19 patientsIt adds that Desai’s Wikipedia page has been deleted following questions about Surgisphere and his history.The investigation also pointed to errors in the publication first noticed by Guardian Australia, which highlighted that Surgisphere had mixed up data of Australian hospitals with two other hospitals leading to over reporting of the number of Covid-19 deaths in Australia. The newspaper adds that further investigation revealed that seven Australian hospitals, whose cooperation would have been necessary for Surgisphere’s study, had denied any association with the research or the database the firm claimed to have accessed.The study co-authored by Mandeep R Mehra, Sapan S Desai, Frank Ruschitzka and Amit N Patel was published on May 22 and it claimed that benefits of administering hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine when used alone or in combination with a macrolide, to a Covid-19 positive patient, led to increased mortality rate and heart problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doubts-cast-over-us-firm-s-study-linking-hcq-with-higher-covid-19-deaths/story-xNv51H8oOMDK3q0EwNb38I.html
03-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand increases quarantine for returnees from 75 cities to 3 weeks||The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday increased the mandatory quarantine period for people coming from 75 “high load Covid-19 cities” across the country from 14 to 21 days amid a rise in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus in the state. The government issued a fresh standard operating procedure (SOP) for people coming to the state by any mode of transport from the list of 75 cities designated as high load Covid-19 ones which include major cities like, Chennai, Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Noida, Varanasi, Jaipur, Indore, Pune, Ahmedabad, Agra, Lucknow, Jaipur and Hyderabad. According to the SOP released by chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh, the people coming from the 75 listed cities, will have to go into the institutional quarantine of seven days followed by home quarantine of 14 days. People coming from other non-high load Covid-19 cities will only have to undergo home quarantine of 14 days as it was earlier. The SOP states that those coming from any of the listed cities will have to follow the latest guideline irrespective of their mode of transport.Inbound people will have an option for institutional quarantine. They can either choose government institutional quarantine which is a non-payment based, or a payment based institutional quarantine which would likely be in a hotel for which the payment would be made by the quarantined person. Earlier on Wednesday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that so far about 2.50 lakh migrants have come from other states in Uttarakhand. As a precautionary measure, they are being screened on their arrival at railway stations and airports followed by quarantine. If anyone is found with symptoms of Covid-19, he/she is being immediately admitted to a hospital. Uttarakhand has reported a total 1,066 cases of the virus till Wednesday evening of which 259 have recovered. There has been no Covid-19 casualty so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-increases-quarantine-for-returnees-from-75-cities-to-3-weeks/story-mJ9Ii8YeAb41AmRCjCnQTL.html
03-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Lt Gen-level talks between India, China on June 6 a significant step, says expert and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Lt Gen-level talks between India, China on June 6 a significant step: Top expertThe general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, Lt Gen Harinder Singh, is expected to meet his Chinese counterpart almost a month after tensions between India and China began building up along the disputed border. Read moreUS suspends passenger flights by four Chinese airlines starting June 16The Trump administration moved Wednesday to block Chinese airlines from flying to the US in an escalation of trade and travel tensions between the two countries. Read moreCyclone Nisarga latest: Power lines disrupted, houses and roads damaged in Raigad, Mumbai and ThaneAccording to ground reports, the situation in Alibagh had begun to stabilize with reduction in wind speed and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams posted there are carrying out ground assessment. Read more‘What made me speak out? I have faced racism personally’Sumit Nagal is India’s highest ranked singles tennis player at world No. 127. The 22-year-old is currently in Germany. Read moreRonit Roy says he was jobless for 4 years, didn’t have money for food, ‘but I didn’t kill myself’Actor Ronit Roy has said that in his worst financial crisis, he was jobless for years and couldn’t afford food. Read moreTikTok donates Rs 5 crores to NGOs for Covid-19 reliefThe short video making app owned by ByteDance, has donated 5 crores to Swades Foundation and CRY (Child Rights and You). Read moreBSEH Haryana 10th result on June 8, remaining class 12th exams from July 1 to 15Board chairman Dr Jagbir Singh said that the result for class 10 board students will be declared on June 8 and class 12 students will have to appear for their pending exams from July 1 to July 15. Read more‘Don’t venture out yet’: Watch Cyclone Nisarga hit Raigad collector’s message Cyclone Nisarga has left a trail of destruction especially in the Raigad district. One person has reportedly been killed in the region. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-lt-gen-level-talks-between-india-china-on-june-6-a-significant-step-says-expert-and-all-the-latest-news/story-df5bbRA7wOCPLgQVdOQpWO.html
03-06-2020||India||Amid Ladakh border tension, NHAI starts work on emergency airstrip in south Kashmir||Amid the India-Chinese stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is constructing an emergency landing strip in south Kashmir on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway.The officials, however, said the landing strip has nothing to do with the confrontation with China and termed it as an old project which was approved sometime ago.The work has started adjacent to the newly constructed national highway between Srinagar and Jammu near south Kashmir’s Bijbehara area.An NHAI officer said the project involves construction of a 3.5-kilometre emergency landing strip. “It was already in the plan when the construction of the new national highway began in Kashmir. The work couldn’t be taken up earlier due to the Covid-19 lockdown.”Officials said that earth laying work is already going at full pace and special passes have been issued to people engaged with the construction.Once completed, the airstrip could be used in emergency situations, the officials said adding that the area where the strip is coming up is centrally placed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-ladakh-border-tension-nhai-starts-work-on-emergency-airstrip-in-south-kashmir/story-FnHg1pLEcijPxWps6TAX9H.html
03-06-2020||India||47 new Covid-19 cases in Goa in largest spike as tally crosses 100||Goa witnessed its biggest single day surge in coronavirus cases on Wednesday after 47 people -- most of them from within the containment zone at Mangor Hill in Vasco da Gama – tested positive taking the state’s tally past the 100 mark. The fresh positive cases -- around 40 of whom were from within Mangor Hill that was declared a containment zone on Monday and where extensive testing has begun -- has sparked panic in the port town of Vasco with people resorting to panic buying after reports that the entire city would be subjected to a lockdown. Another two patients -- a mother daughter duo who entered the state from Hyderabad and two passengers who entered the state via a Vande Bharat flight from Dubai -- have also tested positive. Goa’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 126 while the number of active cases rising overnight from 22 to 57. The Health Department has collected a total of over 555 swabs across two days from within the containment zone and tests are ongoing, health authorities said. Covid-19 cases have snowballed since a couple tested positive on Monday.Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the family’s decision to wait it out hoping the fever would subside rather than get themselves tested was part of the ‘mistake’ that led to the situation. “But it is a misdeed of one family. No sooner they developed symptoms, they should have not gone to a private doctor and instead got themselves tested at our facilities. We feel they are still hiding the truth. Definitely someone from their family came from outside or has come in contact with someone from outside. It cannot be from here,” Sawant said while denying the incidence of community transmission.The couple without a clear travel history tested positive for the novel coronavirus marking for the first time in Goa a case of local transmission in the state. The state administration quickly declared the area a containment zone while the local MLA has demanded that the entire port town which contains several vital installations like the port, the naval base, the airport, shipyard customs and coast guard offices to be sealed off. More cases are expected to emerge as testing of the 2,000 residents within the containment zone continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/47-new-covid-19-cases-in-goa-in-largest-spike-as-tally-crosses-100/story-CDZr2M4ODNQ18HbQnt2sYI.html
03-06-2020||India||US probe into digital services taxes may trigger another trade tussle with India||The United States on Tuesday started an investigation into taxes on digital services already in effect or being considered in other countries and their impact on American businesses, which could lead to retaliatory trade actions, opening up potentially another front in India’s persisting trade differences with the US.The Modi government imposed a new tax of 2% in April on digital services rendered in India against payments collected abroad. The levy is restricted to non-resident companies and is expected to chiefly affect American digital services giants Google, Facebook, Apple and Amazon.Other countries that have already levied this tax or are considering them are Austria, Brazil, the Czech Republic, the European Union, Indonesia, Italy, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. Most of them are close allies of the United States.“President Trump is concerned that many of our trading partners are adopting tax schemes designed to unfairly target our companies,” said Robert Lighthizer, the US trade representative and America’s top trade negotiator, in a statement announcing the investigation. “We are prepared to take all appropriate action to defend our businesses and workers against any such discrimination.”The trade investigation has been launched under Section 301 of the Trade Act, 1974, the same provision that was used by the Trump administration to slap an additional 25% tariff on $50 billion worth of imports from China in March-April 2018, triggering a trade war between the world’s two largest economies.Any potential retaliatory action against India would add to a growing list of trade differences that the two countries have struggled to reconcile despite unprecedented pressure mounted in recent years by President Donald Trump through public and private exhortation. And ended India’s special trade status last summer, and, among other things, he has taken to calling India “Tariff King”.Negotiations had reached a feverish pitch in the run up to his February visit to India, but collapsed in the final days. The two sides have since decided to work on a smaller initial deal, which, one official indicated is “expected in a few weeks”, to be followed by a larger deal at an indeterminate date.The United States has pushed India for greater access to its market in dairy and medical devices and India wants the restoration of special benefits under a US preferential trade system, which allowed India to export around $6.5 billion worth of good free of import duty. There are other issues on the table as well, such as new e-commerce rules.Trade tensions have long been seen by both sides as the chief drag on a relationship that has grown stronger in recent years, with bipartisan support on either side. The Section 301 investigation will include, typically, a public hearing based on written objections and comments, which, according to a simultaneous announcement in the Federal Register, the US government’s gazette, can be submitted till July 15.“In March 2020, India adopted a 2% DST,” said the Federal Register announcement about India. “The tax applies only to non- resident companies, and covers online sales of goods and services to, or aimed at, persons in India. The tax applies only to companies with annual revenues in excess of approximately Rs. 20 million (approximately US$ $267,000). The tax went into effect on April 1, 2020.”The Section 301 investigation is aimed at determining whether DSTs whether US companies are being discriminated against, “retroactivity; and (were) possibly unreasonable tax policy”. The Federal Register added that on tax policy, the investigation will seek to determine if, among other things, the intention it of “penalizing particular technology companies for their commercial success”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-probe-into-digital-services-taxes-may-trigger-another-trade-tussle-with-india/story-FPBDlBDUASrKsMSXFqEFHK.html
03-06-2020||India||In Rajasthan, Rs 55 lakh recovered from govt officials in bid to clean PDS list||The Rajasthan state food department has launched a campaign to cleanse the National Food Security Act (NFSA) list of beneficiaries and removed more than 100,000 cards. The department has recovered Rs 55 lakh from government servants, who lifted PDS grains despite not being eligible for it.“We have cancelled 104,343 duplicate ration cards since May 8,” said food secretary Siddharth Mahajan. The cancelled cards include 70,058 households eligible for PDS grains under the NFSA. The remaining cards were of households that are ineligible under the food security law.Mahajan said around two months ago, the food department ordered district collectors to wean NFSA lists after it found out that fake units (individuals) were added in many ration cards. “Around two months ago, we started looking at ration cards in which three or more units were added recently, after complaints that fake units (individuals) were being added,” he said.There are at least 400,000 such cards in the state. The department data showed that there are 70,000 ration cards from which 94,155 units have been removed. Units are added to ration cards by block development officers (BDOs) or executive officers of urban local bodies.The food secretary said this was part of the government’s larger plan of cleaning the NFSA list. “We have also removed thousands of government servants and recovered Rs 55 lakh from them,” he said.The district supply officers (DSOs), who are in charge of PDS in the districts, were asked to check at the backend for duplicate cards and fake units. In Rajasthan, around 70% of the population is NFSA beneficiaries and there are 26,816 fair price shops (FPSs) in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rajasthan-rs-55-lakh-recovered-from-govt-officials-in-bid-to-clean-pds-list/story-Wfy1VltudmuZbhtgvW4mEO.html
03-06-2020||India||SC junks plea to rename India as Bharat, asks Centre to consider it as representation||There were two petitions in the Supreme Court on Wednesday regarding change in names –one that of the country and the other of a high court. Dismissing the plea to replace India with Bharat in the Constitution, the apex court chose to send the petition to the Centre for consideration. In the second matter - to rename Bombay High Court as the High Court of Maharashtra – it issued a notice to the central government seeking its response. In the two petitions, filed by separate individuals, there was one common thread: The names being sought to be changed - India and Bombay HC – were relics of the British Raj, according to the petitioners.Namah, the petitioner in the first case, asserted that the name “Bharat” instilled national pride while the “India” is of Greek origin.“Now the time is ripe to recognise the country by its original and authentic name Bharat, especially when our cities have been renamed to identify with the Indian ethos,” the Delhi resident said in his plea.However, the three-judge Supreme Court bench, headed by CJI SA Bobde, which was hearing the matter through video-conferencing, wasn’t convinced by it. Saying that Article 1 of Indian Constitution already states that “India that is Bharat”, the apex court dismissed the plea, instead choosing to send it as a representation for the concerned central ministries to consider.The second petition regarding name change was filed by VP Patil, a retired judicial officer from Maharashtra, asking for Bombay High Court to be renamed as the High Court of Maharashtra.Patil cited Clause 4(1) of Maharashtra (Adaptation of Laws-State and Concerned Subjects) Order, 1960 which substitutes “High Court of Bombay” with “High Court of Maharashtra”. According to the petition, the coinage of Bombay High Court dates back to British Raj when British Parliament passed the Indian High Courts Act in 1861 naming the three High Courts in India after the name of their respective States – Madras, Calcutta and Bombay.Patil, who filed the plea through his advocate Shivaji M Jadhav, said the concerned authorities in other states should also be directed to change the names of their high courts as per the name of the states where they are located.The apex court asked the Centre, governments of Maharashtra and Goa and Registrar General of the Bombay High Court seeking their responses on the petition. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-junks-plea-to-rename-india-as-bharat-asks-centre-to-consider-it-as-representation/story-fSi2ba57WoUuQmaq2txpGO.html
03-06-2020||India||Odisha district doubles quarantine period as Covid-19 cases spike||Authorities in Odisha’s Kendapara district on Wednesday announced doubling the period of mandatory institutional quarantine from seven to 14 days following a spike in Covid-19 cases.Kendapara recorded nine new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of Covid-19 to 161 while Rayagada district which was so far untouched by the virus that brought all 30 districts of the state under the grip of the pandemic.Migrant returnees in rural areas of the state are normally placed under seven-day institutional quarantine and another week of home isolation, while in urban areas, a 14-day home quarantine is mandatory.“The institutional quarantine period was increased as the administration received complaints of violation of home quarantine by people who returned from other states,” Kendrapara district collector Samarth Verma said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.On Monday, Kendrapara had witnessed the highest single-day spike with 50 positive cases.The increase in institutional quarantine period came on a day when 143 more cases were reported across Odisha taking the total Covid-19 tally to 2,388. The 143 new positive cases include 132 from quarantine centres while 11 are local cases.Meanwhile, police in Jagatsinghpur district nabbed 52 fishermen who had returned from Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh but refused to undergo institutional quarantine. The fishermen had allegedly misbehaved with ASHA workers when they were asked to undergo health screening. The fishermen had gone to their homes in Sandhakuda slum of Paradip port shortly after coming back from Visakhapatnam following which they were forcibly taken to the quarantine centre. “The local administration will seal the slum if the returnees try to violate the quarantine norms,” said Paradip Municipality Executive officer Dililp Kumar Mohanty.In a related development, the Institute of Life Sciences said it has started the genetic study of Covid-19 with samples of 45 patients. A total of 200 samples will be examined and the report will be submitted in two weeks, said ILS director Ajay Parida. “Some were predicting that summer will kill the virus, but it didn’t happen. These are just predictions that are being made based on the early trends of the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-district-doubles-quarantine-period-as-covid-19-cases-spike/story-CnHN2LIVlV4N6sb4nsZB0N.html
03-06-2020||India||Mamata ups ante on migrant workers’ issue, seeks Rs 10,000 cash transfer to each||Amid an ongoing blame game between the state’s ruling party Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruling at the Centre, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday advised the Centre to transfer Rs 10,000 to the bank accounts of each of the migrant workers.“People have been facing economic hardship of unimaginable proportions bcz of the ongoing pandemic. I appeal to Central Govt to transfer ₹10,000 each as one-time assistance to migrant labourers including people in the unorganized sector. A portion of PM-CARES could be used for this,” Banerjee wrote on Twitter on Wednesday.Later in the evening, she said that “some people from outside” were trying to incite the state’s migrant workers against the state government and urged the workers “not to fall in their trap”.“We had transferred Rs 1,000 to 4.5 lakh migrant workers, spending Rs 45 crore. Our state has taken care of the entire expenditure of 235 trains to carry back migrant workers, spending another Rs 25 crore on this account. Besides, Rs 4 crore was spent as bus fare and another Rs 11 crore in intra-state transport to send them back home. In contrast, other states took train fares from migrant workers,” Banerjee said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19During a meeting with the officials in different districts, Banerjee asked them to look for alternative employment for migrant workers who had returned to Bengal.Following her demand of direct cash transfers, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national secretary Rahul Sinha said the chief minister was trying to divert the attention from the mismanagement in bringing back migrant workers from other states.“The Centre had to push the state government to allow special Shramik trains to bring back stranded workers to West Bengal. BJP did not incite the migrant workers. They were angered by her apathy. She is trying to skip her responsibility of finding these workers alternative jobs,” Sinha said.According to the state government, more than 8.5 lakh people, mostly migrant workers, have returned to Bengal so far and another 1.5 lakh are expected to enter the state in a few days.TMC has been alleging that the crisis of the migrant workers was created by the Centre’s “unplanned lockdown announcement.” The chief minister had also alleged that the railways’ move to send trains packed with migrant workers – with the middle berths occupied – has led to a spike in Covid-19 virus among the migrant workers, ultimately resulting in the spread of the disease in rural Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-ups-ante-on-migrant-workers-issue-seeks-rs-10-000-cash-transfer-to-each/story-bWzc2wiBozTj8DgD95O1cI.html
03-06-2020||India||With 2,560 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra’s tally crosses 74k-mark||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 count crossed the 74,000-mark on Wednesday. The state reported 2,560 new cases, taking its tally to 74,860, according to the figures released by the state health department.The worst-affected state in the country also reported 122 deaths in the past 24 hours, the highest single-day toll recorded so far. With this, the death toll in the western state now stands at 2,587.However, the health department clarified that of the total deaths 57 are from the last two days while the rest are between April 30 and May 31.Of the 122 deaths, the maximum – 49 – were reported from capital Mumbai, followed by Pune 19, Aurangabad 16, Solapur 10, Dhule 4, three each in Navi Mumbai, Ulhasnagar, two each in Thane, Kolhapur, Akola and one each in Mira Bhayandar, Vasai Virar, Bhiwandi, Ahmednagar, Nandurbar, Jalna and Osmanabad. In addition, one patient each from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal died in Mumbai. With the discharge of 996 patients from hospitals on Wednesday, the state now has 32,329 recovered cases, the health department statement said. The number of active cases now stands at 39,935.A total of 4,97,276 samples have been tested for coronavirus in the state so far. As the coronavirus infections continue to rise unabated, the state is also grappling with Cyclone Nisarga which made a landfall at Alibaugh on Wednesday afternoon. The cyclonic storm brought rains with it, causing one death and damage to property.A 58-year-old man died after an electric pole fell on him at Umte village in Alibaug. Several trees have been uprooted, electricity poles brought down leaving thousands without power in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, close to Alibag, where Cyclone Nisarga made landfall on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-2-560-new-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-s-tally-crosses-74k-mark/story-httFXkMCMWDBRGlJ2qc6iJ.html
03-06-2020||India||Odisha probes death of 15 tribals in Malkangiri due to ‘mysterious diseases’||Officials of Maoist-affected Malkangiri district are investigating the alleged mysterious deaths of 15 adult Koya tribals in a village over past 3 months amid allegations that the villagers did not get proper healthcare.In the last 3 months, 15 persons from Kenduguda village, having population of about 400, under Malkangiri block of the same district have died with many of them complaining of swollen legs and swollen stomach. Local villagers said that most of those who died didn’t have the strength even to walk or stand properly and suffered acute respiratory problems.“As the village is a little remote and accessibility is difficult, many of the villagers consult a local witch doctor. Though a village sub-centre was located some 4-5 km away at Padmagiri and primary health centre at Pandripani, villagers did not go there for treatment of their ailments,” said Dasharath Padiami, a member of Malkangiri zilla parishad.The village is deep inside the Malkangiri block and is not easily accessible as the 20 km stretch of the road that connects the village to the mainland is in a bad shape, local villagers said. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Malkangiri health officials said those who died were in the age group of 25 to 65 years and all of them showed symptoms such as cold, fever, vomiting and swelling of legs before they died. The first death due to the ‘mysterious disease’ was reported on February 24, while the latest occurred on Monday, when a 35 year-old man Mona Kabasi died. There are at least 10 more, who are showing similar symptoms.A medical team from Malkangiri that visited the village suspects the deceased could be suffering from kidney or heart ailments. “Though our team is still there and still trying to find out more details, we suspect them to be suffering from chronic kidney disease, anemia and tuberculosis. We are trying to get the villagers to hospital, but they seem to repose more faith in witch doctors that worsened their problems. Most of the villagers are reluctant to come to the hospital,” said chief district medical officer of Malkangiri, Arun Kumar Padhi.“We are camping in the village and screening patients and sending them to district headquarters hospital if necessary. But the patients are returning back to their homes and consulting witch doctors,” said one of the doctors, who has been sent to the area. He refused to give his name. Malkangiri district collector Manish Agrawal said there is some pressure on the health infrastructure of the district as several doctors have been diverted towards Covid-19 duties. “I would be able to get a clear picture once the medical team return after analysing the causes of the deaths and disease,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-probes-death-of-15-tribals-in-malkangiri-due-to-mysterious-diseases/story-hB7i2bEnP3DKlhuq9jLbHI.html
03-06-2020||India||India forms empowered group to attract investments, milk opportunities in post-Covid world||The union cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday cleared the setting up of an empowered group of secretaries headed by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba to make India a more investor-friendly destination.In the midst of Covid-19 pandemic, India is presented with an opportunity to attract foreign direct investment (FDI) especially from large companies diversifying their investments into new geographies to mitigate risks and to ramp up production across product lines with an eye on serving big markets in the US, EU, China and elsewhere. The empowered group is tasked to take advantage of these opportunities to make India one of the largest players in the global value chain, the government said.“We know the world situation. Industries are looking to diversify in different world locations. So, to ensure investments are enhanced in India, an empowered group of secretaries has been formed. And simultaneously Project Development Cells (PDCs) will be set up in every ministry,” information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said at a press briefing after the meeting.Also Read: ‘Not random, aimed at self-reliant India’: PM Modi on policy announcementsIt will also result in handholding of new industries and provide a fillip to domestic industry, he added.This new mechanism will reinforce India’s vision of becoming a US$ 5 trillion economy by 2024-25, said an official statement, which noted that strategic implementation of an integrated approach will eventually bring about synergies between ministries/departments and among the Central and State governments in investment and related incentive policies.Apart from Gauba, CEO Niti Aayog Amitabh Kant would be a member as would be the secretaries of the departments of commerce, revenue and economic affairs. Secretary of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) would be the member convenor, while the secretary of any concerned department would be co-opted, an official statement said.Apart from facilitating the top investors, the empowered group will evaluate investments using parameters including project creation and actual investments. Further, government departments would be given targets for completion of various stages of new projects by the empowered group.The cabinet also approved the renaming of the Kolkata Port as Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port. Mookerjee, an eminent jurist, academician, thinker and leader of his time, is also a prominent BJP icon.Also Read:Structural reforms in 8 key sectors to boost economy, says FM SitharamanAnother major decision taken by the cabinet on Wednesday was to re-establish Pharmacopoeia Commission for Indian Medicine & Homoeopathy (PCIM&H) as a subordinate office under the ministry of AYUSH by merging into it Pharmacopoeia Laboratory for Indian Medicine (PLIM) and Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia Laboratory (HPL)-- the two central laboratories at Ghaziabad established in 1975.Presently, Pharmacopoeia Commission for Indian Medicine & Homoeopathy (PCIM&H) is an autonomous body under the aegis of ministry of AYUSH. The merger is aimed at optimizing the use of infrastructural facilities, technical manpower and financial resources of the three organizations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-forms-empowered-group-to-attract-investments-milk-opportunities-in-post-covid-world/story-hTO7SUEYYocWnsipx2VX3K.html
03-06-2020||India||Maneka Gandhi questions Rahul Gandhi’s silence on jumbo’s death in Kerala||BJP MP and former Union minister Maneka Gandhi on Wednesday asked why Rahul Gandhi has not taken any action following the death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala’s Malappuram after it ate a pineapple stuffed with crackers which exploded and fatally injured her.Malappuram is an adjoining district of Wayanad which Rahul Gandhi represents in the Lok SabhaManeka Gandhi who is also an animal rights advocate called for the removal of Kerala’s Forest Secretary.“The Forest Secretary should be removed, the minister (for wildlife protection), if he has any sense, should resign. Rahul Gandhi is from that area, why has he not taken action?,” she told ANI.The inhuman act has sparked an outrage as the elephant died a painful death. The incident is believed to have occurred on May 27. According to forest officials the elephant might have swallowed the fruit filled with crackers which was meant as a snare to catch wild boars.“Her jaw was broken as the blast inflicted serious injuries. It is an inhuman act. Our investigation is on and we will question people who are living in fringe areas of forests. Strict charges will be imposed on offenders,” said Chief Wildlife Warden Surendra Kumar. The incident came to light after a forest officer who witnessed jumbo’s painful death wrote a touching post.“She was in the river for long. When we saw her trunk and a portion of her head was dipped in the water. She later took a ‘jal samdhi’ in standing position. Watching her struggle was a most painful incident in my career,” wrote Mohan Krishnan, who was deputed to bring back the elephant to the river bank. The post-mortem later revealed that the cause of death was asphyxia as a result of water entering its lungs.Many wildlife activists and others took to social media to vent their anger. Actors Shraddha Kapoor and Randeep Hooda are among those who took to Twitter to speak against the cruel act. People also drew innumerable sketches and drawings to express their indignation and sorrow.An animal protection group, Humane Society International/India, on Wednesday offered a reward of Rs 50,000 for any information leading to the arrest of people involved in a gruesome incident in Malappuram.“Crop loss caused by wild animals is no justification for people taking up law into their hands to maim or kill animals in question. Incidents like this stress upon the need to improve the government systems of ex-gratia payment and crop insurance schemes that will safeguard the interest of communities while not compromising on the welfare of animals,” said Sumanth Bindumadhav, campaign manager for wildlife at HSI India while announcing a reward for those who give information about the incident(With inputs from Ramesh Babu in Thiruvananthapuram)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maneka-gandhi-questions-rahul-gandhi-s-silence-on-jumbo-s-death-in-kerala/story-Q2tKsdixePEA4N8pS9IVAK.html
03-06-2020||India||5 dead, over 50 injured as blast in boiler causes massive fire in Gujarat factory||Five workers of a chemical factory were killed and 57 more were injured on Wednesday, in a massive fire triggered by an explosion in a boiler at Dahej in Bharuch district of Gujarat, news agency ANI reported.The death toll is likely to go up as the rescue operation is still on at the site of the incident.“So far we have confirmed the death of five employees. Some bodies were recovered from the factory, while others died in hospital. The rescue operation is still underway,” Bharuch Superintendent of Police, RV Chudasama, said.“Five people lost their lives and 57 others sustained injuries in a fire that broke out following a blast in a tank at Yashashvi Rasayan Pvt Ltd in the Dahej Industrial Estate of Bharuch, in the afternoon today,” Bharuch District Collector Dr MD Modiya said. Watch: 5 killed, 40 injured in blast at a chemical factory in Gujarat A total of 57 injured workers were shifted to various hospitals in Bharuch and near Vadodara city, the SP said, adding that more details were awaited as rescue work had still not been completed. He also expressed concern that the death toll may go up as recue work got over.Earlier in the afternoon, the Bharuch district collector said residents of Lakhi and Luvara villages, located near the factory where the explosion had occurred, were being evacuated as a precautionary measure. Plants containing poisonous chemicals are also located near the factory where the blast took place so more people are likely to be evacuated from nearby areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-dahej-boiler-blast-chemical-factory/story-1VkanmGbByFqkrrJDkXTzJ.html
03-06-2020||India||Lt Gen-level talks between India, China on June 6 a significant step: Top expert||A meeting on June 6 between Indian and Chinese military officials, led by lieutenant generals from both armies, will be a significant step towards resolving the weeks-long row along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said National Security Advisory Board member Lt Gen (retired) SL Narasimhan.The general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, Lt Gen Harinder Singh, is expected to meet his Chinese counterpart almost a month after tensions between India and China began building up along the disputed border. The row has already taken bilateral ties to a new low.This is perhaps the first time that lieutenant generals from both sides will meet in a sensitive sector to defuse border tensions – the highest talks between India and China at the tactical level have so far usually involved major generals.Narasimhan, a top China expert, said modalities for resolving the border situation, with a focus on concerns brought to the table by both sides, could figure in the agenda for the upcoming meeting.Defence minister Rajnath Singh had on Tuesday announced that a meeting between senior Indian and Chinese military officers will be held on June 6 to discuss the border situation.The Northern Army commander, Lt Gen YK Joshi, was in Leh on Wednesday for a security review of the sensitive sector, where Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC.Several rounds of talks between local military commanders, including three rounds of discussions between major generals, have failed to break the impasse that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong lake four weeks ago.Around 250 soldiers from the two sides clashed near Pangong lake on the night of May 5-6, and the scuffle left scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the immediate situation, tensions swiftly spread to other pockets along the LAC.China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery on its side of the disputed border in Ladakh sector, where India has also sent military reinforcements and matched the neighbour’s military moves, as reported by Hindustan Times on May 26.Chinese state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring up between India and China in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.The external affairs ministry has said that Chinese troops have hindered patrols by Indian forces on the Indian side of the LAC and that contacts have been established through military and diplomatic channels to address the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lt-gen-level-talks-between-india-china-significant-top-expert/story-0wRotij9xR4ZBJEBiT8BXK.html
03-06-2020||India||Maneka Gandhi tears into state govt over elephant’s death in Kerala’s Mallapuram||After a pregnant elephant died of eating cracker stuffed pineapple allegedly fed to her by a local in Kerala’s Mallapuram, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi slammed the State government for not taking animal cruelty seriously.The former union minister wrote on micro-blogging site that Mallapuram is “known for its intense animal activity” and yet authorities did not taken any action to curb the menace.“Mallapuram is known for its intense criminal activity especially with regards to animals. No action has ever been taken against a single poacher or wildlife killer so they keep doing it. I can only suggest that you call/email and ask for action,” she tweeted.She also attached a document along with her tweet claiming that “About 600 elephants are killed by the temples by breaking their legs, beating and starving them and otherwise by private owners by insuring them and then deliberately drowning them or giving them gangrene by putting rusted nails on them. I talk to the department almost every week about an elephant and they do absolutely nothing.”Maneka Gandhi further posted telephone numbers of the state forest minister as well as other officials urging people to reach out to them.The elephant had died on May 27 after she ate the pineapple stuffed with crackers and forest officials said that it died standing in river Velliyar after it suffered an injury in its lower jaw. The elephant was seen standing in the river with her mouth and trunk in the water, for some relief from the pain after the fruit exploded in her mouth.Meanwhile on Wednesday, Mannarkkad forest range officer said that an FIR has been lodged against unidentified people under relevant sections of Wild Life Protection Act over incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maneka-gandhi-tears-into-state-govt-over-elephant-s-death-in-kerala-s-mallapuram/story-RDq2Ot4N0pKYmaXyo6yuUN.html
03-06-2020||India||Lawyers’ associations demand reopening of courts||Several lawyers’ bodies have started pressuring the chief justices of high courts (HCs) and the Supreme Court (SC) to revert to normal physical court hearings citing an acute financial crunch and other difficulties being faced by lawyers due to the restricted functioning of courts because of the nationwide lockdown that was imposed by the central government from March 25 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The Bar Council of India (BCI), the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (SCAORA) and the Gujarat High Court Advocates Association (GHCAA) have urged chief justices of HCs and the SC to resume physical hearings.Courts have been hearing only urgent matters through the video-conferencing facility, which have led to a growing pendency of cases in an overburdened higher judiciary. Lockdown restrictions have hit the legal profession hard and many lawyers are struggling to make both ends meet.Senior advocate Yatin Oza highlighted an incident from Gujarat to bolster his argument about the financial struggles being faced by lawyers due to the prevailing lockdown restrictions. Oza, who quit as the president of the Gujarat High Court Advocates’ Association (GHCAA) on Tuesday following differences within the managing committee of the association, ciated in his resignation letter that when he recently placed an order for food from Swiggy, an online food ordering and delivering platform, the delivery person turned out to be a lawyer, who used to practice in the Gujarat HC.“Over 700 junior lawyers have expressed their financial woes to me,” Oza said.The GHCAA had conducted a referendum to arrive at a consensus on whether they should petition the chief justice for resuming physical hearings.In the referendum, over 64 percent of the respondents had voted in favour of the resumption of physical hearings. The GHCCA’s vice-president and joint secretary were at odds with the members of the managing committee and requested the chief justice to persist with the ongoing video-conferencing facility.This led to Oza’s resignation on Tuesday even though he withdrew it later in the day after the Bar members pressured him to stay on.Oza told HT that he is in favour of the resumption of physical court hearings.“If judges want to continue with the virtual court, they should sit five days in a week with all the judges attending as per the roster. The judges should adhere to the normal court timings. There cannot be five judges, who’re hearing only four categories of cases,” Oza said.There has been a drastic reduction in the cases heard by courts, including the SC, since the video-conferencing facility was introduced in end-March because of the nationwide lockdown restrictions.For instance, the apex court heard only 835 cases between March 23 and May 1. While on a normal working day, the SC hears around 800 cases. The HCs, too, are grappling with a growing pendency of cases.“The pendency of cases is running into lakhs. People are waiting for justice for at least a decade. The Gujarat HC hears only five types of cases through the video-conferencing facility. Many advocates are waiting for weeks to get their cases listed,” Oza said.The BCI had also appealed to courts to revert to physical court hearings citing the difficulties being faced by a majority of lawyers, who do not have access to technology. On May 26, the BCI chairperson wrote a letter to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and alleged that only a handful of privileged advocates have been able to utilise the benefit of hearings conducted via the video-conference facility. On Tuesday, the SCAORA wrote a similar letter to the CJI.Shivaji M Jadhav, president, SCAORA, wrote in the letter that around 95% of the lawyers are not comfortable with virtual court hearings since they are a major deterrent to argue cases effectively before a bench.The SCAORA, which is the body of lawyers eligible to file cases in the SC, urged the CJI to commence physical court hearings from July. Jadhav exuded confidence about the SC acceding to their plea.“It’s uncertain at this point in time when the pandemic will end and we’ve no option but to live with the viral outbreak. The SC should resume physical hearings from July because many lawyers are suffering. I know that it’s a risky proposition but the apex court still has one month to ensure that adequate arrangements are made and precautions are taken before it reopens,” Jadhav told HT.Advocate Mukund P Unny, a young lawyer practicing in Delhi courts, had a counter-point to resume physical court hearings.“It’s true that the livelihood of many lawyers has been affected. However, the resumption of physical hearings may aggravate the problem. For instance, a judge at a Rohini court, tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. Courts can become hotspots. Perhaps, the video-conferencing facility can be ramped up and all the cases can be heard and not just urgent matters,” said Unny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyers-associations-demand-reopening-of-courts/story-G95N05V87N72Db2P7XlPLP.html
03-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh records second Covid-19 death||A 55-year-old woman from Durg district tested positive for Covid-19 after her death at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Raipur, officials said on Wednesday.The dead woman had been admitted to a railway hospital in Charoda for the treatment of a wound, and was then shifted to a private hospital in Raipur a few days ago.With her death on Tuesday, Chhattisgarh reported the second death due to Covid-19. The first death was recorded in Raipur on May 29.“The deceased, a native of Charoda town, was referred to AIIMS from Ramkrishna Care Hospital here on Tuesday afternoon, as she was suspected to have been infected by the coronavirus, but she was declared dead when she reached AIIMS,” said SS Sharma, the public relations officer of AIIMS.“Later, her samples were taken, which came out positive for Covid-19.”The administration of Durg district told the media that the woman’s family had been quarantined.“With the death of the woman in AIIMS Raipur on Tuesday, the state has recorded two deaths due to the virus till now,” said a senior health officer who didn’t want to be named. The sample of a nine-year-old girl, who died of a blood disorder on May 30, tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Bilaspur on Tuesday.The girl was admitted to the Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences in Bilaspur on May 29 as she was suffering from the blood disorder. The local administration said the girl had died due to the blood-related disease, and not the coronavirus. “She was detected positive later, but the death took place due to suspected haematological malignancy and not Covid-19, according to the hospital’s report,” said Bilaspur’s collector Saranash Mittar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-records-second-covid-19-death/story-WFht0Mk3kC34kSv9K1358O.html
03-06-2020||India||First virtual bilateral summit between PM Modi, Australian PM tomorrow. All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold his first-ever ‘virtual’ bilateral summit with his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison on June 4. The Ministry of External Affairs issued a press release on the event, stating that the virtual summit is being held as PM Morrison’s visit to India could not take place amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “This is the first time that Prime Minister Modi will be holding a “Bilateral Virtual Summit”, this signifies the strengthening of ties with Australia and its upward trajectory,” the MEA release read.  Tomorrow PM @narendramodi will be holding, for the first time, a "Bilateral Virtual Summit" with Australian PM @ScottMorrisonMP.Click below to read more about this unique summit ⤵️During the summit, both leaders will review the broad framework of the relationship between India and Australia in the context of growing bilateral ties.The leaders will also discuss their respective responses to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Several agreements, including one on mutual sharing of military logistics facilities, are expected to be signed during the summit on June 4, people familiar with development said.Ahead of the virtual summit, Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell on Monday said relations between India and Australia will scale greater heights. Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him. pic.twitter.com/Sj7y4Migu9“Both (Prime Minister Modi and PM Morrison) are people person; they’ll be talking about how to work together to improve the lives of people. Both believe that the government is not about the number of agreements signed but improving the lives of citizens and generating jobs,” news agency ANI quoted O’Farrell as saying.The Australian High Commissioner said it will be “like a virtual interview between two friends,” adding that the leaders will discuss how each country is dealing with Covid-19. “They may share commentary on the hard task of how to ease restrictions,” he stated.The Australian prime minister had previously held such a summit with Singapore in March. PM Morrison’s visit to India was first scheduled in January and was later postponed to May. The leaders decided to continue their engagement through a virtual meeting amid the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-virtual-bilateral-summit-between-pm-modi-australian-pm-scott-morrison-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know/story-ckj57JMBzjx6xerN9Cmm6I.html
03-06-2020||India||UP government to appeal high court order staying recruitment of 69,000 assistant teachers||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday said it would appeal against an order passed by the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court which stayed the appointment process of 69,000 assistant teachers in the state, before a larger bench.Uttar Pradesh’s basic education minister Satish Chand Dwivedi said the government, for now, had issued a directive for cancellation of counselling and document verification of selected candidates across the state.“We have informed the basic shiksha adhikaris (BSAs) to stop counseling and document verification of candidates after Wednesday’s high court order. The government will soon appeal before the larger bench,” the minister said.The first government notification to fill the said vacant posts was issued on December 1, 2018. The posts were advertised on December 6, 2018 and the examination was held on January 6, 2019.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19A day after the examination on January 7, 2019, the passing criteria was revised to 65% (97 out of 150 marks) for general candidates and 60% (90 out of 150 marks) for reserved category candidates which was challenged in the high court by para teachers. The court on March 29, 2019 gave a verdict in favour of the candidates and set the criteria of 40% and 45% respectively for reserved and general category candidates. Later, the state government filed an appeal in the high court against the March 29, 2019 order. The court on May 6, 2020 disposed of the case by upholding the state government’s revised eligibility criteria.Following the verdict, the result was announced on May 12, in which, a total of 1.46 lakh candidates, amounting to 36.6 per cent of the total candidates appeared, were declared as qualified. Around 4.31 lakh candidates had registered for the recruitment exam including nearly 4.09 lakh candidates who actually took the test held on January 6, 2019, said a government official.Earlier today, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court stayed the recruitment process on a writ petition filed by Amita Tripathi and others while fixing July 12 as the next date of hearing and directing the petitioners to submit their objections to the state government within a week.Also Read: UP Assistant Teachers Recruitment: High court stays appointment of 69,000 basic teachersThe petitioners had raised a question mark on the answer sheet used in the January examination for the recruitment of the assistant basic teachers. The court has directed the University Grants Commission (UGC) to appoint a panel of experts to study the question paper, provisional answer key along with the objections received from the candidates within 4 weeks and submit a report to the state government to be produced before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-government-to-appeal-high-court-order-staying-recruitment-of-69-000-assistant-teachers/story-nsFrt1wOrGsgV9eo02twKO.html
03-06-2020||India||Bengal govt to review proposal for women on night shift in jute mills||Mamata Banerjee’s government will review an appeal by Bengal’s jute mill owners to allow women to work on night shifts and let mills employ temporary workers without provident fund for six months, the state’s labour minister Moloy Ghatak said Wednesday.The appeal came as the jute industry ran into manpower shortage following the exodus of workers from states such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown.If the government allows it, it will mean that women will be working at night in Bengal’s jute mills for the first time. Bengal is the highest producer of jute in the country. In neighbouring Bangladesh, women constitute around 18 per cent of the workforce in jute mills. On May 29, chief minister Mamata Banerjee allowed the 59 operational jute mills in Bengal to start production with 100 per cent manpower from June 1. A day later, Indian Jute Mills Association (IJMA), the apex business chamber for India’s jute industry, requested labour minister Moloy Ghatak to let women work at night and allow employment of temporary workers without provident fund for six months.“A lot of people from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh etc have returned home, leading to staff shortage. On the other hand, a large number of migrant workers from Bengal have come back. They need jobs. If the government agrees to our proposals this crisis can be turned into a win-win situation for many unemployed people,” R K Poddar, a senior member of IJMA, told HT.“We will review the appeals and a committee will look into this. Earlier, we allowed two industries, including a soft drink giant, to let women work at night,” labour minister Moloy Ghatak told HT. “As far as letting temporary workers work without provident fund is concerned, the industry has said their money will be transferred to bank accounts. We will review this,” the minister added.On May 29, Bhaskar Khulbe, an advisor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wrote to Bengal’s chief secretary Rajiva Sinha. “I would request you to kindly consider assisting the jute mills in reaching the assured production of 10,000 bales per day as early as possible and definitely by June 15. We shall appreciate your feedback by June 4 to enable us to further review the matter on June 8,” said the letter from PMO.Since April, the Centre has been urging the Bengal government to direct jute mills to resume operation in view of shortage of jute bags in food grain producing states. In one of the letters, the Centre said, “…packaging material like jute bales are immensely required by major procuring states like Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madya Pradesh.”On April 5, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao requested the Prime Minister to open jute bag manufacturing units in Bengal and ensure transportation of jute bags through special goods trains to his state.Till May 29, however, Bengal allowed deployment of only 50 per cent manpower in most of the mills. The jute industry suffered a nationwide loss of Rs 1,250 crore during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-reviews-proposal-for-women-on-night-shift-in-jute-mills/story-omJjIURUR80P0meFkOVJQO.html
03-06-2020||India||1 killed in Alibag after electric pole falls on him as Cyclone Nisarga hits Maharashtra||A 58-year-old man died after an electric pole fell on him at Umte village in Alibag, as Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Wednesday afternoon. No other casualties have been reported from the state so far, District Collector, Raigad, Nidhi Choudhary said.“One death has been reported from Alibag. A 58-year-old man died after an electric pole fell on him at Umte village in Alibag. No other death has been reported so far across the district,” Choudhary said.Several trees have been uprooted, electricity poles brought down leaving thousands without power in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, close to Alibag, where Cyclone Nisarga made landfall on Wednesday afternoon.ALSO WATCH | Amid cyclone, plane skids off runway in MumbaiALSO READ | Cyclone Nisarga snaps trees, electricity poles in Maharashtra’s Raigad; no loss of life reportedAccording to officials, 85 large trees, some of which fell over houses, and 11 electric poles were ripped out as the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said its teams will assess the damage once the cyclonic storm completes landfall.After lashing the Maharashtra coast with wind speeds of up to 120 kmph, Cyclone Nisarga has started weakening and its intensity will reduce further by evening, the India Meteorological Department said. The landfall of the cyclone began at 12.30 pm at Alibag and the process was completed by 2.30 pm, IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said. “It has started weakening. The wind speed is currently 90-100 kilometres per hour and the intensity will reduce further by evening,” he said.The cyclone will further weaken into a cyclonic storm by Wednesday evening and into a deep depression by late night, an IMD bulletin said.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), earlier on Wednesday, deployed 43 teams in Maharashtra and Gujarat and also evacuated nearly 1 lakh people living close to the coastline as Cyclone Nisarga began landfall in Raigad district.ALSO READ | Cyclone Nisarga: Nearly 1,00,000 evacuated, rains from Mumbai to Hubli“A total of 43 National Disaster Response Force teams have been deployed in the two states of Maharashtra and Gujarat. Of the teams, 21 are on standby in Maharashtra and the rest in the neighbouring state. Nearly 1 lakh people have been evacuated from the areas in the path of the cyclone,” NDRF Director General SN Pradhan had said.Besides Maharashtra, neighbouring Gujarat, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli have all been put on red alert as these states and union territories fall in the path of the severe cyclonic storm.This is the second such cyclone to hit India within a month, after Cyclone Amphan, which barely two weeks days ago had battered West Bengal causing severe destruction and killing at least 80 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-killed-in-alibag-after-electric-pole-falls-on-him-as-cyclone-nisarga-hits-maharashtra/story-3gtVompdZewUNOhEGbkvcM.html
03-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt gears up for Char Dham Yatra; priest body apprehensive||Devbhoomi Tirtha Purohit Haqhakudhari Mahapanchayat, a priests’ body in Uttarakhand that has representatives from all the major shrines in the hill state, has opposed the state government’s proposed move to start the annual Char Dham yatra from June 8 in line with the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’(MHA) guidelines on opening religious places of worship amid the easing of lockdown restrictions that were imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Brijesh Sati, the spokesperson of the mahapanchayat, said the priests of the four main shrines of Uttarakhand are against starting the Char Dham yatra from Monday, as they have expressed their reservations about maintaining strict social distancing norms and sanitisation of vehicles as a precautionary measure to prevent the pandemic. “The opening of the Char Dham yatra is fraught with the risk of the spread of the infection, as it may not be feasible to maintain strict social distancing norms and sanitisation of vehicles. Besides, our hill state has been reporting a growing number of Covid-19 positive cases daily,” Sati said.On Tuesday, representatives of the priests from the Kedarnath shrine met the district magistrate of Rudraprayag to discuss the matter. The priests from Gangotri and Yamunotri Dham Temple Committees have also raised similar objections. The priests want the decision to open the shrines for pilgrims to be postponed for a few more weeks because of the spiralling number of Covid-19 positive cases in the hill state.Rajesh Semwal, co-secretary, Gangotri Dham Temple Committee, said Covid-19 positive cases are comparatively lesser in the hilly districts and most of them have been reported among the migrants who have returned to their home state amid the easing of lockdown restrictions.“Those who tested Covid-19 positive have had a travel history from other states. If Char Dham yatra begins and pilgrims start coming from outside, then the infection is likely to spread. Under such circumstances, it’s prudent not to start the yatra from Monday,” said Semwal.State cabinet minister Madan Kaushik, who is also the official spokesperson of the state government, said that the priests’ apprehensions would be taken into consideration before taking a final call on starting the Char Dham yatra from Monday.“We’re closely studying the MHA guidelines. If the yatra starts from Monday, then it’ll be restricted to only pilgrims from Uttarakhand, as the interstate travel restrictions are still in place and state borders are closed. Besides, there are issues about acquiring passes while coming from the red zones. All these issues will be discussed threadbare before a final decision is taken on starting the Char Dham yatra from Monday,” Kaushik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-gears-up-for-char-dham-yatra-priest-body-apprehensive/story-inHl64WW2SqC9tR3iQXZhI.html
03-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand to implement ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme from August: CM||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday announced that Centre’s One Nation One Ration card programme is likely to be implemented in the state from August. “Under this initiative, any resident of our state could get rations from any corner of the country where he shifts for work. It is a very beneficial programme for those who are dependent on the ration provided by the government,” said Rawat at a digital interaction where he spoke about the achievements of NDA-2 under Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the first year of its second term.Rawat is now in home quarantine after tourism minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago. During the video chat of about 45 minutes, he spoke on various issues including the measures taken by the state to fight the pandemic along with the achievements of the Centre.He said the government will gradually start the Char Dham Yatra but it would be a limited, controlled and a safe one.“After the Centre had allowed the states to open religious places, the Uttarakhand government will soon start the much revered Char Dham Yatra. However, we are looking at a limited, controlled and safe Char Dham Yatra this time considering the pandemic.”“So far a date has not been fixed because for the same, as we have to first check many aspects including whether the locals are mentally prepared to welcome the yatris or not and whether there are enough facilities with required precautions for the pandemic. Our authorities concerned will evaluate all these factors before we could give a go-ahead to the yatra,” said Rawat. Rawat also said that the government was taking necessary steps to quarantine incoming migrants after the Covid-19 tally in the state went past 1,000 on Tuesday.“We are collecting complete data on the number of migrants who have returned, for which the process will be completed soon. The government is taking all necessary steps to screen them and quarantine them as per guidelines,” said Rawat. On the revival of the state’s economy he said that many of the industries have already resumed their operations after the government started the online permission process for them on the same. He said, “We have already started the registry process of properties for which revenue is being generated. We have also started the Mukhyamantri Swarojgar Yojana under which we have stated about 125 livelihood options for which our residents especially in the hilly areas could get a subsidy in loans. Apart from this, the Mukhyamantri Krishi Vikas Yojana has also been implemented for the development of agriculture in the state.”Rawat said the Centre’s recent package will revive the economy.“To counter the economic slowdown caused by the pandemic, PM Modi recently announced an economic package which would be very helpful for the service sector and MSME sector. With all these measures the economy would surely get a boost and big developments under the leadership of PM Modi,” said Rawat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-implement-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-from-august-cm/story-gcooKw9LZ7xm4wUQlMABQN.html
03-06-2020||India||With 49 fresh cases, Tripura’s Covid-19 tally crosses 500||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Tripura touched 518 on Wednesday, with the detection of 49 more new infections. Most of the 49 Covid-19 patients had a history of travel and had been in contact with other people infected by the Coronavirus earlier.Out of the 821 samples tested on Wednesday, 49 people were found to be positive for Covid-19, chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote on Twitter. “Most of them have travel history and contacts,” he added.A total of 29,066 people have been tested so far, and 173 patients have recovered, according to the latest figures from the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-49-fresh-cases-tripura-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-500/story-WDApoXSKSJdHQqhoIURlJP.html
03-06-2020||India||KRMB to hold meeting of AP, Telangana officials on Thursday to resolve water row||Hyderabad: The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) under the Union Jal Sakthi ministry has convened a meeting of representatives of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in Hyderabad on Thursday amid tensions between the states over the construction of new projects on the river.The board, headed by newly appointed chairman A Paramesham, wrote to the irrigation departments of both states on Tuesday, asking them to submit detailed project reports of the proposed new projects on Krishna river.The board will go through the reports and refer the projects to the apex council of the ministry for further action. The apex council, comprising Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and chief ministers of both states, will meet at a later date.The meeting of KRMB, being held on the directions of Shekhawat, will be attended by the principal secretaries and engineers-in-chief of irrigation of both states.The latest water dispute between the two states erupted last month, when the Andhra Pradesh government headed by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy issued an order proposing the construction of a lift irrigation scheme on Krishna river on the foreshore of Srisailam reservoir, located between the two states, and the expansion of the Pothireddypadu head regulator to draw an additional six to eight thousand million cubic feet (tmc) of water from the river.The Telangana government wrote to KRMB, strongly objecting to the new projects proposed by the neighbouring state. It said they were a gross violation of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act and went against the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal (KWDT)’s award.KRMB sought an explanation from the Andhra Pradesh government, while the Jal Sakthi ministry directed the government to stop proceeding with the projects. Subsequently, the National Green Tribunal too issued an order staying the new projects.While replying to KRMB’s letter, the Andhra Pradesh government defended the projects, saying they would be well within the water share allocated to the state. It made a counter-complaint against Telangana, saying it too had taken up schemes such as the Palamuru-Ranga Reddy, Dindi, Bhakta Ramadasa and Tummilla projects on Krishna river that violated the state bifurcation act and KWDT’s award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/krmb-to-hold-meeting-of-ap-telangana-officials-on-thursday-to-resolve-water-row/story-q77b2478YaN1xdHZjKu4aN.html
03-06-2020||India||USTR launches investigation into digital services taxes by India, nine other countries||New Delhi: The Trump administration has launched investigations into digital services taxes levied or under consideration by 10 countries, including India, to determine whether they discriminate against American tech companies, though people familiar with developments said New Delhi has no plans to change its levy.The investigations announced on Tuesday by the US Trade Representative (USTR) will cover digital taxes either adopted or under consideration in the European Union and 10 countries, including Austria, Brazil, India, Indonesia, Italy and the UK.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said India has no plans to roll back the tax on e-commerce transactions introduced in the 2020 budget in February.“These investigations are just the start of a process. It’s not as if some actions have already been taken by the US,” said one of the people cited above.“Everything will depend on the findings of the investigations. So, it’s too early to say,” the person added.The USTR’s probe, called a “section 301 investigation” because it is conducted under Section 301 of the 1974 Trade Act, will determine whether taxes on electronic commerce by the EU and the 10 countries discriminate against US tech giants such Apple, Google and Amazon.“This provision gives the USTR broad authority to investigate and respond to a foreign country’s action which may be unfair or discriminatory and negatively affect US commerce,” USTR said in a statement.Such investigations by the USTR can take months before the US administration decides whether to retaliate against taxes through tariffs or other measures.Amit Maheshwari, a partner at AKM Global, a tax and consulting firm, said: “The US investigation initially will focus on whether the digital services taxes (DSTs) discriminate against US companies, they are retroactive, and they reflect unreasonable tax policy, which would be when the DSTs may diverge from norms reflected in the US tax system and the international tax system in several respects such as extraterritoriality, taxing revenue not income, and a purpose of penalising particular technology companies for their commercial success.”He added, “The Indian tax, which is the subject of this investigation, was rushed in the recent Finance Act and made into law from April 1, 2020 without any consultations and gave very little time for the industry to prepare. Several countries in the world, including India, are adopting unilateral measures in the absence of multilateral consensus spearheaded by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). We don’t foresee global consensus happening anytime soon.”US tech companies, which have been very successful globally, are facing the brunt of “unilateral measures” and therefore this investigation has been launched, Maheshwari said.USTR has launched and completed a 301 probe into France’s digital services tax regime but held off on levying duties on the country as the two sides are negotiating a global regime at the OECD, Bloomberg reported. The OECD is trying to forge consensus among nearly 140 countries on a global tax overhaul to address how multinationals, especially tech giants, are taxed in countries where they have users or consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ustr-launches-investigation-into-digital-services-taxes-by-india-nine-other-countries/story-mNnoyZSzHwGyp90GHOAaaK.html
03-06-2020||India||Shah Faesal and two other senior J&K politicians’ detentions under NSA revoked||Former bureaucrat turned Jammu and Kashmir politician Shah Faesal is likely to be released after spending close to 10 months in detention since August 14, following the Union Territory’s decision to revoke the Public Safety Act (PSA) slapped on him and two other senior politicians from the Peoples Democractic Party (PDP)- Sartaj Madani and Peer Mansoor—leaving former chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti among the few prominent leaders from the region who continue to be in detention after the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories in August last. NC general secretary Ali Mohammad Sager and former J&K ministers, Nayeem Akthar and Hilal Akbar Lone also continue to be in detention. Former J&K chief ministers and National Conference leaders Omar Abdullah and his father Farooq Abdullah were released from detention earlier this year.Shah Faesal was detained under the stringent for his “anti-government” social media posts and an alliance with former J&K legislator, engineer Shiekh Abdul Rashid, who was arrested in a terror funding case and is currently lodged in Tihar jail, according to a government dossier on the matter. Faesal had allied with Rashid for J&K assembly polls in June last year.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Faesal was given a copy of the dossier carrying 27 pages of his social media posts, made in the last few years on February 15 this year by the authorities. Shah Faesal had a good following on social media and used it even to mobilise funds for his party-- the J&K Political Movement (JKPM).Shah Faesal was first detained at the Delhi airport on August 14, 2019, after he reached the Capital from Srinagar and was sent back to Kashmir. In Srinagar, he was detained at the Centaur Hotel and later at the MLA hostel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-faesal-and-two-other-senior-j-k-politicians-detentions-under-nsa-revoked/story-19wWb2DGiXxOWTBj6CTI2L.html
03-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand awaits results of over 7,000 samples for Covid-19 tests||As Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally crossed 1,000 Tuesday, there still remains a backlog of results for over 7,000 samples which is 20% of the total samples tested.In the past ten days, the state saw an increase of over 800 cases as migrants returned to the state. Testing facilities were increased in the past one week but results are taking time. According to the state health department’s bulletin, there were 7,004 results pending as of Wednesday.Amit Singh Negi, secretary health in the state said that testing facilities are gradually being ramped up in the state.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“We understand that testing facilities were increased a little late in the state but we are working to increase them as much as possible. We are trying to tie up with two more private hospitals in Dehradun so that their labs can be used which will have a capacity of testing 200 samples each per day. We have also issued tenders for private laboratories to be used as testing centers,” said Negi.From Wednesday, a new testing center at Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun was added in the state which has a capacity of testing around a hundred samples a day.“Not just in the state, we are trying to tie-up with labs already approved by the Central government in nearby areas like Chandigarh so that more samples can be tested in the coming days and the backlog can be reduced,” added the official.Speaking on chances of further spread of infection on account of delayed results of the samples, Negi said that the state government has increased the quarantine period to reduce the rate of infection.“Cases saw a sudden spike in the state after migrants started returning and now anyone returning to the state will first have to stay at an institutional quarantine facility for seven days and then strictly under home quarantine for 14 days. They will not be allowed to leave their house so even if they are carriers of the virus, it will be restricted to their homes,” said the secretary.Meanwhile, a senior official from the state health department who did not wish to be named said that in normal circumstances, it takes around one and a half days for results to be declared given that samples have been sent to the testing centers from remote areas.“It usually takes one and a half days or a maximum of two days if samples are sent for testing from remote areas of the state. In any situation, it should not take more than three days,” said the official. However, the official said that he cannot comment on why there are results of so many samples are still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-awaits-results-of-over-7-000-samples-for-covid-19-tests/story-U8hvoYqCZv318PW3mPBbyI.html
03-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Foreign businessmen, engineers and healthcare professionals can get visas to enter India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Foreign businessmen, engineers and healthcare professionals can get visas to enter IndiaThe Home Ministry has allowed foreign businessmen, engineers and healthcare professionals to enter the country on the condition that they get their visas re-validated and fly into the country in chartered flights, a government statement on Wednesday said. Read more ‘Landmark decisions taken to benefit farmers, transform agriculture sector’: JavadekarUnion minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday said that three historic decisions have been taken in the field of agriculture during the cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the day. Read more Power lines disrupted, houses and roads damaged in Raigad, Mumbai and Thane as Cyclone Nisarga makes landfallCyclone Nisarga has begun to move from Mumbai and Thane districts towards north Maharashtra after making a landfall in Alibagh in Raigad district with a wind speed ranging between 100-110 kmph on Wednesday afternoon . Read more Plea in SC alleges 187 persons in bonded labour in brick kilns of UP, BiharA three-judge Supreme Court bench, headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, on Wednesday issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh and Bihar governments and also asked the district magistrates (DMs) of Rohtas and Sambhal in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, respectively, to submit their reports regarding a public interest litigation (PIL) that had alleged 187 people were forced into bonded labour. Read more Celebrities, organisations and people show solidarity with Black Lives Matter movementBlack Lives Matter activists reminded people to not use Black Lives Matter hashtags and expressed concern that mistagging Blackout Tuesday posts with hashtags for Black Lives Matter or BLM was stopping the flow of important information related to the movement. Read more‘We have a great tuning together’: Kuldeep Yadav reveals Virat Kohli’s ‘best quality’Kuldeep has become one of Kohli’s most trusted player, and he is rarely left out for any series. Speaking in an interview to news agency IANS, Kuldeep revealed how Kohli as captain motivated him and helped his game. Read more Windows 10 May 2020 update is full of features and bugs: Check details here Microsoft rolled out one of the biggest updates to Windows 10 last week. The update dubbed as the Windows 10 May 2020 update brings host of features to Windows 10 powered personal computers. Read more Raptor drops rabbit mid-air, then swoops in to catch it. WatchAn old video has made its way onto Twitter once again and people are stunned by the visuals caught in it. It shows a raptor flying off with a rabbit when it suddenly drops the prey. What’s interesting is how it swoops back in to catch the rabbit mid-air and makes off with it. Read more Covid-19| 30 patients in Siliguri felicitated by hospital staff after recovery | WatchAt least 30 Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged from a hospital in Siliguri, West Bengal. The patients were felicitated by the hospital staff. The hospital staff also applauded for the recovery of patients. There are over 6,100 cases in West Bengal.Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-foreign-businessmen-engineers-and-healthcare-professionals-can-get-visas-to-enter-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TcAVVCxE0CmeVn5La879dP.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga: 10 sailors stranded off Maharashtra’s Ratnagiri coast rescued||Ten sailors stranded on board a ship off the coast of Ratnagiri in Maharashtra due to high tide and very heavy rainfall as Cyclone Nisarga began landfall on Wednesday afternoon, were rescued from the ship by relief teams, according to an official.The vessel with a 10-member crew was spotted from the Mirya Bunder area of Ratnagiri and relief teams swung into action to bring the sailors to the coast, the official said.With Cyclone Nisarga hitting the Maharashtra coast, high tides coupled with heavy rains and rough winds pushed the ship towards the coast of Mirakwada, from where the sailors were rescued safely.ALSO READ | Cyclone Nisarga snaps trees, electricity poles in Maharashtra’s Raigad; no loss of life reportedHeavy rains lashed the Ratnagiri coast as Cyclone Nisarga made landfall on Wednesday afternoon.Four people were injured in Ratnagiri as several houses in Dapoli and Mandangad areas of Ratnagiri district were damaged by the cyclonic storm. The losses will be compensated after an assessment post the cyclone, Uday Samant, guardian minister, Ratnagiri said on Wednesday.Tin roofs of several buildings in Ratnagiri, including a small bank in Dapoli area, were blown away by rough winds as the cyclonic storm continued to batter Maharashtra.The Indian Coast Guard has mobilised 8 Disaster Relief Teams for Maharashtra to respond to any requirement of Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief arising due to Cyclone Nisarga. The teams have been placed at Dahanu, Mumbai, Murud Janjira and Ratnagiri.ALSO READ | NDRF deploys 43 teams as Cyclone Nisarga hits Maharashtra’s RaigadMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed the state administration to maintain operational readiness and ensure immediate relief works as Cyclone Nisarga began moving from Mumbai and Thane to North Maharashtra.CM Thackeray is in constant touch with collectors of several districts on the western coast of Maharashtra for updates about the impact of Cyclone Nisarga, the Chief Ministers Office (CMO) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-10-sailors-stranded-off-maharashtra-s-ratnagiri-coast-rescued/story-nkxsuffhZt9rDiawXXMt1N.html
03-06-2020||India||Centre relaxes visa restrictions for select categories of foreigners||The Centre on Wednesday announced that it was relaxing visa and travel restrictions for certain categories of foreign nationals who need to come to India.They include businessmen coming to India on a Business visa (other than on B-3 visa for sports) in non-scheduled commercial/ chartered flights, the Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement.International flights have remained suspended in India since the lockdown began on March 25 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Foreign healthcare professionals, health researchers, engineers and technicians for technical work at Indian health sector facilities, including laboratories and factories are also included in the list. “This is subject to a letter of invitation from a recognized and registered healthcare facility, registered pharmaceutical company or accredited University in India,” the MHA said in its statement.Visa rules have also been relaxed for foreign engineering, managerial, design or other specialists travelling to India on behalf of foreign business entities located in India. This includes all manufacturing units, design units, software and IT units as well as financial sector companies (banking and non-banking financial sector firms).Foreign Technical specialists and engineers travelling for installation, repair and maintenance of foreign-origin machinery and equipment facilities in India, on the invitation of a registered Indian business entity will also be eligible for the relaxed visa norms. These could be for equipment installation, or is under warranty, or for after sales servicing or repair on commercial terms.The above categories of foreign nationals would have to obtain a fresh Business visa or Employment visa, as applicable, from the Indian Missions/ Posts abroad, the statement said.Foreign nationals holding a valid long term multiple entry Business visa [other than B-3 visa for sports] issued by the Indian Missions/Posts abroad would have to get the Business visa re-validated from the Indian Mission/Post concerned. Such foreign nationals would not be permitted to travel to India on the strength of any electronic visa obtained earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-relaxes-visa-restrictions-for-select-categories-of-foreigners/story-hFjRoRUiiX73OID0ZPrBkJ.html
03-06-2020||India||‘Re-run of shows must benefit actors too’!||Actor Gungun Uprari decided to explore her creative side during the long lockdown phase. “It was few months back when I tried my hand in writing poems, I shared them with my series writer Deepak Pachouri. He praised my work and encouraged me to continue writing as it was worth getting published. My happiness knew no bounds and so I decided to utilize this time and write more,” said the Lucknowite over the phone.The ‘Bandhan Saath Janmon Ka’ actor also made a few comic videos for YouTube and TikTok that are being liked by fans everywhere. “In the beginning we were all taking it as a break that will end soon. Also we got time to be with our families. But soon it became boring and monotonous particularly for people like us who shoot for almost 25 days in a month. Initially we felt soon everything will be under control and things will be back to normal but the spread is just unstoppable, I feel we have to learn to live with it. Its June now and Mumbai rains will soon start so now the situation is becoming more and more daunting.”Gungun is staying with her daughter (14), husband and a permanent help. “Since, she stays with us so I am not so helpless but I do pitch-in and cook or bake something off and on which was very rare before. Now, that I have time so this all is again a good utilisation of my time.”Just before the lockdown she shot for a web show, ‘Casino,’ telling more about the venture Gungun said, “We shot in Kathmandu and later in Mumbai. I have a small but an interesting role also it will be my first OTT show. The show stars Karanvir Bohra, Mandana Karimi and Sudhanshu Pandey. The characters I have played on TV have always been divine and positive like of Mata Yashoda in ‘Parmaavtar Sri Krishna’, Gotami in ‘Buddha’ and then I played the role of mother in ‘Gangaa’. With such image in TV, which of course I’m very proud of; so I thought I didn’t have much scope in the world of OTT. Also, I am not comfortable doing a bold avatar but what I got on web was something I knew was just right so I took it up. Thankfully, now many good shows are being made now which gives me hope. I would also like to play a negative character in future if only I get an opportunity.”The actor is worried about the condition of small time and new actors in the industry. “I am lucky that my husband is working and with me sitting home, I know our household will easily sustain. But, it’s going to be tough for those who are sole breadwinners of their families. Pending payments is another issue for actors. Besides, new shows not happening any time soon so we all are in a fix. My show ‘Sri Krishna’ is having a re-run. Many actors came up with an option that like abroad, the shows which are on a re-run must give some benefit or royalty to the actors too,” she shared.Gungun’s parents are based in Defence Colony, Lucknow. “My sister lives in South City and my in-laws are also from the Lucknow. Last year I visited and am looking forward to be in my hometown soon. Thankfully, we have lesser Covid-19 cases in the city,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/re-run-of-shows-must-benefit-actors-too/story-RBbzslhmWNox2JS3LlQEAM.html
03-06-2020||India||SC asks Jagan govt to remove party colours from panchayat buildings within four weeks||The Supreme Court (SC) on Wednesday ordered the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led government in Andhra Pradesh (AP) to remove the colours painted on the gram panchayat buildings across the state within four weeks because they resemble that of the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) flag.An SC division bench, headed by Justice Lavu Nageshwar Rao, dismissed a special leave petition (SLP) filed by the state government challenging an earlier order given by the Andhra Pradesh high court (HC) in this regard.The apex court directed that the party colours painted on the government buildings be removed within four weeks and warned that if the government did not comply with the order, it would be treated as contempt of court.The SC rejected the state government’s arguments that the colours painted on the government buildings did not resemble that of the YSRCP flag, but conveyed a different meaning.Earlier, the state government had issued an order in August 2019, around two months after coming to power to paint gram panchayat buildings in a specific green, blue and yellow colour scheme, which bears a striking resemblance to the YSRCP flag.It had also ordered the authorities to insert CM Reddy’s photograph on every panchayat building’s signboard, occupying at least 25% of the assigned space. The gram panchayats were told to incur the expenses for the new painting exercise.The HC had directed the state government to remove the YSRCP colours from the gram panchayat buildings while responding to a public interest litigation petition (PIL).The state government did not follow the HC order but issued a revised order, which tweaked the color scheme by adding another colour, terracotta, to give the impression that there was no similarity to the YSRCP flag.In May, the HC took exception of the state government’s unilateral action and struck down the revised order.On May 28, the court summoned AP chief secretary Nilam Sawhney and two other Indian Administration Service (IAS) officers and threatened to issue contempt proceedings if they did not follow its order on the removal of YSRCP colours from the government buildings.However, the government chose to file a fresh SLP in the SC that upheld the earlier HC order on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-jagan-govt-to-remove-party-colours-from-panchayat-buildings-within-four-weeks/story-aBgcfEbH5yVzE4vxJBPeKN.html
03-06-2020||India||After return from Chennai, Assam man forced by villagers to quarantine in tree house||A young man who recently returned to Assam from Tamil Nadu amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown has been forced by people in his village in Sonitpur district to undergo the mandatory home quarantine in a tree house.Amosh Basumatary came back from Chennai on May 26, after the car-seat manufacturing company where he worked shut down because of losses due to the lockdown, forcing him and many others to return to their home states.“I spent three nights at an institutional quarantine facility in Dekhiajuli and was released after my Covid-19 test came negative. But when I reached home, people from our village insisted that I spend 14 days in quarantine in a tree house,” said the 21-year old.All people returning to Assam from other states have to spend a 14 days in institutional and home quarantine. Those who test negative for the Coronavirus are allowed to go home and spend the rest of the period in isolation.Residents of Ansaipur, who built the bamboo tree house on the outskirts of the village located close to the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border, insisted that Basumatary spend another 14 days in isolation, in addition to the three nights in institutional quarantine.“I’ve completed four nights in the tree house and have to spend 10 more. Though this is not as comfortable as home, I am willing to spend the next 10 days for the safety of other villagers,” said the Class IX dropout.Assam has been witnessing rains over the past few days, and the tree house covered with a plastic sheet leaks a bit whenever there is a heavy downpour. The people of the village have provided Basumatary 20 kg of rice but he has no other ingredient to prepare decent meals.“I wish they had given me some pulses and spices. I am eating yams and edible ferns found near the tree, but sometimes it gets tough. My elder brother, who stays in the village with his family, brings water for me. Fortunately, wild elephants that roam in this area haven’t come this way yet,” he said.Basumatary went to Chennai in 2018 and spent two years there, hoping to earn well and send money back to his family. But now he doesn’t wish to go back to Tamil Nadu, and plans to start farming in his village once his quarantine period is over.Kamaljyoti Borah, circle officer of Dhekiajuli, said: “I’m not aware of this specific case. But we know of cases in villages in the area where residents have constructed huts for returnees to undergo home quarantine.“Because of the spread of Covid-19, there’s a fear among villagers, plus most houses in the villages are small and don’t have enough rooms where someone can undergo home isolation according to the guidelines.”Till Tuesday, nearly 250,000 people had returned to Assam from different parts of the country. Assam recorded 1,673 Covid-19 cases till Wednesday afternoon, and nearly 1,500 of them were people who had returned from other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-return-from-chennai-assam-man-forced-by-villagers-to-quarantine-in-tree-house/story-0Y5QEi1g9nPF6Rt7TU7mvK.html
03-06-2020||India||Centre amends Essential Commodities Act, landmark decisions taken to benefit farmers||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday said that the government has taken three historic decisions in the field of agriculture during the cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the day. “Firstly, we have made farmer friendly amendments to the Essential Commodities Act,” Javadekar said. Under the proposed amendments, essentials like grains, oil, pulses, potatoes, onions have been excluded from the Essential Commodities Act, Javadekar said. “Farmers can now export or store these commodities as they wish. These are our farmers’ demands pending for nearly 50 years now,” he said, adding that these restrictions will not be applicable again until unprecedented circumstances such as a period of calamity, war or inflation arise. “As a result of this, farmers will get good returns,” the minister said. ALSO WATCH | ‘Big decision...’: Govt hikes procurement prices for 14 summer cropsAlso read: Covid-19 cases in India to cross 15K-a-day mark by mid-June, predicts ChinaThe minister explained how the Essential Commodities Act stopped the free flow of investment.“Farmers are free from the clutches of Agriculture Producer Market Committee,” he said, adding that farmers will now be able to sell produce anywhere and to the highest paying party.  Union Cabinet has approved 'The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020'. It will create an ecosystem where the farmers and traders will enjoy the freedom of choice of sale and purchase of agri-produce: PMO“These steps have been taken in tune with India’s vision to move forward as “one nation one market”. Also read: We will get our growth back, PM Modi tells India IncCabinet, chaired by PM Narendra Modi, approves historic amendment to Essential Commodities Act; regulatory environment liberalized for #farmers through this. Landmark decisions to benefit farmers and transform the agriculture sector: Union Minister Prakash Javadekar https://t.co/eq3KfIwLN6“Cabinet, chaired by PM Narendra Modi, has approved historic amendment to Essential Commodities Act; regulatory environment liberalized for farmers through this. Landmark decisions to benefit farmers and transform the agriculture sector,” the minister stated. Javadekar’s comments came during a joint press briefing with Minister of Agriculture, Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday. Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar talked in detail about the amendments approved by Centre and discussed the many measures taken by the government in the past and during the Covid-19 to benefit farmers and to boost the agriculture sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landmark-decisions-to-benefit-farmers-taken-during-today-s-cabinet-meeting-chaired-by-pm-modi-javadekar/story-65SDXMWYFn7Ft8It7WsPON.html
03-06-2020||India||40 workers injured as boiler blast causes major fire in Gujarat’s chemical factory||At least 40 workers of a chemical factory were injured on Wednesday in a huge fire caused by a blast in the boiler at Dahej in Bharuch district of Gujarat, district collector said.“Around 35-40 workers sustained burn injuries after the boiler of an agro-chemical company exploded in afternoon.All the injured persons have been shifted to hospitals in Bharuch, and efforts are on to control the fire,” said Bharuch collector MD Modia.The fire has still engulfed the unit, the collector said.He said residents of Lakhi and Luvara villages located near the factory are being evacuated as a precautionary measure because of the presence of plants of poisonous chemicals near the affected factory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-workers-injured-as-boiler-blast-causes-major-fire-in-gujarat-s-chemical-factory/story-l5qwuE3dJqScIrsNq8SdnN.html
03-06-2020||India||Plea in SC alleges 187 persons in bonded labour in brick kilns of UP, Bihar||A three-judge Supreme Court bench, headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, on Wednesday issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh and Bihar governments and also asked the district magistrates (DMs) of Rohtas and Sambhal in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, respectively, to submit their reports regarding a public interest litigation (PIL) that had alleged 187 people were forced into bonded labourers in three brick kilns operating under their jurisdictions. The apex court ordered the DMs to file their reports on Monday, when the case would be heard next.Earlier on May 25, a plea was filed before the SC by a social worker Zahid Hussain, who had alleged that 187 people – all of them belong to the Scheduled Caste (SC) community -- were forced into bonded labour in three brick kilns in Bihar and UP and were made to work under inhuman conditions, including lack of food and non-payment of their statutory minimum wage.The local administrations allegedly didn’t take any action against the deplorable condition of the bonded labourers, despite an order issued by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on May 11, the plea stated.“The bonded labourers were left vulnerable. They were tortured by the brick kiln owners for complaining against their inhuman working conditions. The owners also threatened to throw them out of their jobs and refused to pay the statutory minimum wage,” the plea added.Advocate Srishti Agnihotri filed the plea on behalf of Hussain.Two of the brick kilns are located at Bharkol and Dhaudarh villages in Bihar’s Rohtas district, and another one is situated in western UP’s Sambhal district.Senior counsel Anitha Shenoy appeared for the petitioner, Hussain, and prayed for the release and rehabilitation of the 187 victims and also sought specific guidelines from the SC to repatriate them to their native places amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.He cited the viral outbreak has accentuated the bonded labourers’ woes.“From restrictions of their movements to lack of food supplies and healthcare, non-payment of wages and restricted access to law enforcement authorities, the bonded labourers are trapped in abusive conditions amid the pandemic. Besides, they have been pushed into working as bonded labourers to tide over their economic crisis,” the plea said.The petition said 41 bonded labourers, including 14 children, are trapped in the Bharkol brick-kiln, while in Dhaudarh there are 84 victims, including 27 children. Similarly, the Sambhal brick-kiln has 62 victims.Hussain contended that the bonded labourers have been held hostage at the brick kilns, denied their minimum statutory wage, physically and verbally abused, and even the women and children are made to work for over 12 hours at a stretch.“One of the labourers (at the Dhaudarh brick kiln) was assaulted on his head that left him bleeding profusely after he had asked for the payment of his wage. Three victims, who are four, five and nine months pregnant, respectively, have been denied any medical assistance,” the petitioner alleged.The plea stated the Sambhal district administration conducted a cursory inquiry of 17 families of the bonded labourers at the behest of the NHRC order.But, the district authorities ordered the labourers to stay put at the brick kiln and left them at the mercy of the owner, the plea alleged.The petitioner blamed the Sambhal district administration of gross dereliction of their duties.He made similar complaints against the Rohtas district authorities for their alleged failure to bring the guilty to book and set free the bonded labourers. Hussain cited the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976, and the standard operating procedures (SOP) on rescue, release by the Union Ministry of Labour and Employment (MoLE) that stipulate a 24-hour deadline for the rescue of bonded labourers after a complaint is lodged.However, he alleged that the norms have been overlooked and the authorities concerned are yet to take any action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-alleges-187-persons-in-bonded-labour-in-brick-kilns-of-up-bihar/story-6pUGQJATrygBWqjE69TlBI.html
03-06-2020||India||Over 1 lakh national IDs of Indians put on Dark Web for sale: Report||Over 1 lakh scanned copies of Indians’ national IDs, including Aadhaar, PAN card and passport, have been put on dark web for sale, cyber intelligence firm Cyble said on Wednesday.The leaked data seems to have originated from a third party and not from the government system, according to a report by Cyble. “We came across a non-reputed actor who is currently selling over 1 lakh Indian National IDs on the dark net. With such a low reputation, ideally, we would have skipped this; however, the samples shared by the actor intrigued our interest -- and also the volume. The actor is alleged to have access to over 1 lakh IDs from different places in India,” Cyble said. The personal data leaked by cyber criminals leads to various nefarious activities such as identity thefts, scams, and corporate espionage. Many criminals use the personal details in the IDs to win trust of the people over a phone call for fraudulent activities. The Cyble researchers acquired around 1,000 IDs from the seller and confirmed that the scanned IDs belong to Indians. “Preliminary analysis suggests that the data originated from a third party, and no indication or artefact is indicating that it came from a government system. At this point, Cyble researchers are still investigating this further -- we are hoping to share an update soon,” Cyble said. The scanned ID documents indicate that the data may have been leaked from a company’s data base in the segment where they have to comply with ‘Know Your Customer’ (KYC) norms. “Cyble researchers have also learned about a surge in KYC and banking scams -- leaks such as this are often used by scammers to target individuals, especially elderlies,” Cyble said. The cyber intelligence firm has recommended people to refrain from sharing personal information especially financial information over phone, e-mail or SMS. “Regularly monitor your financial transaction, if you notice any suspicious transaction, contact your bank immediately,” the company said. In May, Cyble showed two instances where personal data of 7.65 crore Indians have been put on sale in the dark web. In one instance, the seller claimed to have sourced data of 4.75 crore Indians from online directory Truecaller and in other, the seller claimed to have sourced from job websites. Truecaller, however, had denied the claim of breach in its database.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-lakh-national-ids-of-indians-put-on-dark-web-for-sale-report/story-tRQeExGVzO0lVYTpSwL0BP.html
03-06-2020||India||Ex-AAP councilor Tahir Hussain led the mob that killed Ankit Sharma says Delhi police charge sheet||Delhi police crime branch on Wednesday filed charge sheets in connection with the communal riots in north east Delhi earlier this year stating that former Aam Aadmi Party councilor Tahir Hussain had led the mob that killed IB staffer Ankit Sharma on February 25, said officials privy to the developments.The charge sheet alleges a “deep rooted conspiracy” behind Sharma’s murder in which 10 people have been arrested so far.Ankit Sharma, an intelligence bureau staffer, was killed by a mob during riots that broke out in north east Delhi on February 25 this year, when groups supporting and opposing the Citizens Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens clashed with each other for close to three days leading to at least 53 deaths.The charge sheet says Sharma was stabbed 51 times and his body thrown in a drain, an act captured in a video filmed by a person from the rooftop of a house in the locality. Sharma’s body was fished out two days later from the drain on February 27.Also Read: In Crime Branch charge-sheet in Delhi riots case, a reference to Tablighi Jamaat“He was specifically targeted by a mob led by Tahir Hussain, a politician of Aam Aadmi Party and sitting councilor of EDMC Delhi,” the charge sheet seen by HT says.After Tahir Hussain’s name first surfaced for involvement in the riots, he was suspended and later expelled by AAP. Tahir, however, has in the past professed his innocence and claimed that he was not in the area when the incident happened.The police charge sheet says that Ankit Sharma was murdered outside Hussain’s house in Khajuri Khas area.The charge sheet adds that the bloodstained knife used to stab Ankit Sharma was found along with the bloodstained clothes of the killer. The blood found on the clothes was that of Ankit Sharma. It adds that another knife used in the crime was also recovered.The police also claim to have seized Tahir Hussain’s pistol but that is in relation to another matter. The police had earlier claimed to have also recovered locally made explosive materials from Hussain’s house but that doesn’t find any mention in the charge sheet.Some of the other people arrested in the case are Salman, Firoz, Javed, Gulfam, Shoyaib and Anas.Home minister Amit Shah had told Parliament in March that a breakthrough in Sharma’s murder was made possible by video evidence shared by the residents in the area, one of which captured one of the accused assaulting Sharma with a knife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-aap-councilor-tahir-hussain-led-the-mob-that-killed-ankit-sharma-says-delhi-police-charge-sheet/story-plFr0Dq9hbwPvrU2hYoDLP.html
03-06-2020||India||China says no ‘third party’ needed after PM Modi, Trump discuss Ladakh standoff||China on Wednesday said there was no need for a “third party” to intervene in the ongoing Sino-India border friction after it emerged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi discussed the situation along the LAC in Ladakh with US President Donald Trump during a phone conversation on Tuesday.Modi and Trump had a “warm and productive” conversation on a range of topics including India’s military standoff with China in Ladakh, New Delhi being invited to the upcoming G7 summit, the ongoing civil unrest in the US and WHO reforms.The phone conversation between Modi and Trump and China’s statement come came in the backdrop of the ongoing standoff between border troops in eastern Ladakh.When asked to comment on the specific mention of the India-China border problem, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said both countries had mechanisms to resolve such problems.“Now the situation (at the border) over there is overall stable and controllable . China and India have a full-fledged border related mechanism and communication channel. We have capability to resolve this issue through dialogue and negotiations. There is no need for intervention of third party,” Zhao said at the regular ministry briefing on Wednesday.Zhao reiterated China’s position on the long-standing border problem with India.“China’s position on the border issue is consistent and clear. We have earnestly implemented the important consensus reached between the leaders of the two countries and have strictly abided by the relevant treaty between China and India…” he said.Also read: India is sensitive to China but won’t allow change in any border sectorChina, Zhao added, was “…committed to upholding national territorial security and sovereignty and also to upholding peace and stability in the border region”.China on Friday had similarly rejected Trump’s offer to mediate in the current Sino-India border standoff.Also read: Dialogue on with China over LAC, no compromise on dignity, says Rajnath SinghTrump had tweeted last week that he was willing to mediate between New Delhi and Beijing to resolve the standoff.India too had passed the offer with external affairs ministry spokesperson, Anurag Srivastava saying “…we are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve this issue”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-no-third-party-needed-after-pm-modi-trump-discuss-ladakh-standoff/story-J7GtSXlCgQgzOazEod5tPN.html
03-06-2020||India||Watch: Monster waves, blown-away rooftops as super cyclone Nisarga makes landfall near Mumbai||The fury of Cyclone Nisarga lashing Maharashtra’s coast was witnessed by many as the super cyclonic storm made landfall on Wednesday. Maharashtra’s coastal area of Ratnagiri witnessed strong winds with the ocean waves heaving due to high tide. Tin roof atop a building in Raigad was blown away while many areas witnessed falling of tress due to strong winds induced by the cyclone. Cyclone Nisarga started making landfall at 11.30 am on Wednesday south of Alibag in Maharastra’s Raigad district with strong winds of 120 to 140kmph, higher than expected. Nisarga is the second severe cyclone to hit Mumbai since 1961.Also read: Cyclone Nisarga forces Mumbai airport to stop operations till 7 pmAccording to the India Meteorological Department, the landfall process of super cyclone Nisarga would be completed in about three hours.  Also read: Flights diverted, traffic stopped as Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall#WATCH Tin roof atop a building in #Raigad blown away due to strong winds as #CycloneNisarga lands along #Maharashtra coast (Source: NDRF) pic.twitter.com/INlim5VG1cThe National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on the ground witnessed Nisarga make landfall between Murud and Revdanda areas in Raigad district, just south of Alibag in Maharashtra. Also Watch | Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall in Maharashtra; strong wind, rainfall witnessedAccording to the weather department, the severe cyclone will cross Maharashtra coast, close to Alibag, around 4 pm today. A red alert has been sounded for at least seven coastal districts of Maharashtra. Several districts along Gujarat’s coast are also expecting heavy rainfall. #WATCH Maharashtra: Strong winds and high tides hit Ratnagiri area. #CycloneNisarga pic.twitter.com/Cg85bxwMdLSN Pradhan, Director General, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said that nearly 1 lakh people have been evacuated from Maharashtra and Gujarat while over 40 teams have been deployed in both states.   After completing landfall, super cyclone Nisarga is expected to turn into a cyclonic storm later today before weakening into a deep depression tomorrow and further waning into a depression later in the day tomorrow, the IMD bulletin on cyclone stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-watch-bellowing-waves-blown-away-rooftops-as-super-cyclone-nisarga-makes-landfall-near-mumbai/story-eHsPuSY2XEbsMR5KZVWHSI.html
03-06-2020||India||NDRF deploys 43 teams as Cyclone Nisarga hits Maharashtra’s Raigad||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Wednesday deployed 43 teams in Maharashtra and Gujarat and also evacuated nearly 1 lakh people living close to the coastline as Cyclone Nisarga began landfall in Maharashtra’s Raigad district this afternoon.The entire process of landfall of the severe cyclonic storm will take at least three hours.“A total of 43 National Disaster Response Force teams have been deployed in the two states. Of the teams, 21 are on standby in Maharashtra and the rest in the neighbouring state. Nearly 1 lakh people have been evacuated from the areas in the path of the cyclone,” NDRF Director General SN Pradhan said.ALSO READ | Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall: Flights diverted, traffic stopped amid heavy rains in MaharashtraSeven coastal districts of Maharashtra have been put on red alert by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and heavy to very heavy rainfall is predicted for both Maharashtra and Gujarat.  Also Watch | Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall in Maharashtra; strong wind, rainfall witnessedNDRF teams deployed in Maharashtra are spread out in Mumbai, Palghar, in Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, NDRF officials said.In Maharashtra, schools have been converted into temporary cyclone shelters and several families living close to the coast have been evacuated and shifted to these cyclone shelters by the NDRF. Over the last 24 hours, 790 people were evacuated from various villages along coastal zones of Alibag and shifted to two schools converted into cyclone shelters.“We cannot comment about the exact number of evacuations but around 3,000 people have been evacuated in Daman and a few operations are still going on,” Deputy Commandant, NDRF, AK Pathak said earlier today.The Indian Coast Guard has also mobilised 8 Disaster Relief Teams for Maharashtra to respond to any requirement of Humanitarian Assistance & Disaster Relief arising due to Cyclone Nisarga. The teams have been placed at Dahanu, Mumbai, Murud Janjira and Ratnagiri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-deploys-43-teams-as-cyclone-nisarga-makes-landfall-in-maharashtra-s-raigad/story-9bJxAbiaz3uNkbsWvCoPMJ.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga forces Mumbai airport to stop operations till 7 pm||No aircraft will land or take off at the Mumbai airport between 2.30 pm and 7 pm on Wednesday due to Cyclone Nisarga, the Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) said.Twenty flights were scheduled to operate from the Mumbai through the day including 12 departures and 8 arrivals.“In consultation with AAI, considering the strong crosswinds, it has been decided that no arrivals and departures will take place between 14:30-19:00 hrs,” the MIAL spokesperson said..On Tuesday, IndiGo announced that it was cancelling 17 flights from the city and that only three would take off for Chandigarh, Ranchi and Patna.Rain and high sped wind continued to lash Mumbai as Cyclone Nisarga made landfall close to Alibaug, about 90 km to the city’s south around noon. The cyclone with a wind speed of 120 to 140 kmph, .also forced authorities to close the Bandra-Worli sea link.The Maharashtra government has evacuated around 60,000 people from the state’s coastal region of Konkan, and brought 7,003 fishing boats back to the shore with the help of disaster management authorities. Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut has warned that the cyclone is likely to cause severe damage to power lines and poles. “Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company’s officers, employees, contractors, and systems are prepared. Let’s all be vigilant and overcome this crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-forces-mumbai-airport-to-stop-operations-till-7-pm/story-qBkaUoBC2XzXl3KTZV3DQK.html
03-06-2020||India||Indore reports 27 new Covid-19 cases, state tally at 3,597||With 27 persons testing positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the case count in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore district rose to 3,597 on Wednesday, a health official said.Indore is one of the worst-affected districts in the country amid the coronavirus pandemic. At least 27 persons from the district had tested positive for the deadly infection in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 3,597 in the region, the official said.Moreover, three persons have reportedly died of the infection at different hospitals in the district, which has reported 141 deaths so far, he said.According to the data, a 72-year-old Covid-19 patient, who had died at a private hospital in the city on May 14, was among the latest casualties, the official said.A total of 2,132 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far, he added. The Indore district administration has drawn flak for delaying the reports of deaths in the region.The Congress and NGOs have alleged that the health department was sharing data about deaths “at its convenience”, raising doubts about the authenticity of the information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-reports-27-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-at-3-597/story-VbjeAUYySCHCBZooWFL5IK.html
03-06-2020||India||In Crime Branch charge sheet in Delhi riots case, a reference to Tablighi Jamaat||Faisal Farooque, a key conspirator in the Delhi riots case, was in close contact with Abdul Aleem, described as a close associate of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Mohd Saad when the February riots were taking place, the Delhi Police has said in its charge sheet filed in a Delhi court.According to people familiar with the development, the police had carried out a detailed call analysis of Faisal Farooque’s phone as part of its investigation into his role in the riots. The analysis pointed out that Faisal Farooque was in touch with prominent members of Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod group, Jamia Coordination committee and the Hazarat Nizamuddin Markaz.Faisal Farooque, who owns Rajdhani School in Dayalpur, was among the 18 people arrested by the crime branch for riots around his school. One of the initial targets of the rioters was the DRP Convent School next to the school run by Farooque.During investigation, it has been found that Faisal Farooque had hatched a conspiracy to precipitate and aggravate riots, in and around Rajdhani School. On his instructions, the adjacent and rival DRP Convent School was destroyed by the mob, according to the charge sheet accessed by Hindustan Times. This charge, the police said, had been substantiated on the basis of the security guards of the Rajdhani School as well as Farooque’s Rajdhani School.The reference to Farooque’s phone conversations with Tablighi Jamaat’s Abdul Aleem, 53, could mean more trouble for the Markaz, the headquarters of the Islamic sect in central Delhi’s Nizamuddin.The Markaz has been in the spotlight after thousands of coronavirus cases in the early days of the coronavirus pandemic in the country were traced to congregations held at its headquarters in March this year. The sect’s leadership is already being probed for violating norms under the epidemic diseases law while its volunteers from abroad have been booked for violating visa norms and the Foreigners Act.Maulana Saad also faces investigations over charges of money laundering being probed by the Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-crime-branch-charge-sheet-in-delhi-riots-case-a-reference-to-tablighi-jamaat/story-PyAzLCOOE0RrfWEbzFnReL.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall: Flights diverted, traffic stopped amid heavy rains in Maharashtra||Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Wednesday as heavy rains battered Mumbai and several cities across western parts of the state.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for at least seven coastal districts of Maharashtra and several districts along Gujarat’s coast are also expecting heavy rainfall.Mumbai, which is already burdened with thousands of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and is on the path of the cyclone, saw heavy showers and is likely to receive very heavy rainfall upwards of 164mm.  Also Watch | Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall in Maharashtra; strong wind, rainfall witnessedHere are the latest developments:* Nearly 800 people have been evacuated from various villages along the coastal zones of Alibag over the last 24 hours and shifted to two schools converted into cyclone shelters. Alibag, about 95km from Mumbai, is in the path of Cyclone Nisarga and was expected to be the landfall area.* Traffic on iconic Bandra-Worli sea link in Mumbai was suspended on Wednesday in light of Cyclone Nisarga, which began landfall in Raigad.* More than 500 emergency response team members from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are on standby in the Maharashtra capital.* The civic body has appealed to citizens to not step out of their houses unnecessarily and prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) has been clamped. * It has also asked citizens to keep their mobile phones and power banks charged to ensure connectivity and to keep candles handy. * BMC also said in an advisory that people should carry a hammer or objects that can help break the glass in case car doors get jammed if they have to drive out.* The Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company (Mahatransco) has created a contingency plan for all stakeholders for Wednesday and Thursday to prevent power outage in the state.* The BrihanMumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking, which supplies power to Mumbai’s island city, said it will keep its engineers on standby so that immediate action can be taken in case of a power failure, especially at Covid-19 hospitals or care centres. * Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML), a major power supplier in the city and its suburbs, said all necessary precautions have been taken.* Ninety-four lifeguards are on standby at several beaches in the city including Girgaon Chowpatty, Juhu, Versova, Aksa and Gorai, BMC officials said.* Three NDRF teams of 45 members each were already stationed in Mumbai until Tuesday. An additional five teams of 45 members each were airlifted from Andhra Pradesh late on Tuesday night. The NDRF team is on standby with equipment such as rescue boats, tree and pole cutters, life jackets, ropes, breathing masks, floaters, etc.* Animals of the Byculla Zoo, including tiger, leopard, hyena, various reptiles and others, were shifted into their holding areas at the zoo to avoid any harm from the tree falls.* In the next three days, there will be three high tides of over four metres at least thrice. The first high tide of 4.26 metres was on Wednesday at 10.06 am. This will be followed by a 4.56-metre high tide at 10.57 am on Thursday, and a third one is expected at 11.45 am on Friday of 4.75 metres.* Flight operations were disrupted at the Pune International Airport and the Airport Authority of India (AAI) officials said two flights were diverted and another was cancelled due to the inclement weather condition.* Heavy rains accompanied with gusty winds lashed several districts in western Maharashtra as Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in the state’s Raigad district. They have been witnessing heavy rainfall since Tuesday night.* In Pune district, widespread rains lashed cities and talukas on western parts such as Pune, Maval, Mulshi and Velhe. Other areas like Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli also witnessed rains.* Anupam Kashypi, IMD Pune’s director, said most parts of western Maharashtra will witness rain for the next three days.* Naval Kishore Ram, the district collector, said they have issues alert to hilly areas such as Ambegaon, Junnar, Maval, Bhor, Velhe and Mulshi talukas. “We have also prepared evacuation plans if required in these areas. People have been asked not to go out of homes,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-makes-landfall-flights-diverted-traffic-stopped-amid-heavy-rains-in-maharashtra/story-MArQRT3gOvrMFkfsnZ9CJK.html
03-06-2020||India||IB staffer Ankit Sharma, killed in Delhi riots, was stabbed 51 times: Police chargesheet||Intelligence Bureau staffer Ankit Sharma, who was found dead during the riots in North-East Delhi in February this year, was stabbed 51 times, the Delhi Police’s Crime Branch said in its chargesheet filed on Wednesday.The police chargesheet said that during post-mortem, the doctors found 51 sharp and blunt injuries on Sharma’s body.Ten people, including suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain, were arrested in this case.Investigation has revealed that there was a deep rooted conspiracy behind the riot and murder of Ankit Sharma, who was a familiar face in the area. He was specifically targeted by a mob led by Hussain, it further said in the chargesheet filed today.The police have also found the blood stained knife used to stab Sharma and the blood stained clothes of the killer. Hussain’s licensed pistol was also seized but in a separate case. The police had filed two chargesheets on Tuesday in connection with two separate cases registered during the communal rioting. In one of the chargesheets, the police named Hussain, alleging he played a “pivotal role” during the riots.The police said Hussain met former JNU student Umar Khalid, who, the department claimed, was part of a larger group organising the riots and protests in the city.Hussain has been charged under sections dealing with rioting, criminal conspiracy, dacoity, promoting religious enmity and under the Arms Act.At least 53 people were killed and around 400 injured in the violence that started as clashes between protesters for and against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA in February.Sharma’s body was found in a drain near his home in North-East Delhi’s Chand Bagh area on February 26, a day after he had gone missing after Delhi riots broke out. It had “multiple abrasion... deep cuts... by sharp edge objects” according to news agencies who quoted the doctors who conducted the autopsy.The IB staffer’s murder was one of the most highlighted cases of Delhi riots. Sharma had joined the IB as security assistant in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ib-staffer-ankit-sharma-killed-in-delhi-riots-was-stabbed-51-times-police-chargesheet/story-eLcOABeHFIjNJNCV14gOlO.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga: Nearly 1,00,000 evacuated, rains from Mumbai to Hubli||Cyclone Nisarga began the landfall process around noon on Wednesday near the coastal town of Alibag, around 100 kilometres south of Mumbai, and it will continue for three hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.The right side of the cyclone’s wall cloud passed through coastal Maharashtra, mainly covering the Raigad district.The north-east sector of the eye of the cyclone is currently entering the land. The severe cyclone will cross Maharashtra coast, close to Alibag, around 4 pm.Watch: Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall in Maharashtra; strong wind, rainfall witnessed Here are the latest developments on Cyclone Nisarga:1. The cyclone is currently whirling with a wind speed of 100-110 kmph, gusting to 120 kilometres per hour 40 km away from Alibagh, 95 km from Mumbai and 325 km from Surat.2. Trees swayed wildly, as the rain pounded the coastal towns and several villages in Maharashtra. In Mumbai, high winds whipped skyscrapers and ripped apart shanty houses near the beach.3. The weather bureau has sounded red alert for at least seven coastal districts of Maharashtra, while several districts along Gujarat’s coast are also expecting heavy rainfall.4. Goa, south of Maharashtra, has already received 127 millimetres (5 inches) of torrential rain - about a week’s average, the IMD said.5. The Maharashtra government on Wednesday said that it has evacuated around 60,000 people from the state’s coastal region of Konkan, and brought 7,003 fishing boats back to the shore with the help of disaster management authorities. The chief of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said that nearly 1 lakh people have been evacuated from the two states.6. He added that all emergency services have been put on alert, including non-Covid hospitals that have been told to prepare for a possible influx of emergency care patients.7. High tides hit Dwarka coast in Gujarat. The state authorities had earlier said that 18 districts wil be affectedd by the cyclone. There were rain in Chhattisgarh as Nisarga made landfall. A NASA image of the cyclone had shown almost the entire central peninsula under clouds.8. Rain also lashed Ratnagiri in Maharashtra and Hubli in Karnataka.9. About 43 NDRF teams are deployed in the two states, of which 21 are in Maharashtra. Five teams of the Indian Navy have also been stationed at various places in Mumbai.10. Nisarga comes on the heels of Cyclone Amphan, which killed more than 100 people as it ravaged West Bengal, Odisha and Bangladesh last month. Nisarga is the 65th named cyclone in the north Indian Ocean and its name, proposed by Bangladesh, means ‘nature’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-latest-updates-more-than-1-00-000-evacuated-rains-from-mumbai-to-hubli/story-anNJDOjgx32Djmepah0EJI.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga: NDRF undertakes sessions at relief centres||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) which has deployed 20 teams across Maharashtra took sessions on how to protect lives and what to do during a cyclone. The sessions were conducted at the relief centres where villagers living near the coast have been brought in. The Maharashtra administration has evacuated over 100,000 people from the coastline since Tuesday in preparation for the cyclone which made landfall at 11.30 am just south of Alibag in Raigad district. Heavy rains have been lashing the coastline since morning, particularly at Murud and Revdanda, where the NDRF camps witnessed the landfall.  Eight teams of the NDRF are stationed in Mumbai, four in Raigad, two each in Palghar, Thane and Ratnagiri districts, while one team is on standby in Navi Mumbai. State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams have been deployed in these districts too.Also read: Cyclone Nisarga landfall begins, will take 3 hours to completeA senior officer said that villagers have been instructed on basic Dos and Don’ts that are to be followed during the cyclone. Citizens have been asked not to venture near old buildings, temporary sheds or poles as well as power lines. “Wherever possible, we are undertaking sessions on how people need to take care of themselves before the cyclone hits. We are also adhering to social distancing norms,” he said. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the state machinery has been geared up for the Cyclone Nisarga. “Adequate force of NDRF, police, lifeguards, fire brigade have been deployed. Keeping the intensity of the cyclone in mind, citizens in the coastal parts of the state are requested to stay home,” Pawar said. The name, ‘Nisarga’ proposed by Bangladesh, means ‘nature’. It comes soon after cyclone Amphan that devastated the lives of over a million people and left 86 dead when it made landfall on May 20 at the Sunderbans, in West Bengal.The last severe cyclonic storm to hit close to Mumbai was in 1961. But climate scientists warned that devastation can be extensive as today’s Mumbai is very different from the Bombay of 1960s and has lost most of its floodplains and rivulets and is now counted as among the densest cities in the world. When heavy rains lash over a city like Mumbai, which has lost its flood plains and defences, the flooding gets prolonged, scientists saidA senior officer said that villagers have been instructed on basic Dos and Don’ts that are to be followed during the cyclone. Citizens have been asked to not venture near old buildings, temporary sheds or poles as well as power lines. “Wherever possible, we are undertaking sessions on how people need to take care of themselves before the cyclone hits. We are also adhering to social distancing norms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-ndrf-undertakes-sessions-at-relief-centres/story-MiytYa3OE03aUOpwACkhPO.html
03-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt launches ‘Spandan Campaign’ to check suicide and fratricide||The Chhattisgarh government launched the Spandan Campaign on Wednesday to contain incidents of suicide and fratricide involving police personnel, and instructions were issued to senior officers to strictly adhere to guidelines in this regard.Chhattisgarh’s director general of police DM Awasthi issued an order to all superintendents of police and commandants of armed police forces, saying they should strictly follow instructions to curb suicides and incidents of fratricide.All superintendents of police will start a parade at police lines in their districts every Friday, keeping in mind social distancing, and grievances of personnel will be redressed after the event. The order made it mandatory for superintendents of police to facilitate counselling and medical treatment for depressed officers and staff by psychiatrists or psychologists in their district headquarters.Arrangements should be made for yoga classes for police personnel in all district headquarters. A roster should be prepared for this and the cooperation of local yoga teachers should be sought, the order stated.A total of 50 police personnel, including personnel of paramilitary forces, committed suicide in Chhattisgarh over the past two years. Eighteen of these cases were reported from seven districts of Maoist-affected Bastar division.Figures released by the Chhattisgarh government in February showed 22 police personnel committed suicide in 2018, while the toll was 26 in 2019. Two personnel have committed suicide till February this year.In December 2019, six ITBP personnel were killed in an incident of fratricide at a camp in Narayanpur, while two Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF) personnel were killed in a similar incident in their camp in Mingahcal village of Bijapur district last June.To curb such incidents, Awasthi said: “All police officers will visit police lines, police stations and armed forces companies and spend time with jawans to be aware of their problems. All commandants will rest at night with each company once a month. Similarly, superintendents of police have been directed to visit all police stations and police lines and listen to the problems of personnel.”For armed police forces, Awasthi instructed officers to redress grievances of personnel at regular intervals and to make arrangements for recreational activities.“Apart from this, arrangements for psychologists, music therapy, yoga education, sports, library etc will be made in the camps adjacent to all the inaccessible areas with immediate effect,” Awasthi said in the order.The order further stated an analysis of incidents of suicide and fratricide in the armed police forces and police stations in Maoist-affected areas had established that most incidents were caused by depression due to “loneliness and emptiness”.Therefore, all police stations and camps in Maoist-affected areas will have to arrange mandatory yoga sessions in the morning, and separate sessions on weapons handling and outdoor sports in the evening so that the personnel can join these activities every day, the order said.Joint meals at which senior and gazetted officers interact with the personnel should be organised once every three months in Maoist-affected and sensitive police stations, the order said.“A special mobile phone application is being prepared for monitoring problems of police personnel at the headquarters, which will be launched in the next 15 days. Through this app, policemen and their families will be able to communicate their problems to officials and these will be monitored by senior officials,” Awasthi said.An Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “Most suicides are caused by depression, difficulty in getting leave sanctioned and homesickness. Chhattisgarh Police records broadly categorise 50% of suicides as having been caused by personal and, or, family reasons, 11% on account of illness, 8% by work-related reasons, and 13% for other reasons. The remaining 18% continue to be under investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-launches-spandan-campaign-to-check-suicide-and-fratricide/story-kER1z478TQp1j3va7WGHEJ.html
03-06-2020||India||India already called Bharat in the Constitution: SC’s no to changing country’s name||Hearing a petition seeking direction to the Centre to amend the Constitution and change the name of the country from India to Bharat, Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde told the petitioner on Wednesday that India is already called Bharat in the Constitution.While declining to entertain the plea, the top court said the petition could be considered as a representation to the government.A bench headed by the CJI and comprising Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy asked the petitioner’s counsel, “Why have you come here? India is already called Bharat in the Constitution.” Advocate Ashwin Vaish, appearing for the Delhi-based petitioner, argued that the plea sought amendment to Article 1 of the Constitution.To which, the CJI replied, “We can’t do that.” He reiterated that India is already called Bharat in the Constitution. Vaish argued that the English name India did not represent the culture and tradition of the country; instead, its origin is Greek, and it is derived from the word ‘Indica’. Vaish said that historically there are many examples where ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ was used, and urged the top court to allow him to make a representation before the appropriate ministries. The top court said that this particular petition be treated as a representation by the Centre.The plea claimed that this will ensure citizens of the country to get over the colonial past and instil a sense of pride in the nationality. The petitioner argued that the time is ripe to recognise the country by its original and authentic name ‘Bharat’, especially when the cities have been renamed in accordance with Indian ethos. The plea said, “The removal of the English name though appears symbolic, will instil a sense of pride in our nationality, especially for the future generations. In fact, the word India being replaced with Bharat would justify the hard fought freedom achieved by our ancestors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-already-called-bharat-in-the-constitution-sc-s-no-to-changing-country-s-name/story-32QjLXz5NmKPNqMdm59rIP.html
03-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases will cross 15,000-mark a day by mid-June, predicts China; explains why||India is likely to witness a steady rise in Covid-19 cases in June with the daily increase crossing 15,000-a-day by the middle of the month, a global forecast model for the coronavirus pandemic prepared by Chinese researchers has predicted.Established by Lanzhou university in northwest China’s Gansu province, the “Global Covid-19 Predict System” makes daily forecasts for 180 countries.The research group’s forecast model for India for June 2 had predicted 9,291 new confirmed cases in India; Indian government official data put the increase – the biggest yet for a single day – at 8,909 cases in the last 24 hours. Also Watch | Covid-19: India crosses 2 lakh case mark, multiple layer masks better than singleFrom Wednesday onwards, the model predicts 9676, 10,078, 10,498 and 10,936 daily new cases for the next four days.Also read: Chinese and European variants of Sars-Cov-2 most prevalent in IndiaAnother example: India on Friday reported 7,467 new cases of the coronavirus disease for May 28 (Thursday).“For May 28, we had predicted 7,607 new cases of Covid-19 in India, which is close to the reported number. Our prediction is at an initial stage. Error analysis will soon be updated on our website,” Huang Jianping, director of Lanzhou University’s Collaborative Innovation Center of Western Ecological Safety, who is heading the project told HT.By June 15, India could see more than 15,000 new confirmed cases of Covid-19 every day.India has recorded more than 8,000 cases for three consecutive days with the total number of infections now at over 2,00,000.The same system predicts that the US will see a daily increase of 30,000 new cases in June and major countries in Europe will witness a continuous drop in new daily cases.The dynamic forecasting model, which was unveiled online last week, takes into account the impact of climate and environmental conditions, population densities as well as control measures implemented by governments.“The spread of the virus is affected by many factors, including population density, quarantine measures, and of course the environmental factors,” Huang said.Also read: Another single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 8,909 new infections; India’s tally at 2.07 lakh“Different factors contribute differently in different regions in the world.Meteorological factors can affect the spread of the virus. We believe it is necessary to consider the impact of temperature and humidity, although the degree of their influence varies in different regions,” Huang, the project leader, said.“For India, the high population density reduces the social distance and is conducive to the development of pandemic. The influence of temperature is limited, compared with other factors,” he said.Experts say that the number of new cases in India will rise as the government gradually eases the lockdown.“Before the release of the system, repeated verification and debugging were carried out. There are many factors affecting the development of the Covid-19, and we will continue to adjust and improve it according to the actual situation,” Huang said.The Centre’s prediction model is based on statistical epidemiology model and in the data in the model construction such as the number of confirmed cases and the death toll are from US’s Johns Hopkins University. Meteorological data such as temperature and humidity were taken from the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) and NASA. According to the research, usually the temperature most conducive for the spread of the novel coronavirus is between 5 degrees Celsius and 15 degrees Celsius, with 60 percent of the Covid-19 cases around the world reported within the temperature scope.“Our previous study found that 60 percent of the confirmed cases of Covid-19 occurred in places where the air temperature ranged from 5 °C to 15 °C, with a peak in cases at 11.54 °C and approximately 73.8 percent of the confirmed cases were concentrated in regions with absolute humidity of 3 g/m3 to 10 g/m3.”The content of nitrogen dioxide in the atmosphere is taken into account as it is related to vehicular exhaust.According to Huang, if the nitrogen dioxide content is less in the atmosphere, it means non-pharmaceutical measures like lockdowns and restrictions on transport have been effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-coronavirus-cases-will-cross-15-000-mark-a-day-by-mid-june-predicts-china-explains-why/story-RTODTcLlsG3QLUQVVMvQnI.html
03-06-2020||India||Doctor who attended event with Assam minister tests positive for Covid-19||A doctor who was present at an event attended by Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has tested positive for Covid-19, prompting the opposition Congress to ask for the minister be placed in quarantine and his swab samples tested.Test results for the doctor, whose samples were collected on May 29 as part of a routine process, came in positive on Tuesday. Following this, the hospital where he worked, his home and his private clinic were declared containment zones and all those who were in contact with him were placed in quarantine.Sarma had on Monday visited Singimari Model Hospital in Kamrup district, which has been turned into a Covid-19 facility, to assess arrangements there. The doctor, who visits the hospital as part of his duties, was present during Sarma’s visit and was seen in close proximity to the minister.“We have placed Sualkuchi first referral unit (FRU) hospital, his home and private clinic under containment. Since Singimari Hospital is a Covid-19 facility, all required protocols are already maintained there,” Kamrup’s deputy commissioner Kailash Karthik N said.“Some doctors at Singimari Hospital, who used to treat Covid-19 patients, have been placed in quarantine. We have traced 121 close contacts of the doctor and sent their swab samples for tests. The doctor’s family members have also been put in home quarantine,” he said.A total of 79 Covid-19 patients are being treated at Singimari Hospital. Since the doctor also used to treat patients at his private clinic, efforts are on to trace those who visited the clinic or came in close contact with him.Debabrata Saikia, a Congress legislator and leader of opposition in the Assam assembly, said: “We have seen in news videos how guidelines for social distancing were flouted and the doctor, who tested positive, was standing very close to the minister during the visit [to Singimari Hospital].“I want to know from the health department if they would place Sarma and all those close to him under quarantine and test their swab samples as a precautionary measure.”Sarma, who has been travelling to all corners of Assam for the past three months and frequently interacting with doctors, people who have returned from other states and recovered Covid-19 patients, dismissed questions about his health.“I visit hospitals daily, interact with doctors and also Covid-19 positive patients. There’s no worry as long as you wear masks and follow other safety measures,” the minister told journalists on Tuesday while visiting another Covid-19 hospital in Dhubri district.Assam has recorded 1,622 Covid-19 cases till Wednesday morning. While 338 people have recovered, two have died, 1,277 are still being treated and three have gone back to their home states before recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-who-attended-event-with-assam-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-UIFeW70nylfD00pkBXLbsO.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga snaps trees, electricity poles in Maharashtra’s Raigad||Several trees were uprooted, electricity lines brought down leaving thousands without power and houses flattened in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, close to Alibag, where Cyclone Nisarga made landfall on Wednesday.Officials said 85 large trees, some of which fell over houses, and 11 electric poles were ripped out as the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said its team will assess the damage once the intensity of the wind decreases.A 53-year-old man in Alibag died on Wednesday after an electric pole fell on him. ALSO WATCH | Amid cyclone, plane skids off runway in MumbaiAt the NDRF camp between Alibag and Murud, high-speed winds with a maximum level of 110kmph were recorded after the cyclone moved over the region, said the forces’ inspector Mahesh Kumar.Kumar added that around 2pm, the wind speed came down to 85-90kmph, as per information from the state India Meteorological Department (IMD).With the upper part of the cyclone passing over Alibag and reaching Panvel, Mumbai is likely to experience wind speeds of 75kmph.Also read | Cyclone Nisarga forces Mumbai airport to stop operations till 7 pmSeven coastal districts of Maharashtra have been put on red alert by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and heavy to very heavy rainfall is predicted for both Maharashtra and Gujarat.Nisarga’s name was proposed by Bangladesh and means ‘nature’ in Bengali.It comes in the wake of Cyclone Amphan that devastated the lives of over a million people and left more than 90 dead when it made landfall on May 21 at the Sunderbans in West Bengal.LandfallCyclone Nisarga started making landfall at 11.30am south of Alibag in Maharastra’s Raigad district with strong winds of 120 to 140kmph, stronger than expected, making it the second severe cyclone to hit Mumbai since 1961. RK Jenamani, a senior scientist at the weather forecast department, said Cyclone Nisarga will gradually enter Mumbai and Thane districts. “Landfall is just beginning. It will take three hours to complete the process,” Jenamani said.The cyclone was about 500km in size when it was in the ocean and its wind speed ranged from 110 to 120 kmph.The teams of NDRF on the ground witnessed Nisarga make landfall between Murud and Revdanda areas in Raigad district. “The severe cyclone made landfall at speeds up to 100kmph. It will pass from the landward end over Alibag just brushing past the taluka at wind speed ranging from 85-90 kmph,” Mahesh Kumar, inspector in charge of Cyclone Nisarga operations, said.Kumar added that two teams from Alibag were sent to landfall sites—both located at respective police stations of Revdanda and Murud for disaster operations.The last severe cyclonic storm to hit close to Mumbai was in 1961. But climate scientists warned that the devastation can be extensive as today’s Mumbai is very different from the Bombay of the 1960s and has lost most of its floodplains and rivulets and is now counted as among the densest cities in the world. When heavy rains lash over a city like Mumbai which has lost its flood plains and defences, the flooding gets prolonged, scientists said.Flights disrupted, traffic stoppedRain and high-speed wind continued to lash Mumbai as Cyclone Nisarga made landfall close to Alibaug, about 90km to the city’s south. The Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) said Cyclone Nisarga forced to cancel flight operations at the Mumbai airport between 2.30pm and 7pm. Twenty flights, including 12 departures and eight arrivals, were scheduled from Mumbai through the day.“In consultation with AAI, considering the strong crosswinds, it has been decided that no arrivals and departures will take place between 14:30-19:00 hrs,” a MIAL spokesperson said.The cyclone with a wind speed of 120 to 140kmph also forced authorities to close the Bandra-Worli sea link.Also read | Cyclone Nisarga: Nearly 1,00,000 evacuated, rains from Mumbai to HubliThe Maharashtra government has evacuated around 60,000 people from the state’s coastal region of Konkan and brought 7,003 fishing boats back to the shore with the help of disaster management authorities.Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut has warned that the cyclone is likely to cause severe damage to power lines and poles.“Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company’s officers, employees, contractors, and systems are prepared. Let’s all be vigilant and overcome this crisis,” he said.The Indian Railways has not cancelled any passenger trains on Central or Western Railway yet but rescheduled five.A tree fell between the Kurla and Vidyavihar railway stations and the railways has taken a lock has been taken to clear the tracks used for the operation of local train services. NDRF has deployed 43 teams in Maharashtra and Gujarat and also evacuated nearly 1 lakh people living close to the coastline and said that 21 of them on standby in Maharashtra and the rest in the neighbouring state. Officials said NDRF teams deployed in Maharashtra have spread out in Mumbai, Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg.In Maharashtra, schools have been converted into temporary cyclone shelters and several families living close to the coast have been evacuated and shifted to these cyclone shelters by the NDRF. The Indian Coast Guard has also mobilised eight disaster relief teams for Maharashtra to respond to any requirement of assistance due to Cyclone Nisarga. The teams have been placed at Dahanu, Mumbai, Murud Janjira and Ratnagiri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-landfall-has-begun-will-take-3-hours-to-complete-imd/story-XOqPFkxIPaN2dXh0cRszJO.html
03-06-2020||India||As Nisarga makes landfall, experts explain why Arabian Sea is witnessing more cyclones||Severe cyclone Nisarga, which made the landfall on Wednesday afternoon near Alibag in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, indicates an increasing frequency of severe cyclones developing in Arabian Sea in the past decade.Studies have linked this trend to climate change.In the past two years, the Arabian Sea has witnessed seven cyclones. However, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the ratio of cyclones in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal - which just witnessed the destructive cyclone Amphan on May 21 - is still 1:4. Also Read: Nearly 1 lakh people evacuated from coastal areas of MaharashtraThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) last year came out with a special report, Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate, in which it said that extreme rainfall and extreme sea level events associated with some tropical cyclones are being seen to have a cascading impact on coastal areas.“There is emerging evidence for an increase in annual global proportion of category 4 or 5 tropical cyclones in recent decades,” the IPCC report had said.A category 4 cyclone has a wind speed of 209-251 kmph, and is referred to as an extremely severe cyclonic storm, while a category 5 cyclone has a wind speed of more than 252 kmph, and is referred to as a super cyclone. Cyclone Amphan, which hit Sundarbans on May 21, was categorised as a super cyclone, but made landfall as an extremely severe cyclonic storm.The IPCC report refers to a 2017 study led by Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences Programme, of the United States’ Princeton University, which found that in 2014 and 2015, post-monsoon extremely severe cyclonic storms (ESCS) were first observed over the Arabian Sea causing widespread damage to the West coast.The study had concluded that climate change had led to an increase in the occurrence of ESCSs in the Arabian Sea. Hiroyuki Murakami is the lead author of the study who is also among few scientists globally who specialise in cyclones in the Arabian Sea.“Rising mean sea levels will contribute to higher extreme sea levels associated with tropical cyclones (very high confidence). Coastal hazards will be exacerbated by an increase in the average intensity, magnitude of storm surge and precipitation rates of tropical cyclones,” the IPCC report further stated.“The IPCC reports indicate that pre- and post-monsoon storms may increase over Indian Ocean in the future in a warming world,” said Mathew Roxy Koll, climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology and one of its authors.“This year, both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal were about 1 degree warmer than normal (in early May) and hence the conditions were conducive to increasing the strength of the cyclones. A warmer ocean does not automatically mean there will be more cyclones but if the cyclones are born they will become stronger on account of a warmer sea. The number of cyclones in a given ocean depends on the existence of circulation patterns that are not related to climate change,” said J Srinivasan, Distinguished Scientist, Divecha Centre for Climate Change, Indian Institute of Science.“Since 1990, we are seeing an increasing trend of intense cyclonic storms over Arabian Sea. Some studies have attributed this increase to climate change but with low confidence,” Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general, IMD had said on Monday.“During Amphan, warmer oceans did allow the system to reach a super cyclone status but not in this case so far,” said Mohapatra. Warmer ocean temperatures are not the only parametre for rapid intensification of cyclones, he said. “We need to consider other parameters such as relative humidity in middle troposphere, and instability in the atmosphere allowing moist air to form aiding cloud formation through the help of convection. However, the frequency of cyclones has been abnormally high in Arabian Sea since last year and it is a fact that this zone is witnessing an increase in cyclones,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-nisarga-makes-landfall-experts-explain-why-arabian-sea-is-witnessing-more-cyclones/story-iV6TYHUzlCti5yljvfUpRL.html
03-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mamata seeks Rs 10,000 cash transfer from Centre to each migrant worker and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata seeks Rs 10,000 cash transfer from Centre to each migrant workerAmid an ongoing blame-game between the state’s ruling party Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruling at the Centre, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asked the Centre to transfer Rs 10,000 each to the bank account of migrant workers. Read more3 Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama: PoliceThree terrorists believed to be part of the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) group were gunned down by security forces on Wednesday in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama, police said, in the second encounter in the district in the last 24 hours. Read moreNawazuddin Siddiqui’s niece accuses his brother of sexual harassment, reveals his response ‘he is your uncle, can’t do this’: reportNawazuddin Siddiqui’s niece has filed a sexual harassment case against her uncle at Jamia police station in Delhi, as per a Times of India report. She has alleged that she was abused when she was a child. Read moreRemove China Apps is no longer on the Google Play StoreGoogle Play Store has been quite busy pulling off apps from the platform. After India’s TikTok rival Mitron was pulled off the Android app store, Google Play Store has now pulled off Remove China Apps. Of course, there is no knowing exactly why it has done that. Read moreCovid-19: India crosses 2 lakh case mark, multiple layer masks better than singleHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, how India stands compared to rest of the world, a Lancet study which points out the effectiveness of multi-layered masks and more. Read more‘There is no doubt’: Former Pakistan all-rounder accuses Team India of intentionally losing to England in World CupFormer Pakistan allrounder Abdul Razzaq has said that there is no doubt that India lost the match against England intentionally at the ICC World Cup last year. The match has come under scrutiny once again since excerpts from Ben Stokes’ latest book ‘On Fire’, on the match, came into light last week. Read moreWorld Environment Day 2020: Anushka Sharma, Akshay Kumar, Amitabh Bachchan, Bhumi Pednekar turn ‘climate warriors’World Environment Day (WED) is celebrated on the 5th of June annually and was founded by the United Nations to encourage ‘worldwide awareness and action to protect our environment’. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mamata-seeks-rs-10-000-cash-transfer-from-centre-to-each-migrant-worker-and-all-the-latest-news/story-53sAQUulSRQfSsnpmMsStO.html
03-06-2020||India||High court allows detained vessel to move out of Mumbai port till Cyclone Nisarga passes||The Bombay high court has allowed a ship that is the subject of a suit to be moved out of its anchorage in Mumbai port, where it currently held under arrest, to safer waters till Cyclone Nisarga passes.The court on Tuesday heard an urgent application from the ship’s owners that was supported by Mumbai Port Trust, as it feared the 14-deck cruise ship could cause huge damage to the port if it was caught in the cyclone.The court allowed the vessel to be moved to safer waters on the condition that it is brought back to Mumbai port with the 63-member crew on board. MV Karnika has been detained at Mumbai port in lieu of a commercial admiralty suit.The bench of justice AK Menon, while hearing the interim application filed by the owners of MV Karnika, was informed by advocate S Priya that the vessel would be impacted by cyclonic weather as the India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s report of June 1 had indicated the path of Cyclone Nisarga lay across the Maharashtra coast.Priya said MV Karnika may be impacted by the cyclonic weather in view of the sheer size of the vessel, and it may be damaged or run aground and probably cause immense damage to other vessels. This could result in MV Karnika also taking in water, with disastrous consequences.The ship’s owners’ application sought permission for the vessel to go out of Mumbai port temporarily to safer waters, probably beyond the territorial waters while under arrest, and return after the cyclone has passed.The Mumbai Port Trust also filed an application to move the vessel to safer waters. Advocate Deepak Motiwala, appearing for the port trust, said it was extremely risky to bring the vessel into berth because once alongside, the strong currents driven by the weather would in all likelihood damage the berth and property of the port and other vessels.Watch: Cyclone Nisarga to hit Maharashtra today, NDRF teams deployed He further said that considering the dimensions of the vessel, it would not be possible for any number of tugs to control the vessel.After the plaintiffs in the suit, along with several caveators who have sought to recover Rs 30 crores from the vessel, agreed with the applications, the high court observed that MV Karnika and her crew and others must not be imperilled and must be permitted to leave for safer waters, as may be suggested by the port trust in consultation with the master of the vessel, in order to avoid the path of the cyclone.The court then imposed several conditions, which include having a pilot of the port trust board and stay on the vessel till its return to Mumbai port. It also asked for the passports of the vessel’s three main officers to be deposited with the deputy conservator along with the certificate of registry and class certificate of the vessel.The court also sought an undertaking from the owners of the vessel to ensure its return to Mumbai port. On compliance with these conditions, the court directed the port trust to allow the vessel to leave immediately after receiving the application to leave from the vessel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-allows-detained-vessel-to-move-out-of-mumbai-port-till-cyclone-nisarga-passes/story-YGfYEJlK0ecbDWUXIzeNEM.html
03-06-2020||India||Mamata seeks Rs 10,000 cash transfer from Centre to each migrant worker||Amid an ongoing blame-game between the state’s ruling party Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruling at the Centre, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asked the Centre to transfer Rs 10,000 each to the bank account of migrant workers.“People have been facing economic hardship of unimaginable proportions bcz of the ongoing pandemic. I appeal to Central Govt to transfer ₹10,000 each as one-time assistance to migrant labourers including people in unorganized sector. A portion of PM-CARES could be used for this,” Banerjee wrote on Twitter on Wednesday.Her demand came a day after her government claimed to have transferred Rs 20,000 to the bank account of each of those whose homes got destroyed by the cyclone Amphan. “I’m happy to share that GoWB has transferred funds to nearly 5L affected people for repairing their homes, released crop damage assistance to 23.3L farmers, apart from 2L betel farmers. We’ve released ₹1444 Cr so far, against an initial estimate of ₹1350 Cr,” she said on Tuesday.Also read: Bengal Guv takes ‘strong exception’ to TMC minister for calling him as ‘BJP man’Following her demand, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national secretary Rahul Sinha said that the chief minister is trying to divert attention from her mismanagement in bringing migrant workers back from other states.“The Centre had to give several pushes to the state government to make it agree to allow Shramik Special trains in the state. Migrant workers are angry with her because of her apathy. She is trying to skip her responsibilities of finding these workers alternative jobs,” Sinha said.According to the state government, more than 5 lakh migrant workers have returned to Bengal using trains, buses and other transport vehicles.The Trinamool Congress has been alleging that the crisis of the migrant workers was created by the Centre’s “unplanned lockdown announcement.” The chief minister had also alleged that the railways’ move to send trains packed with migrant workers – with the middle berths not left vacant – was leading to a spike in the spread of Covid-19 among migrant workers and ultimately resulting in the spread of the disease in rural Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-seeks-rs-10-000-cash-transfer-from-centre-to-each-migrant-worker/story-wgmU04MFRBgzm542nSOfaI.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall in Maharashtra’s Alibaug, Mumbai receives rains||Cyclone Nisarga made landfall between Murud and Revdanda in Maharashtra’s Raigad district as authorities evacuated thousands of people from the coastal areas in the state and in Gujarat, officials said.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for at least seven coastal districts of Maharashtra, while several districts along Gujarat’s coast are also expecting heavy rainfall.Mumbai, which is on the path of the cyclone, saw heavy showers and is likely to receive very heavy rainfall upwards of 164mm. Also read | 500 emergency response team members on standby as Mumbai braces for Cyclone NisargaThe city is already reeling under a high caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, and the possibility of inundation of low-lying areas has raised concerns over the strain on healthcare infrastructure and municipal resources.A predicted storm surge of about 1-2 metres height above astronomical tide is likely to inundate low lying areas of Mumbai, Thane and Raigad districts and 0.5-1 metre height above the astronomical tide is likely to inundate low lying areas of Ratnagiri district during the time of landfall.WATCH | Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall in Maharashtra today, NDRF teams deployedA June 2 Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services bulletin indicated a very rough sea along the Konkan coast: from 5.30pm on Tuesday to Wednesday evening, the wave height could be as high as 2.5 to 4 metres in Thane; 2.5 to 4.5 metres in Greater Mumbai; 3 to 6.5 metres in Ratnagiri; and 3 to 5.5 metres in Sindhudurg.Also read | More than 4,000 people evacuated from Cyclone Nisarga landfall site Alibaug near Mumbai“The last severe cyclonic storm to hit close to Mumbai was in 1961. This storm is severe but with a wind speed of only 100 to 110kmph. Important thing is to take all precautions possible which state governments are trying. Inundation is possible so evacuation of vulnerable people is important,” M Mohapatra, IMD’s director general, had said on Tuesday.“It is not common for tropical cyclones to hit Maharashtra coast. Usually, during monsoon onset the cyclones that develop move towards Oman and Yemen coasts. The track of the cyclone is completely dependent on wind direction and pressure while warm ocean surface gives energy and intensity to the cyclone,” Sunita Devi, the head of the national weather forecasting centre, said.The sea surface temperature in parts of the Arabian Sea is 31 to 32 degree Celsius compared to 28 degree Celsius expected during this season.Nisarga is the 65th named cyclone in the north Indian Ocean and its name, proposed by Bangladesh, means ‘nature’ in Bengali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-makes-landfall-in-maharashtra-s-alibag-mumbai-receives-rains/story-FBkLanKy01MVM4oG6EQsaI.html
03-06-2020||India||Chinese and European variants of Sars-Cov-2 most prevalent in India||Two variants of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) virus from China and Europe are most prevalent, according to researchers from the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), who identified 198 variants of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in India.The most variants were found in Delhi, followed Gujarat, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka.“Scientists and scholars from ZSI have analysed nearly 400 genomes found in India and found at least 198 variants of the virus, which means the virus had mutated at least 198 times in India or before entering the country,” said Kailash Chandra, director, ZSI, Kolkata. Also Watch | Covid-19: India crosses 2 lakh case mark, multiple layer masks better than singleThe study was conducted by a team of seven scientists from the Centre for DNA Taxonomy of ZSI, India’s apex organisation on animal taxonomy under the Union ministry of environment and forests. The researchers analysed genomes from India in the GISAID global database between early March and the last week of May. On June 2, the database showed more than 37,000 genomes, of which at least 550 were from India. “Plotting the variants on the country’s map, we found that states such as Delhi, Telengana and Gujarat were the most heterogeneous. Those in the northeast showed the least number of variants,” said Bhim Joshi, one of the researchers in the team.Delhi recorded around 39 variants, while Ahmedabad in Gujarat alone recorded 60 variants, and 13 were found in Gandhinagar. At least 55 variants were found in Telengana. In Maharashtra and Karnataka, the team found around 15 variants each.“We found that two variants or haplo-groups (a genetic population that share a common ancestor) are most dominant. While one came from Wuhan in China, the other is the European variant,” said Mukesh Thakur, a scientist with the Centre for DNA Taxonomy who headed the research team.“Even though the initial variant had come from Italy, later variants from other countries in Europe also contributed heavily. Hence, we are calling it the European variant. Other variants, such as the ones which originated in Iran and Dubai, were found in (lower) numbers.”India’s first Covid-19 case was a medical student evacuated from Wuhan, who tested positive on January 30, which reported the country’s first three cases. On March 2, two more cases of travellers back from Italy and Dubai were reported by the Union health ministry, following which the number of cases steadily increased. “Of the nearly 200 variants we have spotted, one mutation was the most common. It has been named D614G. It was not the most prevalent mutation in India, but found in large numbers in Europe and the US. How the mutation has helped the virus, and whether its transmission modes have changed, need to be further studied,” said Abhishek Singh, another team member.All viruses mutate with time, and studies from other countries shown that Sars-Cov-2 has also mutated. The mutations do not lead to easier or faster transmission, or make the disease less or more severe, but it helps scientists to understand the behaviour of the virus and also in developing an effective vaccine, said Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-and-european-variants-of-sars-cov-2-most-prevalent-in-india/story-ESysIl4iFlTXUT1bNWfLZI.html
03-06-2020||India||‘Transfer Rs 10,000 each as one-time assistance to migrant labourers’: Mamata’s appeal to Centre amid Covid-19 crisis||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged the Central government to transfer ₹10,000 each as one-time assistance to migrant labourers amid the Covid-19 crisis. In a tweet, Banerjee said that people have been facing economic hardship of “unimaginable proportions” due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.  Also read: Bengal Guv takes ‘strong exception’ to TMC minister for calling him as ‘BJP man’People have been facing economic hardship of unimaginable proportions bcz of the ongoing pandemic. I appeal to Central Govt to transfer ₹10,000 each as one-time assistance to migrant labourers including people in unorganized sector. A portion of PM-CARES could be used for this.“I appeal to Central Govt to transfer ₹10,000 each as one-time assistance to migrant labourers including people in unorganized sector,” her tweet read. “A portion of PM-CARES could be used for this,” she added. On Tuesday, Banerjee said that the West Bengal government witnessed super cyclone Amphan, “the fiercest storm in our recent memory,” while fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. She said the devastation left behind from Amphan has been unprecedented. “Through the resilience of Bengal and its people, along with a determined effort by GoWB machinery, we have been able to kickstart major relief and rehabilitation work for the distressed, with an immediate announcement of a ₹6250 Cr package as first tranche,” she tweeted out. The chief minister announced that the state government has transferred funds to nearly 5 lakh affected people for repairing their homes, released crop damage assistance to 23.3 lakh farmers, apart from 2 lakh betel farmers. “We’ve released ₹1444 Cr so far, against an initial estimate of ₹1350 Cr,” Banerjee tweeted on Tuesday. West Bengal has reported over 6,000 coronavirus cases so far. As per the Ministry of Health, 2,410 people in the state have recovered from the disease or have been discharged from hospitals while 335 have succumbed to death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transfer-rs-10-000-each-as-one-time-assistance-to-migrant-labourers-mamata-s-appeal-to-centre-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-Y0SU3X9pEcitHDtiCoFaHM.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga: 3 families living along Alibag coastline had no clue about impact or evacuation||On early Wednesday morning, Bhim Rao, 25, and his wife looked surprised and confused when they heard that nearby villages were being evacuated due to an approaching cyclone. The couple live in Alibaug, less than 200 metres from the shoreline.Rao said he had heard about the cyclone on television but had no clue that it was heading straight for Alibaug. “There have been no announcements, warnings or information shared with us so far,” he said. Same was the case with Rao’s neighbours Keshav Meyar, 28, and his six other family members as well as Brijesh Sharma, 46, and his wife. When HT approached them, all three families were busy discussing the impact of Covid-19 on early Wednesday morning blissfully unaware of cyclone Nisarga’s landfall near Alibaug. Also read: Cyclone Nisarga latest updates: Section 144 in Mumbai, flights to be hitThe three families live at a secluded section of Varsoli Beach in Alibaug which is less than 2 kilometres from the Raigad district administration office. “We have no clue where we have to go now in order to ensure we are safe from the cyclone,” said Sharma. Meanwhile, when the district administration was asked about the three families at Varsoli Beach, Sagar Pathak - an official from the Raigad district collector’s office - issued a slew of instructions to his junior officers. “We will ensure the three families are evacuated,” he said adding, “Numerous warnings to evacuate have been issued to all residents living close to the coast but some are not following directions. We are following up on every case.”Also read: Cyclone Nisarga to now make landfall south of Alibag between 1pm and 4pmTill Wednesday morning, a total of 4,407 people had been relocated from the coastal resort town of Alibaug — around 9 nautical miles or 90 kilometres by road from Mumbai — where cyclone Nisarga is expected to make landfall just south of it between 1 pm and 4 pm. Nisarga, classified as a severe cyclonic storm, is expected to make landfall at a wind speed of 100-110 kmph, with a gusting speed of 120 kmph. The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has also warned of storm surges that may result in inundation in low-lying areas along the coastline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-3-families-living-along-alibag-coastline-had-no-clue-about-impact-or-evacuation/story-G15jgUMJfKlHRYzLWJdIvM.html
03-06-2020||India||Gujarat braces for cyclone Nisarga; thousands evacuated from coast||Nearly 43,000 people living near the coastline in Gujarat’s Valsad and Navsari districts have so far been shifted to safer places as the state prepares to face the approaching cyclonic storm ‘Nisarga’, officials said on Wednesday.As many as 13 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and six teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed at different locations, the state government said in a release. Five more teams of NDRF have also been called in, the government said.Valsad Collector R R Raval said, “We have shifted nearly 32,000 people living close to the seashore to temporary shelters. The weather is cloudy at present, but winds have not started yet.” Besides, some 11,000 people have been evacuated from different villages of Navsari district ahead of the cyclone, another official said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has indicated that the cyclone may not make a landfall on the Gujarat coast. However, it will make an impact in the form of gusty winds coupled with heavy rainfall in the state’s coastal belt.According to the IMD, Nisarga, a severe cyclonic storm, is expected to make landfall just south of Alibaug between 1 and 4 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-braces-for-cyclone-nisarga-thousands-evacuated-from-coast/story-RF5FU6aYYaCZeIgkErNJ8N.html
03-06-2020||India||3 Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama: Police||Three terrorists believed to be part of the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) group were gunned down by security forces on Wednesday in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama, police said, in the second encounter in the district in the last 24 hours.The joint operation was launched by the Indian Army’s Rashtriya Rifle, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the state police in Kangan Murran village of south Kashmir’s Pulwama on specific information.Dilbag Singh, J-K’s director general of police, confirmed that three Jaish terrorists were killed in the encounter and that their identities have been ascertained.Sources said that one of the terrorists killed could be a so-call top commander of Jaish, who has been active in south Kashmir.Since the last few weeks, police have not been revealing the identities of terrorists killed in encounters and they are being buried away from their native villages. Police said only family members are allowed to participate in the funerals.On Tuesday, two terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Tral area of Pulwama district.The terrorists, who sources said were locals, were killed in a gunfight which erupted after a search operation was launched by a joint team of the state police and the army at Saimoh village. Two AK-47 assault rifles were recovered from the encounter site. On Monday, three heavily-armed terrorists were killed along the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district. They attempted to sneak into India but were intercepted by the alert troops near Kalal village, triggering a gunfight, officials said.Since the Covid-19 lockdown, 44 terrorists and two associates have been killed in encounters in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-jaish-e-mohammed-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-pulwama/story-PS4GAP4bkOCVnnGuudXZVM.html
03-06-2020||India||Coronavirus now less fatal, 90% patients have mild symptoms: AIIMS Director||The fatal virulence of coronavirus has declined and 90 per cent of patients now have mild symptoms, said the Director of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Dr Randeep Guleria.He spoke to Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan where Dr Guleria said that the people who initially contracted the disease with serious symptoms. “Since these patients were kept in isolation, the disease could not spread much,” he added.He said that 12 to 13 cities in the country have more than 80 per cent of Covid-19 cases. “If we control these hotspots, the disease will reach its peak in two to three weeks.”Dr Guleria said that Indians have higher immunity “because most of us have got the BCG vaccination”. He added that number of patients in intensive care and ventilators are very less.He also spoke about hydroxychloroquine and remdisivir, the medicines which are being touted as cure for Covid-19. “Remdisivir can decrease the hospitalisation time, but it cannot reduce the death rate in serious patients. Hydroxychloroquine too is helpful for people with mild symptoms,” said Dr Guleria.The AIIMS Director said that there is no community spread in India, but people need to be cautious in hotspots.India on Wednesday saw another record spike in the number of new Covid-19 cases. There were 8,909 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), another single-day surge, and 217 deaths in the last 24 hours (between Tuesday and Wednesday), taking India’s tally beyond the two lakh-mark, data from the Union ministry of health showed.The health ministry dashboard showed there were 207,615 infections, including 101,497 actives cases and 5,815 fatalities.The recovery rate was 48.31, up from Tuesday’s 48.07%, after 100,302 people were cured or discharged in the country, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-now-less-fatal-90-patients-have-mild-symptoms-aiims-director/story-axggNvvJwUkjRz9hTpYQ8N.html
03-06-2020||India||Another single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 8,909 new infections; India’s tally at 2.07 lakh||There were 8,909 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), another single-day surge, and 217 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking India’s tally beyond the two lakh-mark, data from the Union ministry of health showed on Wednesday.The health ministry dashboard showed there were 207,615 infections, including 101,497 actives cases and 5,815 fatalities, as the country recorded more than 8,000 new patients for the fourth day.The recovery rate was 48.31, up from Tuesday’s 48.07%, after 100,302 people were cured or discharged in the country, according to the health ministry data.Also read | Covid-19: What we still don’t knowAs coastal Maharashtra braced for Cyclone Nisarga, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state stood at 72,300 with 2,465 people succumbing to the disease. Mumbai, the worst-hit city in the country, will also be hit by Cyclone Nisarga as the administration geared up for the storm.In Tamil Nadu, there have been 24,586 Covid-19 cases and 197 fatalities while 22,132 were reported in Delhi. The national capital has a higher number of deaths after 556 fatalities. In Gujarat, 17,617 people have been infected so far and 1,092 have been killed after contracting the disease.According to data released by the ministry of health and family welfare, fewer people are dying in India of Covid-19 compared to the rest of the world. India’s current case fatality rate is at 2.82% against the global average of 6.13%.People above 60 years of age, who make up 10% of the country’s population, account for 50% of the 5,598 Covid-19 deaths recorded in India. Of these, 38% belong to the 60 and 74 years age group. Also read | Coronavirus now less fatal, 90% patients have mild symptoms: AIIMS DirectorPatients who were aged above 75 years old account for 12% of the deaths, the data shows. The data that the ministry released on April 30 showed 34.8% deaths were recorded in 45-60 year age group.According to the health ministry’s analysis of the deaths, 73% of the Covid-19 deaths are of patients with underlying medical conditions.The ministry cautioned that people who are above 60 years of age and those who suffer from an underlying medical condition such as hypertension, diabetes or respiratory illness are at high risk and need to be extra careful as they are at a higher risk of developing a severe form of the disease.In terms of deaths per 100,000 population, India has a fatality rate 0.41 as opposed to 4.9 globally.Officials said India’s case fatality rate has been steadily declining since the past two months. In mid-April it was around 3.3%, then it dropped to 3.25%, later to 3.15%, and as on today we stand at 2.82%, they said.“If you look at individual countries, some countries have even reported as high as 82 deaths per lakh population. This says how our focus on early case detection and robust contact tracing in containment zones has been in the right direction, and it will continue to be our main strategy in future also, along with ramping up the Covid testing capacity,” Lav Agarwal, the ministry’s joint secretary, said.India’s daily Covid-19 testing capacity is about 140,000 samples currently and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is aiming to scale it up to about 200,000 samples a day in the next two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-single-day-jump-in-covid-19-cases-with-8-909-new-infections-india-s-tally-at-2-07-lakh/story-nINYFp4wkOyTVS1r1iPrPK.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga: Nearly one lakh people evacuated from coastal areas of Maharashtra||Close to one lakh people have been evacuated from the coastal areas of Maharashtra until Wednesday morning, in anticipation of Cyclone Nisarga later today, authorities from the state government and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said.A state official said the evacuation has been mainly carried out Raigad, Palghar and Thane districts along the Maharashtra coast. The cyclone is expected to make landfall around 1 pm at Alibag in Raigad district, 10 nautical miles south of Mumbai, and around 90 km by road.Click here to follow cyclone Nisarga LIVE updatesUntil Wednesday morning, 20 NDRF teams were deployed in Maharashtra, of which eight are in Mumbai, five in Raigad, two each in Thane, Palghar and Ratnagiri, and one team in Sindhudurg. Each team has up to 45 jawans equipped with tree and pole cutting machines, communication gadgets, inflatable boats, first-aid kits, basic medicines and a rescuer-Covid kit, which includes a hand-wash, soap, gloves, face masks and face shields. There are more than 40 teams across the western coast, as Gujarat also prepared for the cyclone’s impact.Sachidanand Gawde, second-in-command, NDRF Pune, said that the teams continue to make announcements via loudspeakers asking people living near the coast to evacuate. “Our men have been stationed in different pockets and are assisting district administrations in evacuation measures,” Gawde said.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had appealed to citizens on Tuesday to not step out of their homes on Wednesday and Thursday. “Offices, industries and other activities, which have started functioning, will be shut tomorrow and day after. Do not leave your house for your own safety and well-being,” he said. “All fishermen on the coastline have been contacted and have returned home. They will not be able to venture into the sea for at least two days. Though the cyclone may make landfall at Alibag, everyone from Mumbai to Sindhudurg and Palghar must be on alert.”Most district collectors have imposed a curfew for the next three days in the tehsils expected to be hit by the cyclone. Mumbai Police on Tuesday issued an order restricting assembly of one or more persons at areas such as beaches, parks and promenades along the coastline. A Mumbai Police tweet on June 2 said, “Section 144 (CrPC) has been promulgated in the city from 00:00 hours, June 3rd till 12:00 hours, June 4th. Refrain from venturing out to coast-beaches, promenades, parks and other similar places along the coastline.”Mumbai fire brigade authorities said 150 fire personnel and 94 lifeguards are on stand-by in the city. The fire brigade has 63 fire engines fitted with hydraulic, electrical and mechanical gear for cutting, lifting, spreading and quenching, and five rescue vans with stretchers, flash lights, portable generators, cutters and chainsaws. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has more than 300 dewatering pumps on ground and up to three schools have been identified per ward as rescue shelters. Mumbai has 24 administrative wards.Authorities have also issued a list of dos and don’ts to be followed by citizens to remain safe. Citizens have been asked to stay away from windows, keep some windows open and some closed to equalise pressure, tie loose things outside their house and move them indoors, stay in the centre of the room and away from corners, regularly inspect battery-operated and reserved power-systems, disconnect power supply of all non-emergency electric equipment and tools, seal important documents and jewellery in a plastic bag and switch off power supply in case of sparks in electric equipment, exposed wires or burning smell.Citizens have been asked to not drive or ride any vehicle, not venture near dilapidated buildings, not move injured people unless absolutely necessary, do not allow oil of other inflammable substances to spill, and clean right away, and keep a watch for broken electric poles and wires and other sharp objects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-nearly-one-lakh-people-evacuated-from-coastal-areas-of-maharashtra/story-6Ns9C58XMgSSMe2NRcoBGI.html
03-06-2020||India||With highest Covid-19 cases, these states push India’s tally to above 2,00,000||The number of coronavirus disease cases in the country crossed the 2,00,000-mark on Wednesday. As per the data on Union ministry of health, nearly half of this number (1,01,497) are active cases in the country and 1,00,303 have been cured or discharged. The country has so far seen 5,815 deaths.Maharashtra continued to lead the tally of the states with highest caseload with more than 72,000 Covid-19 positive cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHere is a list of such state with highest number of infection:Maharashtra: The state has seen its infection tally rise rapidly. As per the Union health ministry data, Maharashtra has 72,300 cases on Covid-19. As many as 2,465 people have died while 31,333 have been cured or discharged. The state is also gearing up for Cyclone Nisarga which is expected to make landfall near Alibaug around 1 pm on Wednesday. The arrival of the cyclone has created concerns for an already stretched health infrastructure in the state.Tamil Nadu: The southern state is second in the list of states which are affected the most by the coronavirus pandemic. Tamil Nadu has so far recorded 24,586 Covid-19 positive cases, according to the health ministry. One hundred ninety seven people have died due to the disease in the state and 13,706 have been discharged. Also Watch | Covid-19: India crosses 2 lakh case mark, multiple layer masks better than singleDelhi: The national capital has reached this grim milestone courtesy rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. Last week, Delhi saw its daily tally increase by 1,000 for a few days. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city-state are 22,132. The death toll stands at 556.Gujarat: The western state and Maharashtra’s neighbour is the next in the list of states badly-hit by the spread of the Covid-19 disease. Gujarat has recorded 17,617 positive cases, while 1,092 people have died. It is the second state to be affected by Cyclone Nisarga today. As many as 18 districts across the state would experience heavy rainfall and strong winds.Rajasthan: This is the fifth state to be affected by the coronavirus pandemic. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state 9,373. While 203 people have died, 6,435 have been discharged.Madhya Pradesh: The state in central India has seen its Covid-19 tally rise exponentially due to the outbreak in Indore. Madhya Pradesh’s current tally, according to Union health ministry, stands at 8,420. As many as 364 people have died and 5,221 have been discharged or cured.Uttar Pradesh: India’s most populous state has 8,361 cases of coronavirus disease. The state has seen 222 deaths and 5,030 patients have been discharged or cured.Other notable mentions in the list are Bihar (4,155 cases), Andhra Pradesh (3,898 cases), Karnataka ( 3,796 cases) and Telangana (2,891 cases).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-highest-covid-19-cases-these-state-push-india-s-tally-to-above-2-00-000/story-GZN0kcLbqUiK0eNh525SPN.html
03-06-2020||India||Dr Pranav Pandya rape case: Victim against Gayatri Parivar head records statement before court||The victim in the alleged rape case against Dr Pranav Pandya, head of All World Gayatri Family (AWGF) - popularly known as Gayatri Parivar, recorded her statement before the court on Tuesday in Haridwar, said police. The development came a few days after the Haridwar police, in the ongoing probe of the case, recorded her statement in Delhi where she is currently staying. Pandya was questioned a couple of days ago at his residence in Haridwar. The victim, who hails from Chhattisgarh, came to Haridwar from Delhi to record her statement before the court. Senthil Avoodai K Raj, Senior Superintendent of Police, Haridwar confirming the development said, “The statement of the victim was recorded before the local court on Tuesday amid police security considering the high-profile case.”Apart from confirming the development, Senthil however, refused to reveal much about the case and said, “As it is a serious case, not much can be told to media but a probe is on in the case.”The case had come to light after the victim, hailing from Chhattisgarh, lodged her complaint against Pandya in Delhi in early May where she is currently staying. In her complaint, she had stated that she was allegedly raped, harassed and intimidated by Dr Pranav Pandya and his wife Shail Bala Pandya in 2010 when she was working as a kitchen attendant at their Haridwar-based Gayatri Pariwar ashram in Shantikunj.Following the case, Pandya refuted the allegations and later got a stay from the court against his arrest. Terming the allegations as baseless, he had said that, “The lodging of the complaint by the woman after a decade of the alleged incident itself speaks of the false narrative and clandestine way the woman has plotted. She is just trying to tarnish my image.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-pranav-pandya-rape-case-victim-against-gayatri-parivar-head-records-statement-before-court/story-vkhaiISNF2PHBax0uryhbN.html
03-06-2020||India||News updates with Hindustan Times: 2 metre distancing, masks key to stopping Covid-19 spread, says study and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.2 metre distancing, masks key to stopping Covid-19 spread: StudyKeeping two metres away from others, and wearing face masks and eye protection, both in and outside hospitals, are the most effective ways of stopping the spread of Covid-19. Read moreCyclone Nisarga closes in, 215km from Mumbai, says IMDCyclone Nisarga, the tropical storm expected to make landfall on Wednesday, is currently 165km south-southwest of Alibaug, 215km south-southwest of Mumbai and 440km south-southwest of Surat in Gujarat. Read moreFacebook takes down white nationalist and fake antifa accountsFacebook Inc said on Tuesday it has suspended accounts associated with white nationalist groups after some advocated bringing weapons to the current wave of anti-racist protests. Read moreNot so ‘Incognito’: Google faces lawsuit for tracking ‘private’ surfingGoogle was sued on Tuesday in a proposed class action accusing the internet search company of illegally invading the privacy of millions of users by pervasively tracking their internet use through browsers set in “private” mode. Read moreCyclone Nisarga: Priyanka Chopra shares BMC guidelines, asks to take cover during Mumbai cycloneDesi girl and global icon Priyanka Chopra Jonas may be quarantining in Los Angeles with husband Nick Jonas on account of the coronavirus pandemic, but her heart and mind are in Mumbai with her brother, Siddharth Chopra and mother Madhu Chopra. Read moreKerala girl allegedly ends life over lack of access to online classesA 14-year-old student, a girl, allegedly committed suicide in Malappuram and her parents alleged that she was disturbed as she could not attend online classes since the family did not have either a TV or smartphone. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan-Jaya anniversary, 10 times he showed off their love on Instagram: ‘Father said you must marry her’Actors and Bollywood beloved senior couple, Amitabh Bachchan and Jaya Bachchan celebrate their 47th wedding anniversary on Wednesday. To join the celebrations we are bringing you the 10 times he shared pictures and posts dedicated to his wife on his Instagram account. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-with-hindustan-times-2-metre-distancing-masks-key-to-stopping-covid-19-spread-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FPxCSovF1JalLVfqOgOLdP.html
03-06-2020||India||Over 20 UP district on alert for strong winds, rain and lightning over Cyclone Nisarga||Strong winds, showers and lightning may be experienced in the next 24 hours in more than 20 districts of western and central Uttar Pradesh as a result of Cyclone Nisarga, a forecast of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. Etah, Aligarh, Agra and Mahoba along with other districts will experience winds with speeds over 60kmph in the next 24 hours, according to the warning issued by the IMD on Tuesday.A majority of these districts fall in the Bundelkhand and Agra regions of the state.Cyclone Nisarga is expected to hit coastal Maharashtra and Gujarat on Wednesday afternoon.“Cyclones cause the negative air pressure in a large area that causes weather disturbances. Some parts of central UP will be affected by it,” JP Gupta, UP’s meteorological department director, said. The state MeT department has issued a warning to the government, which has been relayed to respective districts.“The district administration has been asked to stay on an alert and make suitable arrangements to tackle emergencies caused due to these weather conditions,” Gupta added.More than 30 people had been killed when regions of the state witnessed weather disturbances over the last weekend. The victims were either struck by lightning or died due to natural calamities between May 29 and May 31.The district administrations have started making public announcements for people to stay indoors. They were warned about lightning and heavy winds, which were expected in the region.“We have also alerted the electricity and health department to make the required arrangements,” said a senior official in the state disaster management department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-20-up-district-on-alert-for-strong-winds-rain-and-lightning-over-cyclone-nisarga/story-kUdBwMjsADINShd44gaYnN.html
03-06-2020||India||Two different teams to now rescue elephants and leopards in Uttarakhand’s Rajaji park||After the death of an elephant in Uttarakhand’s Rajaji national park, the administration has decided to form two different teams for rescuing elephants and leopards with the aim of quick response.The elephant had died after being rescued.Amit Verma, the field director for Rajaji Tiger Reserve, informed that the decision was taken during a coordination meeting between Haridwar forest division, Dehradun forest division and Rajaji Tiger Reserve management on Monday.“Haridwar is a division which shares borders with both eastern and western sides of Rajaji Tiger Reserve and there is a lot of elephant movement in that area, leading to conflict at times. It gets difficult for us to control the elephant movement as different areas have different jurisdictions. So, we decided to have a joint team with officials from both the forest department and the Rajaji administration for controlling conflict. This way we will have administration authority from both the areas and a quick decision can be taken,” said Verma.The director added that a similar team has been formed for leopards, but it is a more localised issue.“Conflict due to leopard is a more localised issue and they don’t travel that much unlike elephants who travel across divisions. Conflict due to leopard happens at certain spots and both the forest department and Rajaji administration is equally equipped to tackle with that but still, a team has been formed,” added Verma.Each team will have around seven to 12 members that will work in coordination with each other.On May 27, an injured elephant who was rescued after a 14-hour-long operation, succumbed to its injuries.Forest and Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) officials said that the rescue operation which commenced on May 26 morning went on till late at night. The injured elephant was spotted near Chilla Canal in RTR, in the midst of a canal, after it came therefrom Chilla-Rishikesh road, where it had created panic among the passersby.Veterinarian and tranquilising specialist Dr Aditi Sharma along with other park and wild life specialist carried out the tranquilising operation successfully. But owing to the elephant being injured and remaining in river water for several hours led to drastic deterioration of its health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-different-teams-to-now-rescue-elephants-and-leopards-in-uttarakhand-s-rajaji-park/story-om3IJDgVPt2nrBqhRRyfuM.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga latest updates: Section 144 in Mumbai, flights to be hit||A deep depression over east-central Arabian Sea, which intensified into cyclone Nisarga on Tuesday, is expected to make landfall near Alibaug in Maharashtra on Wednesday. Alibaug is about 94 kilometre from Mumbai.Nisarga will hit as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph.It is currently situated 200 kilometre away from Mumbai, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday morning. It also said that heavy rainfall is expected over coastal Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra and Gujarat in next few hours.Also read| Cyclone Nisarga closes in, 215km from Mumbai: IMDHere are the latest developments on Cyclone Nisarga:1. The IMD said on Wednesday that the cyclone is expected to cross Alibaug between 1 pm and 3 pm. It is approaching the north coast of Maharashtra with a speed of 13 kilometers per hour, reported news agency ANI.2. Nisarga intensified into a severe cyclonic storm early on Wednesday morning and is currently recording a wind speed of 85 to 95 kmph gusting to 105 kmph. The diametre of the cyclone’s eye is about 65 kilometre as observed through radar, said the weather department.3. The IMD has issued a red alert for at least seven coastal districts of Maharashtra, while several districts along Gujarat’s coast are also expecting heavy rainfall. Mumbai, which is on the path of the cyclone, will likely receive very heavy rainfall upwards of 164 mm.4. The movement of people along the Mumbai coastline has been prohibited from midnight to Thursday afternoon, news agency PTI quoted city police as saying. An order under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was being issued, it further reported.Also read: Cyclone Nisarga to make landfall today, high alert in Mumbai5. A predicted storm surge of about 1-2 metres height above astronomical tide is likely to inundate low lying areas of Mumbai, Thane and Raigad. Nisarga is the first storm to threaten Mumbai in more than 70 years.6. Operations at the Mumbai airport, which has been handling 50 domestic flights daily since May 25, are likely to be significantly affected on Wednesday due to the cyclone.7. Nisarga is expected to maintain its cyclonic storm intensity for about six hours after the landfall while moving north-northeastward towards central Maharashtra. Under its influence, gale wind reaching 60-70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph is likely to prevail over Pune, Ahmadnagar and 55-65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph adjoining Beed, Nashik and Aurangabad districts of Maharashtra, the IMD said.8. Nearly 1,00,000 people, including some coronavirus patients, have been moved to safer locations, officials in Maharashtra said. The Gujarat government has said that nearly 79,000 people will be evacuated from coastal regions by early Wednesday.9. Gujarat relief commissioner Harshad Patel told reported on Tuesday that 18 districts across the state would experience heavy rainfall and strong winds.10. Nisarga comes on the heels of Cyclone Amphan, which killed more than 100 people as it ravaged West Bengal, Odisha and Bangladesh last month. Nisarga is the 65th named cyclone in the north Indian Ocean and its name, proposed by Bangladesh, means ‘nature’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-to-hit-near-mumbai-at-noon-flight-operations-to-be-affected-latest-updates/story-WZ12ETIB2RmF5IyNHBMwlL.html
03-06-2020||India||Light overnight rain, moderate wind speed over Mumbai ahead of Cyclone Nisarga||Mumbai and its suburbs recorded light showers between Tuesday night and today morning, ahead of Cyclone Nisarga that is expected to make landfall this afternoon near Raigad district’s Alibag, around 10 nautical miles (16 km) south of Maharashtra’s capital city.While the suburbs recorded 10mm rain between 8.30 pm Tuesday and 5.30 am Wednesday, south Mumbai recorded 14.4mm during the same period.The latest cyclone bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) at 5 am today issued similar warnings as Tuesday for the landfall -- expected over Alibag by noon and with impact expected over the coastal districts of Raigad, Mumbai, Thane and Palghar.Also read: Cyclone Nisarga to make landfall today, high alert in MumbaiCyclone Nisarga was expected to intensify into a severe cyclonic storm by 5.30am, which was located 200 km off Alibag, and 250 km off Mumbai. However, the release identified that an expected reduction in intensity after landfall was expected with the severe cyclonic status dropping back to a cyclonic storm by 5.30 pm this evening.A post-landfall outlook indicated that the cyclone was expected to move north northeastward towards central Maharashtra, and its impact affecting Pune, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Beed and Aurangabad districts. A state government advisory on Tuesday said there could be minor damage to power and communication lines, thatched houses, roads, and trees in these districts.Also read| Cyclone Nisarga closes in, 215km from Mumbai: IMDMeanwhile, a UK-based independent meteorologist said overnight developments in weather models showed a reduction in intensity forecasts of Cyclone Nisarga. “The intensity of the system is reducing with each model run. Its peak wind speed as per the Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC; a joint United States Navy and Air Force command situated at Guam in the Pacific Ocean) is going to be around 85 km/hr. While it continues to be a cyclonic storm, time is running out for it to gather strength before it makes landfall and (we will) witness a gradual loss in intensity,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and Ph.D. researcher at the University of Reading. “Prospects of rapid intensification are reducing which could have made things worse for Mumbai, Alibag and other regions. The impact is expected to be certainly less than previous official estimates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-overnight-rain-moderate-wind-speed-over-mumbai-ahead-of-cyclone-nisarga/story-bujaST4gjIGJkrBldl6rVN.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga to now make landfall south of Alibaug between 1pm and 4pm: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday revised its forecast and said Cyclone Nisarga is now likely to make landfall between 1pm and 4pm just south of Alibaug, a resort town in Maharashtra’s Raigad district.Cyclone Nisarga is now 130km south-southwest of Alibaug, 175km south-southwest of Mumbai and 400km south-southwest of Surat, the weather bureau said.It had said earlier that Cyclone Nisarha is expected to make landfall very close to Alibaug between 12pm and 3pm.Click here for cyclone Nisarga LIVE updatesThe severe cyclonic storm Nisarga has intensified with a wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph, officials added.“It will make landfall as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of about 110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph. Even though landfall site is south of Alibaug, extensive damage can be expected in Raigad, Mumbai, Thane and neighbouring areas,” said Sunita Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.The diameter of the eye of the storm has decreased in the past hour and is about 65 km at present, indicating an intensification of the weather system. The wind speed too has increased from 85-95kmph to 90-100kmph (gusting to 110kmph). The eye is the region of calm weather at the centre of tropical cyclones. As conditions indicate further intensification, wind conditions will increase up to 100-110 gusting to 120 kmph. A higher sea surface temperature and low vertical wind shear favoured the intensification of severe cyclonic circulation, said IMD scientists earlier.IMD has issued a red alert for at least seven coastal districts of Maharashtra, while several districts along Gujarat’s coast are also expecting heavy rainfall.Efforts to evacuate residents of these coastal districts were underway all of Tuesday even as the Prime Minister’s Office assured all help to state officials.Mumbai, which is on the path of the cyclone, will likely receive very heavy rainfall upwards of 164mm. The city is already reeling under a high caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, and the possibility of inundation of low-lying areas has raised concerns over the strain on healthcare infrastructure and municipal resources.A predicted storm surge of about 1-2 metres height above astronomical tide is likely to inundate low lying areas of Mumbai, Thane and Raigad districts and 0.5-1 metre height above the astronomical tide is likely to inundate low lying areas of Ratnagiri district during the time of landfall.A June 2 Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services bulletin indicated a very rough sea along the Konkan coast: from 5.30pm on Tuesday to Wednesday evening, the wave height could be as high as 2.5 to 4 metres in Thane; 2.5 to 4.5 metres in Greater Mumbai; 3 to 6.5 metres in Ratnagiri; and 3 to 5.5 metres in Sindhudurg.“The last severe cyclonic storm to hit close to Mumbai was in 1961. This storm is severe but with a wind speed of only 100 to 110kmph. Important thing is to take all precautions possible which state governments are trying. Inundation is possible so evacuation of vulnerable people is important,” M Mohapatra, IMD’s director general, said on Tuesday.“It is not common for tropical cyclones to hit Maharashtra coast. Usually, during monsoon onset the cyclones that develop move towards Oman and Yemen coasts. The track of the cyclone is completely dependent on wind direction and pressure while warm ocean surface gives energy and intensity to the cyclone,” Sunita Devi, the head of the national weather forecasting centre, said.The sea surface temperature in parts of the Arabian Sea is 31 to 32 degree Celsius compared to 28 degree Celsius expected during this season.Nisarga is the 65th named cyclone in the north Indian Ocean and its name, proposed by Bangladesh, means ‘nature’ in Bengali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-closes-in-215km-from-mumbai-imd/story-tv1tkoMNdTPFluAGXy39oM.html
03-06-2020||India||Bombay High Court serves notices to Union government on PM-CARES fund||The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday issued notices to all trustees of PM-CARES Fund and the Union government asking them to submit details of the amount collected and utilisation of the funds.The court was hearing a petition filed by a Nagpur-based lawyer, Arvind Waghmare, who sought the government to periodically declare the amount collected under the ‘PM-CARES Fund’ on government’s website for the knowledge of the common public. He also prayed for fund’s audit through the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) instead of an independent auditor to be nominated by a board of trustees.The Union government counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, however, opposed the move and sought dismissal of the petition.Keeping in mind the need for having a dedicated national fund with the primary objective of dealing with any national emergency or distress situation - like the one posed by the Covid-19 pandemic - and to provide relief to the affected, a public charitable trust ‘Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES Fund)’ was set up.Additional solicitor General Singh informed a division bench of the court, comprising Justice SB Shukre and Justice AS Kilor, that the Supreme Court had in April dismissed a similar petition against the PM-CARES fund. The bench noted that the petition before it sought different reliefs, and directed the Union government to file an affidavit in response to the plea within two weeks. “File an affidavit stating whatever is your (Union government) stand,” the court said.As per the plea, the PM-CARES Trust, with Prime Minister as its chairperson and ministers from departments of Defence, Home and Finance as its members, was created with the prime objective of dealing with the emergency or distress caused by the coronavirus. The trust was created seeking financial assistance from people from across the country and overseas to provide relief and assistance to those affected by Covid-19 pandemic, it said.Waghmare contended that certain guidelines were issued while setting up the fund that specifically mentioned that apart from the ex-officio chairperson and ex-officio trustees, three more trustees will be appointed/nominated on the trust. However, three other trustees have not been appointed yet, but donations to the tune of crores of rupees are being accepted. The petitioner demanded that at least two members from the Opposition parties should be included in the trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-serves-notices-to-union-government-on-pm-cares-fund/story-I2lJs4gVfPha1cz6Y2TomO.html
03-06-2020||India||Podcast: Binalakshmi Nepram on the Realities of India’s Oft-Forgotten Northeast||Here’s a hard truth about policy conversations on India: we rarely hear about India’s northeast. In fact, in doing more than 50 episodes of this podcast, not even one has been dedicated to the northeastern region of the country. The Northeast is a region of immense geostrategic importance. It is home to nearly 50 million Indian citizens. It is also home to South Asia’s longest running armed conflict, where over 50,000 people have died. And, yet, it is often written off as a footnote, an outlier or part of the periphery.  To enlighten us--and to educate us--about this often overlooked corner of India, social activist and indigenous leader Binalakshmi Nepram joins Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) on the show this week. Bina is the Founder of the Manipur Women Gun Survivors Network and also serves as Convenor of the Northeast India Women Initiative for Peace. Bina and Milan discuss the impact of COVID-19 on the Northeast, how the region fits into India’s popular imagination, the intense discrimination the region’s citizens endure, and the decades-long conflict that has upended the lives of tens of millions of ordinary Indians. Plus, Bina tells Milan about what inspired her to establish two of the Northeast’s leading human rights groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/binalakshmi-nepram-on-the-realities-of-india-s-oft-forgotten-northeast/story-Iy5Kt3gQOrumOhpAjw3JxH.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga to make landfall today, high alert in Mumbai||Thousands of people were evacuated in low lying areas of Maharastra and Gujarat ahead of Cyclone Nisarga that is expected to hit the country’s western coast on Wednesday afternoon.Mumbai and its metropolitan areas received rains since evening on Tuesday, which intensified later in the night, ahead of the expected landfall of Cyclone Nisarga in Alibaug in Maharashtra’s Raigad district.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast moderate rainfall in most parts of the metropolis and heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places over the next 24 hours.The weather bureau said early on Wednesday that the cyclonic storm Nisarga lay centred over the east-central Arabian Sea about 280km west-northwest of Panjim in Goa, 250km south-southwest of Mumbai, 200km south-southwest of Alibagh in Maharashtra and 460km south-southwest of Gujarat’s Surat. “It is very likely to intensify into a Severe Cyclonic Storm during next 06 hours. It is very likely to move north-northeastwards and cross north Maharashtra and adjoining south Gujarat coast between Harihareshwar and Daman, close to Alibagh in Raigad district, of Maharashtra during the afternoon as a severe cyclonic storm with a maximum sustained wind speed of 100-110kmph gusting to 120kmph,” it added. Here is what IMD has said so far:Rainfall warningsLight to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at a few places and extremely heavy falls at isolated places is very likely over north Konkan—Mumbai, Palghar, Thane, Raigad districts—and north Madhya Maharashtra on Wednesday.Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places over south Konkan, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts, Goa and south Gujarat region of Valsad, Navsari, Dang and Surat districts and Daman, Dadra & Nagar Haveli. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy falls at isolated places over west Madhya Pradesh. Wind warningGale wind, speed reaching 80-90kmph gusting to 100 kmph, is prevailing over the east-central Arabian Sea. It will gradually increase becoming gale wind, speed reaching 80-90kmph gusting to 100 kmph, over the east-central Arabian Sea off south Maharashtra and Goa coasts by Wednesday morning and further becoming 100-110kmph gusting to 120 kmph over the east-central Arabian Sea along and off Maharashtra (Raigad, Mumbai, Palghar, Thane) coast from Wednesday afternoon. Gale wind, speed reaching 80-90kmph gusting to 100kmph, likely along and off Valsad, Navsari districts of Gujarat, Daman, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and along and off the northeast Arabian Sea, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg districts of Maharashtra and 70-80kmph gusting to 90 kmph along and off Surat and Bharuch districts of south Gujarat from Wednesday afternoon.Squally wind, speed reaching 50-60kmph gusting to 70kmph is likely to prevail over the northeast Arabian Sea along and off remaining districts of south Gujarat coast on Wednesday.Squally wind, speed reaching 50-60kmph gusting to 70kmph is likely to prevail over the east-central Arabian Sea along and off Karnataka-Goa coasts during next 12 hours.Sea conditionThe sea condition will be high to very high over the east-central Arabian Sea and along and off Maharashtra and Goa coasts till Wednesday evening. It is very likely to be very rough to high over the northeast Arabian Sea along and off south Gujarat coast. Storm surge warningA storm surge of about 1-2 meters height above astronomical tide is very likely to inundate low lying areas of Mumbai, Thane and Raigad districts and 0.5-1 meter height above the astronomical tide likely to inundate low lying areas of Ratnagiri district during the time of landfall.Warning to fishermenFishermen have been advised not to venture into east-central and northeast Arabian Sea and along and off Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts till Wednesday. Damage expectedMajor damage to thatched houses and huts with the rooftops likely to blow off. Unattached metal sheets may fly. There will be damage to power and communication lines. Major damage to unpaved and some damage to paved roads. Flooding of escape routes. Tree branches may break, large trees may uproot and large dead limbs may blow off from trees. There could be damage to banana and papaya trees. Major damage to coastal crops and embankments and salt pans. Action suggested* Total suspension of fishing operations* Evacuation from low lying areas* Judicious regulation of rail and road traffic* People in affected areas to remain indoors* Movement in motorboats and small ships unsafeAfter landfallThe severe cyclonic storm is very likely to maintain its cyclonic storm intensity for about six hours, while moving north-northeast wards across northcentral Maharashtra.Under its influence, gale wind reaching 60-70kmph gusting to 80kmph very likely to prevail over Pune and Ahmadnagar and 55-65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph adjoining Beed, Nashik and Aurangabad districts of Maharashtra. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places are also very likely over these districts on Wednesday.Damage expected and action suggested for interior districts of Maharashtra—Pune, Ahmadnagar, Nashik, Aurangabad and adjoining Beed.There could be minor damage to power and communication lines and to unpaved and some damage to paved roads. Tree branches may break and small trees may be uprooted uprooting of small trees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-to-make-landfall-today-high-alert-in-mumbai/story-waHgRG9fjKHFskIkFTmICP.html
03-06-2020||India||6 more Covid-19 positive cases found in Vasco da Gama containment zone, Goa’s total tally reaches 79||Six more people have been found Covid-19 positive in Goa’s lone containment zone, taking the total number of persons who have contracted the coronavirus disease to eight within the area.The area in Mangor Hill - a locality in the port town of Vasco da Gama - was decalred a containment zone after two people - a husband wife duo - were found Covid-19 positive here on Monday. They were admitted to hospital after complaining of shortness of breath.“Six more cases have been found, four among the same family and two neighbours,” Goa’s Health Secretary Nila Mohanan said on Tuesday.One of the couple’s three sons - a police constable - and one daughter-in-law are among those who have been found Covid-19 positive. “Today we conducted 200 tests in the high risk zone as well as on people with co-morbidities and in the immediate vicinity of the house where the family is living,” Mohanan said, adding that the health authorities will continue to expand the radius of their testing till they are satisfied that the outbreak has been contained. The private medical practitioner who had referred the couple to the hospital has been confirmed as negative. Health Minister Vishwajit Rane too visited the containment zone “to assess the situation on the ground”.“To access the ground situation at Mangor hills and review the implementation of containment strategy as per the National Covid-19 Action Plan, I shall be visiting the containment zone to discuss further course of action to control the spread of the virus,” Rane said. No clear travel link has emerged leaving the health authorities flummoxed as to how the family contracted the virus. There are 1,700 to 2,000 people living inside the containment zone, Mohanan said. Before Monday, all people found positive in the state were those who had travelled from outside the state. This is the first instance of a person without a clear travel history who has been found positive. Goa’s total confirmed cases have climbed to 79 while the number of active cases has fallen to 22 after 13 patients recovered from the disease.The fresh positive cases come at a time when Goa was gearing up to grant further relaxations including reopening of restaurants, malls and gymnasia and allowing religious services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-more-covid-19-positive-cases-found-in-vasco-da-gama-containment-zone-goa-s-total-tally-reaches-79/story-Im9Hx9r9Kja4uSK56oja6N.html
03-06-2020||India||48 new cases of Covid-19 in Tripura, state’s tally reaches 469||Tripura’s Covid-19 tally reached 469 on Tuesday after 48 new cases were found on Tuesday. Of the total 48 cases, 43 patients had travel history while the rest five came in contact with Covid-19 patients. “Alert. More 25 people found #COVID19 POSITIVE in Tripura today out of 581 samples tested. Among them, 23 people have travel history & 2 people are contacts of COVID19 patients. Requesting everyone to be cautious,” Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote on his Twitter late on Tuesday evening. Alert ~More 2️⃣5️⃣ people found #COVID19 POSITIVE in Tripura today out of 581 samples tested. Among them, 23 people have travel history & 2 people are contacts of COVID19 patients.Requesting everyone to be cautious.#TripuraCOVID19CountThe 25 Covid-19 positive cases came hours after 23 positive cases were confirmed in the first phase.“23 people found COVID-19 #POSITIVE today in Tripura out of 380 samples tested. Among them, 20 people have travel history and 3 others were in contact of the previous COVID-19 patients,” Deb wrote on Twitter earlier in the day.Total 173 patients were recovered so far, according to the state health department. The chief minister urged people to follow government instructions and cooperate with authorities as the number of Covid-19 cases are rising.Officials said 18,858 out of 31,872 persons have completed their 14-day quarantine period and the rest 13,014 are still under surveillance.Of the 13,014 people, 441 are in institutional quarantine and the rest in home quarantine, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/48-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-tripura-state-s-tally-reaches-469/story-oO9voxBYIj2odrLXpRRRUL.html
03-06-2020||India||Pregnant elephant dies after being fed pineapple stuffed with crackers||A pregnant elephant died after a local allegedly fed her a pineapple stuffed with crackers, in Kerala’s Malappuram.The incident took place on May 27 while the elephant was standing in water and forest officials said that it died standing in river Velliyar after it suffered an injury in its lower jaw.Watch | Pregnant elephant dies allegedly after eating pineapple filled with crackers “First, we observed this animal on May 23 when we were informed by locals that an elephant has been roaming around in the private area of the forest. When one of our staff members went to saw the elephant, it was observed that the wound in the lower jaw area was exposed. Later, for at least 24 hours the animal was trying to look for water and on May 24 we received information that the animal has come into river Velliyar,” said Wildlife Officer, Silent Valley National Park.Also read: 6 days after its capture, elephant dies at Assam training facility“Even then the animal did not take any solid matter and only took water. It was very weak so we called a vet, he was of the opinion that it may not be possible to revive back but will see what options are available. Later we were told to observe the animal’s behaviour,” he added. The Wildlife Officer said they later planned to take the elephant out of the river but by then she had collapsed. “Today we thought of taking the animal to a safe spot to examine. Anyway, we had very little hope of reviving the animal because it has not been eating for many days. So, before we could take the animal out of the stream, it had collapsed and we hope it was a peaceful death,” he said. The officer informed that two doctors are here at the spot to carry out the post-mortem and after that, the carcass will be burnt.“The cause for the death is yet to be discovered and further investigation is underway,” he added. The elephant was seen standing in the river with her mouth and trunk in the water, for some relief from the pain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-elephant-dies-after-being-fed-pineapple-stuffed-with-crackers/story-WJtSwUfIegXRTDV3Lfo7TP.html
03-06-2020||India||We will get our growth back, PM Modi tells India Inc||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday voiced confidence in the economy’s ability to return to a path of rapid growth, listing it among his government’s top priorities and pledging its commitment to systematic reforms amid concerns that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic could plunge India into a prolonged slowdown.“Yes! We will definitely get our growth back,” Modi said in his speech to a conference on ‘Getting Growth Back’ organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) to mark the organisation’s 125th anniversary, as India emerges from the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent 68-day lockdown.“Some of you may think in this time of crisis how could I say this with such confidence? There are many reasons for this confidence. I’ve confidence in India’s capabilities and crisis management. I’ve confidence in India’s talent and technology; I’ve confidence in India’s innovation and intellect. I’ve confidence in India’s farmers, MSMEs [micro, small and medium enterprises] and entrepreneurs,” Modi said in Hindi through a video link.Modi’s first major speech on the economy since the post-Covid-19 lockdown began on March 25 came a day after Moody’s Investors Service cut India’s rating by one notch to the lowest investment grade with a negative outlook, citing growing risks that Asia’s third largest economy will face a prolonged period of slower growth. According to official data released on Friday, the economy grew 3.1% in the three months ended March 31, 2020, and 4.2% — the slowest pace in 11 years — in the financial year 2019-20. The prolonged nationwide lockdown in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic is expected to dent growth further.Moody’s said the lowering of India’s rating reflects its view that “the country’s policy making institutions will be challenged in enacting and implementing policies which effectively mitigate the risks of a sustained period of relatively low growth, significant further deterioration in the general government fiscal position and stress in the financial sector.”Congress member of Parliament Rahul Gandhi took note of Moody’s action in a Twitter post.  “Moody’s has rated Modi’s handling of India’s economy a step above JUNK,” he wrote. “Lack of support to the poor and the MSME sector means the worst is yet to come.”The upbeat note struck by Modi in his speech cheered the financial markets. The benchmark Sensex index of the Bombay Stock Exchange rose 522.01 points, or 1.57%, to 33,825.53 and the National Stock Exchange’s Nifty gained 152. 95 points, or 1.56%, to 9,979.10. The rupee gained 18 paise to 75.36 per dollarModi said one of the “highest priorities” of his government is to strengthen the economy.“For this the government is taking decisions required to be taken immediately. And simultaneously, such decisions have also been taken that would help the country in the long run,” he said. The Prime Minister was referring to the ~20.97 lakh crore citizens welfare and economic stimulus packages announced between March 26 and May 17 that included free foodgrains and direct cash benefits to the poor, credit guarantee schemes for the industry, monetary measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and wide-ranging policy reforms.India has left behind the lockdown and has entered into “unlock phase one” and a major part of the economy has restarted, Modi said. “Today we are able to do this because when coronavirus was spreading globally, India took right steps at the right time. When we compare us with other countries, we come to know about the effectiveness of the lockdown in India,” he said.“The Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) helped in giving immediate relief to the poor. Under this scheme, rations have been provided to 740 million beneficiaries. Free rations are also being supplied to the migrant labourers,” he said. He said the package helped the poor and 80 million of them got free cooking gas cylinders under the scheme. PMGKY was the first response to Covid-19 that was announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26. Prime Minister Modi said the entire package was a combination of providing relief to the underprivileged and restoring the economy along with policy reforms. “For us, reform is not a random or scattered decision. For us, reform is systematic, planned, integrated, inter-connected and futuristic process. For us, reform means dare to take decisions and take them to the logical conclusion,” he said.He said five things are necessary to take India on the higher growth trajectory — intent, inclusion, investment, infrastructure and innovation. “You can get a glimpse of them also in the bold decisions taken recently,” he said. The government has given farmers the freedom to sell their produce without having to go through middlemen. Modi said labour laws were being reformed to create more job opportunities and the private sector participation has been allowed in strategic sectors such as space and nuclear energy.Modi said the path of growth was self-reliance and the world had great expectations from India. “India has potential, strength and ability. All of you should, India’s industry should take full advantage of the trust the world has for India,” he said.He added: “Getting growth back is not that difficult. And, above all you have, Indian industries have a clear path, which is the path of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India).”“It is about creating a strong enterprise in India. Enterprises that can become global forces. it about generating employment. It is about empowering our people to come out and create solutions that can define the future of our country,” he said.Separately, electronics, information technology and communications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said India had emerged as the second-largest manufacturer of mobile phones in the world.“From just 2 factories, we now have 200 manufacturing units. India’s electronic manufacturing was worth ~190,366 crore in 2014, today it’s ~458,000 crore. India’s global share in electronics has risen from 1.3% in 2012 to 3% in 2018. Electronic production has surpassed exports,” he said. He also said that the Centre was working towards constructing a robust manufacturing ecosystem in the country. Sunil Kant Munjal, a past president of the CII and one of the founders of the Hero Group, said industry will play probably the most crucial role in making India self-reliant. “The Atmanirbhar Bharat which PM Modi talked about... will rightly be driven by the five ‘I’s — intent, inclusion, investment, infrastructure and innovation,” Munjal said. “Another ‘I’ of internet would be important too, though one could say that infrastructure would cover that. For India to stay safe and maintain modest growth in these difficult times, it is important that both government and industry show their best intent to take bold decisions and make tough choices which will make us competitive, strong, agile and better prepared to face the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-will-get-our-growth-back-pm-modi-tells-india-inc/story-hTq4aKeGeALMc4XSEaa1kI.html
03-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What we still don’t know||It’s the end of one quarter of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in India. Sure, the first cases in India, three people from Kerala who returned from Wuhan, China, the birthplace of the virus, date back to late January, but the number stayed at three for a long time. The next cases were recorded on March 2, making June 1 (Monday) the end of the first three months of the pandemic’s run in India.Tuesday, the beginning of the second, saw another milestone – India crossed 200,000 Covid-19 cases. The country ended Tuesday with 207,112 cases, of which 101,070 remain active. It is seventh in the list of countries in terms of number of cases. There have been 5,753 deaths so far and 100,289 have recovered. The country is currently testing just a little under 3,000 people per million population, although some states are doing much more. Tamil Nadu is testing 6,650 people per million; and Delhi 10,979.The number of daily cases in India continues to rise – the trailing five-day average on Tuesday was 8,025 – as does the number of daily deaths (the trailing five-day average was 215). Last week (on May 26), the corresponding five-day trailing averages were 6,775 daily cases and 154 daily deaths.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThere’s still a lot we do not know about the trajectory of the pandemic in India, and this is a good time to revisit these.One, we have no idea why the death rate in India, 2.8% on Monday, is much lower than the global 6%. Is it because the virus affects Indians differently? Is it because the BCG vaccine, almost universally given to children in India (for decades) helps Indians infected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus deal with it better? We don’t know. Nor do we know why the proportion of those needing critical care or ventilator support is lower in India than what it was in Italy and the US, two countries ravaged by the disease.Two, we have no idea what the actual death rate in India is. That’s because we are likely underestimating the number of cases. Positivity rates – the number of people testing positive to those tested – continue to rise across most states, including hot spots such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Delhi, which together account for around 57-58% of all cases in India, and 61% of active cases. Across the world, positivity rates continue to increase up to a point as the number of tests increase, then plateau, and finally start dipping. India is yet to reach that stage – indicating that we are still not testing enough, but this will only serve to reduce the death rate further. Indeed, while we do not know what the actual death rate is, we do know that it is probably lower than 2.8% (because we are underestimating cases).Three, are we also underestimating the number of deaths in India? After all, studies by the New York Times and the Financial Times have shown that many countries are, and significantly. The fragmented data available says we are not – there is no spike in the number of non-Covid deaths in March and April – but it makes sense to wait till we can get more comprehensive data. That’s another question to which the best answer would be: we don’t know.Four, we do not know how many Indians have been infected by the virus – and are therefore immune to it. There have been no widespread serological (blood) antibody tests that can provide this information.Five, we have no idea why the virus affects different geographies differently. For instance, Bengaluru is one of India’s most connected cities; it is home to tens of thousands of migrants from other states (and even other countries), yet it has a fraction of the cases that Delhi or Mumbai have.It is important we find answers to at least some of these — they will help us deal better with the coming peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-we-still-don-t-know/story-DulnyVY3lT4uSbqTtJSWFP.html
03-06-2020||India||Covid cases cross 200,000; rural clusters new challenge||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India surpassed 200,000 on Tuesday, nearly doubling over 15 days, even as a considerable reopening of national transport and business activity fuelled fears of localised outbreaks emerging in new areas beyond urban hot spots that have so far pushed the contagion.Globally, there are now 6.4 million infections of Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, and close to 380,000 deaths. In India, the number of fatalities on Tuesday was 5,753. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the country, however, stood at 2.8%, lower than the worldwide figure of 5.9%. About a fourth of India’s total infections have been reported over the past week.“Our Covid-19 fatality rate of 2.82% is among the lowest in the world, compared to a global fatality rate of 6.13%. We have been able to achieve this due to timely identification of cases and proper clinical management,” Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said at a news briefing on Tuesday.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageOfficial data from states showed 100,289 patients have so far recuperated from the disease in the country, taking the recovery rate to 48.4%, which is among the most promising figures on the infection across the world. The low CFR and high recovery rate indicate that India may not be witnessing an impact as severe as in some of the other countries ravaged by the pathogen.While experts say the peak of the outbreak is yet to come, an analysis on preprint server medRxiv showed that there could be independent regional crests across the vast geography of the country at different points in time. “The peaks might start as early as the end of July in some states and go all the way to September in many others,” said the research paper titled ‘Lockdown Effect on Covid-19 Spread in India’. Some studies also expect another infection spurt in winter this year.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said India was “far away from the peak”. “Our preventive measures to curtail Covid-19 have been very effective,” said ICMR scientist Nivedita Gupta.In the 93 days since the outbreak began, total infections were at 207,112 and 5,753 people died of the disease till Tuesday. Three states – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi – currently account for half of all infections in the country but the Union government has identified 145 new districts, mostly rural, that have reported cases over the past three weeks and could emerge as “epicentres”. New infections have been reported among the millions of migrants returning to their home towns from urban centres amid a national lockdown that has slowed economic activity.The latest 50,000 infections were recorded in a week. India reported its first 50,000 Covid-19 cases in nearly 66 days, with a wave of infections beginning in March after three isolated cases were first reported in Kerala in January. It took 12 days for the cases to climb from 50,000 to 100,000.The disease’s doubling rate, which is defined as the average period it takes for a twofold rise, changed from 13.9 days on May 18 – the day the cases hit 100,000 – to 15.2 on Tuesday. The rate was four days at the beginning of April.With a surge in Covid-19 cases, India has overtaken Germany and France to become the seventh biggest hot spot of the pathogen, which has rapidly swept the entire globe.“It is wrong comparison to look at total number of Covid-19 cases only and mention that India has the seventh highest cases. Our population too should be considered... Fourteen countries with total similar population as India have reported 22.5 times more cases and 55.2 times deaths,” Agarwal said.Experts say the cases are expected to surge as India exits the national lockdown – necessitated by the pandemic – in a graded manner and could spread to the rural parts of the country. The Centre has also reoriented its strategy against the outbreak – from asking people to “stay home” to break the chain of infections, it is now asking citizens to learn to live with the virus by ensuring strict social distancing and hand hygiene.“Our battle with Covid-19 is not over, but we will not be afraid of the virus. We will take all precautions and we are going to move on with our lives,” a tweet by the Press Information Bureau said while releasing a video on lockdown relaxations. “Our analysis shows that people at high risk from Covid-19 are elderly people and those with co-morbidities. One in every two Covid-19 deaths in India has been from the senior citizen population, who constitute 10% of our total population. 73% of Covid-19 deaths have been of people with co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart and respiratory diseases,” Agarwal said.The research paper published on medRxiv said that as isolated outbreaks spread across swathes of the country, the government needs to assess its response and preparedness. “Resources must be mobilised to help one cluster of states and then move to the next cluster. It might be useful for the central government and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to classify states in terms of the phases of the epidemic. Even as the worst-hit states are being addressed, the next set could be put on high alert. It is this dynamic policy intervention that will be required to deal effectively with the cascading pattern of the pandemic across Indian states,” it said.Efforts to ramp up testing have also led to a wider detection of cases. About 120,000 samples are being tested for Covid-19 on average every day, with 476 government and 205 private facilities carrying out diagnoses. There are, however, concerns that India could still largely be testing people with symptoms targetedly, leaving scope for the disease to spread undetected.On a question of whether community transmission, when a disease spreads indiscriminately in a population, was underway, the ICMR scientist said: “Instead of using the word community transmission, it is important to understand the extent of spread of the disease and where do we stand in comparison with other countries.” She added that ICMR was conducting a serological survey to assess the extent of the spread of the infectious disease. “Almost 34,000 people are being tested as a part of the survey; the results will be published in a week.”A record single-day spike of 1,298 fresh cases took the Covid-19 tally in Delhi to 22,132 and the death toll mounted to 556. Maharashtra reported 2,287 new cases, taking the tally to 72,300, while fatalities rose to 2,465.States with relatively fewer cases have seen spikes as residents, including migrant workers travelling in special trains, have returned home. UP reported 369 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 8,729, including 2,404 patients who are migrant workers. Experts say the coming weeks will be crucial and the gains of the lockdown could get undermined if clusters are not contained effectively||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-cross-200-000-rural-clusters-new-challenge/story-3EVw868CBX8xRdoIOdgXjJ.html
03-06-2020||India||Covid-19: India allows emergency use of remdesivir||Drug Controller General of India VG Somani has approved the use of Gilead Sciences Inc’s novel drug remdesivir to treat covid-19 patients, Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said on Tuesday.“The DCGI gave an emergency use permission for remdesivir... and this was based on evidence that was provided by the company to support its use against covid-19,” Aggawal said at a press conference.Aggarwal said further details on the protocols for use of the intravenous drug will be provided by the government in due course.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn India, Gilead has given voluntary licence for production of remdesivir to Cipla, Jubilant Life Sciences, Hetero Drugs and Mylan under a royalty-free arrangement till an alternative drug is found or until the World Health Organization removes the designation of ‘Public Health Emergency of International Concern’ for the covid-19 pandemic.Gilead’s remdesivir was earlier under trial for Ebola, but the drug could not pass clinical trials. However, the covid-19 pandemic has given a fresh life to the drug, which experts have said is complex to manufacture.Gilead Sciences Inc Monday said that its phase 3 clinical trial in hospitalised patients with moderate Covid-19 pneumonia showed that a five-day treatment course of remdesivir resulted in greater clinical improvement as compared to standard care alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-nod-for-emergency-use-of-remdesivir/story-JJ5156zen4IiiYvgRZaJ0N.html
03-06-2020||India||Two held for man’s abduction, murder in UP’s Pratapgarh||Pratapgarh police have arrested two people in connection with the alleged abduction of a 25-year-old man who was then set on fire after being tied to a tree in Bhujauli village late on Monday. He died on the spot. The backstory seems to suggest that the motive is a love affair gone wrong, with elements of revenge. Pratapgarh superintendent of police Abhishek Singh said the woman’s father Harishankar Patel and one of her relatives have been arrested in connection with the murder of Ambika Patel.  Police have lodged an FIR against 71 people and arrested five for attacking the police team and torching two police vehicles soon after the killing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-held-for-man-s-abduction-murder-in-up-s-pratapgarh/story-phnQypJyOPDmyRbeRV2JgO.html
03-06-2020||India||Enforcement Directorate files charge sheet against Sanjay Bhandari||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet against fugitive and alleged arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari who is under investigation for several offences, including the Official Secrets Act, in matters of sensitive defence documents.Officials familiar with the development said it was filed on Monday and detailed how he invested his proceeds from the crime. They said this was the first charge sheet against Bhandari, who had fled to the UK. It sought a non-bailable warrant after filing a charge sheet to enable it to send an extradition request against Bhandari.The Central Bureau of Investigation is also probing Bhandari in a Rs 2,895 crore-deal for 75 Pilatus basic trainer aircraft for the Indian Air Force in 2009. An Interpol red notice is pending against him. The investigation was launched against him when the Income Tax department raided his house in 2016 and found documents pertaining to several properties, apart from several defence documents.Bhandari is also under investigation for allegedly laundering money for properties allegedly linked to Robert Vadra in London, in which NRI businessman CC Thampi was arrested by ED in January this year.Vadra, who was questioned by the ED in May last year, has repeatedly denied all the allegations against him. “Witch-hunt continues for almost a decade,” he told HT last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enforcement-directorate-files-charge-sheet-against-sanjay-bhandari/story-Tydm7dmPslOouKCQxn8xFK.html
03-06-2020||India||PM Modi speaks to Donald Trump over G7 move||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday endorsed US President Donald Trump’s plan to expand the ambit of the Group of Seven (G7) for its next summit by including countries such as India, saying it was in line with the “emerging realities of the post-Covid world”.Modi made the remarks during a telephone conversation with Trump, according to an Indian government readout of the discussions. Trump spoke about the US presidency of G7, and his “desire to expand the ambit of the grouping beyond the existing membership, to include other important countries including India”. Trump also extended an invitation to Modi to attend the next G7 Summit to be held in the US in September.They also exchanged views on the situation on the India-China border, the Covid-19 situation in their countries and the need for reforms in the World Health Organization, the readout said without giving details.Modi commended Trump for his “creative and far-sighted approach” to the G7 Summit, and acknowledged that “such an expanded forum would be in keeping with the emerging realities of the post-Covid world”. He said India will be “happy to work with the US and other countries to ensure the success of the proposed summit”.On Monday, Trump had spoken to President Vladimir Putin on telephone, two days after he said he would also invite the Russian leader to the G7 Summit. The White House has said the two leaders discussed “progress toward convening the G-7”, and media reports said Trump had extended a personal invitation to Putin for the summit.Trump had told reporters about his plans on May 30. “I don’t feel that as a G7, it properly represents what’s going on in the world. It’s a very outdated group of countries,” he said.Modi had attended last year’s G7 Summit at Biarritz, France, as a special guest for the outreach session at the invitation of President Emmanuel Macron.On Tuesday, Modi expressed concern “regarding the ongoing civil disturbances in the US” and conveyed his best wishes for an early resolution of the situation, the readout said.Trump recalled his visit to India in February, and Modi said it had been “memorable and historic on many accounts” and also added new dynamism to bilateral ties. “The exceptional warmth and candour of the conversation reflected the special nature of the Indo-US ties, as well as the friendship and mutual esteem between both leaders,” the readout said. The conversation between Modi and Trump came four days after India doubled down on its rejection of the US President’s offer to mediate on the standoff with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-donald-trump-over-g7-move/story-971RdHJTohAHOMkFXkSHoO.html
03-06-2020||India||CBI books firm, officials for child pornography site||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Tuesday raided the premises of a private company based in Paschim Vihar, Delhi, for allegedly hosting child pornography on websites that had their servers in Russia, Netherlands and India, agency officials said. The agency has booked the company, its directors and other unidentified persons for violation of the Information Technology Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, they said.“It has been alleged that the said company hosted websites of Russian domain containing objectionable material pertaining to child sexual abuse. The case involves the alleged jurisdiction of India, Netherlands and Russian Federation as of now vis-à-vis the location of servers, facilitation of hosting of objectionable material and owner of the objectionable contents,” CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said.He said searches were conducted at the residence-cum-office premises of the accused which led to recovery of electronic devices and incriminating documents and material. The accused’s name was not disclosed by agency. Earlier, on the basis of a communication from the German Embassy in January last year, CBI registered a case against seven people for allegedly being part of WhatsApp groups with members in several countries in which child sexual abuse material including images and videos were being circulated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-firm-officials-for-child-pornography-site/story-vqkB8NS08F72onogyb1l7O.html
03-06-2020||India||Telangana mine blast kills 4 workers, injures 3 others||Four workers were killed and three others injured in an explosion in an opencast coal mine in Telangana’s Peddapalli district on Tuesday, police said.The four were identified as Rajesh, Arjaiah, Rakesh and Praveen, who were in their 30s and were contractual workers. Investigators said a preliminary probe has revealed that explosive material used to blast stones in open cast mines went off accidentally. “The blast is learnt to have occurred while fixing detonators in the holes,” a police officer said on condition of anonymity.Peddapalli Parliament member Venkatesh Netha, Ramagundam assembly member Korukanti Chander, Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) general secretary Janak Prasad and BJP district unit president Somarapu Satyanarayana visited the injured in the hospital.INTUC leaders demanded ex gratia of Rs 1 crore to each of the families of the deceased. “We demand ~50 lakh each for the three injured and a judicial probe into the explosion,” Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-mine-blast-kills-4-workers-injures-3-others/story-ZlTjI49nJcRiSOsGa9f8HJ.html
03-06-2020||India||India, Australia to boost defence and strategic ties during first virtual summit on June 4||The first India-Australia virtual leaders’ summit on June 4 is expected to build on growing defence ties between the two sides and shared approach to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, people familiar with development said on Tuesday.This will be Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first virtual bilateral summit, while Australia has held such a summit with Singapore in March. Since Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s visit to India was in the pipeline (first during January 13-16 and later in May), the two leaders decided to continue their engagement through a virtual meeting.Several agreements, including one on mutual sharing of military logistics facilities, are expected to be signed during the summit on June 4, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Australia has huge deposits of minerals, including rare earth metals, and the two sides have been working on cooperation in critical and strategic minerals, the people said.The virtual summit will provide an opportunity to the two sides to review the broad framework of the relationship and to discuss their responses to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Due to better understanding of India’s strength and future role, Australia, in its white paper on foreign policy of 2017, recognised India as the pre-eminent maritime power among Indian Ocean countries and a front-rank partner of Australia,” said one of the people.“India and Australia have developed an understanding of each other’s perspectives on regional and global issues. We have a shared approach to a free, open, inclusive, and prosperous Indo-Pacific. This has led to convergence of mutual interest in many areas,” the person added.At the plurilateral level, Australia has backed India’s global initiatives such as the International Solar Alliance and Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure. Australia also backs India’s membership of an expanded UN Security Council and supported the country’s membership of the Australia Group and Wassenaar Arrangement.“Australia has also been supportive of India’s position on cross-border terrorism and on asking Pakistan to take meaningful action against terrorist groups operating from its soil. Australia co-sponsored the UN Security Council resolution to declare Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar a global terrorist,” the person said.Bilateral trade was worth $20.92 billion during 2018-19, including India exports of goods and services worth $5.17 billion. Australia’s cumulative investment in India is about $10.74 billion while Indian investments in Australia totalled $10.45 billion. The Australian Pension Fund has invested $1 billion in India’s National Investment and Infrastructure Fund. Australia is home to a 700,000-strong Indian diaspora and there are about 106,000 Indian students in Australia. Under Vande Bharat Mission, 1,560 Indian nationals were repatriated from Australia in seven flights in May. The flights also evacuated 1,096 Australians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-to-boost-defence-and-strategic-ties-during-first-virtual-summit-on-june-4/story-aFeSdZHyNqvK8qBHmHYy5H.html
03-06-2020||India||Ahead of cyclonic storm, Gujarat government shifts 13,000 to safer places||As a precautionary measures being taken by state and district administration for impending cyclone Nisarga, which is likely to hit South Gujarat and Saurashtra regions on June 3 and June 4, the Gujarat government has so far shifted 13,000 people from coastal areas of various districts, officials said on Tuesday.Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast the cyclone accompanied with heavy rains with a velocity of 90-110 kmph to likely hit the coastal areas of Surat, Navsari, Valsad, Dangs and Bharuch in South Gujarat, besides Daman, and Amreli and Bhavnagar districts in Saurashtra region. South Gujarat region is on high alert warning and Saurashtra on alert warning.“13,000 people from coastal areas of Surat, Navsari, Valsad, Dangs and Bharuch in South Gujarat, besides Daman, and Amreli and Bhavnagar districts in Saurashtra region have been shifted to safer locations. Ten NDRF team have been deployed and more five will be deployed across these coastal regions. The rescue teams shifting people to safer places have to be equipped with masks, PPE kits, hand sanitisers, ” said Pankaj Kumar, additional chief secretary (ACS), revenue.Kumar added that we have made shelter homes for people to stay where food and other things will be provided. The shelter homes are well sanitized and social distancing will be followed keeping in mind the current Covid-19 pandemic situation, he said. “We have also made provisions to ensure minimum disruption of electricity. We will ensure that power cut doesn’t affect functioning of Covid-19 Hospitals and power is restored back at the earliest. The district administrations have been asked to prepare a list of Covid patients and arrange temporary Shelter Homes and Covid Hospitals in nearby schools and colleges from now on itself, ” the ACS said.The ACS also said that the market yards and godowns have been advised to move cereals, fruits, vegetables and other farm produces lying in the open to covered sheds. The Gujarat government’s state control room and all the district control rooms have been asked to remain on alert 24x7, he added.Special teams have been deployed that are constantly educating people to stay away from coastal areas and be safe while maintaining social distancing and wearing masks.Gujarat energy minister Saurabh Patel said that all the power distribution companies of the state would be equipped to ensure uninterrupted supply of electricity in the entire state. “The power companies of the state are ready to tackle all kinds of difficulties without any problem during cyclone Nisarg. Nodal officers have been appointed by all these subsidiaries to assist in immediate redressal of any ground-level power outage,”said Patel.The energy minister added that all the nodal officers have been asked to give priority in power supply to all feeder power supplies at key locations including hospitals, primary health centres, community health centres, water works, government offices, telecom offices and also to restore power supply on immediate basis in case of any interruption.“Adequate stock of equipment including transformers, conductors, cables, insulators is required in sensitive areas where hurricanes are most likely to be affected have been arranged. Poles are also kept in sufficient numbers to meet any type of emergency where there is a possibility of greater impact of the hurricane,”said Patel. He further informed that teams of 683 contractors with a manpower of about 3,763 have been deployed for the task of repairing any electric pole broken, erecting or requiring electric network.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani had also hold a meeting of high-power committee meeting on Monday to review the precautionary measures being taken by state and district administration for cyclone forecast likely to hit South Gujarat and Saurashtra regions on June 3.The CM had directed the district collectors to ensure that those living in low-lying areas in these coastal areas, including fishermen, those engaged in prawn farming and salt pan workers, be shifted to safer places by 12.00 noon of Tuesday, June 2.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday had said that the low-pressure area formed over the Arabian Sea has intensified into a depression and it will further intensify into a cyclonic storm in the next 36 hours.It warned that the cyclonic storm will cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts late in the evening on June 3, bringing in its wake heavy rains.“The (low-pressure) system is around 900km away from Surat at present. We expect the cyclonic storm to hit the southern Gujarat coast near Daman on June 3 evening with a wind speed of 90 to 100 km per hour. It will bring heavy rainfall in the south Gujarat region on June 3 and 4. It may have some impact in Bhavnagar and Amreli districts of the Saurashtra region as well,” Director of MET Centre here, Jayanta Sarkar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-cyclonic-storm-gujarat-government-shifts-13-000-to-safer-places/story-9piVrKdgY3wNDsrxZ1yO7M.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga to hit coasts of Gujarat, Maharashtra today||A deep depression over east-central Arabian Sea, which intensified into cyclone Nisarga on Tuesday noon is expected to make landfall as a severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph near Alibag in Raigad district on June 3, the India Metereological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. Located 94 km from Mumbai, Alibag is a popular seaside resort town for Mumbai’s elite and home to a large fisherfolk community. It started as a warning on Sunday for mid-week heavy rains in Mumbai and by Monday, rapidly developed into a red alert for several coastal districts as the deep depression progressed over the Arabian Sea. As of Tuesday noon, cyclone Nisarga was 280 km west-southwest of Goa, 490 km south-southwest of Mumbai and 710 km south-southwest of Surat . The IMD said that the cyclone was likely to cross north Maharashtra and adjoining south Gujarat coast between Daman and Harihareshwar in Raigad on Wednesday afternoon.The western coastline from Konkan’s Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri to Saurashtra’s Bhavnagar and other districts of Gujarat including Surat and Baruch have received wind warnings ranging from 55-65 kmph (gusting to 75kmph) and increasing to gusting speeds of 115-120kmph in four Maharashtra districts of Palghar, Mumbai, Thane and Raigad. Though a wide expanse of districts stands to be affected across coastal Maharashtra and Gujarat, higher wind speeds in the four districts mentioned above offer an indication of where the cyclone is likely to have maximum impact. “The landfall location will be very close to Alibag but extensive damage can be expected in Mumbai also. For Mumbai, Thane and Raigad there can be storm surge of 1-2 metres and a warning for extremely heavy rainfall has been issued,” M Mohapatra, director general IMD, said. Additional storm surge warnings — shoreward movement of water above astronomical tide height under the action of wind stress — have also been issued for Raigad, Thane, Greater Mumbai and Ratnagiri. Storm surges indicate the extent of inundation to expect. A storm surge of 0.5m to 1.3m over coastal Alibag may result in flooding up to 1.4km of low-lying area. The city of Mumbai and its suburban satellite of Thane, already beleaguered by daily caseload of Covid-19 infections — the capital city breached the 40,000 mark at the start of the week — are in the cyclonic path, leading to concern over whether the city healthcare infrastructure would be able to cope. The IMD sounded a red alert as extremely heavy rains (over 20 cm) are expected in parts of Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Sindhudurg, and Palghar among other districts.Roxy Mathew Koll, senior scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) Pune, said that if landfall happened over Raigad, maximum rainfall should be expected over areas to its north, where Mumbai falls. “Not just the direct impact of winds but forecast indicates heavy rain up to 200mm while the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services has forecast storm surges with waves of 3-6 metres as the cyclone approaches landfall.If this happens during high tide on June 3 then flooding will be a major concern for a city that is already clogged.”“The last severe cyclonic storm to hit close to Mumbai was in 1961. This storm is severe but with a wind speed of only 100 to 110 kmph. The important thing is to take all precautions possible, which state governments are trying. Inundation is possible so evacuation of vulnerable people is important,” said Mohapatra.But experts warned that devastation can be extensive as today’s Mumbai is very different from the Bombay of 1960’s which has lost most of its floodplains and rivulets and is now counted as among the densest cities in the world. “Where are Mumbai’s floodplains now? Mithi river used to flow then, now it’s a nallah [drain]. Natural defenses like mangroves and rivers have been squeezed out of the city for expanding roads, buildings, and the airport. Hence, when heavy rains lash over a city like Mumbai which has lost its flood plains and defences, the flooding gets prolonged there too,”said Koll.IMD officials said pre-monsoon cyclones like Nisarga were not a rare event, citing the example of very severe cyclone Vayu in June 2019, which was supposed to have made landfall over the Gujarat coastline, but ended up as a low pressure system. “We are observing the increase in pre-monsoon cyclones in Arabian Sea. While we should not draw a trend until observing such weather systems for at least a few years. However, we are assessing whether these systems are intensifying faster than before [which could be] due to numerous factors including rising ocean temperatures,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD. “Some of the weakest cyclones at sea are being strengthened due to global warming and climate change impacts. This is no more a theory, and is being witnessed every monsoon in Arabian Sea now,” Anjal Prakash, author of an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report, said.The name, Nisarga proposed by Bangladesh, means ‘nature’. It is the 65th named cyclone in the north Indian Ocean and the second pre-monsoon cyclone to hit the Konkan coast since 1891. It comes in the wake of cyclone Amphan that devastated the lives of over a million people and left 86 dead when it made landfall as a very severe cyclonic storm on May 21 at the Sunderbans, in West Bengal.Skymet, a private weather forecaster differed from the IMD’s prediction of the cyclonic path. “Our weather models are showing the landfall north of Mumbai with crucial period of extremely heavy rain and gale winds expected from Tuesday evening to Wednesday afternoon,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (meteorology and climate change).//ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-on-course-maha-and-guj-on-alert/story-D4YTiW2Z7CpKOn0pagLlQP.html
03-06-2020||India||6,500 Pak nationals among fighters in Afghanistan: UN||There are some 6,500 Pakistani nationals among the foreign terrorists operating in Afghanistan and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) play a key role in bringing foreign fighters into the war-torn country, according to a UN report.The report, from the UN Security Council’s analytical support and sanctions monitoring team and issued late last month, indicated the Pakistani terrorists formed a significant part of the foreign fighters that pose a serious threat to Afghanistan’s security because of their activities and permanent presence in the country.The report said the Afghan Taliban’s role as a credible counter-terrorism partner for the international community in the aftermath of the February agreement with the US will need careful monitoring because of the “number of foreign terrorist fighters in search of a purpose and livelihood in Afghanistan, including up to 6,500 Pakistanis”.There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to the UN report.There have been reports since last year of JeM and LeT, both blamed for high-profile attacks in India, sending in hundreds of fighters to Afghanistan following increased pressure from the world community on Pakistan to crack down on terror groups.The UN report said Afghan officials highlighted Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), JeM and LeT among the foreign groups posing a security threat. All three groups have a presence in the eastern Afghan provinces of Kunar, Nangarhar, and Nuristan, “where they operate under the umbrella of the Afghan Taliban”, the report said.Afghan interlocutors said JeM and LeT “facilitate the trafficking of terrorist fighters into Afghanistan, who act as advisers, trainers, and specialists in improvised explosive devices”.The report added: “Both groups are responsible for carrying out targeted assassinations against government officials and others. Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-i-Mohammed were stated to have approximately 800 and 200 armed fighters, respectively, co-located with Taliban forces in Mohmand Darah, Dur Baba and Sherzad Districts of Nangarhar Province.”In Kunar province, LeT “retains a further 220 fighters” and JeM “has a further 30, all of whom are dispersed within Taliban forces”, according to the report.The TTP in Afghanistan is led by Noor Wali Mehsud and the group is thought to have about 500 fighters in Kunar and about 180 in Nangarhar.The report also highlighted the close and enduring links between the Afghan Taliban and al-Qaeda despite the signing of the agreement with the US in February. The agreement provided for the drawdown of American troops in exchange for counter-terrorism measures by the Afghan Taliban and intra-Afghan talks aimed at a permanent ceasefire.“Early indications are that many, if not all, of these objectives, will prove challenging,” the report said.The report said the Haqqani Network – a key component of the Afghan Taliban which Indian and Afghan officials have long contended has ties with Pakistan’s military establishment – continues to be close to al-Qaeda. It added that al-Qaeda chief Ayman al-Zawahiri met members of the Haqqani Network as recently as February.The report also highlighted the presence of Pakistani terrorists in the Islamic State’s Khorasan chapter, such as commander Abdullah Orakzai alias Aslam Farooqi, who was captured with 21 others in Kandahar in March. Twelve Pakistani nationals were captured along with Farooqi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-500-pak-nationals-among-fighters-in-afghanistan-un/story-ebw8kdoFAVW4vTu7KyS40M.html
03-06-2020||India||Supreme Court stays order on Navlakha||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed a Delhi high court order in which it had on May 27 criticized the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for “whisking away” activist Gautam Navlakha from Delhi to Mumbai even as his interim bail was pending before it.The high court had directed the investigating officer to produce the entire set of records filed before NIA courts in Mumbai and Delhi for obtaining a production warrant and for extension of Navlakha’s judicial remand and fixed the matter for hearing next on June 3.NIA moved the apex court against the order. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer, and Indira Banerjee directed the stay and sought response of Navlakha on NIA’s plea by June 15 when the case will be heard next.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented NIA, said that the high court has no territorial jurisdiction to call for records. He added the petition pending before it related to interim bail which was not maintainable. Mehta told the apex court that NIA did not act in haste while moving Navlakha to Mumbai. He said Navlakha surrendered in Delhi on April 14 but could not be moved to Mumbai due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Mehta added Navlakha was moved only after necessary permission was obtained from the NIA court in Mumbai.Navlakha and other activists face charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for their alleged links with the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). They are accused of making inflammatory speeches at an event on December 31, 2017, that allegedly triggered violence in Bhima-Koregaon near Pune.NIA argued since cases under UAPA are tried by special courts, even bail applications will have to be filed before them. It added even the jurisdictional court to approach for interim bail will be the Bombay and not the Delhi high court.The high court on May 27 pulled up NIA for “whisking away” Navlakha from Delhi’s Tihar Jail on a production warrant issued by a special judge in Mumbai, where he is lodged at Taloja Jail.“The NIA has acted in unseemly haste to instead remove the applicant out of the very jurisdiction of this court; and, if the applicant is right, without even informing the Special Judge (NIA), Mumbai or the Special Judge (NIA), Delhi of the pendency of the present proceedings.”EXPERT COMMENT, ANY REACTIONS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-order-on-navlaha/story-urQIXfMjgmgFZ1rnP0qdRP.html
03-06-2020||India||ED files chargesheet against Chidambaram, Karti in INX Media case||The Enforcement Directorate has filed a charge sheet against senior Congress leader P Chidambaram and his son Karti Chidambaram in connection with its money laundering probe related in INX Media, people familiar with the development told HT.The chargesheet, they said, was filed on Monday before the court of special CBI judge Ajay Kumar Kumar naming both father and son alleging that they were the beneficial owners of several shell firms that were incorporated in India and abroad in connection with a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) approval given to the INX Media group during Chidambaram’s tenure as the union finance minister.P Chidambaram was arrested by the agency in October last year inside the Tihar jail in the case. Earlier, the senior Congress leader was arrested by the CBI in August, 2019.Currently both of them are out on bail.ED has alleged earlier during court hearings that “for FIPB approval, Peter and Indrani Mukerjea (then owners of INX) met P Chidambaram so that there was no hold up or delay in their application. P Chidambaram asked for his son’s business interests to be kept in mind. ED identified payments of Rs 3.09 crore by Peter Mukerjea to ASCPL (Advantage Strategic Consultancy Pvt Ltd) and associated entities controlled by Karti P Chidambaram through manipulated debit notes.”“During investigation, it was admitted that debit notes were raised on the directions of Karti Chidambaram to show some transaction which in fact did not occur,” the agency has alleged. It said the money so received by associated entities was channelled back into ASCPL.“The funds received by ASCPL were invested and ASCPL also purchased shares of Vasan Health Care. A part of these shares was sold at a profit of nearly Rs 41 crore. ASCPL also earned Rs.18.49 crore from sale of shares in another company for an amount of Rs 29.49 crore. These funds arising from sale of laundered property is also property involved in money laundering,” it has claimed.The agency had, in February 2019, attached properties worth Rs 54 crore allegedly belonging to Karti in Spain, the UK and India.Indrani Mukherjea, in her statement to CBI, has claimed that US dollars 5 million and US dollars 4,50,000 were transferred in overseas account of Congress leader in 2007 and 2009 respectively after getting money from INX’s foreign investors while a cash payment of Rs 1 crore was made to Karti in Delhi in 2009. HT has copy of her statement.When contacted, Karti Chidabaram said on Tuesday “I will not comment until something is served to me fomally.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-charge-sheet-against-pc-karti-in-inx-media-case/story-hxdvW9w2kWiF99FKkUOS1M.html
03-06-2020||India||Jessica Lal murder: Manu Sharma free after 21 years||Manu Sharma, who was serving a life term after being convicted of the murder of model Jessica Lal in 1999, was released from Tihar jail on Monday evening. His release, along with that of 18 other convicts, was approved by lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal. Confirming the release, Sharma’s lawyer Amit Sahni said the lieutenant governor had accepted the recommendations of the sentence review board, which met on May 11. A spokesperson from the L-G’s office said the sentence review board recommended Sharma’s release without any disagreement, and that the L-G concurred with the recommendations approved by state home minister Satyendar Jain.Any convict -- barring one found guilty of heinous crimes such as rape and murder, murder and robbery, murder in cases of terrorism and murder while out on parole -- who has completed 14 years in prison is eligible for early release. Sharma has served around 16 years of actual sentencing. According to jail records, with time earned for good conduct (remission), he has completed 23 years.The prison’s director-general Sandeep Goel confirmed that Sharma was released on Monday. Since 2018, , Sharma was lodged in the open jail of the prison. Open jail prisoners are allowed to step out for work but have to return in the evening and spend the night inside the prison complex. They are housed in flats within the prison complex. HT first reported this development on April 22, 2018, and that it was possibly the penultimate step towards his release.In November 2019, Sahni, Sharma’s advocate, approached the Delhi high court seeking his release. In his plea, he had said that despite spending 23 years in jail (with remission added), and a record of good conduct in prison, the sentence review board denied his client’s release on four separate occasions in an “unfair and unlawful manner”.The Delhi high court then asked the board to consider Sharma’s case for release in its next meeting, which took place on May 11. The seven-member board consists of the state home minister as its chairman, the prison’s director-general, state home secretary, state law secretary, a district judge, the government’s chief probationary officer, and a joint commissioner-rank officer of Delhi Police.Siddharth Vashishta,43, better known by his alias Manu Sharma, shot dead model Jessica Lal, who was tending an unlicensed bar at a private party on April 30, 1999, after she refused to serve him a drink well past midnight. He is the son of Haryana politician Venod Sharma.Last month, after SRB recommended Sharma’s release to the lieutenant governor, Lal’s sister Sabrina said that she had forgiven Sharma and that he had served his time for the crime. Sabrina Lal also said that it was time for her to move on. “My fight was always for justice. We got justice. If he is released. I have no problem,” she said. When contacted on Tuesday, Lal said: “The past is behind me. Our fight was always for justice. I just hope that pray that he is a reformed man and learned his lesson.” Sharma’s acquittal by a city court in February 2006 triggered protests across the country, after which the Delhi high court took up the case. The high court reversed the lower court’s order, saying it ignored or misread material evidence. Sharma was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment in December 2006. The Supreme Court upheld the order in 2010.Prison officials said Sharma’s work inside the prison helped his case for release. He runs an NGO, Siddhartha Vashishta Charitable Trust, that started working in Tihar around eight years ago, and has funded the education of the children of prison inmates. His non-profit has also worked towards the rehabilitation of families of underprivileged prisoners. Sunil Gupta, who was the prison’s legal officer for 35 years and who knew Sharma inside prison, said Sharma’s good conduct good work helped pave the way for his early release. “I interacted with him many times during my years in prison. He helped the jail factory in branding its products and made it famous. It was his idea to open outlets or sell the products on the web. His NGO also focused on the children of prisoners and helped hundreds of families,” Gupta said.Gupta also added that had Sharma not been a “high-profile prisoner” he may have been released just after completing 14 years in prison. ”His remarkable work in prison was lauded by everyone. Also one must remember that a prison is a reformation centre. It is not a place to lock anyone forever.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jessica-lal-murder-manu-sharma-free-after-21-years/story-tTFOtgOgusiMRFcsZIPAmI.html
03-06-2020||India||Assam landslides leave 20 dead; 8k displaced people taken to camps||At least 20 people, including three children, were killed and several others injured in landslides triggered by heavy rain in the three districts of Assam’s Barak Valley on Tuesday.“Six persons were killed in Karimganj and seven each in Hailakandi and Cachar districts of the region in separate incidents,” said Assam forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya, who visited the districts.Following instructions from Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Rs 4 lakh each was being given to families of the victims.Seven persons were killed in Joyour area of Cachar district in a massive landslide that buried their house. Two persons who were seriously injured have been admitted in Silchar Medical College Hospital.“Seven persons died in a landslide in Bolor Bazaar area of Mohonpur in Hailakandi district in the early hours of Tuesday. The landslide took place due to incessant rainfall in the area over the past three days,” said a Hailakandi district information department official, requesting anonymity.Besides the 20 deaths because of landslides on Tuesday, nine people had drowned in Assam until Monday in the first spate of floods that affected 11 districts. Nearly 8,000 displaced people have been sheltered in relief camps.Officials said the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel have rushed to the three landslide sites.Sonowal condoled the loss of lives in the landslides. “Deeply anguished at the loss of lives due to landslides triggered by incessant rain in Barak valley. I have directed Cachar, Hailakandi & Karimganj district administrations and SDRF to step up rescue, relief operations and facilitate all possible help needed to those affected,” he said in a tweet.Suklavaidya, who was in Hailakandi town to review the Covid-19 pandemic situation, has directed district authorities to immediately send their reports on the landslide to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-landslides-leave-20-dead-8k-displaced-people-taken-to-camps/story-8wBVz2OH0wOYJeCl8RXfmK.html
03-06-2020||India||Assam gas well blowout puts biodiversity at risk||The blowout of an Oil India Limited (OIL) gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district last week is causing extensive damage to biodiversity and wildlife the region -- including the endangered hoolock gibbons and Gangetic dolphins -- according to several residents, activists and experts.Baghjan, where the gas well blowout occurred on May 27 is close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park, the Maguri-Motapung wetlands, and the forest villages of Barekuri which are habitat to the hoolock gibbon.Uncontrollable gas flow is continuing from the gas well, according a press statement issued by Oil India Limited on Monday.“What we are seeing is complete horror. Condensed oil is leaking continuously. The Maguri-Motapung wetlands (an important bird and biodiversity area) is very badly affected. There is a thick layer of crude oil on the water. Fish are dying and some cattle that graze in the adjacent wetlands are also dead,” said Mridupaban Phukon, a student and wildlife activist.“We have been informed by people in Barekuri villages that condensed oil is coating leaves and has started affecting the hoolock gibbon habitat. If not contained immediately the wetlands and national park will be devastated,” he said over phone.Around 650 families have been evacuated from the affected areas and continue camped in three relief camps.“I visited the area on Sunday but it was barricaded. I could see the damage everywhere. Dead fish were floating and the vegetation is brown now. One Gangetic dolphin died soon after the leak. Usually the Maguri bheel is rich with birdlife, I could hardly spot any birds that day. I appeal for immediate help,” said Nabamita Ray, doctor and wildlife enthusiast.AM Singh, principal chief conservator of forests, Assam and spokesperson of environment ministry said that a team of forest officials, pollution control board members and OIL officials will submit a report on Wednesday while another committee which also has independent members from IIT Guwahati are assessing damage in the national park.Oil India’s crisis management team (CMT) members have started pumping water through the casing valve. “Water is being pumped continuously through the valve into the well head. Oil India has also contacted global experts to control the blowout,” the press statement cited above said, adding that the water pumps are being installed in the nearby river (source of water) and pipeline-laying work is in progress. Officials said that an additional plot of land adjacent to the well site has also been arranged to create a big reservoir of water and to place the well control equipment in it. A blowout is the uncontrolled release of crude oil or natural gas from an oil well or gas well after pressure control systems have failed. According to Oil India, the blowout happened on May 27 while operations were going to produce gas from a new sand (oil and gas-bearing reservoir) at a depth of 3,279 metres. The well was until then producing around 100,000 standard cubic metres a day of gas. Assam Chief Wildlife Warden and additional principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) MK Yadava said an assessment is underway to measure the damage to the ecology and animal and bird species in the area because of the blowout. He added that the carcass of a Gangetic dolphin found at Maguri beel has been sent for forensic examination.“In the two days after the accident, the condense oil had only spread up to 500 metres but now it has spread in 1.5km radius as per our observations. Oil India is saying it may take another week. Who will compensate for this damage?” asked Hemanta Moran, Principal, Jatiya Vidyalaya Baghjan.According to a 2013 site inspection report regarding oil and gas pipelines in Upper Assam by conservation scientists and former members of National Board for Wildlife, MD Madhusudan and Prerna Singh Bindra, the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and Biosphere Reserve meet at the confluence of the Brahmaputra with three of India’s easternmost rivers—the Siang, Dibang and Lohit rivers. The park shaped by the these rivers is spread over 765 sq-km, of which 340 sq-km form the core and is a complex of wetlands, alluvial grasslands, riverine forests, swamps and semi-evergreen forests, including the largest willow swamp forest in north-east India.Dibru-Saikhowa has recorded over 40 mammals, 500 species of birds, 104 fish species, 105 butterfly species and 680 types of plants. It harbours tigers, elephants, wild buffalos, leopards, hoolock gibbons, capped langurs, slow lorises, Gangetic dolphins, besides critically endangered bird species such as the Bengal florican, white-winged duck, greater adjutant stork, white-rumped vulture, slender-billed vulture, and the very rare and endemic black-breasted parrotbill.Meanwhile, an OIL advertisement last month said the union environment ministry has accorded environmental clearance on May 11 for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at 7 locations under Dibru Saikhowa National Park. HT verified documents on environment ministry’s Parivesh website which also states that the clearance was accorded.“The continued oil leakage from the blow it is a horrific environmental crime. It has caused the death of the endangered Gangetic dolphin and thousands of fish, laying wetlands and fields waste, it is endangering the rare hoolock gibbons. Unfortunately, this is not the first time there has been such a leakage or environmental norms have been flouted –indeed part of the pipeline in the eco-sensitive zone of the Dibru-Saikhowa National park had been laid before mandatory environment approvals were given. Dibru-Saikhowa and its surrounding landscape has immense ecological values, and allowing drilling inside a national park is against the spirit and letter of the law, besides violating our basic constitutional principles of protecting environment,” said Bindra, who visited the site as a National Board for Wildlife member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gas-well-blowout-puts-biodiversity-at-risk/story-2vC9dFDWMqMRC5d22HEuHN.html
03-06-2020||India||Centre looks to simplify laws, decriminalise minor offences||The Narendra Modi government plans to undertake a wide-ranging review of existing laws and decriminalize many” minor” offences, especially if there are alternative processes to deal with them, as it seeks to promote ease of doing business and decongest the justice system, according to senior functionaries aware of the development.The government has been making a concerted effort to simplify the laws and increase the efficiency of the criminal justice system. As part of the exercise, the Modi government is seeking to embark on an exercise to decriminalize criminal offences that are deemed to be minor.According to a person with knowledge of the of development, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba has on Monday instructed the secretaries of Union ministries and departments to undertake a “comprehensive review” of all the legislations under their purview to identify provisions that need to be decriminalized or wherein the punishment should be rationalised.Gauba has told the secretaries that the exercise is aimed at decriminalizing minor offences with the aim of ensuring speedy resolution through compounding, a process that entails an entity accepting that it has committed an offence and seeks to be condoned.The move is aimed at preventing harassment of citizens, declogging the criminal justice system and also to promote ease of doing business.Ministries have been asked to hold consultations with all stakeholders on laws which they believe can be decriminalized. The cabinet secretary, the top civil servant, has suggested that the exercise be completed within one month. The government policy think-tank, NITI Aayog, would also be providing support to different ministries to conduct the exercise, said the person cited above.Gauba, it is learnt, has suggested that the secretary who is the top official in any ministry, supervise the entire exercise.The deliberations that various ministries hold will be shared with a committee of secretaries that will take decisions on which laws need to be decriminalised.The ministries have been asked to provide a list of laws wherein penal provisions exist that can be decriminalized. The ministries have also been asked to provide timelines for carrying out the exercise.Demands have been voiced by various quarters to decriminalize Acts including those related to running businesses, copyrights, defamation and other offences. It is only after a ministry suggests the decriminalizing of a particular provision that the process can be taken forward. The government has in the past worked to decriminalize certain provisions under the Companies Act in an effort to promote the ease of doing business.In March, the Union cabinet cleared 72 amendments to the Companies Act, 2013, decriminalizing various offences and moderating the penalty regime to boost of ease doing business.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told reporters that the proposed changes will make the Companies Act, 2013 “more humane”.Sitharaman said a ministerial panel had looked into how many sections in the Companies Act caused businesses worries. “We suggested 72 changes to 65 sections in the Companies Act, 2013. In this set of amendments, the priority is to decriminalise the Act. Majority of the changes are to remove criminality of the offences where no mala fide is intended. The major thrust is to improve the ease of doing business and to decriminalise the law,” the minister said.Veteran bureaucrat and former I&B Union secretary Uday Kumar Varma said as time passes and circumstances change it is important to have a new look at the laws and their provisions.“Revisiting old laws is a very necessary phenomenon. No law is static. Perhaps, what is being proposed is to ratioinalise many provisions of the law and bring about better synchronization. This process seems a natural and desirable process. This is also a requirement for ease of doing business and for economic development. Ease of doing business is desirable as long as it does not come at the cost of any section or puts national interest in jeopardy. However, in this case, prima facie, to me this seems a natural exercise,” Varma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-looks-to-simplify-laws-decriminalise-minor-offences/story-EgXlfcJ8inxeiuXJ3zaIcP.html
03-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 2-lakh mark; 1 lakh new cases detected in 15 days||The nationwide tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases crossed the 2-lakh mark on Tuesday with almost one lakh people testing positive for the dreaded virus infection in the last 15 days. The government, however, said its preventive measures to contain the disease have been very effective, as shown by a much lower fatality rate than several other countries. Authorities also said the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients was improving consistently in India and it was in a much better position in handling the pandemic, which has seen more than 63 lakh people testing positive for this virus since its emergence in China last December and over 3.7 lakh having lost their lives. In its morning update, the Union Health Ministry said the novel coronavirus death toll has risen to 5,598 in India with 204 more fatalities in 24 hours since Monday 8 AM, while 8,171 new cases were detected during this period to take the overall tally to 1,98, 706. This included more than 97,500 active cases, while more than 95,000 have recovered. However, a PTI tally of figures announced by different states and union territories as of 10.05 PM showed the cumulative count of confirmed Covid-19 cases having risen to 2,00,321 and the death toll of 5,739. It also showed a higher count of recoveries at 99,613, leaving nearly 95,000 active cases across the country. A real-time global coronavirus tracker of Johns Hopkins University & Medicine showed India’s tally of positive cases at 2,01,997 as of 10.15 PM. India’s first Covid-19 case was detected in Kerala on January 30, while the tally took 110 days to reach the one-lakh mark on May 18. However, close to one lakh new cases have been detected in 15 days since then. On the positive side, this is the first time in seven days that the count of new cases has come down, while the 24-hour death toll also came down considerably from 230 recorded by the Union Health Ministry on Monday morning -- the second-highest after an all-time high of 265 deaths recorded on May 30th morning. Testing infrastructure has also been ramped up considerably in India in the recent months with an average of 1.2 lakh tests being conducted every day now. So far, close to 40 lakh tests have been conducted in India, putting it among the top-five nations globally on this parameter alongside the US, Russia, UK and Spain. However, India does not figure even among the top-100 countries when it comes to tests per one lakh population. At present, India is the world’s seventh worst hit nation in terms of overall case count, after the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK, Spain and Italy. While more than 18 lakh cases have been detected in the US so far, Brazil has over 5 lakh cases and Russia has over 4 lakh. The UK tally is nearly 2,8 lakh cases, followed by close to 2.4 lakh in Spain and about 2.3 lakh in Italy. In terms of the death toll, the US tops the global tally with more than 1.05 lakh fatalities, while India does not figure among the top-ten countries on this parameter. More than 27 lakh have recovered so far across the world, with the US again topping this chart with nearly 4.6 lakh recoveries, followed by Brazil, Russia, Germany, Italy, Spain, Turkey, Iran, India and China in the top-ten. In terms of active cases, India figures among the top-five nations, while the US again is on the top with more than 11 lakh active cases. The government said India is far away from the peak of Covid-19 spread and its preventive measures have been “very effective”, putting it in a much better position in comparison with other countries. Addressing a press conference on the Covid-19 situation, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said it is wrong to just look at the total number of cases and state that India has the seventh highest number of cases as the population of countries also should be taken into account. About 14 countries with a cumulative population almost equal to that of India have reported 55.2 times more Covid-19 deaths, he said. “Our Covid-19 fatality rate of 2.82 per cent and amongst the lowest in the world, compared to a global fatality rate of 6.13 per cent. We have been able to achieve this due to timely identification of cases and proper clinical management,” Agarwal said. He also said that India’s Covid-19 case fatality rate per lakh population is 0.41 per cent as against 4.9 per cent globally which is also amongst the lowest in the world. Agarwal said one in every two Covid-19 deaths in India has been of senior citizens who constitute 10 per cent of the total population, while 73 per cent of Covid-19 deaths in the country are of people with comorbidities. Asked if India has entered the community transmission phase, Indian Council of Medical Research scientist Nivedita Gupta, who was also present at the briefing, said, “Instead of using the word community transmission, it is important to understand the extent of spread of the disease and where do we stand in comparison with other countries.” When asked when the peak will arrive, Gupta said, “We are very far away from the peak. Our preventive measures to curtail the disease are very effective and we are better positioned in comparison with other countries. You will get to see the data in a week.” She also said there was no under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths in India. There has been a continuous mismatch in the data made public by the central government and the tallies announced by some states and union territories for deaths as well as confirmed cases. Several states and UTs, including Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Puducherry reported rising number of cases on Tuesday. Many of the states, including those in the North-East, reported new cases linked to people having returned from outside. In Tripura, a 50-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling of a toilet in an Agartala hospital, a day after her swab sample was tested for Covid-19. The police suspects she had developed a fear of contracting the disease and may have committed suicide out of panic. Her test came positive for the novel coronavirus, hours after she had already died. In Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, a four-month-old baby girl also tested positive for Covid-19 in Amravati district. The state reported 2,287 new cases, taking its overall tally to 72,300, while fatalities rose to 2,465 after 103 more patients succumbed to the infection, the state health department said. On the positive side, as many as 1,225 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the state’s count of recovered cases to 31,333. Gujarat, another badly hit state, reported 415 new cases and 29 deaths, taking the overall case count to 17,632 and fatalities to 1,092, the state health department said. A total of 1,114 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the tally of the recovered cases to 11,894, it said. In the national capital, at least 13 employees of the Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal’s office and six other government officials tested positive for Covid-19, sources said. These included junior assistants, drivers and peons. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched an app named ‘Delhi Corona’ that will give information to patients about the availability of beds in private and government hospitals. He said cases are increasing in the national capital, but sufficient arrangements have been made for ventilators and beds in hospitals. “We are several steps ahead of coronavirus,” the chief minister said. West Bengal registered its highest single-day spike of 396 cases, taking its tally to 5,772. Kerala also recorded its highest single-day spike of 86 positive cases, taking the state’s tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,412. Besides, a 77-year-old priest died at the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital, taking the death toll to 11. Uttarakhand also saw its tally crossing the 1,000-mark after 85 more people tested positive. Five Covid-19 positive family members of the state’s tourism minister Satpal Maharaj were readmitted to a hospital within hours of being discharged from the facility. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, however, said India will definitely get back its economic growth and reforms undertaken during the lockdown will help the economy in the long run. His comments came a day after global rating agency Moody’s downgraded India’s credit rating to just a notch above the junk status on growth concerns. “On the one hand we have taken tough steps to fight the virus and on the other, we have taken care of the economy... We have to save the lives of citizens while also stabilise the economy and speed up growth,” Modi said while addressing top industry body CII’s annual session. A comprehensive review of various studies, published in the renowned Lancet journal, in the meantime said that physical distancing of two metres or more can prevent person-to-person transmission of Covid-19. It also found that face masks and eye protection may decrease the risk of infection too. The systematic review of existing evidence was commissioned by the World Health Organization, the researchers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-lakh-mark-1-lakh-new-cases-detected-in-15-days/story-X07se93XQqyLZ6K2ZytDMK.html
03-06-2020||India||Indian Army matched Chinese troop build-up at LAC: Rajnath Singh||In the first official acknowledgement of a troop build-up along the disputed border with China, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said a significant number of Chinese troops were present along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and the Indian Army had matched the neighbour’s military moves. This came on a day the two sides met again to ease the tensions. “Achchhi khaasi sankhya mein Cheen ke log bhi aa gaye hain lekin Bharat ne bhi apni taraf se jo kuch bhi karna chahiye…kiya hai. (Chinese soldiers are there in large numbers (on the LAC) but India has also done what it had to,” Singh told a news channel when asked to comment on the ground situation along the border. Singh’s comments came against the backdrop of silence on the issue from the external affairs ministry. The defence minister said differing perceptions of the LAC had led to the standoff, and talks were on at the diplomatic and military levels to break the stalemate.Singh told CNN-News 18 that a meeting between senior Indian and Chinese military officials would take place on June 6 to discuss the border situation. Meanwhile, Indian and Chinese officials, led by major generals, met on Tuesday to ease border tensions but there was no breakthrough, officials said. This was the third meeting between two-star ranked officers.China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements and matched the neighbour’s military moves, as reported by Hindustan Times on May 26.Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi on Tuesday visited Leh, the headquarters of 14 Corps in Ladakh, for a security review of the sensitive sector at a time when Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC.Several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso four weeks ago.Around 250 soldiers from the two countries clashed near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6 with the scuffle leaving scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions swiftly spread to other pockets along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-matched-chinese-troop-build-up-at-lac-rajnath/story-Snp0wjGg49dnF2zszCW93K.html
03-06-2020||India||2m distancing, masks key to stopping Covid-19 spread: Study||Keeping two metres away from others, and wearing face masks and eye protection, both in and outside hospitals, are the most effective ways of stopping the spread of Covid-19, according to the most comprehensive study to date on the transmission of the contagious pathogen.But none of these interventions, even when properly used and combined, offer complete protection from infection, and other protective measures such as hand hygiene are needed to reduce the spread of the disease, according to a review of 172 studies from 16 countries published in the highly cited journal, The Lancet, on June 2.“Based on the available evidence on physical distancing, face masks, eye protection and hand-washing, we cannot say which one is best at this point. They are all effective, but the combination of those interventions it likely better than any of the interventions alone,” said study co-lead Professor Holger Schünemann, department of Health Research Methods, Evidence and Impact at McMaster University in Canada, on email.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe study found that the risk of infection was 2.6% when people stand more than a metre away from the infected people, against 12.8% risk if they were within a metre, with modelling suggesting that the risk halved for every extra metre, up to three metres. Masks and protective eye coverings also added protective benefits, though the evidence for that was less clear cut, said the analysis, which was part-funded by the World Health Organization (WHO). The chance of infection was 3.1% for those wearing a face mask, and 17.4% for those without, while using face shields and glasses reduced the risk of transmission to 5.5%, down from 16% without use. “There is not a real difference between a cloth mask and a face covering like a bandana. We did not specifically look at these masks but they may protect spreading Covid-19 from the person wearing it. N-95, medical or surgical masks, and 12-16 layer cotton masks provide protection, based on the data we found,” said Professor Schünemann, who co-authored the review of studies on how physical distancing, face masks, and eye protection affect the spread of three diseases caused by coronaviruses -- Covid-19, severe acute respiratory syndrome (Sars), and Middle-East respiratory syndrome (Mers).“[The study authors] also report that respirators and multilayer masks are more protective than are single layer masks. This finding is vital to inform the proliferation of home-­made cloth mask designs, many of which are single­-layered. A well designed cloth mask should have water-­resistant fabric, multiple layers, and good facial fit… Universal face mask use might enable safe lifting of restrictions in communities seeking to resume normal activities and could protect people in crowded public settings and within households,” said Professor Raina MacIntyre from the Kirby Institute, University of New South Wales in Australia, in an accompanying comment. She was not involved in the study.With the pandemic yet to peak in India according to several experts, clinicians say protective behaviours are critical to stop the spread. “The only way we can decrease the number of cases from spiking is by aggressive isolation, a lot of community participation in terms of very strict wearing of masks, social distancing and frequent hand-washing. I would say, we literally need policing of masks and other social distancing behaviours to enforce compliance, whether you are in office, whether you are travelling, whether you are out, to prevent a spike in numbers,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).The current evidence suggests that Covid-19 is most commonly spread by respiratory droplets, especially when people cough and sneeze, entering through the eyes, nose, and mouth, either directly or by touching a contaminated surface, but there is increasing concern about the extent of transmission through aerosols, which are tiny saliva and vapour droplets suspended in air in some settings.“The current evidence on aerosol spread of Covid-19 is not conclusive – there are studies supporting easier aerosolisation and those that suggest it is aerosolised only in the context of procedures in the hospital,” said Professor Schünemann, referring to his study on the risk of Covid-19 transmission to health workers in ICUs through aerosol-generating procedures such as non-invasive ventilation and invasive mechanical ventilation. The study was published in the Annals of Internal Medicine on May 22.The new study, which was conducted to inform WHO guidance documents, has immediate implications for preventing current and future waves of the pandemic by informing disease models, and standardising the definition of who has been “potentially exposed” for contact tracing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-masks-eye-wear-and-hand-washing-work-best-in-combination-study/story-yROOhsGvHO0Zp7eAZpJmjJ.html
03-06-2020||India||North-East states report a sharp rise in coronavirus cases||There has been a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the northeast with the region reporting over 2,100 infections until Tuesday. Assam, the most populous of the region’s seven states, has reported the bulk of these cases (1,514). The other six less populous states have also recorded a significant increase in the cases over the last few days and officials have called easing of interstate movement since last month the prime factor for the jump.The region reported the first Covid-19 case on March 24 when a 23-year-old woman tested positive in Manipur after her return from the UK. The region had reported 103 cases until May 5.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn Tuesday, Assam’s tally was 1,514, which included 1,365 patients, who have returned to the state since May 4.“The surge in positive cases is because of the homecoming of our residents from other states. Nearly 800 of the new cases are of those who returned from Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, and Delhi,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Sunday.Tripura recorded the highest single-day spike on Monday when 107 people were diagnosed with the disease and took the state’s tally to 421 cases. It rose to 444 on Tuesday and included 166 Border Security Force personnel and their family members. Until May 5, the state had 42 cases.In a tweet on Tuesday, Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga said of the 12 new cases in the state, 10 had returned from Delhi and two from Kolkata. The state had recorded just one case prior to that. A 50-year-old pastor diagnosed with the disease in Mizoram on March 24 was discharged from a hospital following his recovery on May 9.Nagaland reported six new cases on Tuesday and with this, the state’s tally went up to 49. The first Covid-19 cases in the state were detected on May 25 when three persons returned from Chennai and were found to be infected.Meghalaya had 13 cases until May 5, all of them connected to one family in Shillong. Two weeks later, one person who returned from Chennai tested positive. The state’s tally now stands at 30 cases.Manipur did not have an active Covid-19 case on May 5 after the first two people diagnosed with the disease in the state had recovered. The state now has 85 cases.Arunachal Pradesh was Covid-19 free on May 5 with the lone patient’s recovery in April. On Monday, the state recorded 16 new cases which took its tally to 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/n-e-states-report-a-sharp-rise-in-cases/story-oqjLspMZxSPDOYC5xsWLQK.html
03-06-2020||India||Will deliver Rafale on time, says France||France has said that it will deliver Rafale fighter jets to the Indian Air Force (IAF) on time despite the challenges posed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. This was communicated to defence minister Rajnath Singh by his French counterpart Florence Parly in a phone call on Tuesday. “France reaffirmed its commitment to ensure timely delivery of Rafale aircraft despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic,” the defence ministry said in a statement after the two ministers spoke.The IAF is likely to get the delivery of the first batch of four Rafale jets from France by July-end. The four fighters were supposed to fly to their home base in India in May 2020, but the plan was delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Confinement measures announced by France to battle the outbreak had temporarily halted production at aircraft manufacturer Dassault Aviation’s Merignac facility.India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 as an emergency purchase to arrest a worrying slide in the air force’s combat capabilities.According to the delivery schedule, the first 18 jets (including the four in the first batch) are supposed to be delivered to the IAF by February 2021, with the rest expected by April-May 2022.France handed over to India its first Rafale fighter during a ceremony attended by Singh and Parly in Merignac on October 8, 2019, which coincided with the IAF’s 87th founding day and the Hindu festival of Dussehra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-deliver-rafale-on-time-says-france/story-mh7F6xLpTRNK3xFELAta7M.html
03-06-2020||India||198 migrant workers died in road accidents since Mar 25: Report||One hundred and ninety eight migrant workers lost their lives in road crashes during the lockdown from March 25 to May 31 imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to data compiled by the SaveLIFE Foundation, a non-government organisation that promotes road safety .At least 1,461 road crashes took place over the course of the nationwide lockdown in which at least 750 people were killed, including the 198 migrant workers headed home. Some 1,390 persons were reported injured in the crashes, according to the data. On average, 1,200 road accidents happen in India every day, and around 400 people lose their lives on account of them, according to the transport ministry. However, the restrictions during lockdown took most vehicles off the roads.Migrant workers killed during their return home comprise 26.4% of the overall deaths during the lockdown; essential workers made up 5.3% of the total deaths. And 68.3% of the overall deaths involved other road users, including pedestrians, two-wheeler and three-wheeler drivers in cases “involving over-speeding, hit and run and distracted driving etc,” the report said.While migrants used all means at their disposal to get back home during the lockdown -- they couldn’t use public transport because there was none till May 1 when special trains for migrant workers were launched -- essential workers were up and about performing their duties; they were the only people allowed to move around for much of the lockdown. The report attributed the road crashes to fatigue among bus and truck drivers hired to transport the migrants, combined with over-speeding and poor roads. Uttar Pradesh accounted for over 30% (245) of the total deaths followed by Telangana (56), Madhya Pradesh (56), Bihar (43), Punjab (38) and Maharashtra (36).The five states that reported the most road crash deaths of migrant workers were Uttar Pradesh (94), Madhya Pradesh (38), Bihar (16), Telangana (11) and Maharashtra (9).The report said the data has been compiled using media-tracking and multi-source verification. “With COVID 19 still very much around, we simply can’t afford to burden our already over-burdened healthcare system with road crash related trauma. It is critical that States enhance enforcement to prevent road crashes and the citizens inculcate essential safety habits for the road like they did for personal hygiene during the lockdown,” said Piyush Tewari, founder and CEO, SaveLIFE Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/198-migrant-workers-died-in-road-accidents-since-mar-25-report/story-WnIIgmaHkO0nO7zAEJv1fI.html
03-06-2020||India||Fewer Covid deaths in India: Health ministry||Fewer people are dying in India of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) compared to the rest of the word, with India’s current case fatality rate at 2.82% compared to the global average of 6.13%, according to data released by the ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday.People above 60 years of age,who make up 10% of the country’s population, account for 50% of the 5,598 Covid-19 deaths recorded in India. Of these, 38% belong to the 60 and 74 years age group. Patients who were aged above 75 years old account for 12% of the deaths, the data shows. The data that the ministry released on April 30 showed 34.8% deaths were recorded in 45- 60 year age group. “There is enough data being generated that people who are elderly (above 60 years of age), and those who suffer from some kind of underlying medical condition such as hypertension, diabetes or respiratory illness are at high risk and need to be extra careful as they are at a higher risk of developing severe form of disease,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry, at a press briefing.According to the health ministry’s analysis of the deaths, 73% of the Covid deaths are of patients with underlying medical conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular and respiratory disease. “This section of population needs to keep their symptoms under control by taking regular medicines, consulting their doctor on time, taking preventive measures such as not stepping out of the house, if not necessary, and wearing a mask, following hand hygiene etc.,” Agarwal added. In terms of deaths per 100,000 population, India has fatality rate 0.41 as opposed to 4.9 globally.“India’s death rate is probably the lowest in the world, and that is enough to speak for how the country has managed its cases far better than some of the most developed countries in the world. Also, India’s case fatality rate has been steadily declining since past two months. In mid April it was around 3.3%, then it dropped to 3.25%, later to 3.15%, and as on today we stand at 2.82%, even then we can’t let our guard drop, and taking precautions must be turned into a habit,” Agarwal said.“If you look at individual countries, some countries have even reported as high as 82 deaths per lakh population. This says how our focus on early case detection, and robust contact tracing in containment zones has been in the right direction, and it will continue to be our main strategy in future also, along with ramping up the Covid testing capacity,” Agarwal added.Experts say focusing on the elderly and people suffering from non-communicable diseases (NCDs) is important as this section is more vulnerable to Covid-19.“People with major NCDs need regular care, and are likely to develop severe form of illness because of their co-morbid conditions, which is why we are working on reference guidelines for patients, doctors and other support staff to look for ways to reduce morbidity and mortality among this group, ” says Dr Prashant Mathur, director, The National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR). India’s daily Covid testing capacity at the moment is about 140,000 samples; and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is aiming to scale it up to about 200,000 samples a day in the next two weeks.“In past two months our focus has been to scale up testing, and we have managed to go from about a 100 labs in March to about 681 functional laboratories currently, of which 476 are government labs and 205 are private testing labs. Around the end of March we were doing about 20-25,000 samples in a day in India, and for the past few days the number on average is about 1.20 lakh samples a day,” said Dr Nivedita Gupta, scientist (epidemiology division), ICMR.“There was shortage of supplies felt when we started out testing for Covid because there was a global demand for these supplies. Today, we have managed to handhold many indigenous manufacturers who are capable producing kits in bulk. We also use RT-PCR testing kits of at least 11-12 domestic manufacturers for testing, making us far more comfortable in terms of testing huge numbers in a short span of time than we were a few months ago,” she said.RT-PCR is short for Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction, known as the gold standard among Covid-19 tests.One of the private lab owners, on condition of anonymity, said, “It’s good to encourage indigenous manufacturers; however, we have to also ensure quality of products such as testing kits, swab sticks, viral transport medium that is being manufactured domestically. If the quality isn’t maintained then people will keep going for imported products.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fewer-covid-deaths-in-india-health-ministry/story-0SKS4yVeiqqYHHiTb98CHM.html
03-06-2020||India||Shramik Trains in their last leg of operation, more than 57 lakh ferried||Shramik special trains that began operating from May 1 for transportation of stranded migrant labourers may be on their final leg of operation with demand for them reducing from the states. Thus far, 5.7 million stranded migrants have been ferried back home in 4,155 trains.Rail minister Piyush Goyal has said the trains will be operated till the demand from the states remain. On Sunday, the Railways operated only 69 Shramik trains. On Tuesday only 102 Shramik trains operated till 10 am, officials said. “The demand for trains has reduced and only a very few trains are running as mostly all stranded migrants have been sent. The operation may soon be over,”a rail ministry official said on condition of anonymity. The trains were launched on May 1. Western railways on Tuesday said only two shramik trains operated from Mumbai Suburban area. Western railways has operated1,214 Shramik Trains thus far ferrying18,23,826 passengers to their desired destinations, it said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageTill Monday, the national carrier received a request for only 321 more trains from various states.The railway board chairman wrote to states on May 29 asking states to provide details of migrants still wanting to return and provide their demands for trains to the ministry.Railway board chairman, Vinod Kumar Yadav  in a press conference last week had said the demand for these trains is declining from the originating state.Nearly 1,524 Shramik Specials were operated from May 22 to May 28 and ferried two million passengers. On May 20, as many as 279 trains ran.Last week, originating states asked for 923 trains for migrants, but the number stood at 450 as of last Thursday, he said adding that the trains will continue to run as long as states will request.The maximum number of trains have been received by Uttar Pradesh and Bihar followed by Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal.The top five States from where trains originated are Gujarat(1027 Trains), Maharashtra(802 Trains), Punjab(416 Trains), Uttar Pradesh (288 Trains) and Bihar (294 Trains).aND THE top five states where trains terminated are Uttar Pradesh(1670 Trains), Bihar(1482 Trains), Jharkhand(194 Trains), Odisha (180 Trains), West Bengal (135 Trains).Several Shramik trains from May 20 till May 24 were diverted due to route congestion. The railway ministry said 71 trains were diverted during the period. “It may be noted that trains running now are not facing any congestion. In addition to Shramik specials, railways are running 15 pairs of special Rajdhani type trains connecting New Delhi and started 200 more time tabled trains on June 1,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demand-for-shramik-trains-sees-a-decline/story-ACVJ8xwXZo00Le5QzJFj1J.html
03-06-2020||India||Social security ID for migrants on top of labour panel’s agenda||A portable social security number for migrant workers and other employees in the vast unorganized sector will be the main issue on the agenda of Parliament’s labour committee when it meets on June 5 to review the social security codeThe standing committee on labour, in the backdrop of the misery confronted by unorganized sector workers in the past two months in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, will also push the government to provide a larger social security net that can help them tide over the difficult situation.“We have seen what is happening to the hapless migrant workers and other daily wagers after the pandemic swept across the states. The welfare of the unorganized sector is the biggest issue for us,” said Bhartruhari Mahtab, chairman of the labour standing committee.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe unique social security number, which would be linked to the Aadhaar unique identity number, is expected to automatically identify unorganized sector workers and help the government roll out targeted doles or welfare schemes for them in a more organized way. Aadhaar cannot be used to distinguish unorganized sector workers. The focus on the unorganized sector, particularly daily wagers, in the social security code comes months after the standing committee on labour asked for sweeping changes in the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2019 (OSH Code) in favour of vulnerable workers. According to government officials, at least 50 amendments to the OSH code proposed by the House panel will be accepted to benefit migrant workers.The social security code aims to register every unorganised worker who is at least 16 years of age. The bill also aims to ensure that “every eligible unorganised worker under sub-section shall be registered by such registering authority by assigning a distinguishable number to his application or by linking the application to the Aadhaar number.”The bill also envisages that “a registered unorganised worker shall be eligible to avail the benefit of a scheme framed under this Chapter on making such contribution, if any, as may be specified in the scheme.”The panel is set to push the government for a larger social security cover for the unorganized sector that forms 93% of India’s workforce.“For the organized sector, there is protection available in the form of EPFO or ESI. They can also avail pension plans. But there’s not for unorganized sector. We need to take a different approach for them,” said another member of the panel, requesting anonymity.EPFO is short for the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation, the government’s retirement savings manager, and ESI stands for Employees’ State Insurance The Narendra Modi government launched three schemes— old age pensions, disability pensions and life insurance for the unorganized sector -- but they are contributory schemes wherein the beneficiaries have to make small monthly or yearly contributions.The labour panel may pitch for a larger social scheme without voluntary contributions to be added in the social security code. Welfare schemes, according to two members of the panel, must take into account a situation such as the Covid-19 pandemic when millions of daily wagers can be out of work for months at a stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-security-id-for-migrants-on-top-of-labour-panel-s-agenda/story-YwyFjHQgrorT0bxKB1qIlI.html
03-06-2020||India||Telangana presents alarming picture of Covid-19 with 58 deaths, 1,230 positive cases in two weeks||Telangana has been witnessing a rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 deaths and positive cases in the last 15 days, raising an alarm in the state.On Tuesday, the state reported four deaths and 99 positive cases, taking the total number of deaths to 92 and the positive cases to 2,891.The death toll was 34 on May 18, when most restrictions on people’s movement were removed with lockdown 4.0 coming into force, which led to 58 more casualties in a span of just 15 days.Similarly, the total number of positive cases in the state went up from 1,661 cases on May 18 to 2,891 on Tuesday, a steep rise of 1,230 cases. In the last four days alone, the number of positive cases has shot up by 466 and deaths by 21.According to the official bulletin released by the state medical and health department, out of 99 new positive cases reported on Tuesday, 87 are local residents and the remaining 12 are migrant labourers returning from other states. Of the local cases, 70 are from Greater Hyderabad municipal corporation limits and seven are from adjacent Ranga Reddy district.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The four deaths reported on Tuesday include a 42-yr old man with pre-existing cardiac problem, a 41-year old man with Thyroid disorder and two women, a 70-yr old and a 60-year old, both suffering from hypertension.According to director of medical and health G Srinivasa Rao, the steep rise in the number of deaths and positive cases after the relaxations in lockdown since May 18 were mainly due to the increased movement of people from one place to another.“People are travelling across the state and some of them are not following the basic preventive measures like wearing a mask, maintaining safe physical distancing and avoiding crowding. This has resulted in a surge in the cases,” he said.He added that a large number of migrants returning from states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar etc were being put in home quarantine by the district authorities to break the chain of transmissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-presents-alarming-picture-of-covid-19-with-58-deaths-1-230-positive-cases-in-two-weeks/story-qpyJFmeKuNjC1CkzMRHe5K.html
03-06-2020||India||Proposed Electricity Bill is against federal spirit, KCR tells PM Modi||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday strongly opposed the Centre’s proposed bill to amend the Electricity Act which he said would have an adverse impact directly on the management of the state electricity utilities.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the backdrop of the Centre asking the states to express their opinion on the draft Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, KCR demanded that the Centre should withdraw the proposed Bill.He said the proposed bill would take away certain functions and powers of the State government. Proposals like appointment of State Electricity Regulatory Commission by a selection committee constituted by the Centre and entrusting the responsibilities to a neighbouring State Electricity Regulatory Commissions under certain circumstances were against the federal spirit.“Just because power is a concurrent subject, it does not mean that the Centre or Parliament can enact laws which have direct and major influence on the functioning of the state government,” he said.The chief minister also said any national renewable energy policy should be formulated with the consent of the states, not just consultation. Each state has its own unique situations like potential for hydro power, wind power, solar power, land availability etc. As such, states should have the flexibility to determine their own policy on renewable energy, he said.He also opposed making the national load despatch centre (NLDC) all powerful with regard to scheduling of power throughout the country. It will result in backing down of state thermal units, which cannot compete with central stations whose generation cost is less. “Therefore, intra-state transmission decisions should be left to the SLDCs only,” he said.The draft bill also has a provision for the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) of subsidy provided to consumers, particularly to the agriculture and domestic sectors. This would work against the interest of farmers and very poor domestic consumers. Mode of payment of the subsidy should be left to the state government, KCR argued.The Telangana chief minister resisted the proposal that the Commission will fix the tariff for all the consumers without any subsidy. Presently tariff fixation by the Commission includes some cross subsidy to be borne by certain categories of consumers.“With the proposed amendment, bills are to be issued for actual cost to all the categories of consumers including agriculture. Discretion to levy cross subsidy on certain sections of consumers shall be better left to the states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proposed-electricity-bill-is-against-federal-spirit-kcr-tells-pm-modi/story-xLQvqIj9mi3uqNArPAKjvJ.html
03-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga forces IndiGo to cancel 17 flights out of Mumbai on Wednesday||Budget airline IndiGo has announced the cancellation of 17 flights from Mumbai scheduled for Wednesday in view of cyclone Cyclone Nisarga which is expected to make landfall in the afternoon at Alibaug, about 90 south of Mumbai. Only three IndiGo flights will fly out of Mumbai on Wednesday.“Due to severe cyclonic storm currently moving towards the country’s western coasts, IndiGo has cancelled 17 flights to and from Mumbai. IndiGo will only operate three flights from Mumbai on June 03, 2020:6E 495 Mumbai- Chandigarh 6E 6179 Mumbai - Ranchi6E 5373 Mumbai – Patna,” the airline said in a press statement on Tuesday. It said it has offered an alternate travel plan to its customers.“All the passengers of the affected domestic flights are being notified. At IndiGo, we are customer centric and have empowered our customers by offering PLAN B, sent to each individual, an option of re-booking on alternate flight starting next day or to protect PNR as credit account,” it said.The Met office has warned that the cyclonic storm will have a maximum sustained wind speed of 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph.Ahead of the cyclone’s landfall, rain lashed Mumbai on Tuesday evening. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray who addressed the people through social media in the evening, appealed to citizens to stay indoors on Wednesday and Thursday.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said it was taking all precautions including relocating people from unsafe localities to ensure that there is no casualty when the storm hits Mumbai. It requested citizens to stay away from the sea and not stand under trees or pillars during the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-forces-indigo-to-cancel-17-flights-out-of-mumbai-on-wednesday/story-nIVPPJJhdyeyxRXZRyZZyK.html
