04-06-2020||India||Thousands to be evacuated as Bengal’s cyclone-hit villages brace for spring tide on June 6||Thousands of people living in the cyclone-hit villages of south Bengal will once again have to be evacuated and shifted to safer places, as the water level in the rivers is expected to rise by a few metres during the spring tide on June 6.The water will gush into the villages through the breaches in the embankments left behind by Cyclone Amphan inundating new areas. Saline water had gushed into the villages through these gaps destroying farmlands, ponds and huts. Cyclone Amphan had battered West Bengal on May 20. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee held a video conference with the top brass of the district administration on Thursday. She has directed officials to remain alert and evacuate people if necessary.“The spring tide will come on June 6. The water could gush in through the breaches in the embankments. Some embankments which were badly damaged may get washed away. The situation will worsen if there is rain. The district administration will have to evacuate people from vulnerable areas,” she added.Due to Cyclone Amphan, which had hit the Bengal coast on May 20, around 8.5 lakh people had to be evacuated and kept in storm and flood shelters. Many are yet to return home as several villages still remain inundated.“We are planning to evacuate around 20,000 villagers from the three blocks which have been hardest hit by Cyclone Amphan – Kultali, Gosaba and Patharpratima. But as it is a tide, the water level will start receding after a few hours,” said P Ulaganathan, district magistrate of South 24 Parganas.While high tide and low tide are daily occurrences, spring tides occur during new moon and full moon because of the gravitational pull of the sun and moon. The water level in rivers and seas reaches its peak during the spring tide.“More than 350 families are still staying under polythene sheets on village roads that are on higher grounds and are relatively safe. They have lost their houses in the cyclone. Villagers have been asked to move to the cyclone shelters for a few hours when the tide comes. Those who stay in very low lying areas may have to stay longer and the water may take time to recede,” said Debesh Mondol, MLA of Hingalganj area in North 24 Parganas, which was hit by the cyclone. Around 160 km of river embankments and four km of sea dykes have been damaged by Cyclone Amphan. The river and sea water had gushed in during the storm destroying around 11 lakh hectares of crop land. Tons of fishes were killed when saline water destroyed around 58,000 hectares of water bodies where sweet water fishes were reared.“We have already started alerting the villagers living in vulnerable and low lying areas along rivers and villages facing the sea. We will be shifting some of them to relief shelters on June 6. Food and drinking water is being stored,” said a senior official in East Midnapore district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-to-be-evacuated-as-bengal-s-cyclone-hit-villages-brace-for-spring-tide-on-june-6/story-CikQHPlpYQRfotTuGkw5VK.html
04-06-2020||India||Illegal BPL ration card holders to face legal action, says Karnataka CM||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said government employees and owners of tractors and other vehicles must return the BPL ration cards immediately, failing which stringent legal action would be initiated against them.The CM issued directions in this regard to officials as he conducted a review meeting of Food and Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs department today.Proper supply of ration must be ensured to eligible beneficiaries and action has to be taken to prevent misuse of the facility by those not eligible, Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by his office in a release.Nearly 63,000 ration cards were cancelled before the Covid-19 outbreak, he noted and directed officials to initiate a campaign to cancel all illegal ration cards. “This campaign would help in curtailing the financial burden on the State’s reserves,” he added.In the backdrop of coronavirus pandemic, both the Central and State governments have distributed sufficient quantities of ration, and about 95 per cent ration card holders have availed the benefit, the release said.Under the Chief Ministers Anila Bhagya Scheme, 98,079 beneficiaries have been given 3 gas cylinders free of cost, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-bpl-ration-card-holders-to-face-legal-action-says-karnataka-cm/story-p4cJLQjDUohyJhvQdz4lAO.html
04-06-2020||India||40 new cases take Goa’s Covid-19 tally to 166||A day after 47 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Goa, 40 new cases were reported on Thursday, the government said.Out of the 40 new cases, 32 were within the containment zone at the Mangor Hill locality of Goa’s port town of Vasco da Gama while eight were among those entering the state from Maharashtra. The new cases have taken Goa’s Covid-19 tally to 166 including 109 active ones.The state administration has begun intensive testing within the containment zone since Monday but is confident that the virus has not spread beyond the containment zone. Clock here for full Covid-19 coverage.“On the first day we collected 200 swabs of which 42 were positive. Yesterday we collected 353 swabs of which 32 are positive. So the number of tests is increasing but the number of positive cases is decreasing. Once we have the results of the 400 swabs we have collected today we will get a clearer picture,” Health Secretary Nila Mohanan said. The Health Department began testing in the immediate vicinity where the first symptomatic patients emerged as well as vulnerable patients and has begun to expand the radius of testing which has shown a lower incidence of the virus. Asked if it the entire Vasco town would need to be placed under lockdown, the Health Secretary said it wasn’t necessary given how the situation has developed so far. The Goa government has increased its testing capacity and is testing all incoming passengers to maintain the state’s status of a ‘safe zone’. Goa is now testing more than 1,000 people daily and the capacity is expected to double over the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-new-cases-take-goa-s-covid-19-tally-to-166/story-QCcC3OqFdPSLIH0ejpS4fP.html
04-06-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases rise, makeshift hospitals need to be set up: Centre tells SC||As India recorded a daily jump of over 8,000 coronavirus cases for the fifth day on Thursday, the Centre told the Supreme Court that a “large number” of makeshift hospitals will have to be built in the near future to accommodate the constant rise in the number of newly infected people. The Centre also contended that though hospitals are responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities, the final responsibility lies with the health care workers to protect themselves from COVID-19. It further said mandatory quarantine for 14 days after rostering duty of health care workers of 7/14 days is “not justified and warranted”. “It is most respectfully submitted that number of cases of COVID-19 are constantly increasing and at some point of time in near future, apart from existing hospitals, large number of temporary make-shift hospitals will have to be created in order to accommodate COVID-19 patients requiring admission, medical care and treatment,” the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said in a written affidavit. The affidavit was filed before a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah on a plea that questioned the Centre’s new Standard Operating Procedure(SOP) of May 15 for frontline Covid-19 health care workers by which it ended the 14-day mandatory quarantine for them. The court allowed petitioner and private doctor Dr. Arushi Jain’s counsels advocate Mithu Jain and Arjun Syal to file the rejoinder affidavit to the Centre’s reply within a week and posted the matter for June 12. The country registered a record single-day jump of 9,304 coronavirus cases on Thursday pushing the total tally to 2,16,919, while the death toll climbed to 6,075 with 260 new fatalities, according to the Union Health ministry. The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 1,06,737, it said. The ministry in its reply affidavit said health care workers(HCW) are properly protected by Personal Protective Equipments(PPE) in workplace settings and carry no additional risk to their families or children. It said grievances raised by the petitioner alleging infirmities in the May 15 guidelines of the health ministry are completely presumptuous, vacuous, ill-founded and sans any empirical or medical evidence. Justifying its advisory and SOPs, the health ministry said it is a step in the right direction and that the guidelines emphasise the role of taking adequate preventive measures by all health care workers in the hospital setting against the likelihood of contracting infection at their work place. It added that the risk profiling of those exposed has been deliberated in detail in the technical body under the Directorate General of Health Services, the Joint Monitoring Group (JMG), which also has a representative of World Health Organisation(WHO). “This risk assessment approach is also in line with guidelines issued by Centre for Disease Control, Atlanta, USA that only high risk exposure needs to be quarantined for 14 days. Hence, mandatory quarantine for 14 days, after rostering duty of health care workers of 7/14 days is therefore not justified and warranted,” it added. The Centre submitted that to successfully create optimum infrastructure to provide best medical care to coronavirus patients it will also have to adequately address human resource issue for this envisaged surge capacity scenario. “Hence, conserving health care work force is the need of the hour in order to cater to the anticipated patient load in the hour of distress.” The ministry submitted that while the Hospital Infection Control Committee (HICC) in the health facility is responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities and for organising regular training for HCWs, the final responsibility lies with the worker to prevent infection and to protect himself or herself. The ministry further said it is also his/her responsibility to adequately train himself/herself and take all possible measures for preventing the infection and if adequate measures are scrupulously observed, the chances of of the health care workers contracting the infection would not be higher than that of any other person. “…It is submitted that the current pandemic of COVID-19 is unprecedented and there is no time tested and universally acceptable protocol pertaining to COVID-19 preparedness. “Furthermore, the biggest challenge to deal with this pandemic is that there are currently no proven therapeutics or vaccines or rapid point of care diagnostic tests, risk assessment and management protocols for COVID-19 and here are major research gaps in many other key areas of COVID patient and hospital management”, the ministry said. As per the advisory, quarantine of health care workers, other than the two categories -- in case of high exposure to Covid-19 and in cases of health care workers showing symptoms of Covid-19 -- is not warranted, the petitioner had said. On April 8, the apex court had observed that the doctors and medical staff are the “first line of defence of the country” in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic, and directed the Centre to ensure that appropriate PPEs are made available to them for treating coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-makeshift-hospitals-need-to-be-set-up-centre-tells-sc/story-N6WmtOIv68PsfKMdHEEvpK.html
04-06-2020||India||He is welcome, says AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal on buzz around Navjot Sidhu||Amid swirling speculation around ex-Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s next moves, Aam Aadmi Party boss Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the 56-year-old cricketer-turned-politician is welcome to join the party.“He is welcome,” Kejriwal told news channel News18 India in an interview on Thursday. The Delhi chief minister initially appeared to distance himself from the buzz that suggests his party had reached out to the Amritsar East MLA. Kejriwal told the channel that he had “no idea” about reports that his party was in touch with Sidhu via interlocutor.But asked if Sidhu was welcome to the party, Kejriwal smiled, and said: “he is welcome”.The Delhi chief minister didn’t respond to a follow-up question. “Now you are talking of politics in times of corona(virus), I can’t even elaborate,” the chief minister said, promising to answer questions on politics on a later date.Navjot Sidhu had been sulking in the Congress for months before he finally announced his exit from the Amarinder Singh cabinet on July 14. Sidhu’s last message on the micro-blogging platform is to declare that he had vacated his ministerial bungalow. Then, Sidhu went into silent mode.When he launched a YouTube channel, Jittega Punjab (Punjab will win) in mid-March, it was seen as the first step towards his political resurrection.In one of the early videos, Sidhu announced a ‘dharm yudh’ against the state’s system for what he described as its “salvation”. The national lockdown that came a few days later did appear to have slowed down that process.But back home in Punjab, local reports indicate that he had stepped up his involvement with his constituents in Amritsar and beyond as well.The buzz about his possible shift came soon after. On and off social media, there is speculation that he was in touch with AAP via election strategist Prashant Kishor. Neither Sidhu nor Prashant Kishor have confirmed or denied the speculation.But for Sidhu, this wouldn’t be the first time that he has been reported to be looking at AAP as an option.In 2016 before he quit the BJP, his party of 12 years, Navjot Sidhu had received public invitations from AAP leaders in Punjab and Delhi to join their party.Sidhu, however, had surprised AAP leaders when word came that he would join the Congress. A party Awaaz-e-Punjab that he had launched, reportedly as a backup plan, fell apart soon after.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-is-welcome-says-aap-s-arvind-kejriwal-on-buzz-around-navjot-sidhu/story-BMOsTbB2sYCy6MTyuUdAmI.html
04-06-2020||India||Onus of paying full wage to staff on the employer: Govt||The Centre is committed to restarting industries and reviving the economy, the central government’s top law officer, attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal, told the Supreme Court on Thursday during the hearing of a case challenging the home ministry’s March 29 directive to employers to pay workers in full for the lockdown period.The directive had been intended to alleviate human suffering and will not come in the way of employers and employees negotiating the payment terms, the AG said.“Government of India is interested in economy restarting, industries restarting. It is for employers to negotiate with employees as to how much wage could be paid for lockdown period, we will not interfere,” Venugopal said.Industries, traders and their associations, which are the petitioners before the apex court in the case, countered by arguing that workers will not come to the negotiating table as long as the government notification mandating payment of full wages is in operation.“With the March 29 notification in place, no negotiation will be possible since workers will not come to negotiating table. We are as much citizens as the workers are”, senior counsel KV Viswanathan, who was appearing for the company B4S Solution Ltd, told the bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan.The bench also seemed to share the concerns of the employers, stating that mandating payment of full wages during the lockdown could have an adverse impact on the industries.“The notification directs payment of 100% of salaries. It could have been around 50 to 75%. Do you have the power to ask them to pay 100%,” justice Bhushan asked.The bench, which also comprised justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MR Shah, reserved its verdict, which will be delivered on June 12. The court also granted interim protection to employers directing that no coercive action be taken against them until the court delivers its verdict.“List for orders on June 12. In the meantime, no coercive action, against the employers shall be taken pursuant to notification dated March 29,” the order said.The contentious notification issued by the ministry of home affairs on March 29 stated that employers must pay wages in full to all their employees even if their establishments are closed because of the lockdown.“All the employers, be it in the industry or in the shops and commercial establishment, shall make payment of wages of their workers, at their work places on due date, without any deduction for the period their establishments are under closure during the lockdown”, clause (iii) of the MHA order said.Companies and associations approached the Supreme Court ,stating that the obligation to pay employees arises only when work is actually done.“An employer and employee have reciprocal promises whereby the right of an employee to demand salary is reciprocal to performance of work by such employee. The employer has a right to not pay if no work is done”, the plea by Hand Tool Manufacturers Association, an association of around 52 firms based out of Punjab, said.The AG told the bench that the directive was to ensure that workers in industries stayed put instead of migrating to their home towns/ villages during the lockdown. “The humanitarian grounds on which this order was issued should be considered. People were migrating in crores. They would have stayed put only if they were paid”, he said in defence of the government notification.Senior counsel Indira Jaising, who appeared for Angmenhanti Kashtakari Sangarsh Samiti, an umbrella coalition of informal workers, also supported the government directive, arguing that it was intended to protect workers who had been prevented from going to work by the authorities because of the pandemic.“If an authority prevents me from going to work, then that authority should ensure that I am protected. We have honoured the lockdown”, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onus-of-paying-full-wage-to-staff-on-the-employer-govt/story-gZ8ir35z9vrMi7xlojq6pK.html
04-06-2020||India||Boy, 16, files FIR against father for marrying him forcibly to 20-year-old||A 16-year-old boy approached the police in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district alleging that his father forcibly solemnised his nikah (marriage) with a 20-year-old girl from Uttar Pradesh, the police have booked his father and have sent the boy to child protection home in the district. “A 16-year-old minor boy complained to them on Wednesday that his father forcibly married him to a 20-year-old girl from Rampur in UP on March 20 this year, a few days ahead of the lockdown. He also pointed out that he was not yet adult,” said Yunus Khan, senior sub-inspector at Mallital police station in Nainital.“The boy also alleged that when the girl’s side came to know that the boy was a minor they refused to marry. But later his father persuaded the girl’s side somehow for the marriage,” said.Khan said the boy also alleged that his father had threatened to kill him when he refused to marry the girl. “ We have registered an FIR against minor’s father under Prohibition Child Marriage Act’s section 3 (Child marriages to be voidable at the option of contracting party being a child) and section 10 ( whoever performs, conducts or directs any child marriage shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment) and IPC section 506 (criminal intimidation),” he said.Khan said the marriage took place in Rampur area of UP and the police have registered a zero FIR in Nainital and sent the case to Rampur for investigation. “Further investigation and arresting would be conducted by Rampur police in UP,” he said.Dushyant Mainali, a senior advocate in Haldwani, said child marriage in this era is one of the serious crimes. “But the rare thing, in this case, is that the teenager himself complained about his father. This will set up an example for other youngsters who are forced into child marriage by their families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boy-16-files-fir-against-father-for-marrying-him-forcibly-to-20-year-old/story-LrTKsL27qrLciNQtg94dfO.html
04-06-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic has put 265 million people at risk of starvation: Study||The Covid-19 pandemic has put 265 million people globally at risk of starvation and India is expected to add 12 million more poor to its population, a new annual study has claimed. The report, titled ‘State of India’s Environment in Figures 2020’, published by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) talks about the massive scale of the economic impact of the pandemic.According to the report, the global poverty level will rise for the first time in 22 years.“Fifty per cent of the global population is under lockdown or containment with little or no new income -- 40-60 million people would be living in extreme poverty in the coming months due to loss of income.“India will add 12 million more poor, the highest in the world, to its shattered population,” the report said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageAccording to CSE Director General Sunita Narain, extreme weather events in the past four years have remained the topmost global economic risks.“The impact of this, coupled with our lopsided and bad development strategies, has been very severe on India’s poor. The effect of the COVID-19 pandemic has now been added to these misfortunes, and we find that our poor are now fighting with their backs to the wall.“This is what CSE’s latest publication, the State of India’s Environment in Figures 2020, brings out clearly,” Narain said.The publication was released on Thursday at an online webinar attended by over 300 participants.On COVID-19, the report points out that while new cases remain static or are diminishing in North America, Europe and Australia, countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia are emerging as the new hotspots.“India and Brazil are the only two of the nine worst-hit countries in the world that have decided to ease their lockdowns and scale down their stringent measures – even as new cases continue to mount. India ranks fourth globally in terms of active cases,” it claimed.It, however, said that India’s national commitments on climate are far more ambitious than most countries – including the US and nations in Europe.“The book makes it quite clear that we will need new futures, new directions for growth. But this can’t happen if our natural resources are threatened and our governance systems and practices are failing. ‘Green’ growth requires protection and sustainable use of our natural resources. ‘Green’ growth cannot happen if our health is compromised,” Narain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-has-put-265-million-people-at-risk-of-starvation-study/story-bxqUBAPyOSsFAz1ML8dHEM.html
04-06-2020||India||Setback for Congress ahead of RS polls as two Gujarat MLAs resign||Two Congress lawmakers have resigned from the Gujarat assembly and brought down the party’s tally in the 182-member House to 66 ahead of the June 19 elections to four Rajya Sabha seats from the state. The resignations prompted the Congress to divide its remaining legislators into seven groups and rush them to different places in the state to prevent further desertions until the polling is held, party functionaries aware of the matter said. The Gujarat seats are going to the polls along with 20 others across the country.A party needs 35 first preference votes to win a seat as the strength of the Gujarat assembly is now 173. Five Congress legislators earlier resigned from the assembly in March. Two more seats remain vacant in the state assembly because of litigation due to poll-related disputes. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with 103 seats needs two more votes to win three of the four Rajya Sabha seats. The Congress is banking on Bharatiya Tribal Party’s two, the lone legislator of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and independent lawmaker Jignesh Mevani to win two seats. The BJP has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara, and Narhari Amin. Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki are the Congress’s candidates.Gujarat assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi said Congress legislators Akshay Patel and Jitu Chaudhary met him on Wednesday evening to handover their resignations. “I have accepted their resignations. They now cease to be the legislators,” he said on Thursday.Congress leader Ahmed Patel accused the BJP of horse-trading amid the Covid-19 crisis. “Isn’t Gujarat government the only one in the world where: 1) Government has abandoned people in the middle of a global pandemic? 2) Refused to fund train fare for poor migrants? 3) But leaves no stone unturned to fund horse-trading activities for a Rajya Sabha election?” he tweeted.Paresh Dhanani, the opposition leader in the Gujarat assembly, also accused the BJP of breaking the Congress to win the Rajya Sabha polls. “The BJP has opened its shop to buy Congress legislators from the money amassed through corrupt means. The BJP is using the state machinery and money power to win elections,” he said.The BJP rejected the allegations, saying Congress legislators were leaving the party as they were “unhappy” with its leadership. “I believe that some more Congress legislators would also resign in the near future. They are leaving Congress because they are unhappy with the party leadership,” Amin said.Congress legislators Alpesh Thakor and Dhavalsinh Zala cross-voted in favour of the BJP when it fielded external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Jugal Thakor for Rajya Sabha in July last year. The two seats were left vacant after Union ministers Amit Shah and Smriti Irani were elected to Parliament’s lower House, or Lok Sabha.Ahmed Patel managed to get re-elected to the Rajya Sabha for the fifth time in August 2017 after a keenly contested election. The Rajya Sabha elections were earlier scheduled to be held on March 26, but were deferred due to the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent imposition of the nationwide lockdown to check its spread from March 25.The NCP has separately removed its Gujarat chief Shankersinh Vaghela and appointed Jayant Patel in his place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/setback-for-congress-ahead-of-rs-polls-as-two-gujarat-mlas-resign/story-WwUt8eSPBQvuBT9y7CdqKN.html
04-06-2020||India||Allow us to reopen hotels, Goa’s tourism industry pleads with govt||Goa’s tourism industry has sought a quick reopening of the hotel industry lest the prolonged lockdown causes businesses to shut down entirely making revival more difficult. The tourism industry which contributes more than 9% to Goa’s GDP, has been hardest hit by the lockdown. It has claimed that if the government can’t give the industry any relief, it should at least allow it to resume business. “Many people including those at the managerial level have lost their jobs. Those who still have their jobs are sent on unpaid leave. If the delay lasts longer it will be difficult to restart even if the government gives the go ahead,” Nilesh Shah the president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa told HT. “The government should make its stance clear regarding the reopening of the sector. Right now many of us are receiving inquiries for later in the year but we cannot give customers any assurance that hotels will be open and what the protocols will be so that they can plan their travel and events,” Savio Mesias a hotel owner in Goa said. Hotels have been closed in Goa since March and haven’t been accepting new bookings. While the government announced easier travel between states under Unlock 1, there is no clarity on when hotels would be allowed to reopen. “If we have clarity regarding the SOPs for the restart, at least we can then get ready for our own SOPs,” Messias added. Shah said opening even 50% of the hotels would be a start the industry needs to revive itself.“We were promised that the industry would be allowed to open from the second week of June onwards. But even if it is allowed to open by July, then it should be done. Even if only 50% of the hotels open, at least it will be a start,” Shah said.The tourism industry expects that the effects of coronavirus on travel will continue for up to a year. But it is hoping that travel for work and business will pick up in the coming months. For Goa’s tourism sector, it is of little comfort that the lockdown has come during the off-season at a time when tourist traffic is low on account of the monsoon and European tourists returning home where the summer and spring are pleasant.The Travel and Tourism Association of India has estimated that the Covid-19 pandemic will cost the state tourism industry far more than the Rs1,000-crore loss they had originally estimated and job losses to about 60,000-75,000 people unless remedial measures are taken.Hotels have laid off staff en masse leaving people without a regular source of income since the lockdown began and stopped all travel.Around 55 lakh foreign and domestic tourists visited the state in 2019 and contributed between 9-11% to the state’s GDP.The industry has pitched for reduction in fees, taxes as well as a moratorium on repayments none of which have yet been accepted by the government. The Goa government has yet to make its stance clear with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant saying that a decision is yet to be taken but could be taken by early next week in tune with the Centre’s guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-us-to-reopen-hotels-goa-s-tourism-industry-pleads-with-govt/story-WHzLMxbCJnVSxR6TokXdGK.html
04-06-2020||India||Wife pleads for further study, husband gives her triple talaq||A man in Rajasthan’s Barmer district gave his wife of six years triple talaq after she insisted on pursuing her further studies. The 21-year-old woman is a graduated and had requested her husband for higher study, on which, her husband gave her triple talaq, police said.The women police station in Barmer has lodged the case against the man, confirmed Lata Begad, the station house officer. Begad said that victim is a resident of Barmer’s Gagriya village and lodged a case at women police station that she got married to Murad Khan, who works as a junior engineer at Fulera in Jaipur. In her complaint, the victim alleged that soon after marriage, her in-laws started harassing her for dowry. They forced her to leave her study but she anyhow completed the graduation.Victim alleged that her husband and family members were against her pursuing her further study and denied it when she made the request to them.She informed the police that in December 2019, her husband given her triple talaq in presence of her brother. She said that after that she returned back to her father’s house with her brother and started living there. She informed the police that in March this year, her husband sent her a written talaq but believing that matter would be sorted out at social level, she avoided police action but when her husband refused to accept her, she approached the police.SHO Begad said on basis of victim’s complaint, the case has been lodged under section 498A, 323, 354 of IPC and section 3/4 of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-pleads-for-further-study-husband-gives-her-triple-talaq/story-BQqxnBcJczeJ8XXlJow87L.html
04-06-2020||India||Bombay HC asks govt, BMC to explain process for disposal of bodies of Covid-19 victims||Taking cognizance of the petition filed by BJP MLA Ashish Shelar which raised concerns over an incident at Sion Hospital where Covid-19 infected patients were being treated next to the bodies of patients who had succumbed to the virus, the Bombay high court has directed the BMC and the state government to explain the process of handling and cremating bodies of those who have died due to the infectious disease.The division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice A A Sayyed while hearing a clutch of public interest litigations filed by various individuals, organisations and politicos was informed by advocates Rajendra Pai and Ameet Mehta that several videos from the hospital wherein bodies of deceased Covid-19 victims kept on beds or on the floor adjacent to people taking treatment for coronavirus had emerged. He sought a direction to the government and BMC to immediately stop the practice of keeping bodies of Covid-19 infected victims in wards where people are being treated for the infection. Shelar’s advocates further argued, “Retention of the bodies in active wards in Sion Hospital as recently reported is a matter of serious concern. It gives rise to medical as well as humanitarian issues. No civilized society can afford to repeatedly witness such incidents.”In light of these submissions, Shelar sought directions to the authorities to initiate a probe into the incident and register cases against the hospital staff responsible for letting the bodies of the deceased remain in active wards and to follow procedure laid down by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and Central government for disposal of bodies of Covid-19 victims.After hearing the submissions, the court directed the state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to respond with details about how bodies of Covid-19 victims were handled and disposed and posted the matter for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-asks-govt-bmc-to-explain-process-for-disposal-of-bodies-of-covid-19-victims/story-aIjXQ8REaDFZRKhU5C5yaK.html
04-06-2020||India||Centre’s SOP limits restaurants’ operations, encourages takeaways under Unlock 1||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said Thursday not more than 50% of seating capacity will be permitted in restaurants as they prepare to open from June 8 under Unlock 1.“Seating arrangement to be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained. In restaurants, not more than 50% of seating capacity to be permitted,” the MoHFW said in a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) that it issued late evening.Large gatherings/congregations continue to remain prohibited.Restaurants in containment zones shall remain closed. Only those outside containment zones will be allowed to open up.Also read: Centre issues SOP for religious places ahead of June 8 opening amid Covid-19 pandemicThe SOP encouraged takeaways instead of eating at restaurants.“Takeaways to be encouraged, instead of Dine-In. Food delivery personnel should leave the packet at customer’s door. DO NOT handover the food packet directly to the customer,” it said.Under the SOP, the staff shall be screened thermally by the restaurant authorities prior to allowing home deliveries.“Only asymptomatic staff and patrons shall be allowed. All staff and patrons to be allowed entry only if using face cover/masks. The face cover/masks has to be worn at all times inside the restaurant,” it said.It asked restaurants to stagger patrons if possible and deploy adequate manpower for ensuring social distancing norms.Tables will have to be sanitized each time a customer leaves. Instead of cloth napkins, restaurants have been encouraged to use good quality disposable paper napkins.“In the kitchen, the staff should follow social distancing norms at workplace. Kitchens area must be sanitized at regular intervals,” the SOP said.The SOP also prescribes proper crowd management in the parking lots and outside the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-sop-limits-restaurants-operations-encourages-takeaways-under-unlock-1/story-TN0hBmQ1Gd6XPWw74ObKvL.html
04-06-2020||India||Indian diplomats harassed in Islamabad, New Delhi complains to Pakistan govt||India has taken up with Pakistan the issue of harassment of Indian personnel in Islamabad and obstruction in the discharge of their duties days after New Delhi expelled two staffers of the Pakistani mission, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.There were reports from Islamabad of Pakistani security and intelligence personnel aggressively tailing the vehicles of Indian diplomats, including chargé d’affaires Gaurav Ahluwalia, and behaving in an intimidating manner outside their residences in Islamabad, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.“The matter of harassment of Indian personnel and obstruction in their normal functioning is being taken up through established diplomatic channels,” said a person.Several videos shared on social media purportedly showed Pakistani intelligence personnel on motorcycles tailing the Indian diplomats, including Ahluwalia.On May 31, India had expelled two officials of the Pakistan high commission after they were detained by law enforcement authorities on charges of engaging in espionage.Delhi Police officials said the staffers of the Pakistani mission were detained at Bikanervala Chowk in Karol Bagh while allegedly trying to obtain classified materials on Indian security installations, and a case was registered against them under the Official Secrets Act. The detentions were the result of an operation jointly mounted by Delhi Police and Military Intelligence.Pakistan condemned India’s decision to declare the two officials persona non grata and expel them, saying they were detained on “false and unsubstantiated charges”. A statement from Pakistan’s Foreign Office contended the two men were tortured and threatened to “accept false charges” despite identifying themselves as diplomatic staff.India rejected these contentions, and people familiar with developments said the Pakistan officials were caught red handed while indulging in espionage.There have been several instances of the harassment of Indian diplomats in Islamabad in recent years after bilateral ties plunged to an all-time low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-diplomats-harassed-in-islamabad-new-delhi-complains-to-pakistan-govt/story-5wqwhoTAogK5mMDf9dBW8I.html
04-06-2020||India||Unlock-1 SOPs for malls mandates 6-ft distance, face masks, children play areas to be closed||Following the government decision to begin a phased exit from lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic through three phases of ‘Unlock’, the union health ministry on Wednesday evening released the standard operating procedures to be followed at certain public places including shopping malls, religious places of worship, restaurants and hotels, which will open up for business starting June 8 as part of Unlock 1.Here’s the list of SOPs that the management of malls have been asked to follow while conducting operations.1. Mall entrance to have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitizer dispenser) and thermal screening provisions2. Only asymptomatic customers and visitors shall be allowed3. All workers, customers or visitors to be allowed entry to malls only if using face cover or masks4. The face cover or masks have to be worn at all times inside the shopping mall5. Posters/standees/AV media on preventive measures about Covid-19 to be displayed prominently in malls6. Staggering of visitors to be done, if possible at the premises7. Adequate manpower shall be deployed by the mall management for ensuring social distancing norms8. All employees who are at higher risk i.e. older employees, pregnant employees and employees who have underlying medical conditions, to take extra precautions and should preferably not be exposed to any front-line work requiring direct contact with the public9. Shopping mall management to facilitate work from home, wherever feasible.10. Proper crowd management in the parking lots and outside the premises, while following social distancing norms has to be done11. Valet parking shall be operational with operating staff wearing face covers/ masks and gloves as appropriate. A proper disinfection of steering, door handles, keys, etc. of the vehicles should be taken up12. Any shops, stalls, cafeteria etc., outside and within the premises shall follow social distancing norms at all times13. Specific markings may be made with sufficient distance to manage the queue and ensure social distancing in the premises14. Preferably separate entry and exits for visitors, workers and goods/supplies shall be organized15. The staff for home deliveries shall be screened thermally by the shopping mall authorities prior to allowing home deliveries16. Required precautions while handling supplies, inventories and goods in the shopping mall shall be ensured17. Proper queue management and disinfection shall be organized18. Maintaining physical distancing of a minimum of 6 feet, when queuing up for entry and inside the shopping mall as far as feasible19. Number of customers inside the shop to be kept at a minimum to maintain physical distancing norms20. Seating arrangement, if any, to be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained21. Number of people in the elevators shall be restricted, duly maintaining social distancing norms.22. Use of escalators with one person on alternate steps may be encouraged23. For air-conditioning/ventilation, the guidelines of CPWD shall be followed which inter alia emphasises that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degrees C, relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70%, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate.24. Large gatherings/congregations continue to remain prohibited25. Effective and frequent sanitation within the premises shall be maintained with particular focus on lavatories, drinking and hand washing stations/areas26. Cleaning and regular disinfection (using 1% sodium hypochlorite) of frequently touched surfaces (door knobs, elevator buttons, hand rails, benches, washroom fixtures, etc.) to be made mandatory in all malls in common areas as well as inside shops, elevators, escalators etc27. Proper disposal of face covers / masks / gloves left over by visitors and/or employees should be ensured28. Deep cleaning of all washrooms shall be ensured at regular intervals.Following SOPs has to be observed specially at the food courts inside shopping malls.1. Adequate crowd and queue management to be ensured to ensure social distancing norms2. In food courts and restaurants, not more than 50% of seating capacity to be permitted3. Food court staff / waiters should wear mask and hand gloves and take other required precautionary measures.4. The seating arrangement should ensure adequate social distancing between patrons as far as feasible.5. Contactless mode of ordering and digital mode of payment (using e-wallets) to be encouraged6. Tables to be sanitized each time customer leaves7. In the kitchen, the staff should follow social distancing norms at work place8. Gaming Arcades shall remain closed9. Children Play Areas shall remain closed.10. Cinema halls inside shopping malls shall remain closedAccording to the SOPs the following steps must be taken in case of a suspect or confirmed case in the mall premises1. Place the ill person in a room or area where they are isolated from others.2. Provide a mask/face cover till such time he/she is examined by a doctor.3. Immediately inform the nearest medical facility (hospital/clinic) or call the state or district helpline.4. A risk assessment will be undertaken by the designated public health authority (district RRT/treating physician) and accordingly further action be initiated regarding management of case, his/her contacts and need for disinfection.5. Disinfection of the premises to be taken up if the person is found positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-sops-for-malls-mandates-6-ft-distance-face-masks-children-play-areas-to-be-closed/story-WGZ20pZavWOiyMfDRw7eCO.html
04-06-2020||India||Centre issues SOP for religious places ahead of June 8 opening amid Covid-19 pandemic||Ahead of religious places and places of worship being opened for the public from June 8 under Unlock 1, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on preventive measures to contain spread of Covid-19.The SOP emphasized on social distancing to stop the spread of Covid-19.“Religious places/places of worship get frequented by large number of people for spiritual solace. To prevent spread of Covid-19 infection, it is important that required social distancing and other preventive measures are followed in such premises,” it said.It said shoes/footwear to be preferably taken off inside one’s own vehicle. “If needed they should be kept in separate slots for each individual/family by the persons themselves”.The SOP also advised devotees not to touch statues/idols/ holy books etc.It also said choir or singing groups should not be allowed.“In view of potential threat of spread of infection, as far as feasible recorded devotional music/songs may be played and choir or singing groups should not be allowed.”The SOP also advised devotees to avoid common prayer mats and said they should bring their own prayer mat or piece of cloth which they may take back with them.It also said physical offerings like Prasad/distribution or sprinkling of holy water, etc. will not be allowed inside the religious place.Under the SOP all religious places shall also ensure that entrance will have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitizer dispenser) and thermal screening provisions and only asymptomatic persons shall be allowed in the premises.People will be allowed entry only if they are using masks or face cover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-sop-for-religious-places-ahead-of-june-8-opening-amid-pandemic/story-H1DxbSK5Oms4WIozbItxTI.html
04-06-2020||India||Rajeev Topno, private secretary to PM Modi, gets World Bank assignment||Rajeev Topno, the 1996 batch IAS officer who has served as a key aide to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has been appointed as senior advisor to the World Bank Executive Director. Topno’s next assignment was cleared by the PM Modi-led Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Thursday. The committee also cleared names of five other officers for foreign assignments.Topno, a Gujarat cadre Indian Administrative Service officer, had joined the Prime Minister’s Office as a deputy secretary in 2009 when Manmohan Singh had just started his second term. He handled key portfolios such as telecom and ports at the PMO in the UPA-2 government. PM Modi handpicked Topno to his personal staff when he assumed power in 2014, appointing the Gujarat cadre officer as his private secretary.The prime minister, according to convention, has two private secretaries. One of them is an IAS officer, the second, Vivek Kumar, is an Indian Foreign Service officer.The ACC has also cleared the appointment of 1999 batch IAS officer Brajendra Navnit as Ambassador and India’s permanent representative to the World Trade Organisation in Geneva.Ravi Kota, a 1993 batch IAS officer, has been appointed Minister (Economic) at the Indian Embassy in Washington, Lekhan Thakkar, Central Secretariat Service as Counsellor Economic at the embassy in Beijing, H Atheli as advisor to ED, Asian Development Bank. Anwar Hussain Shaik, an Indian Railway Traffic Service officer, has been appointed Counsellor at the Permanent Mission of India to WTO, Geneva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-key-aide-rajeev-topno-gets-world-bank-assignment/story-Lh6aBrMQvZOze0vgkGpaeL.html
04-06-2020||India||Odisha MP and supporters fined for not wearing masks, violating social distancing norms||In the first-ever instance of a political functionary being penalised for violating social distancing norms in Odisha, BJP MP from Bhubaneswar Aparajita Sarangi and 20 of her supporters had to shell out a penalty of Rs 300 each for not wearing face mask and adhering to social distance norms.Bhubaneswar commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi said the MP and 20 of her supporters were fined Rs 200 each for not wearing masks and Rs 100 for not keeping a minimum of 1 metre physical distance during the visit to the house of party leader Jagannath Pradhan on Wednesday. In the photo tweeted by the MP, she was seen standing with 30 partymen, with only a couple of them wearing mask. The MP herself did not wear a mask.The picture on the MP’s Twitter handle drew massive flak with many pointing out that she was setting a wrong example by her act.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe BJP MP, who took voluntary retirement from the IAS in 2018 before contesting the polls last year, said she had to visit the party leader under very special circumstances. “I fully appreciate & respect people’s concern regarding adherence to Covid-19 norms. It is a good sign. Acknowledging my duty, I have volunteered to pay the fine due,” she tweeted.On Wednesday, Sarangi had gone to meet Pradhan, who had resigned from the BJP over the announcement of party’s Bhubaneswar district unit president Babu Singh, known to be a staunch supporter of the MP. Pradhan’s resignation was, however, rejected by the party leadership.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The penalty by the Bhubaneswar MP came on the day chief minister Naveen Patnaik advised people to not step out of their homes unnecessarily and wear masks while going out. “Relaxation of lockdown does not mean coronavirus has disappeared. The month of June is crucial for us. Maintain social distancing and follow the government guidelines to combat Covid-19,” said Patnaik in a video message this evening.Over the last two months, Odisha police have fined thousands of people for not maintaining social distancing norms and not wearing masks in public. On Thursday, at least 15 boys and girls were detained and fined by Bhubaneswar police for making TikTok videos at IG Park in the city for violating social distancing norms.Recently, Biju Janata Dal MP from Kendrapara, Anubhav Mohanty also faced widespread criticism for not maintaining social distance while standing with migrant workers. Some even asked why he was not in home quarantine for the mandatory 14 days after returning from New Delhi on May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-mp-and-supporters-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-violating-social-distancing-norms/story-0TOzrQ2Kg2fwzuiDku1OsN.html
04-06-2020||India||Separate bench of Andhra HC to hear LG polymers gas leak case||A separate bench of the Andhra Pradesh high court will hear the case of LG Polymers India Ltd from whose plant at Visakhapatnam a leakage of styrene gas on May 7 killed 12 people.A vacation bench of the high court comprising Justice A V Sesha Sai and Justice K Lalitha on Thursday directed the registrar to refer the LG Polymers issue to chief justice J K Maheshwari to constitute a separate bench to conduct the hearings.The vacation bench, which took up the petition of LG Polymers to allow 30 of its employees into the Visakhapatnam plant to take up emergency works, posted the case to a later date which the chief justice will decide after the court vacations end on June 15.The high court had suo motu taken up the case of styrene gas leak from LG Polymers plant at R R Venkatapuram in Visakhapatnam on the day the incident took place.Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh government filed a counter-affidavit to the high court stating that it had not given any no-objection certificate (NOC) to LG Polymers Ltd to reopen the Visakhapatnam plant as part of relaxations granted to industries during Lockdown 3.0 after May 4.In the counter-affidavit, state special chief secretary (industries) Karikal Valavan said the LG Polymers had indeed sent a mail to the industries department seeking permission for operation of the plant and the government had asked the company to submit a declaration stating that its plant did not come under the containment zone and the buffer zone.“However, there was no such declaration from LG Polymers. So, the department has not given any NOC to the company. Moreover, polystyrene, expandable polystyrene and engineering plastics do not fall under the essential industrial goods category,” the official said in the affidavit.The official clarified that there was no contamination of drinking water in Meghadrigadda reservoir closer to the LG Polymers plant. The Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) authorities had tested the water samples and had not found any residues of styrene in the water. It was also studying the air pollution levels around the company from time to time, he said.Valavan said the APPCB had already withdrawn the consent given to the company for production and management of the Vizag plant. The company had been sealed and the passports of the directors had been seized, he explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/separate-bench-of-andhra-hc-to-hear-lg-polymers-gas-leak-case/story-4crs1w6XmL5jmRLbWyJQQO.html
04-06-2020||India||38,000 stranded Indians to be repatriated in 3rd phase of Vande Bharat Mission||A total of 107,123 Indians stranded across the world have been brought back to the country so far in the first two phases of Vande Bharat Mission, India’s largest repatriation operation.State-run Air India has so far operated 103 flights in the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission, which began on May 17 and will continue till June 13, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday.“Phase II of Vande Bharat has progressed well…The Indian Navy has also made sorties to bring back returnees from Sri Lanka and the Maldives,” he said.Around 38,000 Indians are expected to be repatriated during the third phase of Vande Bharat Mission on 337 international flights from 31 countries, including 54 from the US, 24 from Canada, and 11 flights from Nigeria, Egypt, South Africa, Kenya, Seychelles and Mauritius. The third phase will cover more sectors and create additional hubs in remote regions.Since the operation started on May 7, a total of 454 flights, including those by foreign carriers, have brought back the stranded Indians. The 107,123 Indians repatriated so far included 17,485 migrant workers, 11,511 students and 8,633 professionals.More than 32,000 Indians have returned through land border immigration checkpoints from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh.A total of 348,565 Indians have so far registered with missions abroad to be repatriated on compelling grounds, Srivastava said.After the Union home ministry issued fresh guidelines on May 24, the process of non-scheduled commercial flights has been streamlined and this resulted in further facilitation of Indians returning by chartered flights and air ambulances.“There is a significant increase in the number of returnees via land borders too with the finalisation of guidelines in this regard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/38-000-stranded-indians-to-be-repatriated-in-3rd-phase-of-vande-bharat-mission/story-fPGBga3NsgWEHKz2eU0JqL.html
04-06-2020||India||India joins UK’s global vaccine mission, commits $15 million over next five years||India on Thursday joined the UK’s vaccine mission during the Global Vaccine Summit 2020, which helped secure $7.4 billion in funding to support global vaccine supply and immunisation.The virtual event saw representatives of more than 50 countries – including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, other heads of state and government, business leaders, UN agencies and civil society – pledging their support to Gavi, the vaccine alliance, in its commitment to help save up to eight million lives over the next five years.India committed $15 million to Gavi over the next five years at Thursday’s summit.According to Gavi, India is the only country that has moved from being a recipient to a donor. India is also now its largest manufacturer, accounting for more than 60% of Gavi vaccines.The acting UK high commissioner, Jan Thompson, said: “I was pleased to see such a strong endorsement from Prime Minister Modi at today’s summit, and to hear his message about the importance of global solidarity.“As he said, India’s capacity to produce vaccines at low cost and research expertise will play a very important role. The UK is Gavi’s leading donor and already playing a major role in the international response to Coronavirus. I’m delighted to see the continuing and excellent UK-India collaboration as a force for good against Covid-19 – from vaccine development to keeping essential medical supply routes open.”UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he hoped the summit will be the “moment when the world comes together to unite humanity in the fight against disease”.Gavi’s efforts, including during the Covid-19 pandemic, help stop the spread of infectious diseases and resurgence of other epidemics. “If a safe and effective coronavirus vaccine is developed, it will also have a role in its delivery around the world. Global access will ensure a collective international recovery,” said a statement from the UK high commission.Gavi has immunised more than 760 million children in the poorest countries, saving more than 13 million lives. It holds a pledging conference every five years to raise funds for its next strategic period, and Thursday’s summit secured funding for 2021-25.The UK has supported Gavi since its inception in 2000 and is its largest donor, with a pledge of £1.65 billion for the next five years. The Global Vaccine Summit 2020 built on the UK’s recent role as co-lead for the Global Coronavirus Response Initiative on May 4, which raised 7.4 billion euros (about £6.64 billion) for vaccines, tests and treatment to tackle the Coronavirus.UK-India collaboration for a possible coronavirus vaccine includes a consortium comprising Serum Institute, Gates Foundation, MIT and Spy Biotech, a UK-based biotech company, which is trying to develop a vaccine using the new “spy-tag vaccine development technology”. Oxford Nanopore is also working with some of India’s leading scientific institutions to focus on rapid analysis of Coronavirus samples, while a long-term Merck and Wellcome Trust venture on vaccine research, policy and manufacturing will be based in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-joins-uk-s-global-vaccine-mission-commits-15-million-over-next-five-years/story-5cIucvV0EQVEqEgmTJ7RAO.html
04-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Focusing on 3 suspects, will bring elephant killers to justice, says Kerala CM and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Focusing on 3 suspects, will bring elephant killers to justice, says Kerala CMKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday took to Twitter to address the outrage following the brutal killing of a pregnant elephant late last month and said that the culprits would be brought to book. Read moreRace for Rajya Sabha tickets heat up in Karnataka in both BJP, Congress campsWith four members of the Rajya Sabha retiring on June 25, the race to replace them has become hectic in Karnataka with lobbying in both national parties – the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Indian National Congress intensifying. Read moreThousands of China’s movie screens could be shut foreverChina has the largest number of movie screens in the world but all have been shut since January 23, the day the central Chinese city of Wuhan was locked down to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Read moreNo saliva on ball advantageous for batsmen: Batting coach Vikram RathourIndia batting coach Vikram Rathour believes that as long as an alternate to saliva is not found to use on the ball, the batsmen will find themselves at an advantage. Read moreStep inside Amitabh Bachchan’s eclectic home Jalsa, a palace fit for Bollywood royaltyModern interior design aesthetic may be all about minimalism and a light, airy vibe but not for the Bachchan family. Amitabh Bachchan’s famous Mumbai mansion, Jalsa is all about eclectic furniture, bold wall prints and statement art pieces. Read moreSignal sees huge spike in app downloads amid ongoing protestsPeople in the US are turning to privacy-focused apps like Signal which has been downloaded 121,000 times. Read moreDelhi University cancels first and second year UG exams, issues guidelines for gradingDelhi University, or DU, on Thursday, said that it will not conduct the semester examinations for first and second year students of undergraduate programmes. Read moreWorld Environment Day 2020: Significance, theme and quotesWith countries under lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak, one positive which seems to have come out of this whole situation is that our environment has become better. Read moreHuge landslide drags houses into sea, dramatic video scares people. WatchIn a frightening moment, a huge landslide dragged several houses into a sea in Alta, Norway. Now, a video of the incident, shared on Twitter, has left many scared and shocked. Read more‘Window shopping for hospital beds’: Delhi minister on questions over corona appDelhi health minister commented on alleged mismatch in information provided over the Delhi Corona app regarding availability of hospital beds in the national capital. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-focusing-on-3-suspects-will-bring-elephant-killers-to-justice-says-kerala-cm-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zJEapLqDFkpZnp3lEHDw9K.html
04-06-2020||India||Bihar police party attacked by a mob while raiding illegal liquor makers, SHO among injured||A Bihar police party was attacked by a mob of local villagers in Vaishali district on Wednesday evening while it was raiding a hideout of alleged liquor smugglers. 10 police personnel including a station house officer (SHO) and a female constable were injured in the attack at Bijhrauli village of the district. The mob also damaged police vehicles.The SHO of Tisiauta police station Nityanand Prasad and a constable were released from Patepur primary health centre after treatment.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAccording to police officials, the raiding party had gone to nab Karpoori Paswan and Satyajit Paswan following information that they were illegally manufacturing liquor in their houses. When the police team was taking away the two, it came under attack by the villagers, they said, and added that the police team had to retreat after the attack and the mob managed to free the two suspects.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Later, villagers alleged that the police team had fired at them, causing bullet injuries to one Munni Devi, wife of Ranjit Paswan.Another resident, Krishna Paswan said the police team was asking for money from liquor smugglers and baton-charged and fired at them when they refused.Vaishali’s superintendent of police (SP) Dr Gaurav Mangla denied the allegation of police firing.Mangla said the SHO and the constable received injuries on their heads, hands and legs while other police personnel suffered minor injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-party-attacked-by-a-mob-while-raiding-illegal-liquor-makers-sho-among-injured/story-SaCdkHdH2nlBa7KCm6fp4N.html
04-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand prisoner spends restless nights after the man he stabbed turns Covid-19 positive||A man who was recently jailed in Dehradun for allegedly attacking another man with a knife spent two restless nights at the isolation centre in Government Doon Medical College Hospital this week, after he learnt that the victim had tested positive for Covid-19.Dr. NS Khatri, deputy chief medical superintendent of the hospital said that the police officials had brought in a prisoner to the hospital for testing on Tuesday.“On Tuesday, around evening, police officials brought in a prisoner to get him tested for Covid-19 after they learnt that the victim he attacked had tested positive. We had kept the prisoner in an isolation ward for suspected patients in the hospital for two nights, before his test results were released on Thursday,” said Dr. Khatri.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The accused was recently sent to jail by a district court in Dehradun for allegedly stabbing a person.A senior official from the Sudhowala prison, where the accused is lodged, said the accused tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday morning. The official didn’t wish to be named.“We had taken the accused to the hospital for testing where he stayed for two nights. Since he tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday, he will be brought back to the prison again,” said the senior official. The person had not been brought back to the prison till the filing of this copy.On May 31, Covid-19 cases reached the prisons of Uttarakhand when five inmates in Sitarganj jail tested positive for the virus. The jail located in Udham Singh Nagar district has 666 inmates against a capacity of around 300, said jail authorities.Dr Mourya, superintendent Sitarganj jail, said those who tested positive were among the 52 inmates whose samples were tested on a random basis. Following the results, 14 other prisoners, who were in contact with the positive cases, were quarantined in a ward while several others, including the jail guards and authorities who came into contact with these prisoners, were being tested for the disease, he had had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-prisoner-spends-restless-nights-after-the-man-he-stabbed-turns-covid-19-positive/story-EX8lulYQvOJkcS8jFbffaJ.html
04-06-2020||India||With 2,933 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra’s tally climbs to 77,793||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 123 deaths and 2,933 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s coronavirus positive patients’ tally to 77,793, according to state health department data.Although 123 deaths were recorded today, the highest single-day spike in fatalities, the health department clarified that of the total deaths, 30 are from the last two days while the rest occurred between April 30 and June 1.The death toll due to the highly contagious disease in Maharashtra has climbed to 2,710 with the 123 additional deaths.ALSO READ | Battling Covid-19 in worst-hit state, Maharashtra Police records 30 deaths, 2,557 casesMaharashtra, which is the worst-hit state in the Covid-19 pandemic, with the highest number of coronavirus positive cases, was hit on Wednesday by severe cyclonic storm, Nisarga, causing extensive damage to property and killing at least five people.Financial capital Mumbai on Thursday recorded 1,439 new Covid-19 cases and 48 deaths in the last 24 hours.The death toll in Mumbai now stands at 1,465.ALSO READ | With 2,361 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra crosses 70,000-markMumbai, which was on red alert for the last two days was spared the brunt of the cyclone which made landfall in Raigad district on Wednesday afternoon.The city’s total coronavirus positive patients tally has now mounted to 44,931 with the addition of the 1,439 new Covid-19 cases. Mumbai is the worst-affected city in India with a large number of coronavirus cases.India too saw a record single-day jump of 9,304 Covid-19 cases on Thursday pushing the nationwide tally to 2,16,919, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 6,075 with 260 new fatalities, according to the Union health ministry.India now stands seventh among the nations worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK, Spain and Italy.The health ministry said the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country is currently at 1,06,737 till Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-2-933-new-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-s-tally-climbs-to-77-793/story-PldJoHsUvnZtSYQ5S9E4xK.html
04-06-2020||India||First two lockdowns cost Assam’s economy Rs 33,000 cr, says govt panel||Assam’s Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) suffered Rs 32,617 crore losses during the first two phases of the lockdown to control spread of Covid-19, says the report of a high powered panel formed by the state government to recommend measures to revive the economy.The seven-member committee for revitalization of Assam economy headed by retired IAS officer Subhash Chandra Das had submitted its recommendations to Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Monday.While the details of the report has not been made public, HT has managed to take a look at its contents, which suggests focus on key areas like agriculture and economy to help mitigate the losses suffered because of the lockdown.According to the report, the primary sector, which includes agriculture, forestry, mining etc. suffered losses worth Rs 8,175 crore and the secondary sector that includes manufacturing, construction, electricity etc. lost Rs 7,546 crore.The tertiary sector that includes service like hotels, restaurants, real estate, transport etc. suffered the biggest hit losing Rs 14,787 crore. The state also lost Rs 1,659 in taxes during the 40 days of the first two lockdown phases that started on March 24 and continued till May 3.The advanced estimates of GSDP for Assam for the year 2019-2020 is Rs 3,45,957 crore or an average GSDP of Rs 947 crore daily. The report said that the loss due to lockdown was about 9.5% of the present GSDP.The report also estimates that between 15.7 lakh and 27.1 lakh people could become unemployed in Assam. The rate of unemployment could increase from the present 8% to up to 27% because of the lockdown as well as estimated return of six lakh to 10 lakh workers from other states in the country.Due to return migration of workers back to the state, Assam is expected to lose around Rs 3,600 crore annually in the form of remittances, the report said.Due to unemployment, the poverty ratio in the state could jump from 32% (2011-2012 figure) to as high nearly 51% if there’s a 15% fall in income. This could have number of social implications, the report said.It warned that unemployment and poverty could lead to a rise in thefts and robberies and if hardships escalate it could lead to bigger security issues with spurt in incidents of trafficking of children and women, prostitution and child labour.The estimated loss in revenue collection from March, 2020 till May 21, 2020 is Rs 1,155 crore and there would be an expected shortfall of Rs 10,214 crore to the state’s revenue till December, 2020, the report stated.The committee suggested waiving off loans taken by farmers for raising crops during Rabi season of 2019-20, compensation to pig farmers who lost pigs due to African Swine Fever (ASF) and one-time compensation of Rs 5,000 each to agricultural labourers.For the industries sector, it recommended interest subsidy of 3% to 4% for two years for loans availed under guaranteed emergency credit line (GECL) scheme to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) to reduce the interest burden. It also suggested the government to consult with banks and try to reduce interest subsidy of 3% to 4% for two years on working capital loans taken by MSMEs.To improve employment, the committee suggested increasing work-days limit from 100 days/year to 150 days/year under MGNREGA, increasing the amount of Rs 2,000/month paid to workers from Assam who stayed back in other states to Rs 4,000/month while extending the scheme till August, 2020.Setting up of a farmers’ commission, notification of the state agriculture policy, creation of a land bank for infrastructure projects and a comprehensive social security scheme that takes care of workers for 6 months if they lose their jobs are some other suggestions made by the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-two-lockdowns-cost-assam-s-economy-rs-33-000-cr-says-govt-panel/story-SJL8vP4KMWRzbUbTxMa05N.html
04-06-2020||India||Hyderabad man promises Rs 2 lakh for informer about Kerala elephant killers||As outrage continues over the tragic death of a pregnant elephant in Malappuram in Kerala late last month after it ate an explosive-laden pineapple, a stock broker in Hyderabad on Thursday announced a cash reward of Rs two lakh to anyone who discloses the identity of the culprit(s).B T Srinivasan (55), who is also general secretary of United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations of Greater Hyderabad, tweeted: #Elephant@CMOKerala, I want to offer a reward of 2 lakhs from my personal savings to the person who gives information about the miscreants who made a pregnant elephant eat a pineapple stuffed with crackers. The elephant, which died in Kerala’s Malappuram.He also tagged BJP leader and former Union minister Maneka Gandhi. He said the killing of the elephant left him shocked and depressed.“Kerala is supposed to have high literacy. Is it the way literate people behave? Don’t they have heart? I am shocked and depressed,” Srinivasan told Hindustan Times.Hailing from a family of agriculturists at Vuyyuru in Krishna district, Srinivasan moved to Hyderabad after graduation in 1985 and was involved in stock broking activities. He said some of his friends also came forward to supplement his efforts after seeing his twee. “Let me see whether the reward could be scaled up. But I would like to offer Rs 2 lakh from my own pocket,” he said.Once the informer about the elephant killer is traced, Srinivasan wants to go all the way to Kerala to hand over the cash reward to the person. “My intention is to convey the message that assault on wildlife is as heinous as attack on humans. All are equal in nature,” he said.He said it was unfortunate that the laws were not very stringent towards people involved in cruelty towards animals. “At the most, the accused might get imprisonment for three years. I feel he should get life imprisonment for such inhuman activity and the culprits should be named and shamed. But the laws have to be amended for the same,” Srinivasan said.Earlier in the day, Kerala Chief Minister Pinyarayi Vijayan tweeted that the culprits would be brought to book.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-man-promises-rs-2-lakh-for-informer-about-kerala-elephant-killers/story-S4tNdhE6GkPC5G9o09wOfO.html
04-06-2020||India||Birthday wish during Covid-19: Donate to bring back smiles||Kabir Seksaria, a 12-year-old, had planned to buy a Lego set for his birthday. But then the Mumbaikar saw his family helping the needy in lockdown, and changed his mind. “I received cash as a gift this year, and initially I thought I will buy a Lego set for myself; but then I realised how my family has been helping the distressed in these times and I decided to do the same. I donated to The Shakkar Para project — for feeding the hungry during the pandemic, and running the relief project in areas affected by cyclone Amphan — and felt so happy.” Poonam, Kabir’s mother, feels proud of her young one’s decision. “We have to inculcate these habits, of donating, in kids at a very young age... this birthday of Kabir will always be special,” adds Poonam. But her little one is not the only one who is celebrating his birthday while serving a cause. Many, who have had their birthdays since the lockdown began, have taken to donating for some or the other cause; and collect blessing as they bring a smile on someone’s face. Read More: Sehwag sends home-cooked food for migrant workers, draws praiseDelhi-based Devesh Gadodia, who has donated some basics to the migrant labourers on his birthday, says, “I used to celebrate all my birthdays with friends and family. We usually went out and ate together. This year is different! I did celebrate, but with a different perspective. I donated to the Hemkunt Foundation that is helping the migrants by giving them sleepers, food and other basic essentials. They even go live on Facebook while conducting some donation drives, to ensure transparency; so I thought of celebrating my birthday by helping them in their endeavour.”“Donating money is one thing, and going out and helping migrants who are walking back home is another.... it made me realise how lucky I am,” says Pratham Sharma, a Gurugrammer, who turned 21 on May 17. He adds, “Rather than making virtual plans with family and friends, I went to the NGO where one of my friends is working and joined in the donation drive on the road. There were migrants waking in this scorching heat, and here I was driving my AC car. That experience has changed the way I look at life; I’m only grateful that I got an opportunity do donate, and the fact that it was my birthday makes it all the more special.”Some are even raising funds virtually, by running campaigns on their Facebook accounts. Mumbai-based Mukta Deshpande recently ran one such online campaign, for the cause of spreading literacy, on her birthday. All her friends, who wished her on social media, were directed to this cause, and many helped in complete the target for donation. “I had no idea that this can be done on Facebook. I thought of helping an NGO and started an online campaign to raise some money, to make my birthday special not for only me but others as well.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271For more stories follow @HTcity and @htlifeandstyle||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/birthday-wish-during-covid-19-donate-to-bring-back-smiles/story-fUy9QknKh7JafsDmYHyHZI.html
04-06-2020||India||Race for Rajya Sabha tickets heat up in Karnataka in both BJP, Congress camps||With four members of the Rajya Sabha retiring on June 25, the race to replace them has become hectic in Karnataka with lobbying in both national parties – the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Indian National Congress intensifying. Two Congress members – B K Hariprasad and Prof M V Rajeev Gowda are retiring, while BJP’s Prabhakar Kore and Janata Dal (Secular)’s D Kupendra Reddy’s term also ends.Given the current composition in the 224 member Karnataka assembly, where BJP has 117 MLA’s while Congress has 68 and JD(S) has 34, with three independents and two seats being vacant, the BJP can elect two Rajya Sabha MP’s while Congress can send one – but with extra votes to spare and JD(S) - if it manages additional votes, can elect one person.For a member to be elected to the RS from Karnataka, they would require 44 votes. So, the BJP can comfortably elect two members, with votes to spare. While Prabhakar Kore an education baron, is keen for another term the BJP is unlikely to oblige given that he has already has served two consecutive terms. Tejaswini the wife of former union minister Anant Kumar who narrowly missed out the Bangalore South Lok Sabha seat won by her husband for six consecutive terms is considered to be a key contender.Ramesh Katti, the brother of BJP’s eight-term MLA Umesh Katti has publicly declared that Chief Minister Yediyurappa should keep his promise of sending him to the upper house of parliament. “I have urged the CM to fulfill his promise of (sending me to the RS) he made last year when I was denied the Chikkodi Lok Sabha ticket,” Ramesh Katti told HT. Umesh Katti is said to be unhappy at not being inducted into the cabinet and a recent meeting he held with some of the other unhappy rebels in the party created ripples. So the party may seriously consider his brother’s candidature to mollify the Kattis.Another lesser known name doing the rounds is of Prof M Nagaraj said to be a Sangh ideologue from the northern Karnataka stronghold of BJP. North Karnataka legislators of the party have complained that while the party won bulk of the seats from this part of the state, representation in power has not reflected this. The BJP state-in-charge Muralidhara Rao himself is seen as a contender for one of the Rajya Sabha seats. Industrialist and media baron Vijay Sankeshwar a former three-term Lok Sabha member is also seen to be in the running.However, two surprising names which are doing the rounds from the BJP quota include Sudha Murthy – noted philanthrophist and the wife of Infosys co-founder Narayana Murthy and that of K V Kamath the former ICICI bank honcho. A senior BJP leader who did not want to be identified told HT, “Ultimately it will be a call of the party high command in consultation with the Chief Minister, so from all the names doing the rounds while they might have aspirations, only the core committee will ultimately decide.”In the lone seat that Congress can win, former leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Mallikarjuna Kharge is seen as the front runner. The other names being mentioned include former union ministers – K H Muniyappa and Veerpa Moily. Even B K Hari Prasad is keen on returning to the upper house but given his frosty relations with former CM Siddaramiah who wields considerable influence in the state unit; this may not come to pass. Muniyappa a seven term Member of Parliament speaking to HT said, “I am not an aspirant and would gladly support any choice made by the high command. I am ready to work in the organization to bring the party back to power in the state. My only desire is that those who have stabbed the party in the back and helped BJP come to power should not get rewarded,” indicating the divisions in the party.The Congress will have nearly 24 votes to spare and is likely to support JD(S) supremo and former PM Deve Gowda if he decides to contest. JD(S) needs 10 more votes to elect a member and in turn Congress is likely to seek the support of the regional party to elect one more MLC – the elections for which are also round the corner.Political analyst Prof Harish Ramaswamy said that Yediyurappa will have to do a tight rope walk to ensure that he keeps all sections in the party happy while choosing the RS candidates. “Congress and JD(S) are likely to reach an understanding as it will also enhance further ties between the two parties to jointly take on the BJP in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/race-for-rajya-sabha-tickets-heat-up-in-karnataka-in-both-bjp-congress-camps/story-LB8vzZOVTfAbrKk1tdZ5UP.html
04-06-2020||India||A creative quarantine for Tia||The ‘Haunted-3D’ actor-singer Tia Bajpai added another feather to her cap by releasing her first English single during the lockdown. “I will like to call it a creative quarantine. After an initial setback due the lockdown, I managed to come out of the shell and release my music video in a new avatar,” says the Lucknowite over the phone.Talking about how all her travelling plans and work got disturbed due to the ongoing lockdown, she said, “I was scheduled to travel abroad on March 24 and just before that all the flights were cancelled. I was supposed to fly to Denmark, different parts of Europe, Canada and the US for a shoot with my team. Lockdown came as a set-back for us as we had paid for tickets, locations, hotels and all. It was a big loss of money and one year’s hard work for the prep of ‘Upgrade’ album was all gone in one go.” That left her upset for a week. “I switched off my phone and cried my heart out. Then, I had a chat with my music director and producer Arian Romal, based in Europe. We already had music and songs ready with us. And we had to just shoot the music videos and release. He came up with an idea that why we don’t shoot it in animated 3-D version and as I had shot a film like that as well, I was more than happy with the idea. Then a 3-D character was created and finally the video happened.”The song ‘Bon Appetite’ has crossed 1 million views. “I am happy that people are liking it even though it’s a English number. I got a very positive feedback from my hometown as well. I’m glad to have reached to all the listeners far and wide. I deliberately chose English genre, penned it myself with a risk it can fail but we must try new things.” She will be releasing her next this month end and her album will have eight songs.The ‘1920: Evil Return’ actor is now looking forward to shoot the remaining songs soon. Last, she shot for ‘Lakeerin’ in Lucknow earlier this year. She is also in talks with a team for an international film. “For now, my first preference will be my music videos and the international film. Besides, Hindi films, music and shows will keep happening like before when everything restarts,” she said.As the flights resumed, she wanted to visit Lucknow. “My parents said that I must not travel at the moment. I am relieved that Lucknow is safer. Here I am staying with my brother and we have an in-house help. Luckily, I have a studio at home so I was able to make music. Rest, besides this album, my riyaz (practice) and fitness regime keeps me busy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/a-creative-quarantine-for-tia/story-kt54LoVn9ANWmX4UdWuitO.html
04-06-2020||India||Amid lockdown, job seeker registrations hit a high of 87,421 for May in Rajasthan||Rajasthan saw 87,421 job registrations made last month, more than 20 times the registrations seen in May last year, according to official data from the union ministry of labour and employment, which also points to a rise in joblessness in the last two months when the enforcement of lockdown led to massive losses in employment and livehlihoods, mostly amongst the migrant workers.The online portal of the union ministry of labour and employment shows a dramatic rise in the number of job seekers in Rajasthan between April and May. In April, the figure was 31,055, which rose to 87,421 in May. The May figure is even bigger than the previous high of 72,571 registered in January 2019, when the Congress government in the state promised an unemployment dole after coming to power in December 2018.Compared year on year, the registrations have shown a 20 time jump. In May 2019, there were 4,033 job registrations, while in April 2019, the number was 4,709.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Close to half of the 87,421 registrations made in the month of May are made up of women applicants-- 39,050 or 44.6 % remaining 48,371 applicants are males. A majority of applicants are class 10 pass-outs.The growing demand for jobs is also highlighted in the huge jump seen in people availing the rural jobs guarantee scheme--MGNREGS. It is currently employing around 44 lakh labourers, the highest in the country.In addition, the state labour department has captured data of about 45 lakh eligible labourers who have registered with the department’s new online employment exchange.The job registrations in Rajasthan preceding the lockdown were much lower. 10,798 people had registered in January 2020, followed by 15,087 registrations in February and 12,160 in March.Nesar Ahmed, director of the Budget Analysis and Research Centre Trust, said all data of the lockdown period points to high unemployment. “There was high unemployment earlier, too, but with the lockdown, everything was shut and people lost jobs and migration only worsened the situation.”According to the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy, unemployment in Rajasthan was 17.7 per cent in April 2020 and 14.1 per cent in May 2020.Ahmed said the unemployment rate had shown a decline in May due to the cushioning provided by MGNREGS which is likely to exhaust in 100 days, therefore the government should plan for the long term.“They should develop non-farm employment such as manufacturing. In agriculture too, they should emphasis on value addition such developing the food processing industry, dairy and animal husbandry,” Ahmed said.Development professional Jaipal Singh Kaushik said the employment problem could continue for the next 12 to 18 months.“While the absolute numbers are just a fraction of the real extent of unemployment, it is an indicator of the dismal situation on the ground after the outbreak of the Covid pandemic and the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-job-seeker-registrations-hit-a-high-of87-421-for-may-in-rajasthan/story-opWMpgIyggaG94fS50iCvN.html
04-06-2020||India||Schools in Odisha to remain shut till July end as parents raise safety concerns||Many states are still undecided about reopening of schools amid a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases owing to the easing of lockdown restrictions and safety concerns from several parents’ organisations.Odisha government on Thursday decided not to reopen schools till end-July because of the Covid-19 outbreak.However, Haryana government announced on Thursday that schools would be reopened in a phased manner. Classes 10, 11, and 12 will resume from July 1, classes 6, 7, 8, and 9 on June 15 and the primary section in August, state education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said.Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, and Uttarakhand governments are considering reopening schools from July 1.Bihar and Jharkhand governments have indicated that the summer vacations could be extended by another month, as a growing number of Covid-19 positive cases are being reported on a daily basis following the return of stranded migrant workers from across the country because of the easing of lockdown restrictions.On May 25, the National Council for Education, Research and Training (NCERT) had recommended to the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) that the secondary and higher secondary classes should be allowed from mid-July, if the lockdown is fully lifted. Several parents have started an online petition on change.org, urging the Central and the state governments not to reopen schools until a vaccine for Covid-19 is developed or a state is free of the viral outbreak.“Children are highly susceptible to contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. How can schools ensure strict social distancing norms and other preventive measures?” asked Kanika Khybri, a Delhi-based parent of a five-year-old child.On May 30, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had said that the schools and other educational institutions could reopen in consultation with the state governments from July, but did not specify any date.Though some states such as Karnataka and Uttarakhand are looking at reopening the schools from July 1, several parent bodies have opposed the move.On Thursday, Siddaramaiah, Leader of Opposition in Karnataka, urged the BS Yediyurappa-led government not to reopen schools for another two months, echoing a similar plea made by several parent organisations in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-odisha-to-remain-shut-till-july-end-as-parents-raise-safety-concerns/story-ByHPVsnZI2nFx6Xr7VbwQK.html
04-06-2020||India||OIL asks agencies to assess impact of Assam natural gas blowout, experts from Singapore called in||Oil India Limited (OIL) has approached two leading agencies to conduct detailed impact assessment studies of the blowout at a natural gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district.The well located at Baghjan witnessed a blowout, uncontrolled release of natural gas or oil when pressure systems fail, on May 27, and natural gas and condensate matter has been flowing from it ‘uncontrollably’ since the past 9 days.Nearly 2,000 people residing near the site have been evacuated and shifted to four relief camps. There’s fear of damage to the ecology as oil condensate from the well has covered trees, water bodies and houses in the area located close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the eco-sensitive Maguri wetland.“OIL has approached the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research--National Environment Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-NEERI), Nagpur and Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun for conducting detailed impact assessment studies,” read a statement issued by OIL on Thursday.“OIL has engaged a National Accreditation Board for Education and Training (NABET) accredited consultant to carry out environmental impact assessment study to examine the impact on the environment. The consultant team reached the site and work has started,” it added.Two experts from a Singapore-based firm Alert Disaster Control, who are to provide help in plugging the blowout, are expected to reach the site soon, the OIL statement said.Meanwhile, natural gas and condensate continued to flow “uncontrollably” and OIL personnel are pumping water to the well through the casing valve to minimize chances of a fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-asks-agencies-to-assess-impact-of-assam-natural-gas-blowout-experts-from-singapore-called-in/story-t43LHTmgfQ062OcCYilgCK.html
04-06-2020||India||Gauhati HC takes suo motu case against coal mining in Assam’s Dehing Patkai rainforest||A two-member division bench of the Gauhati high court (HC) on Thursday issued notices to the Centre, Assam government and others while taking up a suo motu case (on its own motion) against a proposed move to allow coal mining in Assam’s Dehing Patkai rainforest.The bench, comprising Chief Justice Ajay Lamba and Justice Soumitra Saikia, informed the court that it has taken up the matter suo motu while hearing two public interest litigations (PILs) on the same issue.“So far, three PILs have challenged the recent approval granted by the National Board of Wild Life (NBWL) allowing opencast coal and underground coal mining in a section of the Dehing Patkai forest,” said advocate Santanu Borthakur, one of the petitioners.The court issued notices to the Centre, Assam government, Coal India Limited (CIL), NBWL, mines and mineral department of Assam, state home department, Assam Police and others and fixed July 20 as the next date of hearing of the case. All the respondents have been asked to file affidavits by July 14.“All the PILs wanted a ban on coal mining in the forest. But our plea specifically sought a declaration of the entire rainforest as a heritage site as per provision of Section 37 of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002,” said Borthakur.Spread across 937 square kilometres, Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve falls in Tinsukia and Dibrugarh districts in Upper Assam and is located within the periphery of the Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary, which is said to be the largest lowland tropical rainforest in the country.On April 17, National Board of Wild Life (NBWL), under the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), had recommended coal mining to be allowed in a portion of Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve if it fulfils 28 pre-conditions.NBWL allowed CIL to conduct opencast coal mining in 98.59 hectares of the reserve forest. The state-run CIL has been carrying out mining in 57 hectares of the reserve and the fresh recommendation allowed it to do mining in another 41 hectares.Besides elephants, leopards, hoolock gibbons, pangolins and bears, Dehing Patkai is also home to over 200 species of birds, various replies, and many species of butterflies and orchids. The habitats of these species, and the foraging routes of elephants, are likely to be affected by indiscriminate coal mining activities.The NBWL approval has led to widespread opposition in Assam against the proposed coal mining move.State forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya also visited the site recently and assured the people that there would be no compromise on protecting Assam’s forests and rich biodiversity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-takes-suo-motu-case-against-coal-mining-in-assam-s-dehing-patkai-rainforest/story-xShwUeHkll4iAM2ywbZdoJ.html
04-06-2020||India||‘Sochta hu ke Lucknow mei ek ghar bana lu…’||After playing a number of interesting characters in films and on OTT, actor Divyenndu Sharma finds two of his roles closest to his heart: “Luckily in a small span of my career, I have got a chance to play numerous exciting roles and but among them the character of Liquid in ‘Pyar ka Punchnama’ and that of Munna Tripathi in ‘Mirzapur’ series are dear to me. When I got these two roles, the first thing I knew was they were characters with layers, just like we humans are in real lives. Nothing over the top yet both had their characteristics that were so affirmative.”With successful first season, Divyenndu is upbeat about season 2 of his OTT series: “We completed Mirzapur 2 long back and all of us are excited and await the release this year. The kind of love my character of Munna received was unbelievable. I remember I was shooting for my film ‘Shukranu’ in Lucknow and some protests were on so our shooting vehicles were asked to take another route. And then this officer knocked at my window, and when I rolled down the glass he was like, ‘Arre yeh toh Munna Tripathi Bhaiya hai, jaane do iinko.’ I was thrilled with the kind of impact the character has had on people that after months of its release,” said the ‘Toilet: Ek Prem Katha’ actor over the phone.With films across genres in his body of work, the Film and Television Institute of India graduate feels that without a film background or godfather the way his career has shaped up is truly satisfying. “I try to give all to the characters I take up. I study them, research about them and then project them on screen. Like for the film ‘Kanpuriye’ where I played a small town lawyer, I tried adding nuances to this smart yet tricky young boy.”Divyenndu was about to wrap a feature film set in Madhya Pradesh when lockdown happened, “I was shooting. The film is called ‘Mere Desh ki Dharti’ and is about a contemporary young boy and his beautiful bond with distressed farmers. The film is 95% done and will go into post production soon. So I was working at a stretch before the lockdown happened and I took the phase as a break. I also connected with a group of youngsters in my neighbourhood who are tirelessly working for the migrants and I tried contributing whatever I can.”The actor feels with the number of films and series he has shot in UP he has become more of a UPite, “Yeah I keep on telling my team and friends ‘Ke sochta hu ke Lucknow mei ek ghar bana lu’ as all my work are so UP centric. Also I love being there and enjoy multiple culture that are part of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/sochta-hu-ke-lucknow-mei-ek-ghar-bana-lu/story-hnEIeCIrRaikpHJUvVTdwO.html
04-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand announces Rs 1 lakh ex-gratia for kin of Covid-19 casualties||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday announced that the kin of those who die due to Covid-19 in the state will be given ex-gratia payment of Rs one lakh.“Dependents of those who die of coronavirus in the state will be given financial assistance of Rs one lakh by the government,” the chief minister said at a virtual review meeting.Ten people have died of Covid-19 in the state so far including two on Thursday afternoon.Rawat also said that people should be constantly made aware of the necessity of physical distancing and wearing masks even outside containment zone. He said strict action should be taken against those who do not follow such measures.The CM also instructed officials to conduct surprise checks on those who have been home-quarantined to ensure that they are following all the norms. He also said that special attention should be paid to quarantine facilities in villages and the village heads should be given sufficient funds.He also instructed district magistrates to plug gaps in health infrastructure. “All the district magistrates should do a gap analysis of infrastructure and logistics, assessing the requirements of the coming time. Be sure to raise facilities and equipment according to this gap. We also need people’s support in this fight against Covid-19 and strictness and awareness are out two major weapons.”With Dehradun becoming the district with the maximum number of cases in the state with 323 cases, the chief minister said that the capital city will be completely closed and sanitised over Saturday and Sunday.“Given the rising Covid-19 cases which have a connection with positive cases detected from the Niranjanpur vegetable market, the market will be closed for two days and alternate arrangements should be made,” said Rawat. The government also decided that Dehardun will remain shut every Saturday and Sunday until further orders.On Thursday, 21 cases detected from Dehradun were found to be close contacts of earlier cases in connection with the Niranjanpur vegetable market, the biggest vegetable mart in the state. Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 1,145.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-announces-rs-1-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-covid-19-casualties/story-G2z77dCSikE10h7tmCARSO.html
04-06-2020||India||Railways refunds Rs 1885 crore to passengers who booked tickets during lockdown||The railways said it has refunded Rs 1,885 crore to passengers who booked tickets during the lockdown period and whose tickets were cancelled. The Indian Railways had suspended its regular passenger train services during the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the highly contagious coronavirus in India.  “As the trains were cancelled en masse, the railways faced the challenge to return a huge amount of money towards refund to the rail passengers.  “The railways has successfully refunded Rs 1885 crore towards cancellation of tickets to passengers during the period March 21 to May 31 on tickets booked through the online mode,” the railways said.  The entire cost of the ticket purchased has been refunded, it said.  The money has been transferred in the account from where the payment was earlier made at the time of the booking of the ticket. Due to the initiative taken by the national transporter, the passengers got their refund in time and did not face the inconvenience of visiting a PRS counter for collecting their amount, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-refunds-rs-1885-crore-to-passengers-who-booked-tickets-during-lockdown/story-A4T8WAVckXE5KpQqRrHEuJ.html
04-06-2020||India||Supreme Court slams RBI on interest on loans in moratorium||A three-member Supreme Court (SC) bench on Thursday took exception about banks levying interests on loans when the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had announced a moratorium on loan repayments between March and August 31 because of the lockdown restrictions following the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The apex court made the observation while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) by an Agra resident, Gajendra Sharma, who demanded a waiver on interest charged by a private bank citing the relief earlier announced by RBI on the payment of equated monthly instalments (EMIs) between March and August 31 due to the pandemic.Petitioner Sharma specifically cited RBI’s March 27 and May 22 notifications announcing a moratorium on loan repayments while permitting banks to levy interest.The three-member bench, comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, SK Kaul, and MR Shah, said, “On one hand you are granting moratorium (on loans) but continuing with interest. It is more detrimental.”The court’s observation came a day after RBI submitted its response while opposing Sharma’s plea.The central bank told the apex court: “RBI does not consider it prudent or appropriate to go for a forced waiver of interest, risking the financial viability of the banks it is mandated to regulate, and putting the interests of the depositors in jeopardy.”But the court told Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Union Ministry of Finance, that: “You have to deal with two aspects –interest accruing during the period of moratorium and interest upon the interest that accumulates.”The court asked the Centre and RBI to jointly work out a response by June 12, the next date of the hearing of the case.Earlier, the court frowned upon RBI for leaking its affidavit in the media a day before the hearing.Senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, who appeared on behalf of petitioner Sharma, drew the court’s attention and alleged that RBI leaked the affidavit to the media as it had sought to sensationalise the case and also took a dig at the central bank for backing private banks over the citizens’ financial woes triggered by the pandemic.RBI stated in its affidavit that it shares the twin mandate to secure the interest of depositors and maintain financial stability as well. “Interest on advances (loans) forms an important and vital source of income for banks, which allows the banks to sustain and remain financially sound and profitable,” it added.Petitioner Sharma, who runs an optical shop in Agra and had taken a home loan of Rs 37 lakh from a private bank, has stated in his plea that as a borrower he is not in a position to pay his EMIs because his earnings have become nil due to the lockdown restrictions. “The imposition of interest (by banks) during the moratorium period is devastating and wrong,” he argued in his plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-slams-rbi-on-interest-on-loans-in-moratorium/story-XBvilWJgS8k02FioaJZMxN.html
04-06-2020||India||Man arrested for murdering 14-year-old daughter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch||A man has been arrested for allegedly killing his daughter (14) and burying her body in Poonch district in the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir, police said on Thursday.The accused has been identified as Riaz Ahmed Mir of Dhara Mandi village in Poonch district.“The accused, who appears to be mentally deranged, has confessed to his crime. Both his wife and son are dead. His neighbours suspect him of killing them as well,” said Ramesh Kumar Angral, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Poonch.“The accused suspected his beautiful girl’s Kulsoom Begum’s character and murdered her on May 29,” the SSP said.“Mir was telling a lie to the villagers that his daughter was missing. However, the police team that was investigating the case suspected him. He confessed to the crime during the interrogation,” Angral said.“The victim’s body was exhumed after Mir owned up to the crime and an order was issued by Poonch district magistrate. A post-mortem was conducted at the burial ground by a team of doctors, and the body was handed over to her uncle,” the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-man-arrested-for-murdering-14-year-old-daughter/story-XJ13VbAfX4Adb2FgzdSGRN.html
04-06-2020||India||Tourism resumes in Rajasthan with over 1400 visitors, entry fee to tourist spots waived for 15 days||The tourist spots in Rajasthan are witnessing a steady flow of visitors after the reopening on June 2 with the beginning of the first phase of lockdown exit, named Unlock-1, after two months of closure due to coronavirus pandemic.In two days, more than 1400 people have visited monuments and other tourist spots. Rajasthan has 342 protected monuments, including 18 museums; 32 of them are ticketed. However, the state government has decided not to charge any entry fee for the first 15 days after the reopening.On the first day of reopening, cultural performances by folk artists were organized at 32 monuments to mark the resumption of activities in the tourism sector. Performances included traditional art forms like ‘Kacchi Ghodi’, ‘Kalbeliya’ dance and Shehnai rendition among others. Hawa Mahal, Jantar Mantar, Albert hall in Jaipur were among some of the chosen heritage properties for the cultural show, said Prakash Chandra Sharma, director of the department of archaeology and museum.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The monuments, except those falling in curfew areas, will be open on four days a week-- Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday-- for the first two weeks and social distancing protocols will have to be followed by visitors.In the first week, tourists are allowed between 9 am and 2 pm and in the second week from 9 am to 1 pm and 3 pm to 5 pm. From the third week, the monuments will open daily and 50 % discount will be offered on the ticket amount till October 31, he said.“The department is using social media like Facebook and Twitter, where small video clips of every museum are uploaded in order to attract tourists,” he said.The total 1433 tourists to have visited in the first two days were seen in Alwar, Jaipur, Ajmer, Chittorgarh, Pali, Kota, Jhalawar, Bikaner and Bundi. Sharma said majority of the visitors are domestic and only a few from abroad, who visited Jantar Mantar, Nahargarh and Albert Hall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-resumes-in-rajasthan-with-over-700-visitors-entry-fee-waived-for-two-weeks/story-Qj9GJoVTkXV9cZhDceeaGP.html
04-06-2020||India||Kerala elephant death: Culprits will be booked soon, says CM||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday took to Twitter to address the outrage following the brutal killing of a pregnant elephant in end-May and said that the culprits would be brought to book soon.“In a tragic incident in Palakkad district, a pregnant elephant has lost its life. An investigation is underway, focusing on three suspects. We will do everything possible to bring the culprits to justice,” Vijayan tweeted. The CM assured the people that justice would be done.“Many of you have reached out to us. We want to assure you that your concerns won’t go in vain. Justice will prevail,” he further tweeted.Vijayan also said it was unfortunate that some people were using this tragedy to unleash a hate campaign.“We are saddened by the fact some have used this tragedy to unleash a hate campaign. Lies built upon inaccurate descriptions and half-truths were used to obliterate the truth. Some even tried to import bigotry into the narrative. Wrong priorities,” he said.Earlier on Thursday morning, Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar said that the central government has taken a “very serious note” of the incident.“We won’t leave any stone unturned to investigate properly and nab the culprit (s). This is not an Indian culture to feed firecrackers and kill an animal,” Javadekar tweeted.The elephant was fatally injured after it ate a pineapple stuffed with crackers that exploded in its mouth and broke the jaw.The elephant’s painful death sparked a public outcry. The incident is believed to have occurred on May 27. According to forest officials, the elephant might have swallowed the fruit filled with crackers that were meant to trap wild boars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-elephant-death-culprits-will-be-booked-soon-says-cm/story-7X1ALCTC7FlRg8NJpV9m9I.html
04-06-2020||India||Battling Covid-19 in worst-hit state, Maharashtra Police records 30 deaths, 2,557 cases||A Maharashtra Police staff member tested Covid-19 positive and another succumbed to the coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of Maharashtra Police personnel who have tested positive for the disease to 2,557 on Thursday.At least 30 police personnel, including an officer, who were infected in the line of duty, have died so far due to Covid-19 in Maharashtra.Of the 30 Covid-19 victims, 18 were members of the Mumbai Police force and had contracted the deadly infection while implementing the lockdown in the financial capital. ALSO READ | Mumbai Police shares video of official, his wife, and two kids retuning home after beating Covid-19.“Till now, over 2,557 state police personnel have tested positive for the coronavirus and 30 of them, including an officer, have died,” a Maharashtra Police official said.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the police force currently stands at 1,510, including 191 officers, according to data released by the Maharashtra Police.During the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus in the country, there have been 258 instances of assault on Maharashtra Police personnel. Nearly 86 policemen were injured in those attacks along with 45 healthcare workers who were also assaulted while detecting and dealing with coronavirus positive patients. At least 838 people were arrested across Maharashtra for unprovoked assaults on policemen who were doing their duty.Since the lockdown, the Maharashtra Police registered 1,22,484 offences under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and the police also arrested 28,820 people for violating lockdown orders.The Maharashtra Police seized 77,435 vehicles, which were found moving on roads in violation of the strict lockdown norms enforced by the government.Police control rooms also handled more than one lakh calls in connection with queries and complaints related to Covid-19 during the lockdown, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battling-covid-19-in-worst-hit-state-maharashtra-police-records-30-deaths-2-557-cases/story-FmKOoPzriQzp1c07Z8nT5O.html
04-06-2020||India||Maharashtra allows inter-district movement in Mumbai Metropolitan Region||The Maharashtra government on Thursday decided to allow inter district movement in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region without any restrictions under Unlock 1. However, the ban on inter-state and inter-district movement in other parts of Maharashtra will continue. The government had banned inter-state and inter-district movement to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state where the tally has gone past 74,000.The state has also capped the number of staff to maximum 10 people in the private offices that has been allowed to operate from June 8.“The inter district movement of persons within the area of municipal corporations under Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) shall be allowed without any restrictions. However, the interstate and inter district movement of persons shall continue to be regulated,” said the order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta.“All private offices can operate with up to 10% strength or 10 people whichever is more with remaining persons working from home. However, all the employers will take sensitization program to educate the employees about adequate precautions on returning home so that vulnerable group especially the elderly is not effected,” the order said.The government has also allowed printing and distribution of newspapers including home delivery from June 7. “It shall be with the knowledge of receiver for the delivery of newspaper, personnel shall wear mask and use hand sanitizer and maintain social distancing,” said the order .It has also allowed all educational institutions — school, colleges and universities — to operate its offices but only for the non-teaching purposes such as development of e-content, evaluation of answer sheets and declaration of results.On Wednesday, the government allowed outdoor physical activities such as running, exercising, cycling at open spaces, playground, and beaches. However, on Thursday, it is clarified that while doing so, no equipment, garden equipment, open air gym equipment and play area equipment such as bars and swings will be allowed to be used.From June 5, the state has also allowed to markets to open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-allows-inter-district-movement-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region/story-aUfkx2wsUqRHPGcImQuu2L.html
04-06-2020||India||Railways says key projects doubled since 2009-14, lists 28 imp works finished in 2019-20||Indian railways on Thursday released an account of infrastructure development carried out in the year 2019-20 including the laying of 562 km length of new tracks, electrification of 5,782 kms of existing routes and 90% utilization of the railway budget translating into a capital expenditure of Rs 1,46,507 crore with the aim to become the growth engine of the country. The national transporter added that the last financial year saw renewed thrust for infrastructure development of world’s largest railway network. According to official account given by the railways ministry, new line, doubling and gauge conversion in the past financial year increased to 2,226 km, which is nearly 50% more than the average annual commissioning of 1,520 km/year achieved during the five year period between 2009 and 2014- when the Congress lead UPA was in power. The expenditure on new line, gauge conversion and doubling projects in the last fiscal has been Rs 39,836 crore, which is the highest ever in the history of Indian Railways, it said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Railways also claims to have achieved 1,458 km doubling of tracks which it says is four times the average of 375km/year seen between 2009-14. It also claims to have commissioned 15 “super critical doubling projects” of around 562 Km length during the period. Apart from this, Railway electrification works have been completed on a total of 5,782 route kms, out of which 4,378 Route kms have been commissioned on electric traction up to 31st March 2020, the official statement said.Here’s a list of important projects completed by the Railways in the last financial year.1. 112 km long new line national project in Tripura, “Agartala–Sabroom” commissioned during FY 2019-20.2. 45 km long doubling project from Lumding to Hojai completed & commissioned.3. 58.5 km long new line project from Thaiyat Hamira to Sanu in Rajasthan4. 10.7 km long bypass line from Chhapra Gramin to Khairali in Bihar5. 67.07 km long new line project from Rajgir-Hisua-Tilaiya including Islampur-Nateshar in Bihar6. 47.72 km long super critical doubling project from Hajipur-Ramdayalu Nagar in Bihar7. 320.04 km long gauge conversion project from Jaipur-Ringus-Sikar-Churu & Sikar-Loharu in Haryana and Rajasthan8. Seven km long pending super critical doubling project in Delhi, which was “very important” to decongest New Delhi station between New Delhi to Tilak Bridge (5th & 6th line)9. 113 km long new line port connectivity project in Andhra Pradesh connecting with Krishnapatnam port10. 55.47 km long Doubling from Meerut-Muzaffarnagar in U.P11. Two km long bypass line named Jukhei Chord line, bypassing the Katni yard in Madhya Pradesh12. 1.67 km long doubling project named New Alipore-Mile 5B in sub-urban area of Sealdah of West Bengal13. 1.025 km long pending bypass connectivity line named Daund Chord line on Daund-Manmad route in Maharashtra14. 42.57 km long new line coal project from Kharsia-Korichhapar in Chhattisgarh15. 19 km long coal project named Bakhtiyarpur-Barh in Bihar for facilitating the coal movement to Barh NTPC Thermal Power House.16. 7.25 km long super critical doubling project from Andul to Baltikuri in West Bengal17. 26 km long doubling project from Abu Road to Swaroop Ganj in Rajasthan18. 23.55 km long super critical doubling project from Abu Road to Sarotra Road in Rajasthan19. 2.86 km long super critical doubling project from Mohishilla to Kalipahari in West Bengal20. 51.07 km long super critical doubling project from Pirpainti to Bhagalpur in Bihar21. 2.62 km long 4th line project named Kanknara to Naihati in West Bengal22. 60.37 km long super critical doubling project in Rajasthan23. 81.43 km long super critical doubling project named Mudkhed-Parbhani in Maharashtra24. Seven km long doubling project in Madhya Pradesh named Sontalai-Bagratawa25. 25 km long super critical doubling project in Madhya Pradesh named Itarsi-Budhni26. Eight km long super critical doubling project in UP named Billi - Chopan.27. 34 km long super critical 4th line doubling project in Haryana and Delhi named Tuglakabad - Palwal28. 41 km long super critical doubling project in Andhra Pradesh named Kaluru - GuntakalAlso Read: Canteen, book stall reopen at Ludhiana railway station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-says-key-projects-doubled-since-2009-14-lists-28-imp-works-finished-in-2029-20/story-Ezq7XKd8cOvr8b6ZgMETZK.html
04-06-2020||India||Dharavi reports 674 new cases in the past 20 days, with a mortality rate of 2.67%||The congested Dharavi slum, the biggest in Asia and the epicentre of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in Mumbai, has reported 674 new cases in the past 20 days, including 18 fresh deaths and the mortality rate of 2.67%.The Covid-19 related mortality rate in Dharavi at 2.67% is lower than Mumbai (3.27%).Dharavi has reported 1,872 Covid-19 positive cases, including 23 deaths, since April 1.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G-North ward of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), under whose jurisdiction Dharavi falls, explained the reasons behind the low Covid-19 related death rate among the slum population.“Aggressive testing among suspected patients at an early stage helped us keep the death rate low. We ensured timely medical intervention. Our measures led to a good recovery rate among the Covid-19 patients,” he said.The G-North ward, which comprises Dadar, Mahim, and Dharavi, has reported 2,820 Covid-19 positive cases to date, including 50 deaths and the mortality rate of 1.87%.Dadar has recorded 368 Covid-19 positive cases and 21 deaths so far, while the corresponding figure for Mahim is 580 and six, respectively.“The G-North ward has also started a Dedicated Covid-19 Health Centre (DCHC) for Dharavi that is located at Maharashtra Nature Park. The centre, which has 200 oxygen-equipped beds, will cater to around five lakh people in the area,” Dighavkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharavi-reports-674-new-cases-in-the-past-20-days-with-a-mortality-rate-of-2-67/story-j9Y7wH7FwNz6fEMDe4LnVI.html
04-06-2020||India||Focusing on 3 suspects, will bring elephant killers to justice, says Kerala CM||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday took to Twitter to address the outrage following the brutal killing of a pregnant elephant late last month and said that the culprits would be brought to book.“An investigation is underway, focusing on three suspects. The police and forest departments will jointly investigate the incident. The district police chief and the district forest officer visited the site today. We will do everything possible to bring the culprits to justice.The chief minister assured people that justice would be done.“Many of you have reached out to us. We want to assure you that your concerns will not go in vain. Justice will prevail,” he said in another tweet.An investigation is underway, focusing on three suspects. The police and forest departments will jointly investigate the incident. The district police chief and the district forest officer visited the site today. We will do everything possible to bring the culprits to justice.Also Watch: Kerala elephant killing | ‘Will nab and punish the culprits’: Prakash Javadekar Vijayan also said it was unfortunate that some people were using this tragedy to unleash a hate campaign.“Having said that, we are saddened by the fact some have used this tragedy to unleash a hate campaign. Lies built upon inaccurate descriptions and half truths were employed to obliterate the truth. Some even tried to import bigotry into the narrative. Wrong priorities.”Earlier in the day, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said that the Central government has taken a “very serious note” of the incident.“We will not leave any stone unturned to investigate properly and nab the culprit(s). This is not an Indian culture to feed fire crackers and kill,” Javadekar said in a tweet.The elephant was fatally injured after it ate a pineapple stuffed with crackers which exploded in her mouth and broke her jaw.The inhuman act sparked outrage across the country as the elephant died a painful death. The incident is believed to have occurred on May 27. According to forest officials the elephant might have swallowed the fruit filled with crackers which was meant as a snare to catch wild boars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-bring-elephant-killers-to-book-says-kerala-cm/story-IJ6mnOmH72k6M3jOAW905I.html
04-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Large number of shark teeth found at Rajasthan’s fossil site and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Large number of shark teeth found at Rajasthan’s fossil siteA large number of shark teeth have been found at a new fossil site in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, the study of which has provided valuable insight about the environmental changes in the region from warm, humid, coastal conditions to the present-day dry and desert-like climatic condition. Read moreCyclone Nisarga: Death toll in Pune climbs to 3 as govt measures damageThe death toll due to Cyclone Nisarga which hit the district on Wednesday, climbed to three with the death of Narayan Nawale (38), a resident of Khed, who succumbed to his injuries on Thursday, according to an official from the District Disaster Management Committee. Read moreBengal rolls out red carpet for central team for cyclone damage assessmentMore than a month after locking horns with the Centre over the visit of inter-ministerial central teams (IMCTs) to inspect its Covid-19 management, the Bengal government in a role reversal has now has called another such team on a three-day visit to assess the losses due to cyclone Amphan as “state guests” and “VIPs”. Read moreExperts back WHO’s decision to resume clinical trial of HCQ for Covid-19 treatmentTerming WHO’s decision to resume testing of hydroxychloroquine as a potential treatment for Covid-19 in its global clinical trial “a step in the right direction”, experts said any “positive outcome” of the exercise will be in the larger interest of the people globally. Read moreVVS Laxman talks about the player who ‘triggered a revolution in Indian pace bowling’When it came to Indian bowling, the opposing batsmen usually feared the spinners instead of the pacers. Spin bowling has always been India’s strength in the past 20-30 years. Read moreUPSC Civil Services Prelims 2020: Fresh exam date likely to be announced tomorrowUnion Public Service Commission, or UPSC, is expected to release the revised schedule for UPSC civil services preliminary examination 2020 tomorrow on its official website. The commission earlier had scheduled to release the revised dates for civil services preliminary examination 2020 on May 20. Read moreGoogle explains why it removed Mitron, Remove China Apps from Play StoreGoogle this week removed the apps ‘Mitron’ and ‘Remove China Apps’ from its Play Store. Both apps gained heavy traction in India within just a few days. Google has now responded explaining its reason behind removing these apps. Read moreRIP Basu Chatterjee: Master storyteller who made the common man his heroThe 1970s were perhaps the heyday of star power in Hindi films. In the era of the ‘angry young man’, two directors, namely Hrishikesh Mukherjee and Basu Chatterjee, made the ‘middle-class’ the centre piece of their stories. Read moreMaggi Pani Puri dish angers tweeple. ‘Looks like a scene from a horror movie,’ says a Twitter userThe past few months have witnessed some non-cooks turning into full-fledged home chefs. But among these, there were also a few who decided traditional recipes weren’t for them and fusion food was the way to go forward. Read more‘I won’t stand for racism’: Meghan Markle’s heartfelt tribute to George Floyd, old anti-racism PSA resurfacesThe death of George Floyd, the African American who was brutally killed in Minneapolis by white police officer Derek Chauvin on May 25, has sparked global outrage and protests, with people taking to the streets to support the Black Lives Matter movement. Read moreWatch| Covid-19: UP CM Adityanath hands over his official plane to health dept||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-large-number-of-shark-teeth-found-at-rajasthan-s-fossil-site-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OuhrkeN9G6mKvpB1ilZP6J.html
04-06-2020||India||A ‘confidential issue’ delays Vijay Mallya’s extradition||Indian businessman Vijay Mallya’s extradition to India will have to wait till the resolution of a new legal issue that has surfaced, according to a spokesperson of the British high commission. The latest development follows recent media reports suggesting Mallya’s extradition was due soon after the loss of his appeal in the UK High Court challenging a 2018 order of extradition on the request of Indian authorities.The spokesperson said the issue holding up Mallya’s extradition was confidential and details could not be revealed.“However, there is a further legal issue that needs resolving before Mr Mallya’s extradition can be arranged. Under United Kingdom law, extradition cannot take place until it is resolved. The issue is confidential and we cannot go into any detail,” a spokesperson for the British high commission said.Mallya is accused of defrauding a consortium of Indian banks by close to Rs 9,000 crore and faces charges of money laundering and criminal conspiracy among others.Mallya had availed loans from 17 Indian banks for the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines and is accused of diverting it to pay for other businesses including the formula 1 team he had bought. Indian courts have declared him a fugitive and authorities have attached his various properties in an effort to recover the money owed to the banks. Mallya had fled India on March 2, 2016. Mallya has been publicly offering to return the money he owes the banks and has continuously questioned the government’s intent for allegedly refusing his offer. The last of such tweets was posted by him on May 14, in which he repeated his offer and said, “Congratulations to the Government for a Covid 19 relief package. They can print as much currency as they want BUT should a small contributor like me who offers 100% payback of State owned Bank loans be constantly ignored? Please take my money unconditionally and close.”A UK district judge Emma Arbuthnot had last year ruled that there was a prima facie case of fraud by false representation against Mallya, which was confirmed by the UK High Court. Mallya was also denied permission to challenge the high court’s judgment in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-mallya-s-extradition-hits-another-wall-in-the-backdrop-of-asylum-talks/story-IXBeLCeMOjas3IiQjqe9CP.html
04-06-2020||India||Over 2,000 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members banned from entering India for 10 yrs||A total of 2,550 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, who were staying in India in violation of visa rules during the nationwide lockdown implemented to combat the Covid-19 spread, have been blacklisted by the Home Ministry, according to a PTI report on Thursday.The 2,550 foreign nationals will not be allowed to enter into India for next 10 years, the news report said quoting MHA officials.A large congregation organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area of the national capital New Delhi in March had emerged as a major hotspot of Covid-19 in the country. Some of the participants, who were later tested positive for coronavirus, had travelled to their home states across the length and breadth of the country. The decision of banning the foreign Tablighi Jamaat members was taken after details of the foreigners found illegally living in mosques and religious places emerged from across the states in India.Thousands of coronavirus cases in India tracing back to the congregations held in March at the Markaz, which is the global headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi, has put the place in the spotlight. The sect’s leadership is already being probed for violating norms under the epidemic diseases law while its volunteers from abroad have been booked for violating visa norms and the Foreigners Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/960-blacklisted-foreign-nationals-banned-from-entering-india-for-10-years-for-involvement-in-tablighi-jamaat-incident-report/story-EsWvpuvF5Uf2yIAQ3WVxUL.html
04-06-2020||India||BMS to organise nationwide protest on June 10 against privatisation||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the labour wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), will organise a nationwide protest on June 10 against the central government’s plan of privatisation in various sectors.On Thursday, the BMS, which had earlier pushed the Narendra Modi-led government to prevent states from pushing changes in the labour laws, criticised the move to commercialise the coal sector; corporatisation of the defence ordnance factories board and railways; strategic sale of public sector units (PSUs), merger and privatisation of banks and insurance sector; and to attract more foreign direct investments (FDIs) into the country. “A nationwide protest under the banner ‘Save Public Sector, Save India’ will be organised in the form of a day-long dharna, protest meetings, and campaign etc; at the unit level,” said Vrijesh Upadhyay, general secretary, BMS.In May, while announcing the government’s fourth tranche of initiatives towards achieving Atmanirbhar Bharat in a bid to tide over the growing economic crisis triggered by the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced structural reforms in eight sectors of the economy — coal, minerals, defence production, aviation, power distribution in union territories, space and atomic energy.The BMS, which has been critical of the government’s decision to privatise the national carrier Air India and other PSUs said, “…It is being observed from past few decisions of the government that it is trying to push and impose its unjust decisions on the workers of the country. The BMS is committed to fighting until it stops the government from taking the anti-public sector and anti-worker decisions.”The BMS has taken an adversarial position against the government’s decision. “The government is justifying the dire need of money to run its machinery. However, it has no moral right or authority to sell national assets created by its predecessors,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bms-to-organise-nationwide-protest-on-june-10-against-privatisation/story-fVbgjkUJZnIrVoUN1Ru18I.html
04-06-2020||India||As Karnataka prepares for Rajya Sabha polls, friction grows in state unit||The rumblings of dissent have grown in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Karnataka unit over the nominations for the two of the state’s four vacant seats in the Rajya Sabha (RS), which goes to the polls on June 19.Though senior party leaders in Delhi have downplayed the friction, the opposition in Karnataka is using the opportunity to corner the BS Yediyurappa-led government. On Wednesday, opposition leader Siddaramaiah claimed on social media that disgruntled BJP leaders had met him to express their displeasure with the party.Of the four RS vacant seats in Karnataka, the BJP is expecting to win two and the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) are likely to fight it out for the other two.Last week, a late-night meeting was attended by over a dozen BJP members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) from north Karnataka. The meeting is being perceived as a mark of rebellion against the Yediyurappa government, which is also preparing for the upcoming state legislative council elections.Reports suggested that the BJP lawmakers from north Karnataka met at senior party MLA Umesh Katti’s residence. Katti himself is eyeing a place in the state cabinet, while also seeking an Upper House berth for his brother.The murmurs of dissent have not gone down well with the party brass in the national capital.“Everyone has an aspiration to either become a minister or get a ticket to contest an election. These decisions cannot be taken on the basis of arm-twisting. There is a system in place, where the parliamentary board takes its decision that needs to be followed in every state,” said a BJP functionary in Delhi, requesting anonymity.Discord is brewing over the distribution of 24 by-poll tickets in the BJP’s Madhya Pradesh (MP) unit and also over the selection of a new party president in Himachal Pradesh (HP).In MP, where the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government made a comeback after being out of power for 15 months; there is disquiet over the possibility of 22 rebel MLAs being given tickets for the by-poll to 24 assembly constituencies, whenever the Election Commission of India (ECI) announces the dates.Earlier, state unit president VD Sharma had told HT that the “sacrifices” made by the Congress MLAs, who broke away from the party that led to the ouster of the Kamal Nath government, would have to be taken into consideration.Several leaders in MP, who are aspiring for by-poll tickets, have also raised the issue with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological brain trust. These leaders had pointed out that overlooking its own party cadre would not incentivise party discipline, according to a BJP leader from MP, who is privy to the development.HP is the latest state to report dissent in the BJP’s ranks after Rajeev Bindal stepped down as the party president because his name figured, albeit in an oblique manner, in a corruption scandal of the health department.“There are a couple of contenders for the president’s post; and as is natural, their support groups have been holding meetings. There is, however, no threat to the Jairam Thakur-led state government. The resignation in itself was an internal course correction and this is not an issue that can be politicised (by the opposition),” said a BJP leader.“There’s no threat to any of the state governments. All decisions will be made by the high command after following the due process,” said a third leader, who declined to be named.Earlier in February, BJP leader from Maharashtra Eknath Khadse had accused the party of sidelining senior other backward class (OBC) leaders after his name did not figure in the list of candidates for the member of legislative council (MLC) elections. Former Maharashtra ministers such as Pankaja Munde and Chandrashekhar Bawankule, who were also overlooked, have refrained from making any comment in public, but have made their displeasures known for the party snub.Political analyst Shirish Kashikar said the BJP has been following the model of further weakening the opposition wherever it is on a weak wicket. “Each state unit has its own dynamics, and it is obvious that there will be friction if old party workers are made to compete for posts or tickets with their erstwhile opponents. In each of these cases, the disagreements are not so intense or deep that the opposition can instigate defection or cause the government to fall, as it had happened when the BJP engineered the fall of the Kamal Nath government in MP,” said Kashikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-karnataka-prepares-for-rs-polls-friction-grows-in-state-unit/story-tYnDp0RgWuKwi4xQySEoeM.html
04-06-2020||India||‘Confidential’ legal issue has to be resolved for Vijay Mallya’s extradition, says UK||Britain said on Thursday a “confidential” legal issue was holding up the extradition of businessman Vijay Mallya to India but that it is seeking to deal with the matter as quickly as possible.Mallya, wanted in India to face charges of financial irregularities, lost his appeal against the 2018 order to extradite him in the UK high court in April. Last month, the high court also refused Mallya permission to appeal in the UK Supreme Court.Amid a string of reports in the Indian media that Mallya’s extradition was imminent, a spokesperson for the British high commission said there was still a legal issue of a confidential nature that needs to be resolved before the businessman could be sent back to India.“Vijay Mallya last month lost his appeal against extradition, and was refused leave to appeal further to the UK Supreme Court,” the spokesperson said.“However, there is a further legal issue that needs resolving before Mr Mallya’s extradition can be arranged. Under United Kingdom law, extradition cannot take place until it is resolved. The issue is confidential and we cannot go into any detail,” the spokesperson added.The spokesperson declined to “estimate how long this issue will take to resolve”, and said: “We are seeking to deal with this as quickly as possible.”Mallya, 64, is wanted in India to face charges of financial offences involving Rs 9,000 crore borrowed by his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines from several Indian banks.Senior district judge Emma Arbuthnot had issued the ruling for Mallya’s extradition to India in December 2018 in response to a request from the Indian government, which has accused him of “knowingly misrepresenting” the profitability of his companies when he sought bank loans in 2009.UK home secretary Priti Patel is expected to make a final decision on his extradition.The UK high court, in its ruling in April, had upheld the senior district judge’s verdict. When the UK high court refused Mallya permission to appeal to the UK Supreme Court on May 14 on the ground that his case didn’t involve a “point of law of general public importance”, the long-drawn extradition process was believed to have entered the last stage.Mallya, who was arrested in London in April 2017, had the option of approaching the European Court of Human Rights on the ground his human rights would be at risk if extradited. The UK remains subject to the jurisdiction of the European court until the end of the Brexit transition period on December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confidential-legal-issue-has-to-be-resolved-for-vijay-mallya-s-extradition-says-uk/story-hmne56i2pQFS64y8x972fJ.html
04-06-2020||India||Experts back WHO’s decision to resume clinical trial of HCQ for Covid-19 treatment||Terming WHO’s decision to resume testing of hydroxychloroquine as a potential treatment for Covid-19 in its global clinical trial “a step in the right direction”, experts said any “positive outcome” of the exercise will be in the larger interest of the people globally.The global heath body had earlier suspended the hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) arm of the clinical trials of experimental Covid-19 drugs over safety concerns. However on Wednesday, it recommended the trial to be continued following a review of safety data.“On the basis of the available mortality data... the members of the Solidarity Data Safety Monitoring Committee unanimously agreed that there are no cogent reasons to recommend modifications of the protocol of the trail and advised that the trial should be continued as planned,” the Executive Group of the Steering Committee of the Solidarity Trial wrote to all National Principal Investigators of the Solidarity Trial.Welcoming WHO’s decision, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said, “ICMR and India have been firm on recommendations about the drug based on biological plausibility, in vitro data and case controlled studies.“It is a time tested drug in use for decades. Any positive outcome from the clinical exercise will be in the larger interest of the people globally.” He had earlier said that no major side-effects of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine has been found in studies in India and its use can be continued as prophylaxis for Covid-19 under strict medical supervision.AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said WHO’s decision about resuming the HCQ arm of the clinical trial was “a step in the right direction towards larger public interest”.“Data from India both from AIIMS and ICMR shows a good safety profile. We did not find that this drug was causing significant cardiac toxicity and therefore it is good that WHO reviewed their data and reintroduced the drug in the trial.“This is a drug which is less expensive, easily available and has been used widely for a long time with good safety data. It will be good if the medicine turns out be beneficial in some way in COVID-19 treatment,” he said.Dr Sheela Godbole, the National Coordinator of the WHO-India Solidarity Trial and Head of the Division of Epidemiology, ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute said the hydroxychloroquine arm of the Solidarity Trial alone was paused as the Solidarity Data Safety Monitoring Committee reviewed the data. “Yesterday, the report of this committee was received and they advised that the trial should be continued as planned. Based on this, the Executive Group has restarted the hydroxychloroquine arm. The world needs strong data from well-conducted randomised controlled clinical trials on the drug for treatment of COVID-19. We are glad that we can begin the hydroxychloroquine arm again,” Dr Godbole said.Besides hydroxychloroquine, three more treatment protocols -- remdesivir, comibnation of lopinavir and ritonavir, and lopinavir and ritonavir with Interferon beta-1a -- are being evaluated during the clinical trials at selected hospitals in the world.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in its revised advisory on May 22 recommended use of the drug as a preventive medication for COVID-19 for asymptomatic healthcare workers in non-COVID hospitals and frontline staff on surveillance duty in containment zones and paramilitary/police personnel involved in coronavirus infection related activities.The drug is also recommended for all asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in containment and treatment of Covid-19 and household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases.The Union health ministry on March 31 had also recommended use of hydroxychloroquine in combination with azithromycin on Covid-19 patients who are in severe condition requiring ICU management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-back-who-s-move-to-resume-clinical-trial-of-hydroxychloroquine-for-covid-19-treatment/story-aDyeVLgQDqeofVISVvyi1M.html
04-06-2020||India||‘Vijay Mallya’s extradition not possible until legal issue resolved,’ says UK||Businessman Vijay Mallya, who is accused of cheating Indian banks to the tune of thousands of crores of rupees, will not be extradited anytime soon as there are legal issues involved, the UK govt said on Thursday. Mallya is currently in the United Kingdom trying to evade extradition to India.“Confidential legal issue needs to be resolved before Vijay Mallya’s extradition can be arranged,” said UK high commission spokesperson.Mallya who founded the now-defunct Kingfisher airlines, fled to Britain in March 2016 after facing accusations of financial irregularities amounting to over Rs 9,000 crore. Mallya has consistently claimed that the charges he faces are baseless and fabricated and the Centre refused to take him up on his offer to clear his loans.Mallya’ extradition to India is based on a first information report filed by the CBI in July 2015 in connection with a Rs 900 crore loan sanctioned by IDBI Bank to KFA. The Enforcement Directorate has charge sheeted Mallya in both cases, alleging that he diverted most of the money into foreign assets, the Indian Premier League (IPL) team and F1 motorsport firm Formula One. Mallya’s assets worth Rs 13,000 crore have already been attached by ED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-mallya-s-extradition-not-possible-until-legal-issue-resolved-uk-govt/story-PZPXhxhaGhi73jH0CikuDL.html
04-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga: Death toll in Pune climbs to 3 as govt measures damage||The death toll due to Cyclone Nisarga which hit the district on Wednesday, climbed to three with the death of Narayan Nawale (38), a resident of Khed, who succumbed to his injuries on Thursday, according to an official from the District Disaster Management Committee.His mother, Manjabai Nawale (68), died on Wednesday after a wall and a portion of the roof of their house caved in due to heavy rainfall in the area. Narayan Nawale was injured at the same time.Nawale and his family belong to Vahagaon village in Khed tehsil.The district collector said that as many as 140 houses were damaged due to heavy rains and gusty winds. Besides the Nawales, Prakash Mokar (52), of Mokarwadi in Haveli tehsil, died after sustaining critical injuries while holding onto the tin roof of his house.The IMD in its assessment stated that conditions are likely to become favourable for further advancement of the Southwest Monsoon into some more parts of Central Arabian Sea, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, southwest including east central Bay of Bengal; entire Southeast Bay of Bengal and some parts of West central Bay of Bengal during the next 2-3 days.IMD Director Anupam Kashyapi said, “The impact of the cyclone has weakened but remnants of it are still there. Some rainfall and other associated climatic happenings will take place as the cyclone is still receding.”District Collector Naval Kishore Ram said that the process of providing relief to the affected people had started and the total damage to crops, hamlets and residents is being assessed by a team of district collectorate officials.Heavy rains threw life out of gear on Thursday after Cyclone Nisarga passed through a distance of just 50 km from the Pune District leading to various consequences. Six flights were diverted and one was cancelled at Pune’s Lohegaon Airport following the severe weather conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-death-toll-in-pune-climbs-to-3-as-govt-measures-damage/story-crgxOsZdaXXjUDVvaQipxH.html
04-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga weakens, likely to enter Madhya Pradesh, says IMD||Cyclone Nisarga, which weakened into a low pressure area, is likely to enter Madhya Pradesh by Thursday evening from the southern parts of the state, instead of the western parts as predicted earlier, an official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The severe cyclonic storm had hit the Maharashtra coast near Alibaug in Raigad district on Wednesday afternoon.IMD officials said that the cyclone has weakened into a cyclonic storm before entering Madhya Pradesh from neighbouring Maharashtra, and is likely to lose its intensity further.As a result of the cyclone, parts of Madhya Pradesh received rainfall from Wednesday and the showers are likely to continue on Thursday as well, they said.Talking to PTI, IMD’s senior scientist Vedprakash Singh Chandel said, “Our earlier forecast was that Nisarga could enter Madhya Pradesh from Maharashtra between 7 am and 11 am on Thursday from Khandwa, Khargone and Burhanpur. But now this cyclone has lost its intensity and weakened into a low pressure area.” “In the changing weather conditions, there is a possibility that Nisarga may enter Madhya Pradesh from its southern parts like Betul, Chhindwara and Seoni around 7 pm on Thursday,” he said.According to the forecast, the cyclone is likely to have an impact in the areas under Narmadapuram, Bhopal, Sagar, Rewa, Jabalpur and Shahdol divisions in the coming hours.The meteorologist said that in the 24 hours that ended 8.30 am on Thursday, the places that recorded maximum rainfall include Segaon (136 mm), Khandwa (132 mm), Sendhwa (104 mm), Niwali (102 mm), Sonkatch (100 mm), Bhainsdehi (95.4 mm) and Amarpur (94 mm).The state government has put the administration on alert and told the authorities to be prepared to deal with the situation.In some districts, including Indore, citizens were urged to remain indoors.Several parts of MP have been getting showers since Wednesday night, which has brought relief from the sweltering heat. Barring parts of Gwalior and Chambal divisions, rainfall occurred in almost entire MP as an effect of cyclone Nisarga, said G D Mishra, senior meteorologist with IMDs Bhopal office.“Rains lashed 46 districts out of the total 52 districts in MP,” he said.According to the forecast for western parts of the state, heavy to very heavy rainfall and thunderstorm accompanied by lightning is most likely to occur at isolated places in next 24 hours.Similarly, heavy to very heavy rainfall, thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and gusty winds with speed reaching 30 to 40 kmph is very likely to occur at isolated places in eastern MP, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-weakens-likely-to-enter-madhya-pradesh-says-imd/story-qrYPg3SVLO9wiRuItAp01H.html
04-06-2020||India||Large number of shark teeth found at Rajasthan’s fossil site||A large number of shark teeth have been found at a new fossil site in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, the study of which has provided valuable insight about the environmental changes in the region from warm, humid, coastal conditions to the present-day dry and desert-like climatic condition.The research by the University of Delhi’s geology department was recently published in the Geobios journal. “To fill the fossil gap between Cretaceous to Eocene epoch, our team conducted a field investigation in the Barmer district which led to the discovery of a new fossil site known as Padma Rao open cast quarry located 40 kilometres from Barmer city and 3 kilometres south of Giral Lignite mine. A large number of shark teeth belonging to various sharks - namely Squatiscyllium nigeriensis, Ginglymostoma sokotoense, among others - were recovered from this site,” research leader Dr Priyadarshini Rajkumari said.Also read: Over 1 lakh patients beat the deadly contagion: Covid-19 state tallyAfter comparing the recovered fossils with other fossil found from Fatehgarh formation, Kapurdi formation and Akli formation in western Rajasthan, the experts found that the palaeoenvironment and palaeoecology of this new fossil site were different from the other fossil sites. Most of the fossil record from other fossil localities were deposited in coastal lagoonal environment with frequent marine and freshwater inputs. But the newly discovered fossil site lacks terrestrial and freshwater fauna as compared to the other fossil localities within Barmer district. “This could be possibly due to the different depositional environment and slightly older in age of the studied area which has been suggested as late Paplaeocene age based on the present fauna,” she added. “Most of the sharks teeth recovered from this fossil site are mainly found in nearshore shallow marine environment restricted to inner shelf area. The shark fossil from the Padma Rao quarry indicates the presence of tropical to sub-tropical climate during the deposition of fuller’s earth deposits of the Padma Rao quarry. The study of these shark teeth gave us an insight about the environmental changes from warm, humid, coastal conditions to the present-day conditions of dry and desertic climatic condition in the region,” the research paper stated.According to the research paper, one of the important findings is that the shark fossil recovered from the Padma Rao quarry also shows similarities with fossils which were found in the African region (Morocco, Nigeria and Niger), Western Europe (Belgium, England and France), North America and Asia, indicating that the fauna may have utilized the Tethys seaway as a migration route between these regions during the late Palaeocene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/large-number-of-shark-teeth-found-at-rajasthan-s-fossil-site/story-a1NRSBK54P3CLsE9dRZwcP.html
04-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh recorded 86 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, biggest single-day spike||Chhattisgarh recorded a total of 86 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday which is the biggest spike in a single day in the state ever since the first case was detected on March 18.The state health department released a Covid-19 bulletin on Thursday morning claiming that 52 new Covid-19 cases were detected on Wednesday late night and that the total tally of Covid-19 cases has jumped to 680 in the state.“The new cases included a government doctor posted in Janjgir Champa district of the state,” the bulletin stated.The health officials further said that out of these new cases, 20 were reported from Janjgir-Champa district, 12 from Mahasamund, six from Jashpur, four from Baloda Bazar, three from Balod, two each case from Durg, Rajnandgaon and Raipur districts while one case came from Raigarh.Also read: Over 1 lakh patients beat the deadly contagion: Covid-19 state tally“Many of these cases are of migrant labourers who have returned to the state in last few days while some cases were of students who came from Delhi,” said a senior health officer.As per the bulletin, a total of 19 patients were discharged from different Covid-19 hospitals and medical college hospitals of the state.Till now, Chhattisgarh has reported 2 deaths due to the coronavirus pandemic. On Tuesday, a 55-year-old woman hailing from Durg district tested positive for Covid-19 after her death at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Raipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-recorded-86-new-covid-19-cases-on-wednesday-biggest-single-day-spike/story-m3nH0al3uecS6AdgVeqWWP.html
04-06-2020||India||Bengal rolls out red carpet for central team for cyclone damage assessment||More than a month after locking horns with the Centre over the visit of inter-ministerial central teams (IMCTs) to inspect its Covid-19 management, the Bengal government in a role reversal has now has called another such team on a three-day visit to assess the losses due to cyclone Amphan as “state guests” and “VIPs”.“It may kindly be noted that the dignitary is a State Guest as per Govt’s Entertainment of State Guest Rules. It is therefore requested that due courtesies and facilities may kindly be extended to the VIP and party during their visit to the state,” reads a notification issued by the deputy secretary, department of disaster management and civil defence issued Wednesday night.The seven-member IMCT’s visit is for an “on the spot assessment of the damage and admissibility of such supplemental central assistance in the wake of cyclonic storm Amphan,” the notification says.The IMCT, led by Anuj Sharma, Joint Secretary (Cyber & Information Security), ministry of home affairs, is scheduled to hold a meeting with chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on Thursday evening after their arrival, make aerial survey of the districts of North and South 24-Parganas, and return on Saturday following a few more discussions with state officials. Other members of the team are from the ministries of agriculture, water resources, power, transport and the departments of fisheries and expenditure. The Centre has released an immediate assistance of Rs 1,000 crore to the state following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s aerial survey along with chief minister Mamata Banerjee two days after the May 20 cyclone that some have called as the worst natural calamity to hit Bengal in 300 years.Chief Minister Banerjee had earlier said that her initial estimate puts the losses at Rs 1 lakh crore.The change in the state government’s attitude towards this IMCT in contrast to the two IMCTs that visited to inspect and assess alleged Covid-19 mismanagement on the state’s part has triggered political controversies.During the April visit of the IMCTs, Bengal had virtually locked horns with the Centre, alleged disruption of the country’s federal structure and the state and the IMCTs frequently traded charges.The state unit of the BJP taunted the government for its change of heart.“The government objected to the previous IMCTs because they were afraid their data fudging would be caught and the mismanagement exposed. Now they want to extend a red carpet because the state expects money from the Centre,” said Rahul Sinha, national secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the principal opponent to Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC).The TMC refused to take the BJP’s bait.“We don’t want to comment on it because we don’t want to politicise an administrative meeting on disaster management. Last time, we objected because the teams arrived before informing us. This time, they informed us in advance,” said a Trinamool Congress spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-rolls-out-red-carpet-for-central-team-for-cyclone-damage-assessment/story-4RQr0ZhGaGXtml7bzhGGbO.html
04-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand farmer bags Guinness record for growing world’s tallest coriander plant||Forty-seven-year-old organic farmer from Uttarakhand has succeeded in getting his name added in the Guinness Book of World Records for growing world’s tallest coriander plant with a height of 7.1 feet (2.16 metre) using traditional Himalayan farming techniques.Gopal Dutt Upreti, who grows organic apples over his four-acre apple orchard in Bilkesh village of Ranikhet area in Almora district, said after he succeeded in growing over seven feet coriander plant, he had applied for the recognition in the Guinness Book of World Records in April.Also read: Want petrol? Remove mask, show face to CCTV camera in this Uttarakhand townThe entry in Guinness Book of World Records website says, “The tallest coriander plant is 2.16 m (7 ft 1 in) and was grown by Gopal Upreti (India) in Ranikhet, Uttarakhand, India, as measured on 21 April 2020. As an organic farmer, Gopal grows coriander every year. Using traditional Himalayan farming methods brings its own challenges. As the coriander is grown without using a polyhouse or any artificial covering, the crop is sometimes exposed to the harsh Himalayan weather conditions”.“A few days back I got confirmation on their website that my application has been accepted and my name has been recorded as the man who grew the tallest coriander plant in the world,” he said.“I had to compete against 5.9 feet (1.8) metre tall coriander plant which was the tallest coriander recorded till now in the Guinness Book of World Records. The chief horticulture officer, Almora, also came to record the height of this plant which he measured as 7 feet one inch ( 2.16 metre )”, he said.Coriander plant (dhania) scientifically called as Coriandrum Sativum is an annual herb. Most parts of this plant are edible with its fresh leaves and dried seeds used in cuisines across the globe.Upreti said he delved into organic farming in 2011 when he left Delhi where he used to work in the construction business. “I came back and started focussing on organic farming over four acres of land. As of now, I have over 2,000 apple trees in my orchard. On the sidelines, I also grow garlic and coriander”, he said.Upreti said that most of the coriander plants that he grew organically reached a height of around five feet. “And one of these plants reached a height of seven feet one inch. Then I realised that it could be a world record and as such, I should apply for the Guinness Book of World Records”, he said.“This achievement shows that organic farming has tremendous potential not only in Uttarakhand but in the whole country. It will encourage other farmers to go for organic farming in a big way”, he said.KN Pandey, chief horticulture officer, Almora, said he never came across such a tall coriander plant in his life. “I went there to record its height myself and found it to be around 7.1 feet tall. Generally, coriander plants grow up to a height of four feet to four and a half feet. It is likely that it grew so tall because he used cow dung based organic manure and ample water, which led to its good growth”, he said. The email received by Upreti from Guinness Book of World Records stated, “We are thrilled to inform you that your application (application reference: 200423121023tcp) for the Tallest Coriander Plant has been successful and you are now the Guinness World Records Title Holder. You are now eligible for one complimentary Guinness World Records Certificate...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-farmer-bags-guinness-record-for-growing-world-s-tallest-coriander-plant-using-traditional-himalayan-farming-methods/story-0mLd3cmZkVKhzISdTj7JFM.html
04-06-2020||India||Wife leaves for airport after fight, husband makes hoax bomb call to stop her||New Delhi: On Tuesday evening, a woman who was waiting to board a flight to Bhubaneswar at Terminal 3 of Indira Gandhi International Airport was asked by security personnel to step aside and have her handbag checked.The bomb disposal squad of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) cleared the area nearby and subjected the handbag to a thorough check but found nothing sinister among the contents Senior security officers said the Delhi airport’s call centre in Gurugram had received a call at 5:45 pm reporting that the woman was carrying a bomb in her bag. It turned out that the call was a hoax and made by the woman’s husband with whom she had a fight before leaving the house, the officers said, requesting anonymity. According to the police, the caller had reported that the woman was travelling to Bhubaneswar.“On this, the call centre officials informed the Delhi airport’s operation control centre, which in turn alerted the Delhi police and Central Industrial Security Force that secures the airport. The woman, as described by the man on the call, was traced in the boarding area of Terminal 3 where she was waiting to board her flight. She was approached and was asked to step aside and allow a detailed and thorough checking of her handbag,” said a senior CISF officer, who wished not to be named.The officer said the bomb detection and disposal squad was called in. “Because the woman’s handbag had already undergone the airport’s regular security checks, chances of her carrying any explosives were less. However, as a precautionary measure other passengers waiting in the area were also asked to move away,” the officer said. Around 6.45 pm, the threat was declared a hoax, the officer added.Deputy commissioner of police (Delhi airport) Rajeev Ranjan said a preliminary enquiry revealed that the call was made from Gurugram. “The man who was identified turned out to be the woman’s husband. She told us that the couple had a fight after which she had left the house. Because the call was made from Gurugram, DIAL{Delhi International Airport Limited} has approached Gurugram police for further legal action against the man,” Ranjan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-leaves-for-airport-after-fight-husband-makes-hoax-bomb-call-to-stop-her/story-r0wv1XPLGkEtuJqdpa3SLP.html
04-06-2020||India||Macron underlines India’s importance in ensuring access to Covid-19 diagnostics and treatment||French President Emmanuel Macron has underscored the importance of cooperation with India for providing equitable access to all for diagnostics, treatment and immunisation amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The matter figured in a letter written by Macron to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the aftermath of the destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan in India, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.On behalf of the French people, Macron conveyed his heartfelt condolences and his full solidarity, and offered to extend any support that India might consider necessary to come to the aid of those directly affected by the cyclone.“The president also underscored the importance of the cooperation between the two countries at a multilateral level and the support that India will be in a position to extend to France’s actions initiated under the G20 as well as to the Access to Covid Tools - Accelerator (ACT-A) initiative, which will play a vital role in providing equitable access to all for diagnostics, treatments and immunisation,” said a person who declined to be named.Following a phone conversation between the two leaders on March 31 regarding the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, France and India have enhanced their training and research cooperation.The French Development Agency has finalised a concessional loan of 200 million euros, which will bolster the World Bank’s efforts to provide additional social protection to the most vulnerable in India, the people cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/macron-underlines-india-s-importance-in-ensuring-access-to-covid-19-diagnostics-and-treatment/story-eex7BUhLFCE85s3awUJkEK.html
04-06-2020||India||‘5 govt, 3 private hospitals in Delhi solely for Covid-19 treatment’: Manish Sisodia||In a joint press briefing on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the national capital, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that five government and three private hospitals have been solely dedicated for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Delhi. “An order has also been issued to reserve 20% beds of the remaining hospitals for Covid-19 patients,” Sisodia told media in the presence of Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain. Sisodia said that in the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, it is important to save the lives of those who get infected. Also read: Delhi’s Covid-19 containment zones double up in 15 days हमनें 5 सरकारी अस्पताल और 3 प्राइवेट अस्पतालों को पूरी तरह कोरोना मरीजों के इलाज के लिए रखा है।बाकी अस्पतालों के 20% बेड कोविड मरीजों के लिए आरक्षित करने का आदेश भी जारी कर दिया गया है। - मा. उपमुख्यमंत्री श्री. @msisodia pic.twitter.com/6GXssRLPWV“We want to ensure that those who visit hospitals should receive all facilities, get admitted easily and face no hassle,” he said, adding that the administration is focussing on creating more Covid-19-dedicated facilities in the Delhi. The minister said that while most hospitals have been able to follow the directive of reserving 20 percent of their hospitals for Covid-19 patients, some are facing logistical issues. “We have decided to turn all such hospitals into full coronavirus dedicated facilities. So far, Moolchand Hospital, Ganga Ram Hospital and Saroj Hospital in Pitampura have been converted into dedicated Covid-19 facilities,” Sisodia said.  Important press conference by Hon'ble Dy. CM Shri @msisodia and Hon'ble Health Minister Shri @SatyendarJain https://t.co/RWQl9s4x3r“We want to ensure that people living in Delhi get timely hospital beds and treatment for Covid-19,” he added. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain explained the various categories of Covid-19 patients ranging from asymptomatic patients to severely infected.“Fever and coughing would fall under mild symptoms. If a person’s breathing rate is more than 15 counts in a minute, it indicates moderate Covid-19 infection whereas over 30 breathing counts in a minute would fall into the severe category,” the minister explained.  कोरोना एक वैश्विक महामारी है और हम इसे गंभीरता से ले रहे हैं। हमारा किसी राज्य से कोई मुकाबला नहीं है। सभी को साथ मिलकर इससे लड़ना होगा।मा. मुख्यमंत्री जी का मानना है कि हमें लोगों की जान बचानी है और उसी के लिए हम प्रयासरत हैं।- मा. उपमुख्यमंत्री श्री @msisodia pic.twitter.com/UhHPkcVdJNJain emphasised that only those with moderate to severe symptoms with difficulty in breathing and drop in oxygen levels are required to be admitted in hospitals. Others can easily be treated at home, he said. Delhi has witnessed over 23,000 coronavirus cases till date. While the Covid-19 death toll in the national capital has jumped to 606, 9,542 patients have recovered from the deadly contagion here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-govt-2-private-hospitals-in-delhi-solely-for-covid-19-treatment-deputy-chief-minister-manish-sisodia/story-CtBI7kB9By9f3D7V7XB62O.html
04-06-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Court suggests using electric vehicles to ferry goods to Matheran||The Bombay high court on Thursday suggested that electric vehicles should be used for supplying LPG cylinders to ecologically sensitive Matheran. The court’s observation came while hearing a plea on transportation of essential commodities to the hill station.The petition has been filed by former NCP MLA Suresh Lad.Lad informed the bench of justice A K Menon that as per the previous order of the high court, the railways had started services to transport essential commodities to the hill station. The NCP leader’s lawyer Gaurav Parkar further said that the local civic administration had not hired Bharat IV compliant vehicles which had also been directed by the court.Parkar then added that the problem of the residents did not end as the railways has refused to transport LPG cylinders along with other essential commodities to Matheran saying it is against their safety norms.Parkar further submitted that before the lockdown, the cylinders were brought to the hill station on horseback but it was not an ideal situation now given the provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty of Animals Act and the fact that the horses are old, tired and in very bad health.Advocate T J Pandian for central railway and advocate D P Singh for the Union of India confirmed that LPG cylinders or any inflammable material cannot be carried on railway wagons as there is an explicit bar against carriage of gas and inflammable materials.After hearing the submissions, the court directed that the monitoring committee looking after the issue should consider the problem and come up with a solution. However, additional government pleader Manish Pabale for the state informed the court that the chairperson of the committee had retired and other members were busy with cyclone Nisarg related activities it would not be possible for it to meet before 15 days.The court accepted the same and directed the petitioners to apply before the committee when they convened. Before adjourning the matter, the court observed, “In the meanwhile, it will not be out of place to mention that the viability of using electrically powered vehicle for movement of LPG should not be overlooked. The monitoring committee shall, therefore, consider the feasibility of such means including by considering a cost analysis study in the interests of the residents which the state is bound to protect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-court-suggests-using-electric-vehicles-to-ferry-goods-to-matheran/story-aqopUC8Yno6FOV0RDC95LK.html
04-06-2020||India||India flattened the wrong curve: Rajiv Bajaj tells Rahul Gandhi on Covid-19 battle||Rajiv Bajaj, managing director (MD) of Bajaj Auto, has said that the nationwide coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions have decimated the country’s economy instead of flatting the infection curve of the raging viral outbreak.“You (the government) have not solved that problem. But you have definitely decimated the economy. You flattened the wrong curve. It is not the infection curve, it is the GDP (Gross Domestic Product) curve. This is what we have ended up with, the worst of both the worlds,” Bajaj told former Congress president Rahul Gandhi during an interaction via video link.“The way India has been locked down is draconian. This kind of lockdown, I have not heard about from anywhere else,” he said.Also read: ‘India should have looked at Covid-19 response in East’: Rajiv Bajaj to Rahul GandhiLockdown 5:0 has come into effect from June 1 even though the nationwide restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the pandemic, have been largely eased in a bid to open up economic activities.Bajaj also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to spell out how the country would move forward after the lockdown is fully lifted, claiming that the unlocking would be anything but smooth.“I am really distressed because it is a herculean task to open up economic activities. The first problem is to get this fear out of the minds of the people. There has to be a very clear aligned narrative from the PM because, whether right or wrong, when he says something people seem to follow,” he said.“I think the PM needs to tell everyone that this is how we are going to move forward. Everything is under control. Don’t be afraid of the viral infections, only a few people are dying, and we have to move forward now,” added Bajaj.He stressed the need for a stimulus to lift the demand and revive the Covid-19 battered economy.“I strongly believe that a large country such as India cannot save itself out of trouble. It has to sell itself out of trouble. We have to get demand going again. We have to provide something that lifts the mood of the people. We need some mood elevators. I don’t understand why there is no strong initiative, even if it is for a period of six months to one year, to strongly lift the mood of the people and provide a stimulus to demand,” Bajaj said.Also read| ‘There was no lockdown even during the World War’: Rahul Gandhi on Covid-19The industrialist wondered the reason behind India’s reluctance not to focus in Asia and only looked at the west such as Italy, France, Spain, the United Kingdom (UK), and the United States of America (USA).“Unfortunately, India not only looked at the west, but it also went to the wild west. I think we have stayed more towards the impervious side. We tried to implement a hard lockdown, which was still porous. I think we have ended up with the worst of both the worlds,” he said.He also said the country has fallen “very short” of disclosing facts, logic, and the truth on the viral outbreak.“This has got amplified and instilled such an enormous fear in the minds of the people that they seem to think that the contagion is equal to cancer or another life-threatening disease. Now, the government’s new narrative is to make the people comfortable with the thought of living with the virus,” added Bajaj.The dialogue was a part of Gandhi’s series of video conversations with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the country’s economy.He has interacted with former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan, Nobel Laureate Professor Abhijit Banerjee, Harvard Professor Ashish Jha, and Swedish epidemiologist Johan Giesecke since the viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-flattened-the-wrong-curve-rajiv-bajaj-tells-rahul-gandhi-on-covid-19-battle/story-3tXHlc7kk5rp81ASg3VknJ.html
04-06-2020||India||‘Will leave no stone unturned to nab culprits’: Javadekar on killing of pregnant elephant in Kerala’s Mallapuram||The killing of a pregnant elephant in Kerala’s Mallapuram has angered the country with political leaders and eminent personalities condemning the heinous incident. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said that the Central government has taken a “very serious note” of the incident. “We will not leave any stone unturned to investigate properly and nab the culprit(s). This is not an Indian culture to feed fire crackers and kill,” Javadekar said in a tweet. Watch: Kerala elephant killing | ‘Will nab and punish the culprits’: Prakash Javadekar  Also read: Virat Kohli, Sunil Chhetri, Saina Nehwal speak out on death of pregnant elephantCentral Government has taken a very serious note of the killing of an elephant in Mallapuram, #Kerala. We will not leave any stone unturned to investigate properly and nab the culprit(s). This is not an Indian culture to feed fire crackers and kill.@moefcc @PIB_India @PIBHindiThe incident took place on May 27 when the pregnant elephant died standing in river Velliyar after it suffered an injury in its lower jaw. According to officials, the 15-year-old pregnant elephant died after consuming a pineapple laden with firecrackers.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi slammed the Kerala government for not taking animal cruelty seriously.“Mallapuram is known for its intense criminal activity especially with regards to animals. No action has ever been taken against a single poacher or wildlife killer so they keep doing it. I can only suggest that you call/email and ask for action,” she tweeted.Mallapuram is know for its intense criminal activity specially with regards to animals. No action has ever been taken against a single poacher or wildlife killer so they keep doing it.I can only suggest that you call/email and ask for action pic.twitter.com/ii09qmb7xWAlong with her tweet, Gandhi attached a document claiming that about 600 elephants are killed by the temples “by breaking their legs, beating and starving them and otherwise by private owners by insuring them and then deliberately drowning them or giving them gangrene by putting rusted nails on them. I talk to the department almost every week about an elephant and they do absolutely nothing.”She also asked for the removal of Kerala’s Forest Secretary. “The minister (for wildlife protection), if he has any sense, should resign. Rahul Gandhi is from that area, why has he not taken action?,” she told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-leave-no-stone-unturned-to-nab-culprits-javadekar-on-killing-of-pregnant-elephant-in-kerala-s-mallapuram/story-WnHVc9uSgtzAHEJbzUrFbM.html
04-06-2020||India||Two Congress MLAs from Gujarat resign ahead of Rajya Sabha polls||Two Congress lawmakers in Gujarat have resigned ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls for four seats from the state.Congress MLAs Akshay Patel and Jitu Chaudhary met Gujarat Assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi on Wednesday and handed over their resignations.Trivedi told the reporters on Thursday that he has accepted their resignations. He said that the MLAs have resigned voluntarily.Patel represented Karjan seat of Vadodara, while Chaudhary had won from Kaprada seat of Valsad.Earlier on Wednesday, three Congress MLAs had met Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, triggering speculations of defection, reported news agency PTI.PTI identified these MLAs as Kirit Patel, Lalit Vasoya and Lalit Kagathara. These lawmakers, however, refuted the rumours and claimed that they went to make a representation about various issues related to coronavirus and lockdown. The Rajya Sabha election for four seats in Gujarat has been scheduled on June 19. It was supposed to be held on March 26. However, it was eventually postponed for an indefinite period in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and subsequent imposition of nation-wide lockdown.While the Congress has fielded two candidates, BJP has fielded three, making it difficult for the Congress to win the second seat.In March, five Congress legislators had tendered their resignations days after the elections were announced.This had further reduced the Congress’s chances of retaining both the seats.In the 182-member Assembly, BJP has 103 MLAs and the opposition Congress 68.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-congress-mlas-from-gujarat-resign-ahead-of-rajya-sabha-polls/story-l6evK8Ep7Dfko2R4pRA3CK.html
04-06-2020||India||‘The animal was in pain’: Jharkhand villagers look after elephant that destroyed their houses||A 12-year-old wild elephant that trampled a youth a few days ago in Jharkhand, is being looked after by villagers and forest officials.The elephant had sustained injuries in the incident and is being served food mixed with vegetables.The villagers came to rescue of the tusker forgetting the damage caused by it, forest officials said. The jumbo reportedly killed two people and damaged several houses and crops in Rahe, Silli and Angarha blocks in the past one month. The elephant, which is struggling to walk due to acute pain in his front left leg, has taken shelter in a hillock between two villages - Hesadih and Rigrigram - under Silli block.Even as veterinary doctor has prescribed the medicine, serving the medicine to the wild elephant is a big challenge for forest officials. The local villagers have extended their services to help the elephant recover from the injury. The villagers are providing pumpkins and bottle gourds in which medicine is infused and they are placed near a water body where the jumbo comes to quench his thirst every day.“Around a week back, we noticed the elephant in nearby hillock. We found the elephant was in big pain and tears rolling out of its eyes. It was not able to walk properly. We informed the forest department and requested to rescue the elephant immediately. Otherwise, it will die in pain,” said Kalipada Mahto, a resident of Hesadih.The veterinary doctor of Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park, also known as Birsa zoo, Dr Ajay Kumar was called for treatment of the elephant. “I was told that the elephant was suffering due to acute swelling, which might have caused due to injury, on his left leg. I went there around a week back but did not find the elephant. I prescribed few medicines including broad spectrum antibiotic and non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs along with proteolytic enzyme,” Kumar said.The Angarha forest ranger RK Singh said, “Serving medicines to a wild elephant is a big challenge due to possible attack by it. Then, we came up with an idea to serve it through vegetables. We infused the medicines in pumpkins and bottle gourds and placed them near a water body. The elephant comes down every day from the hillock to quench his thirst and it also eats the vegetables.”The vegetables are provided by the villagers. They also placed paddy to feed the elephant.“We served medicine by this way for past three- four days. But, the elephant did not come down on Wednesday. We are concerned but nobody dares to go to the hillock, as four more wild elephants have come to the place on Tuesday night,” Singh said, adding, “we are now finding out other options.”Jharkhand is one of the worst-affected states by man-elephant conflicts. As per the data available with the forest department, man-elephant conflicts claimed 650 lives between 2009-10 and 2018-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-animal-was-in-pain-jharkhand-villagers-look-after-elephant-that-destroyed-their-houses/story-MdFnNBOZ4RIiqWHWWGgv0I.html
04-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cyclone Nisarga alert message withdrawn, heavy rains may continue in Maharashtra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cyclone Nisarga: Alert message withdrawn, heavy rains may continue in MaharashtraThe Maharashtra government on Thursday early morning withdrew the alert message, which was issued to seven coastal districts in the state on Monday because of cyclone Nisarga that hit Alibag in Raigad district the previous afternoon. Read more‘India should have looked at Covid-19 response in East’: Rajiv Bajaj to Rahul GandhiIndustrialist Rajiv Bajaj said on Thursday that India made a mistake by looking at the western world while preparing its response to the coronavirus crisis - in this case a lockdown. Read moreGandhi’s statue vandalised in US, Indian embassy registers complaintUnknown miscreants have vandalised a statue of Mahatma Gandhi outside the Indian embassy in the US with graffiti and spray painting, prompting the mission officials to register a complaint with the local law enforcement agencies. Read moreThis librarian has a purr-fect idea to dress up her cat as literary iconsEver wondered if the perfect job exists in any part of the world? For me, it might one where I’m always surrounded by books and all things literature, although, as I advance in age (even by days), I find myself wishing for a more cat-like life. Read moreCovid-19: New quarantine rules for passengers coming to DelhiHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, new quarantine rules for passengers coming to Delhi, migrants travelling back for work, a study on the impact of lockdown and more. Read moreTN SSLC: Tamil Nadu class 10th hall ticket 2020 to be released today at dge.tn.gov.inThe directorate of government examination, Tamil Nadu is expected to release TN SSLC or class 10th board exam hall tickets today on its official website at dge.tn.gov.in.According to media reports, TN SSLC hall tickets will be released on June 4 at 2 pm. Read moreRead the full transcript of Mark Zuckerberg’s meeting with Facebook employeesThings have not been great at Facebook. After CEO Mark Zuckerberg let US president Donald Trump’s controversial posts remain on the platform, explaining that he felt that Facebook users should be allowed to see the posts for themselves, many employees staged a virtual walkout in protest. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cyclone-nisarga-alert-message-withdrawn-heavy-rains-may-continue-in-maharashtra-and-all-the-latest-news/story-41yBVU04dMlmiJ2mfrTgnI.html
04-06-2020||India||‘So sorry’: US envoy to India apologises over desecration of Mahatma Gandhi statue in Washington||The US Ambassador to India, Ken Juster, has apologised for desecration of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in the United States. The statue was vandalised with graffiti and spray paint outside the Indian embassy in Washington.“So sorry to see the desecration of the Gandhi statue in Wash, DC. Please accept our sincere apologies. Appalled as well by the horrific death of George Floyd & the awful violence & vandalism. We stand against prejudice & discrimination of any type. We will recover & be better,” Juster said on Twitter. So sorry to see the desecration of the Gandhi statue in Wash, DC. Please accept our sincere apologies. Appalled as well by the horrific death of George Floyd & the awful violence & vandalism. We stand against prejudice & discrimination of any type. We will recover & be better.The incident is reported to have taken place on the intervening night of June 2 and 3. The officials of the Indian embassy informed the State Department and registered a complaint with the local law enforcement agencies.On Wednesday, a team of officials from Metropolitan Police visited the site and started conducting inquiries.Watch: Mahatma Gandhi statue vandalised in Washington DC, US apologises  Vandalism of the statue of the apostle of peace comes during the week of nationwide protests against the custodial killing of African-American George Floyd in Minneapolis on May 25.Several of these protests have turned violent which many times has resulted in damage of some of the most prestigious and sacred American monuments.Also read: Gandhi’s statue vandalised in US, Indian embassy registers complaintIn Washington DC, protesters this week burnt a church and damaged some of the prime properties and historic places like the national monument and Lincoln Memorial.One of the few statues of a foreign leader on a federal land in Washington DC, the statue of Mahatma Gandhi was dedicated by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, in the presence of the then US president Bill Clinton on September 16, 2000, during his state visit to the US.In October 1998, the US Congress had authorised the government of India to establish and maintain a memorial “to honour Mahatma Gandhi on Federal land in the District of Columbia”.According to the Indian Embassy website, the sculpture of Mahatma Gandhi is cast in bronze as a statue and has a height of 8 feet 8 inches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/so-sorry-us-envoy-to-india-apologises-over-desecration-of-mahatma-gandhi-statue-in-washington/story-uCPRuDRFRdjPv6N0qs5P8O.html
04-06-2020||India||Day after cyclone: Water logging in Mumbai after heavy rains||Heavy showers and strong winds lashed Mumbai on Thursday morning a day after cyclone Nisarga brushed past the country’s financial hub and made landfall at Alibag in Maharashtra’s Raigad district the previous afternoon.Severe waterlogging is reported across Mumbai such as LBS Road in Kurla, Goregaon, Andheri, Sion, Chembur, Goregaon and Bhandup. Dr. BA Ambedkar Road in King’s Circle is under knee-deep water, photographs, and videos circulating on social media showed.Angry Mumbaikars posted photographs and videos on social media and accused the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities of their lack of preparedness to prevent waterlogging.BJP leader and lawyer Vivekanand Gupta tweeted, “Few minutes of rain and waterlogging already on LBS near R-City Mall and Bhandup. @ShivSena ruled BMC. What work did the BMC contractors carried out? Nalla safai kidhar hai (where is the de-silting of drains?). Same scene every year.”Earlier, the civic authorities had identified 69 waterlogging spots in the city ahead of the onset of monsoon, but their preparedness was disrupted because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, which led to lockdown restrictions from end-March.The BMC authorities had planned to complete the work at 45 waterlogging spots in Mumbai before the onset of monsoon, but it got delayed because of the unavailability of an adequate workforce due to lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-cyclone-water-logging-in-mumbai-after-heavy-rains/story-BydcCunmfipvioiE4ImHWJ.html
04-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga: Alert message withdrawn, heavy rains may continue in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Thursday early morning withdrew the alert message, which was issued to seven coastal districts in the state on Monday because of cyclone Nisarga that hit Alibag in Raigad district the previous afternoon.Officials, however, said heavy rains would continue in many parts of the state as an after-effect of the cyclone, which left four people dead and eight injured.“The alert message was withdrawn around 6 am on Thursday. However, heavy rains are expected in many parts of the state,” said Kishorraje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief, and rehabilitation.The state authorities have deployed 20 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) for relief and rescue operations in the affected areas along the Maharashtra coast.“Relief and rescue measures are on. We’re assessing the damage and the report will be ready in another two-three days,” Nimbalkar said. The cyclone has left behind a trail of destruction, especially in Raigad district, where power cables are snapped, trees and electric poles uprooted, thatched, kutcha and pucca houses destroyed or partially damaged and roads blocked. A preliminary assessment by the state authorities has revealed that 1,865 kutcha houses are fully damaged, 5,577 partially damaged, 108 pucca houses fully damaged and another 560 partially damaged. Besides, 1,375 hutments are damaged in the seven coastal districts, where the alert was sounded. Sachidanand Gawde, NDRF, Pune, said that relief and rescue operations are on.“Two additional teams have been shifted to Raigad district, where cyclone Nisarga made landfall, from Mumbai and Thane. These teams are helping the district authorities in the restoration of essential services such as facilitating the movement of vehicular traffic that was disrupted due to road blockades and also the power supply. The teams will be stationed in the district until normalcy is restored,” Gawde said.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed the officials to assess the losses while focusing on relief and rescue measures. “Cyclone Nisarga hit coastal Maharashtra while the state is battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) epidemic. The people of the state stood united to successfully face the challenge. I’m sure a similar effort will help tide over the Covid-19 crisis as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-alert-message-withdrawn-heavy-rains-may-continue-in-maharashtra/story-7X7jXuE9fPmLfZttZLYhsO.html
04-06-2020||India||Case against Telangana man for allegedly abducting and marrying a minor, parents also booked||The Telangana Police on Wednesday booked a 21-year-old man who allegedly abducted and forcibly married a minor girl, besides inducing her for sexual intercourse, the police said.The police also booked the parents of both the bride and the groom, and a local political leader who allegedly brokered a compromise between them.According to inspector M Praveen Reddy, the police received a complaint from A Hymavathi, supervisor of Integrated Child Development Society (ICDS) of Medchal block, on Wednesday night about a child marriage that took place at Kandlakoya village on June 1.In her complaint, Hymavathi disclosed that one Shivarathri Srinu (21) had married the minor girl - who was 16 - in the presence of his parents Srinu and Mallamma and that of the girl’s, besides a local political leader Prabhakar and others.“On inquiry, it was revealed that both the bride and the groom were known to each other for the last three years. On February 26, Srinu eloped with the girl and married her at a temple. Since then, she had staying with him at his village Gundlapochampally, where he forced her to participate in sex thrice,” the police inspector said.On coming to know about their marriage, the girl’s parents came to Gundlapochampally and took her back to their home stating that they would perform a formal marriage in the presence of relatives.On June 1, parents of both the sides accepted their relationship and performed their marriage at Mutyalamma temple of Kandlakoya village in the presence of elders. They also formally arranged nuptials for the couple to consummate the marriage, the police inspector said.The Medchal police registered a case under Section 376 (sexual assault), 376A (sex with wife without consent) and 366 (abduction of a woman and forced sex) of Indian Penal Code (IPC), besides under Protection of Child from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Sec 9, 11 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006, and SC, ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.“We are yet to make the arrests as we need to appoint an investigating office because the girl happens to be a Dalit. We have sent he to Sakhi Centre maintained by Women and Child Welfare Department,” the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-against-telangana-man-for-allegedly-abducting-and-marrying-a-minor-parents-also-booked/story-wrvlhVcSinMhtmt74Qlb3K.html
04-06-2020||India||Remnants of Cyclone Nisarga to bring rain relief to Vidarbha||Areas of eastern Maharashtra reeling under a severe heat wave since last month are expected to witness light to moderate rainfall on Thursday and Friday in the wake of Cyclone Nisarga.Cyclone Nisarga, which weakened into a deep depression late on Wednesday night and further diminished into a depression on early Thursday morning, has been moving at a speed of 23 kmph. When it made landfall over Raigad district, the maximum speed was 120 kmph, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather system has currently moved to western Vidarbha.Also read: Rains lash Mumbai on Thursday morning in the aftermath of Nisarga“After rain over parts of north Maharashtra, including Dhule, Nandurbar and Nashik, districts like Akola, Chandrapur, Nagpur and Bhandara, which were recording over 46 degrees Celsius last month, will receive moderate showers over the next 48 hours,” said IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra. The maximum rain in Maharashtra since Wednesday was recorded at Mahabaleshwar (187 mm), followed by Nashik (144.2 mm). Alibag and Ratnagiri recorded 94.1 mm and 52.6 mm of rainfall. Mumbai recorded moderate showers of 24.8 mm and also passing showers on Thursday morning.The system is likely to weaken further into a low pressure by later on Thursday and is currently located over the western parts of Vidarbha, 110 km west-southwest of Akola, 320 km west-southwest of Nagpur, and 100 km northeast of Aurangabad.Also read: Cyclone Nisarga: NDRF teams unable to reach worst-hit areas in RaigadAfter being battered by Cyclone Nisarga, Raigad district witnessed sporadic overnight showers between Wednesday night and Thursday morning, while the southern talukas, which were most affected by the cyclone, had partly cloudy conditions. On Thursday, all evacuated residents returned home from shelters and were seen repairing damaged portions of their houses or removing tree branches from roads, and even their homes. “The district will take a few days to crawl back to normalcy. Efforts are underway,” said Raigad district Nidhi Choudhari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remnants-of-cyclone-nisarga-to-bring-rain-relief-to-vidarbha/story-HHUBLP02XfHJ41NoTgdW1M.html
04-06-2020||India||Rains lash Mumbai on Thursday morning in the aftermath of Nisarga||Less than 24 hours after Cyclone Nisarga passed over Mumbai and the west coast, its impact was seen across the city on Thursday morning, with cloudy skies, continuous rain and occasional thunder.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded 24.8mm of rain at the Santacruz weather station till 8.30 am on Thursday, whereas the Colaba weather station recorded more rain (50mm), owing to Cyclone Nisarga making landfall to the south of Alibag in Raigad district, which brought its path close the south Mumbai. Meteorological officials said they were expecting more rain, including some heavy showers, since Mumbai was witnessing a combination of the post-cyclone effect and monsoon winds over the west coast. When a cyclone passes, it leaves a lot of moisture over land - relative humidity levels at 8.30am stood at 92% in Colaba and 87% in Santacruz.“When such a huge weather system (cyclone) passes, it leaves behind a remnant effect in the form of very high humidity levels and moisture content over the entire coast, including Mumbai, Thane and Raigad. In addition, there are strong westerlies coming over Mumbai and the entire west coast, since the Indian summer monsoon season has begun, pumping in a lot of moisture “ said KS Hosalikar, IMD’s deputy director general for Mumbai region. “Both these factors can result in heavy showers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-lash-mumbai-on-thursday-morning-in-the-aftermath-of-nisarga/story-lqedf8MpjGm2d5nznKfS9K.html
04-06-2020||India||SC steps in to end chaos at Delhi borders, tells government to decide on common policy with UP and Haryana||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the central government to convene a meeting between the officials from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to end the chaos over Delhi borders.The apex court has ordered the government to arrive at a consensus with regard to allowing interstate transport between Delhi and the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The decision regarding the same has to be taken within a week, the top court said. This came after a petitioner named Rohit Bhalla, a Gurugram resident, challenged the sealing of borders with Delhi by the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments. Bhalla described the move as unconstitutional and said it affected the right to travel under Article 19. He pointed out that it caused great confusion and difficulties for people who want to visit Delhi for urgent needs including meeting ailing relatives. This comes a day after the Gurugram police on Wednesday removed barricades at 11 border crossing points to the national capital and said commuters can now travel between the two cities without any restrictions. The Gurugram police checked movement passes until 9.30 am on Wednesday, which led to congestion for nearly 20 minutes before they received orders to remove the barricades. Those who did not have movement passes were stopped from entering Delhi. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced the sealing of the national capital’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for a week. “Delhi borders to be sealed for the next one week. Essential services are exempted. We will take a decision again in one week to open borders after suggestions from citizens,” said the chief minister.Kejriwal also called for public suggestion on the matter and gave out a number and an email address for people to send in their suggestions by June 5.“Delhiites can send suggestions on opening of borders to WhatsApp number 8800007722, delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com by Friday 5 pm,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-steps-in-to-end-chaos-at-delhi-borders-tells-government-to-decide-on-common-policy-with-up-and-haryana/story-5k21lzruSqIKZhToo5GMwK.html
04-06-2020||India||‘Next time it will be Gujarati Khichdi’: Australian PM tells PM Modi during virtual summit||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison offered to make Gujarati khichdi when he spoke to PM Narendra Modi on Thursday through video-conferencing. Morrison also said that he would like to meet PM Modi in person.“I wish I could be there for what has become the famous Modi hug. And I have to share my samosas, we had a bit of fun over the weekend. Next time, it has to be the Gujarati khichdi which I know is your favourite, as you mentioned to me before. I’ll try that out of the kitchen before next time we meet in person,” the Australian Prime Minister said at the virtual summit between the two leaders.A smiling PM Modi welcomed the offer. “I am pleased to know about your offer. The samosas you made is being talked about a lot here in India. Now that you’ve mentioned khichdi, it will make Gujaratis very happy. Many Gujarati families live in Australia,” he said.“We call it by different names in different parts of the country, but khichdi is famous in entire India,” he added.On Sunday, Morrison had shared on Twitter the photo of popular Indian snack samosas, and offered to share them with PM Modi. He shared the images of the snack, and mango chutney along with it, on his Twitter feed on Sunday and named it ScoMosas.“Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him,” Morrison posted on Twitter and tagged PM Modi.PM Modi, saying they look delicious. “Connected by the Indian Ocean, united by the Indian Samosa! Looks delicious, PM @ScottMorrisonMP! Once we achieve a decisive victory against COVID-19, we will enjoy the Samosas together. Looking forward to our video meet on the 4th,” PM Modi tweeted.Both PM Modi and Morrison held an online summit on Thursday focussing on ways to further broadbase bilateral ties in a range of areas like healthcare, trade and defence.PM Modi said he believed that it is the “perfect time and perfect opportunity” to further strengthen the relationship between India and Australia.It is the first time that Modi held a “bilateral” virtual summit with a foreign leader.Relationship between the two nations was upgraded to a ‘Strategic Partnership’ level in 2009. Since then, both countries have expanded their cooperation in a range of key areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-time-it-will-be-gujarati-khichdi-australian-pm-tells-pm-modi-during-virtual-summit/story-aslVtLw3zfIGfMODU78eTM.html
04-06-2020||India||‘You have played constructive, very positive role in these difficult times’: Scott Morrison lauds PM Modi||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a visionary leader and lauded him for playing a “constructive and very positive role in these very difficult times”. Morrison thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for extending an invite for the virtual bilateral meet and said PM Modi’s leadership is laudable not just within India but “broadly throughout G20 and the Indo-Pacific”. Morrison’s comments came during his first-ever virtual bilateral summit with PM Modi on Thursday. He commended India on its leadership on taking Chair of WHO’s executive board. “This is a very important time to be chairing that board and I have no doubt that India’s leadership will be critical in dealing with difficult problems globally particularly in the health area,” he said. Also read: ‘Our ties are deep with shared values’ - PM Modi during virtual summit with Australian PM #WATCH: Australian PM Scott Morrison says, "I wish I could be there for what has become the famous 'Modi hug' & share my samosas. Next time, it will have to be the Gujarati Khichdi. I will try that in the kitchen before next time we meet in person." pic.twitter.com/d6Ikxhd7ncThe Australian PM said that his administration is committed to an open, inclusive, and prosperous Indo-Pacific and “India’s role in that region, our region will be critical in the years ahead”.The Australian Prime Minister said the idea of holding a virtual bilateral meet doesn’t come as a surprise to him during the prevailing circumstances. “It doesn’t surprise me, this is how (virtually) we’d continue to meet in these circumstances,” he said and described PM Modi as a pioneer in the area of technology in India. On a lighter note, Morrison said he wish he could be in India for the famous ‘Modi hug’ and share samosas. Also read: ‘Next time it will be Gujarati Khichdi’: Australian PM tells PM Modi during virtual summit“I wish I could be there for what has become the famous ‘Modi hug’ & share my samosas. Next time, it will have to be the Gujarati Khichdi. I will try that in the kitchen before next time we meet in person,” PM Morrison said. Before today’s virtual summit, both leaders have met four times. Their first meet was in the year 2018, on the sidelines of East Asia Summit in Singapore, followed by the G20 in Osaka in June 2019, then during the G7 Summit in Biarritz in August 2019. The leaders last met during the East Asia Summit in Bangkok in November 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-have-played-constructive-very-positive-role-in-these-very-difficult-times-scott-morrison-lauds-pm-modi/story-aFPQP11O1e70ko4cOYjF6O.html
04-06-2020||India||Facebook, Instagram unblock Sikh hashtag after nearly three months||Social media platforms Facebook and Instagram unblocked the #Sikh (hashtag Sikh) on Thursday after nearly three months. Facebook admitted that the hashtag was mistakenly blocked on March 7 following a report that was inaccurately reviewed by its teams.The Sikh community had approced Facebook with a request to unblock it. An official statement released by Instagram Communication on their Twitter handle (@Instagramcomms) said, “We have unblocked the hashtag #sikh on Instagram and are working to unblock #sikh on Facebook. We’re investigating why this happened. We will follow up here later today with more information.” It further said that #sikh is now unblocked on Facebook too.“Thanks for your patience today. We investigated this issue and found that these hashtags were mistakenly blocked on March 7th following a report that was inaccurately reviewed by our teams,” read the third tweet. The company said that this is an incredibly important, painful time for the Sikh community. “We designed hashtags to allow people to come together and share with one another. It’s never our intention to silence the voices of this community, we are taking the necessary steps so this doesn’t happen again.”On Wednesday, the issue surfaced on the social media platforms after the users, including Sikh organisation based in the western countries, started postings on their Facebook accounts about blocking of hashtag #Sikh. Some users found out about the blocked hashtag when they tried post about Operation Blue Star on the Golden Temple in Amritsar in the year 1984. They started questioning the company and then then Facebook and Instagram carried out its investigation into the matter.Canada-based author Rupi Kaur also raised the issue tweeted, “The hypocrisy of @facebook’s approach to free speech: zuckerberg says fb’s principles prohibit him from blocking trump as he incites violence & hate. meanwhile as sikhs raise their voice to mark the injustices of 1984: sikh hashtags are blocked. @instagramcomms do better. To Kaur tweet, Adam Mosseri, head of Instagram replied, “Not sure how the #sikh hashtag ended up blocked. It’s now unblocked on Instagram, we are working to unblock it on Facebook, and we’re investigating why this happened. #Sikh is now unblocked on Facebook.”Ravinder Singh alias Ravi Singh, founder and CEO of Khalsa Aid, tweeted, “It’s absolutely crazy that @Facebook has banned the #Sikh hashtag !!!! Is mr #Zuckerberg now banning people who are #Sikh ?!?? This must be THE STUPIDEST ban ever!!!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-instagram-unblock-sikh-hashtag-after-nearly-three-months/story-kzu1d83gb6hXSp1mowH5lK.html
04-06-2020||India||‘Our ties are deep with shared values’: PM Modi during virtual summit with Australian PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that India and Australia share deep and extensive ties based on the shared interest and values between the two nations. The prime minister thanked Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison for accepting the invite for the virtual bilateral summit and said that the online meeting cannot replace the his actual presence in India which was due earlier this year.The Ministry of External Affairs on Wednesday issued a press release on the event, stating that the virtual summit is being held as PM Morrison’s visit to India could not take place amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read: ‘Next time it will be Gujarati Khichdi’: Australian PM tells PM Modi during virtual summitThe prime minister said that the time is ripe and perfect to further strengthen relations between India and Australia.“There are endless opportunities to strengthen our friendship, it also brings with it challenges to turn this potential into reality, how our relationship becomes a factor of stability for the region,” PM Modi said.  Also Watch | ‘Perfect time to extend ties’: PM Modi & Australian PM hold virtual summitPM Modi thanked the Australian PM for looking after the Indian community and students during this difficult time and reiterated India’s commitment toward strengthening ties with Australia.Also read: Australian PM makes ‘ScoMosas’, wants to share them with PM Modi“It is not only important for our two nations but also for the Indo-Pacific region and the whole world who bolster our ties,” he said during the virtual bilateral event. The prime minister condoled the loss of lives in Australia due to the coronavirus pandemic. Talking about the measures taken by the Indian government to tackle the Covid-19 challenge, the prime minister said that many decisions have been taken to view this crisis as an opportunity. Also read: At virtual bilateral meet, India and Australia sign seven agreements“In India, a process of comprehensive reforms has been initiated in almost all areas. Very soon its result will be seen at the ground level,” he said.  Glad to be joining the first India-Australia Virtual Summit with you, PM @ScottMorrisonMP. India-Australia ties have always been close. As vibrant democracies, from Commonwealth to Cricket to even Cuisine, our people-to-people relations are strong and the future is bright! https://t.co/SgTjD8WfjR“With Comprehensive Strategic Partnership between India and Australia, we aspire to achieve yet new heights in our collaboration,” the prime minister said. PM Modi said that over India-Australia Virtual Summit with Australian PM Scott Morrison, he had an “outstanding discussion”, covering the entire expanse of India-Australia relationship. The Australian PM said that his administration is committed to an open, inclusive, and prosperous Indo-Pacific and “India’s role in that region, our region will be critical in the years ahead”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-ties-are-extensive-deep-with-shared-values-and-interests-pm-modi-during-first-virtual-bilateral-summit-with-australian-pm-scott-morrison/story-Ua1dzNpbPPUOWJ2l3pCK4J.html
04-06-2020||India||‘India should have looked at Covid-19 response in East’: Rajiv Bajaj to Rahul Gandhi||Industrialist Rajiv Bajaj said on Thursday that India made a mistake by looking at the western world while preparing its response to the coronavirus crisis - in this case a lockdown.He said that there are many countries in the East which have fared better and India could have taken a cue from them.“I don’t understand that despite being an Asian country, we sought not to look at what was happening in the East. We looked at the US, France, Italy, the UK etc.This is not a right benchmark in any sense,” Bajaj said in a conversation with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Watch | ‘We flattened the wrong curve’: Rajiv Bajaj tells Rahul Gandhi on Covid fight “We all are aware that there can’t be any medical infrastructure that can be adequate to combat something like this (Covid-19),” he added.Bajaj further explained why the West matters a lot. “I think the perception is that if a developed country - like the US - or a developed continent like Europe can be affected by Covid-19, everyone is threatened,” he said.“When the rich and famous get affected, it makes headlines. Eight thousand children die of starvation in Africa every day, but who cares,” he added.Gandhi held the first such dialogue on April 30 when he discussed the coronavirus pandemic and its economic implications with former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan.The former Congress president then held a conversation with Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee who had said India should come out with a large enough stimulus package to revive demand.Also read: India needs big stimulus package, says Nobel laureate Abhijit BanerjeeGandhi last week spoke to globally renowned public health experts - Professor Ashish Jha of Harvard Global Health Institute and Swedish epidemiologist Johan Giesecke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-have-looked-at-covid-19-response-in-the-east-rajiv-bajaj-tells-rahul-gandhi/story-4RAn8YnKYzyvv8E5UhKKmL.html
04-06-2020||India||Odisha: Family attempts suicide after losing son; mother, daughter dead, 2 others critical||A mother (58) and her daughter (30) passed away at Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Hospital in Burla, Sambalpur district, Odisha, on Thursday morning three days after five members of a family had allegedly got into a pact and tried to commit suicide in Jharsuguda district, as they were unable to come to terms with the death of their youngest son (22), the police said.Hospital authorities said the mother and daughter died on Thursday morning, a day after the family’s only surviving son (33) had also expired.Suchismita Mohanty, the inspector of BTM police station in western Odisha’s Jharsuguda district, said the five family members were traumatised after the youngest son died on Monday. The son succumbed to his injuries at a nursing home after he was injured in a road accident in 2016, Mohanty said.“The head of the family, an employee of the public sector unit (PSU)-run Mahanadi Coalfields, had died in 2016 after his retirement. The family had spent over Rs 30 lakh on the younger son’s treatment, but unfortunately, he didn’t recover. On Monday, his condition worsened and he was admitted to a nursing home, where he passed away,” the inspector added.The condition of the other two surviving members of the family is still critical, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-family-attempts-suicide-after-losing-son-mother-daughter-dead-2-others-critical/story-xSL7XCr4S8SjT4kSftm61H.html
04-06-2020||India||RBI opposes waiver of interest on loan in Supreme Court||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has told the Supreme Court that it is not in favour of waiving interest on loans during the lockdown period as it will risk the financial viability of banks.The banking regulator made this statement on affidavit in response to a PIL filed by a borrower Gajendra Sharma who objected to the interest on loans being charged by banks when the RBI had already announced a moratorium on payment of loan instalments from March 1 till August 31. The apex court had issued notice on Sharma’s petition on May 26.The RBI in its response said, “The RBI does not consider it prudent or appropriate to go for a forced waiver of interest, risking the financial viability of the banks it is mandated to regulate, and putting the interests of the depositors in jeopardy.” Also read: India Inc must start investing - SBI chiefThe RBI stated that it has a mandate to secure the interest of depositors and maintain financial stability as well. For the latter, it is essential that the banks to remain “financially sound and profitable”. “Interest on advances (loans) forms an important and vital source of income for banks, which allows the banks to sustain and remain financially sound and profitable,” the RBI affidavit added.The petitioner had approached the Court claiming that since the lockdown is in place, there was no means for citizens to earn a livelihood. Sharma had an optical shop in Agra, Uttar Pradesh, and had availed a home loan of over Rs 37 lakh from ICICI Bank. He argued that the “imposition of interest (by banks) during the moratorium period is completely devastating and wrong”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-opposes-waiver-of-interest-on-loan-in-supreme-court/story-Y4PVSA5yg27wbaQrj7eiQJ.html
04-06-2020||India||‘There was no lockdown even during the World War’: Rahul Gandhi on Covid-19||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that the world didn’t go through a lockdown even during the World War, as it has faced today due to the coronavirus pandemic.“It’s quote surreal. I don’t think anyone imagined that the world would be locked down in this way. I don’t think that even during the World War, the world was locked down. I think even then things were open. it’s a unique and devastating phenomenon,” said Gandhi.The former Congress president was having a discussion with industrialist and Managing Director of Bajaj Auto Rajiv Bajaj on the economic fallout of Covid-19.Also Watch | ‘We flattened the wrong curve’: Rajiv Bajaj tells Rahul Gandhi on Covid fight “The lockdown was really hard on the poor and migrants. They had nowhere to go,” said GandhiAlso read: ‘India should have looked at Covid-19 response in the East’: Rajiv Bajaj tells Rahul GandhiWhen asked what he would have done, Gandhi told Bajaj, “The central government has to act as an enabler. It should have moved the battle to chief ministers, but what happened in India is that the central government has backed off now. It’s too late now.”“It’s a failed lockdown in India, it’s the only country where number of infections is increasing wheh lockdown is being eased,” Gandhi added.During the conversation, Gandhi called for a compassionate response and the urgent need for the government to listen to stakeholders and experts.The first such dialogue was held on April 30 when Gandhi discussed the coronavirus pandemic and its economic implications with former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan.Also read: India’s single-day Covid-19 spike crosses another grim milestone, 260 fatalities in 24 hoursGandhi then held a conversation with Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee who had said India should come out with a large enough stimulus package to revive demand.The former Congress chief last week spoke to globally renowned public health experts - Professor Ashish Jha of Harvard Global Health Institute and Swedish epidemiologist Johan Giesecke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-was-no-lockdown-even-during-the-world-war-rahul-gandhi-on-covid-19/story-aqctnTdIQk5ln2JUIQatzH.html
04-06-2020||India||Amid surge in cases across India, over 1 lakh patients beat the deadly contagion: Covid-19 state tally||While Covid-19 cases in India seem to rise unabated, more and more patients are getting cured from the deadly infection and are being discharged from the hospitals across India.As per the Ministry of Health, the number of Covid-19 patients who have recovered from the deadly infection has touched 104,106. The highest number of recovered patients come from states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi which also top the national tally with a high incidence of coronavirus cases. The ICMR and the health ministry experts on Tuesday said that a good rate recovery rate in India is a positive sign in India’s fight against Covid-19. As of Thursday, India has reported 216,919 coronavirus cases of which 6,075 have lost their lives.Also read: With 9,304 cases in 24 hrs, India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 2.1 lakhHere’s a look at the Covid-19 state tally: On Thursday, Maharashtra’s tally rose to 74,860 Covid-19 cases. As many as 2,587 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra - highest in the country - while 32,329 have recovered.Tamil Nadu has seen 25,872 coronavirus cases till date. Two hundred and eight people have died of Covid-19 in the state, more than 14,316 people have recovered. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally rose to 23,645 on Thursday, 9,542 patients have recovered here while 606 died due to Covid-19. Gujarat Covid-19 cases jumped to 18,100 on Thursday. The state has seen 12,212 people recover from coronavirus while 1,122 people have died.Rising casesRajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh are states where the Covid-19 cases are rapidly inching toward the 10,000 mark. Rajasthan has reported 9,652 cases of coronavirus so far while 6,744 people have recovered. The death toll in the state stands at 209.Coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh have jumped to 8,588. Three hundred and seventy-one people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 5445 have recovered.The number of Covid-19 positive cases has jumped to 8,729 in Uttar Pradesh. While 5,176 people have recovered from coronavirus in the state, 229 have died from the infection here. Other statesIn West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 6,508 while 345 people have died from the deadly contagion, 2,580 have recovered. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 4,390; death toll in the state has jumped to 25. More than 2,000 people have recovered from the deadly contagion in the state. Andhra Pradesh has reported 4,080 Covid-19 cases till date. While 68 people have died in the state, 2,466 people have recovered from the deadly contagion. Karnataka and Telangana have reported over 4,000 coronavirus cases till date. Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Assam and Haryana are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. Chhattisgarh, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura have reported around 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Dadra Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram have less than 100 Covid-19 cases.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands have recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surge-in-cases-across-india-over-1-lakh-patients-beat-the-deadly-contagion-covid-19-state-tally/story-AiocYPMcvKzNW2jhHQEXeK.html
04-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga: NDRF teams unable to reach worst-hit areas in Raigad||On Thursday morning, the day after cyclone Nisarga hit the Maharashtra coast at Alibag in Raigad district, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel said the uprooted trees are blocking access to the areas worst-hit by the natural disaster.So far, the NDRF personnel have not been able to reach the cylone-affected areas of Raigad district, where two deaths and destruction to properties have been reported.A man (58) died after an electric pole fell on him at Umte village in Alibag, while a boy (10) was killed in a wall collapse at Shrivardhan taluka in Raigad district on Wednesday afternoon after the cyclone made landfall, the district authorities said.“The areas, where the two deaths have been reported in Raigad district, are still inaccessible. So far, we’ve n’t been able to identify the extent of the damage in those areas,” said Mahesh Kumar, inspector, NDRF.“It’s been difficult to proceed towards the south of Alibag, which has been worst-affected by cyclone Nisarga. Though we’re equipped with mechanical tree cutters, it’s difficult to cut big tree trunks and remove them from the road that is hindering our movement. We worked through the night to clear blockages on major roads in the district, where fallen trees, had disrupted traffic,” he addedLarge parts of Raigad district were devastated on Wednesday afternoon after cyclone Nisarga made landfall. Trees and electric poles were uprooted, communication lines snapped and damages caused to thatched and kutcha houses.Also read: Mumbai records its cleanest air in 2020 thanks to Cyclone NisargaAn NDRF team, which was deployed at Thane district, has been diverted to Srivardhan in the south of Raigad to carry out an assessment of the damages caused by the cyclone.Major state and national highways such as Alibag-Pen, Alibag-Revas, the road to Goa via Sukeli and Poladpur, Murud to Majgaon, and to Uran, Karjat, and Pen are operational since Thursday morning, as fallen trees and communication cables were cleared by the NDRF personnel through the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-ndrf-teams-unable-to-reach-worst-hit-areas-in-raigad/story-XrQEZL8eQG7XtkoTcy7nnL.html
04-06-2020||India||Terror groups mobilise in Kabul as part of Pak deep state’s plan||Terror groups Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed have been expanding their footprint in Afghanistan as part of a carefully-crafted strategy of Pakistan’s deep state to fuel terrorism in Kabul and beyond irrespective of how the US-Taliban peace process pans out, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence, or ISI, is infiltrating the Lashkar and Jaish terrorists into the Islamic State-Khorasan Province that has been in tatters after the arrest of its chief Abdulah Orakzai aka Aslam Faroooqui and his top commanders by Afghan security forces.Farooqui was replaced by Maulvi Mohammed as the ISKP new chief. Maulvi Mohammed also has deep links with the Lashkar-e-Taiba, counter-terror officials in Kabul said.As part of the blueprint drawn up in Pakistan’s Rawalpindi, a counter-terror official in Delhi said ISI officials have created the financial and logistic support network to facilitate their operations. ISI officials were also present at a recent meeting convened by Taliban shadow governor in Kunar province Ahmadullah with top Lashkar and Taliban operatives.The revelation comes days after a sanctions monitoring team of the UN Security Council spotlighted the role of the 6,000-6,500 foreign fighters who had been inducted into Afghanistan. The UNSC report estimated the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba had about 800 fighters operating with Taliban forces in Mohmand Darah, Dur Baba and Sherzad Districts of Nangarhar Province and the Jaish-e-Mohammed, 200. The Lashkar had another 220 fighters and the Jaish, 30 more, in Kunar province.Security officials in Kabul said the ISI’s emphasis on pushing the Lashkar and Jaish terrorists came after the 29 February pact between the Taliban and the United States Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad. The agreement provided for withdrawal of United States forces drawdown in exchange for Taliban counter-terrorism measures, exchanges of prisoners between the Taliban and the Government of Afghanistan and other steps to reach a permanent ceasefire.“The infiltration of the Lashkar, Jaish terrorists is the ISI’s joint backup plan with the Taliban. They can both claim to be working for peace in Afghanistan and yet, keep the pot boiling,” a diplomatic source in Kabul told Hindustan Times.The terror groups have hit the ground running. Officials said the two groups have been carrying out operations in the bordering districts of Kunar, Nuristan and Nangarhar provinces along the Durand Line.The relocated Lashkar groups have organised attacks in Afghan cities and ambushed border security posts of the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces in coordination with the Taliban, its sword arm the Haqqani Network and Al Qaeda.There is a continuing effort to increase their numbers. In the last week of May, a source told Hindustan Times, a group of 30 Lashkar cadres had moved into Dangam district of Kunar province.They were led by Bilal alias Zarqawi, an ex-ISI officer who had been in charge of a major terror training centre in Muzaffarabad in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir as well as for the Jalalabad operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-isi-helps-lashkar-jaish-expand-footprint-in-afghanistan-under-backup-plan/story-m7ZjGSXqvqt0MKEPBnGaLO.html
04-06-2020||India||Uproar after J&K govt expresses ‘intention’ of opening schools amid Covid pandemic||There is widespread resentment in Jammu and Kashmir against the school education department after it recently expressed the government’s ‘intention’ to reopen schools in mid-June amid the coronavirus pandemic. After backlash, the administration stated that the instructions were issued to only ensure sanitization of school premises in view of Covid-19 and not to open schools.Parents of school students in Kashmir are aghast, many say that the decision is not only idiotic but will prove extremely dangerous, putting children’s lives at stake.Also read: India’s single-day Covid-19 spike crosses another grim milestone, 260 fatalities in 24 hours“What is the logic of opening schools when every day more than 100 people are testing positive for Covid-19. Even the shops and markets are still closed. How can we put the life of our children in risk,” said Ateeqa Begum, 45, mother of three school-going children.“Are the officials okay with making our children soft targets? It seems some officials want to score some points for their own benefits,” she said.On Monday, School Education Department’s Director Finance in a communiqué stated that the ‘government intends to re-open schools in mid of June’ and asked the concerned authorities to ensure all safety measures to arrest the spread of coronavirus among students and teachers.“In this connection, necessary instructions may be circulated to the heads of all government schools to provide a pair of reusable mask and a pair of hand gloves to every student and ensure availability of bulk hand sanitiser and liquid soap dispenser at the entry point of each school,” the communication, directed to directors of school education of Jammu and Kashmir divisions stated.People on social media were also wary of the decision which comes at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir has crossed 2,700 and the death toll has reached 33.“Reopening of schools is not as easy as it is made to appear. One thing is clear, parents will never risk the lives of their children by sending them to schools in the middle of the worsening coronavirus crisis, no matter how much “academic loss” it entails or whatever it means,” said Faheem Aslam, a Srinagar resident.“While babus are out with circulars suggesting reopening of Kashmir schools this month, they are mum on explaining the rationale behind rushing through the decision to the anguished parents… Expecting school children to undertake social distancing and follow safety protocols, when top officers and doctors are falling prey to the deadly virus, is nothing but idiocy,” he said.Calls to commissioner secretary education Asgar Samoon and director school education Younis Malik went unanswered. Advisor to Lt Governor, KK Sharma said in a statement said that J&K government has not taken any decision to open schools on June 15. “However instructions have been issued to schools to ensure sanitization of school premises in view of Covid 19,” he said.Dr Jitendra Singh, Minister of State in Prime Minister’s Office, said in a tweet that he has asked the J&K administration to defer the decision of opening schools. “Have spoken to #JammuAndKashmir UT Government and suggested that decisions regarding 1) Vehicle Registeration Tax and 2) Reopening of schools may be deferred,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uproar-after-j-k-govt-expresses-intention-of-opening-schools-amid-covid-pandemic/story-c4cQggMiy2hrZAw5cEcxXK.html
04-06-2020||India||CPI(M) to stage countrywide protests on June 16 demanding cash transfers, free foodgrains to poor||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Wednesday announced countrywide protests on June 16 demanding immediate cash transfers and free foodgrains to the poor.Accusing the Narendra Modi government of using the Covid-19 pandemic as an excuse to replace the secular, democratic and federal structure of the country with a unitary form of theocratic government, Yechury said the Centre has now virtually left the people of the country to fend for themselves in combatting the pandemic.The Left leader addressed reporters via Facebook Live to brief them about the decisions taken by the politburo of the party, which held its meeting on June 1 via a video link. This was the first meeting of the CPI(M) politburo after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24.Yechury said the state governments that are in the forefront of the battle against Covid-19 were denied even their legitimate dues such as the GST payout.He alleged that the pandemic is being used for centralisation of authority, which, in turn, is destroying a basic feature of the Constitution -- federalism.“A unitary state is being created by the Modi government that will facilitate the disruption of the secular democratic republic of India and transition of the RSS political project of a theocratic state,” Yechury said.The CPI(M) politburo statement said the Gross Tax Revenues (GTR) have fallen by over Rs 70,000 crore and the Corporate Tax Revenue (CTR) by over Rs 1,06,000 crore.“This shortfall in governmental revenues will reduce the share of the states who are already starved of finances,” it added.Yechury said the lockdown was imposed arbitrarily and lifted unscientifically.The all-India protest to be observed on June 16 is to raise key demands, including an immediate cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month for a period of six months to all families outside the income-tax paying bracket, free distribution of 10 kg of foodgrains per individual per month for six months, expansion of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) from the current 100 days to 200 days with enhanced wages.“Extend the employment guarantee scheme to cover the urban poor. Immediately announce an unemployment allowance for unemployed persons,” Yechury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-to-stage-countrywide-protests-on-june-16-demanding-cash-transfers-free-foodgrains-to-poor/story-kBxVik6UFv8lHBvFWl3UdN.html
04-06-2020||India||India’s single-day Covid-19 spike crosses another grim milestone, 260 fatalities in 24 hours||India on Thursday recorded 9,304 new cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19 in the last 24 hours (between Wednesday and Thursday), taking the overall tally to 2,16,919.According to the update posted on the Union heath ministry website, the number of active cases in country are 1,06,737, and 1,04,106 have been cured or discharged.The death toll due to Covid-19 stands at 6,075. The country saw 260 deaths in the last 24 hours.Also read: Delhi’s Covid-19 containment zones double up in 15 days as tally surges beyond 22,000Badly-hit states and union territories such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi continued to contribute to the rising tally, while new cases continued to surface in several eastern and north-eastern states including Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram and Sikkim.Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala also figured among the states where more people tested positive for Covid-19.India is the seventh worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK, Spain and Italy. India’s tally had crossed the two-lakh mark on Tuesday night with nearly 1 lakh new cases having emerged in a span of 15 days. The first Covid-19 case in India was detected on January 30.The health ministry said on Wednesday that the number of Covid-19 tests across the country has crossed the 40 lakh-mark, while the daily testing capacity has been ramped up to 1.4 lakh through 480 government and 208 private laboratories.Follow live updates on the Coronavirus outbreak hereNational capital Delhi on Wednesday recorded over 1,500 new cases of the coronavirus disease, its highest single-day spike. With 1,513 new cases in the last 24 hours (between Tuesday and Wednesdy), the total number of cases in Delhi is 23,645.A five-member committee has been constituted by the Delhi government to strengthen the healthcare infrastructure and look into overall preparedness of hospitals to battle Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-single-day-covid-19-spike-crosses-another-grim-milestone-260-fatalities-in-24-hours/story-ovF0g55pAjbKb6u4jrvTcM.html
04-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Jets with enhanced protection to join PM’s fleet by September and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jets with enhanced protection to join PM’s fleet by SeptemberTwo specially modified Boeing-777 aircraft, capable of countering missile threats, will join Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Air India One fleet by September-end, two people familiar with the development said on Wednesday. Read morePM Modi to hold virtual summit with Australian PM Scott Morrison todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will hold India-Australia Virtual Summit with Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Thursday to focus on the positive trajectory in bilateral relations. Read moreTerror groups mobilise in Kabul as part of Pak deep state’s planTerror groups Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed have been expanding their footprint in Afghanistan as part of a carefully-crafted strategy of Pakistan’s deep state to fuel terrorism in Kabul and beyond irrespective of how the US-Taliban peace process pans out, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times. Read more‘Facing results of three years of immature leadership’: Mattis rips into TrumpEx-Defense Secretary Jim Mattis condemned his former boss, President Donald Trump, over his aggressive rhetoric and strategy to quell protests that erupted after the death of an unarmed black man in police custody. Read moreDiet Sabya gives history lesson in gandi copies with posts of Madhuri Dixit, Band of Boys ripping of Versace, FRIENDS. Designers hit backIndian fashion fraternity’s self-appointed watchdog, Diet Sabya, has finally started reposting again and is giving us all lessons in the history of ‘Gandi copies’. Read more’83 the movie: The sons also risePerhaps you have heard of Chirag Patil, the 33-year old actor of Marathi films and TV serials. Or perhaps you haven’t. But you certainly will hear and see Patil in director Kabir Khan’s 83—the much-awaited film starring Ranveer Singh as Kapil Dev—where he plays the role of one of the Indian cricketers. Read moreWhen Jennifer Aniston recalled her only meeting with Angelina Jolie, told her ‘Brad is so excited to be working with you’Angelina Jolie has spent almost her entire professional life being a tabloid favourite, and on her 45th birthday, much of the discussion around her remains restricted to her relationship with ex-husband Brad Pitt. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-with-hindustan-times-jets-with-enhanced-protection-to-join-pm-s-fleet-by-september-and-all-the-latest-news-and-all-the-latest-news/story-iysyafSKL79D4DTHLN9d4J.html
04-06-2020||India||Want petrol? Remove mask, show face to CCTV camera in this Uttarakhand town||In a town in Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district, you will get petrol during the night only if you show your face before a CCTV camera and call a number. The exercise has been introduced by the police in Pulbhatta area of US Nagar to check incidents of loot, an official said.Three bike-borne people looted Rs 7.5-lakh from a petrol pump in Bazpur on Monday. Three months ago, some people in a car had looted cash and a double-barrel gun from security guard from a petrol pump under Pulbhatta police station.“Customers come at petrol pump to fill oil only in an emergency or to commit crime at night. Most people fill the petrol or diesel during day time. If they come at night, they will have to show their faces before CCTV and call from their mobile at certain mobile number mentioned at petrol pump’s wall,” said Vinod Joshi, in-charge, police station, Pulbhatta.He said that the salesmen will stay in the fuesl station’s cabin and will ask the customer to follow these two exercises. He will come out to provide oil only after customers act upon his words, he said.Pulbhatta is a sensitive area and close to Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh, which is also a crime-prone district. Around 10 petrol pumps fall on Bareilly highway in Pulbhatta area, said official.A meeting of petrol pump owners was held in the police station on Tuesday evening and the cops explained them about the precautionary measures to be followed to avoid robbery like crime at petrol pumps at night.They were asked to install and maintain CCTV cameras, and provide fuel only after customer shows his face and call by his mobile at the number mentioned at station’s wall.“Due to Covid-19 outbreak, customers are wearing masks. In such a condition, if someone commits a crime it becomes difficult to identify him. If they remove masks CCTV will record faces. Calling by one’s mobile will be helpful for us to trace criminal through surveillance in case of some crime,” said Joshi.He said that besides this, the fuel station owners will daily obtain mobile number of night officer of the police station and their salesmen will inform him time to time status of the petrol pump.Vishal Madan, Reliance petrol pump owner, hailed the exercise taken by police.“This exercise of police is for the safety of our pump and staff. We have started following norms explained by Pulbhatta police. Our staff will remain in the contact of night officer and get help immediately in case of any untoward incident and in case any if scuffle takes place between customers and our staff,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-petrol-remove-mask-show-face-to-cctv-camera-in-this-uttarakhand-town/story-WYiqmFlTFstTwsUenoYJdI.html
04-06-2020||India||PM Modi’s first-ever virtual bilateral summit with Australian PM Scott Morrison begins||Prime Minister Modi and his Australian counterpart PM Scott Morrison are taking part in the first-ever virtual bilateral summit. The event signifies “the strengthening of ties with Australia and its upward trajectory,” the MEA stated in a release on Wednesday.The Ministry of External Affairs on Wednesday issued a press release on the event, stating that the virtual summit is being held as PM Morrison’s visit to India could not take place amid the Covid-19 pandemic. 🇮🇳-🇦🇺| Starting 11 am today, PM @narendramodi will hold India’s first ever virtual bilateral summit with Australian PM @ScottMorrisonMP. pic.twitter.com/5u5vmywmdrThe agendaSeveral agreements, including one on mutual sharing of military logistics facilities, are expected to be signed during the summit on June 4, people familiar with development said.Both leaders will review the broad framework of the relationship between India and Australia in the context of growing bilateral ties and will also discuss their respective responses to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Also read: ‘Looks delicious’ - PM Modi responds to Australian counterpart’s ‘ScoMosa’ offer“Both (Prime Minister Modi and PM Morrison) are people person; they’ll be talking about how to work together to improve the lives of people. Both believe that the government is not about the number of agreements signed but improving the lives of citizens and generating jobs,” Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell has said earlier in the week. O’Farrell said the summit will be “like a virtual interview between two friends”. “They may share commentary on the hard task of how to ease restrictions,” he stated.Over the last year and a half, both leaders have met four times. Their first meet was in the year 2018, on the sidelines of East Asia Summit in Singapore, followed by the G20 in Osaka in June 2019, then during the G7 Summit in Biarritz in August 2019. The leaders last met during the East Asia Summit in Bangkok in November 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-first-ever-virtual-bilateral-summit-with-australian-pm-scott-morrison-today-here-s-what-to-expect/story-8EioaQWcO4uq3atgUjrhuI.html
04-06-2020||India||IAS officer booked after woman accuses him of rape in Chhattisgarh||A case was registered against an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer and former collector of Janjgir Champa on Wednesday for allegedly raping a woman after threatening to terminate her husband from service.The police said that a case has been registered under section 376, 506 and 509 (B) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) in Janjgir police station against the 2007-batch IAS officer.“A case has been registered under relevant sections of IPC against the IAS officer and police have started investigation,” Director General of Police (DGP), DM Awasthi told Hindustan Times.The officer was removed from the Janjgir-Champa district a week ago and is currently posted as Director, land records.As per the press note issued by Janjgir-Champa administration, the IAS officer had allegedly threatened the woman to terminate her husband from service and raped her on May 15. The woman also alleged that the officer was sending vulgar messages to her and continuously threatening her.Even after repeated calls and messages by Hindustan Times, the IAS officer was not reachable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-officer-booked-after-woman-accuses-him-of-rape-in-chhattisgarh/story-M5ZSFd9W6B4OHsEYzV1fWN.html
04-06-2020||India||RSS worker injured in clash dies in Madhya Pradesh, 24 arrested||The Madhya Pradesh Police have arrested 24 people after the death of a worker of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in Khandwa district, 271 kilometres south west of capital Bhopal. The 28-year-old succumbed to his injuries sustained in a clash on May 28, in a hospital in Indore on Sunday, said the police.According to police, all the accused in the case have been arrested and sent to jail.The worker has been identified as Rajesh Phulmali, a resident of village Hapla Deepla. Additional Superintendent of Police Seema Alawa claimed that Phulmali had posted a message on social media which led to a clash with members of another community.She said people from both the groups sustained injuries in the violence. “The deceased was working for the RSS. Since he had sustained serious injuries he was referred to Indore where he died on Sunday. FIRs had been lodged from both the sides,” she said.Alawa said the accused were booked under sections 147, 148, 188 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides relevant sections of Disaster Management Act. After Phulmali’s death, Section 302 of IPC was added to the FIR.Superintendent of Police, Khandwa, Vivek Singh said, “It was not a case of mob lynching. The both sides were engaged in feuds for a long time. A heavy police force has been deployed in the village and the situation is under control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-worker-injured-in-clash-dies-in-madhya-pradesh-24-arrested/story-IPtaBcCOFk6l18zE92uudI.html
04-06-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 containment zones double up in 15 days as tally surges beyond 23,000||With the rising incidence of coronavirus cases in the national capital, the number of Covid-19 containment zones have also increased at a rapid pace. Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi have gone up to 158 while 58 zones have been de-contained till date, Delhi government data stated on Wednesday. Delhi has witnessed its Covid-19 containment zones double in the last 15 days. On May 18, the national capital had a total of 73 containment zones which rose to 83 on May 24.South-West and North districts have the highest number of containment zones at 31 each and West district has 30. The South-East district has 27 containment zones while the South district has 26 zones.The East district has 17 containment zones, North-West district has 15 containment zones and New Delhi district has 14 zones. The Central and Shahdara districts have 10 zones each. North-East district has the least number of containment zones at five.As per the Centre’s direction, no relaxation will be provided in Covid-19 containment zones until June 30. The national capital has reported over 20,000 Covid-19 cases till date. On Thursday, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally soared to 23,645. The death toll here due to the coronavirus disease has climbed to 606 while 9,542 patients have recovered from Covid-19 or have been discharged from hospitals. On Tuesday, Delhi had reported 1,298 new cases of the Covid-19, as per the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin.Earlier this week, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that national capital’s borders will be shut for a week and only essential services will be allowed. The order came hours after Haryana opened Gurgaon-Delhi borders in line with the Centre’s revised guidelines for Unlock 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-containment-zones-double-up-in-15-days-as-tally-surges-beyond-22-000/story-UsqLj9YaYpLG32jVJHQr5H.html
04-06-2020||India||Work under MGNREGA resumes in J-K’s Baramulla with preventive measures||The work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) has resumed in Palhallan village in Baramulla district where the construction of a road is underway.Village heads said they have taken precautionary measures to prevent the further spread of Covid-19.“We have provided all labourers with masks and a pair of gloves. They are using hand sanitiser too,” said Village head, Basharat Dar.MGNREGA, labour law and a social security measure, facilitates ‘right to work’ for citizens, through various Panchayat level schemes.Officials said the work has started in many blocks with full force in the union territory.“The work has resumed in full force. Due to Covid-19, we were very behind. The construction work has started for a highway and approximately it costs Rs 2 lakhs and is under process. We started this work to tackle the Covid-19 effects and to help labourers who have faced a huge loss during the pandemic,” an official told ANI. “Labourers cannot work at private places as they are closed so here they have found a job guarantee,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/work-under-mgnrega-resumes-in-j-k-s-baramulla-with-preventive-measures/story-03ADVDLhe2Wn32tglaRuqO.html
04-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases will cross 15,000-mark a day by mid-June: China study||India is likely to witness a steady rise in Covid-19 cases in June with the daily increase crossing 15,000-a-day by the middle of the month, a global forecast model for the coronavirus pandemic prepared by Chinese researchers has predicted.Established by Lanzhou university in northwest China’s Gansu province, the “Global Covid-19 Predict System” makes daily forecasts for 180 countries.The research group’s forecast model for India for June 2 had predicted 9,291 new confirmed cases in India; Indian government official data put the increase – the biggest yet for a single day – at 8,909 cases in the last 24 hours.From Wednesday onwards, the model predicts 9676, 10,078, 10,498 and 10,936 daily new cases for the next four days.Another example: India on Friday reported 7,467 new cases of the coronavirus disease for May 28 (Thursday).“For May 28, we had predicted 7,607 new cases of Covid-19 in India, which is close to the reported number. Our prediction is at an initial stage. Error analysis will soon be updated on our website,” Huang Jianping, director of Lanzhou University’s Collaborative Innovation Center of Western Ecological Safety, who is heading the project told HT.By June 15, India could see more than 15,000 new confirmed cases of Covid-19 every day.India has recorded more than 8,000 cases for three consecutive days with the total number of infections now at over 2,00,000.The same system predicts that the US will see a daily increase of 30,000 new cases in June and major countries in Europe will witness a continuous drop in new daily cases.The dynamic forecasting model, which was unveiled online last week, takes into account the impact of climate and environmental conditions, population densities as well as control measures implemented by governments.“The spread of the virus is affected by many factors, including population density, quarantine measures, and of course the environmental factors,” Huang said.“Different factors contribute differently in different regions in the world.Meteorological factors can affect the spread of the virus. We believe it is necessary to consider the impact of temperature and humidity, although the degree of their influence varies in different regions,” Huang, the project leader, said.“For India, the high population density reduces the social distance and is conducive to the development of pandemic. The influence of temperature is limited, compared with other factors,” he said.Experts say that the number of new cases in India will rise as the government gradually eases the lockdown.“Before the release of the system, repeated verification and debugging were carried out. There are many factors affecting the development of the Covid-19, and we will continue to adjust and improve it according to the actual situation,” Huang said.The Centre’s prediction model is based on statistical epidemiology model and in the data in the model construction such as the number of confirmed cases and the death toll are from US’s Johns Hopkins University. Meteorological data such as temperature and humidity were taken from the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) and NASA. According to the research, usually the temperature most conducive for the spread of the novel coronavirus is between 5 degrees Celsius and 15 degrees Celsius, with 60 percent of the Covid-19 cases around the world reported within the temperature scope.“Our previous study found that 60 percent of the confirmed cases of Covid-19 occurred in places where the air temperature ranged from 5 °C to 15 °C, with a peak in cases at 11.54 °C and approximately 73.8 percent of the confirmed cases were concentrated in regions with absolute humidity of 3 g/m3 to 10 g/m3.”The content of nitrogen dioxide in the atmosphere is taken into account as it is related to vehicular exhaust.According to Huang, if the nitrogen dioxide content is less in the atmosphere, it means non-pharmaceutical measures like lockdowns and restrictions on transport have been effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-cases-will-cross-15-000-mark-a-day-by-mid-june-china-study/story-mr4tOIDck1HoyH5EkTsdiN.html
04-06-2020||India||‘At an existential level, time has suddenly collapsed into itself’||When I asked her, S said the first thing she would do when the lockdown was lifted, was go for a long walk in the park near her house.M said she would get her hair cutA said she would visit a friendH said she would rush to the office R said she would have the family over for lunchK said she wasn’t waiting around for that, she’d already written her Will.I’ve been reading that wonderful writer, Grace Paley’s, short stories these lockdown days, as well as another little book she made with a friend called, Long Walks and Intimate Talks. While they walk, they talk about all sorts of things, among them about happiness. Her friend says, that “what she means by happiness was having (or having had) (or continuing to have) everything. By everything she meant, first, the children, then a dear person to live with...”, and this is followed by a list of what her heart desires most.I think I know what she means because that’s just how I’ve been feeling about opening the locks to life and the world outside again. About being normal.By normal I mean not jerking awake in the middle of the night, in a cold sweat, because I dreamt I was boarding a flight — without a mask on.By normal I mean going for a long walk with a friend, anywhere and at any time of the day or night, and discussing at the widest, deepest, and most hopeless level, the state of the world, the venality of politicians, the stupidity of RWAs, the incompetence of governments, the loss of a loved one, the brilliance of Ondaatje’s Warlight — without having to remain two arm lengths away from each other.By normal I mean walking into the office, sitting at my table, leafing through the mail, or the proofs, talking to colleagues, meeting authors, without worrying about whether I might be infecting them, or they me — or each other.By normal I mean being able to look some distance into the future, say a few months or till the end of the year, confident that it’s likely to continue in as reassuringly predictable way, as before.By normal I mean not being pulled up short by the realisation that tomorrow might dawn terrifyingly different from today.But Time’s axis has shifted. It has become relative. In a mundane, everyday kind of way it is expansive and leisurely, almost indulgent. Nothing is urgent. I am not bound by a routine that is regulated by my watch. I edit mss., read proofs, correspond with authors, discuss projects, in the knowledge that none of these are going anywhere in a hurry — at least for the “foreseeable” future. I’m not rushing to publish a lot of books, to make up for lost time (there’s a thought, time that has been lost in lockdown) because there is a serious question mark hovering over sales. Who will buy? Will people rush out to buy books just because they have been confined, or will they have had their fill of reading already, because they could do so little else? Maybe the last thing they will want to do is pick up another book. Let’s give book production a bit of a rest, I think.But at an existential level, time has suddenly collapsed into itself. Is no longer measurable, because — will I even be around to see those books published if I don’t hurry up and get them out? Shouldn’t I be accelerating instead of slowing down? What if I run out of time?In between the mundane and the existential is yet another impulse, that of pretending that I can, in the short term, exercise some control over the time at hand. I can pretend that, really, nothing much has changed, everything will settle down, so I should carry on regardless, because time will — if I can hold out for long enough — resume its normal rhythm, and life will resume its normal tenor. I can pretend that if I, personally, carry on as if there had never been a lockdown, then I will be able to turn the clock back, and no time will have been lost.But that will be tilting at windmills. And so I manoeuvre myself into that tiny space, that sliver of time between lockdown and post-lockdown, whenever that might be, to think and plan for a week at a time, which seems to me a good compromise between the everyday and the existential. As for normal, it looks like I might be wishing for too much and too little at the same time for, as Grace says, “everywhere vast public suffering rises in reeling waves from around the earth’s nation-states”.Ritu Menon is a feminist writer and publisher. She is the author of the forthcoming Zohra! A Biography in Four Acts||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-an-existential-level-time-has-suddenly-collapsed-into-itself/story-GbdBmgh8ec4dj07bCA8KcK.html
04-06-2020||India||Frequent cyclones linked to climate crisis||The severe cyclonic storm which made landfall south of Alibag in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Wednesday at 11.30 am is an indication of an increasing frequency of severe cyclones developing in Arabian Sea in the past decade, a trend that studies have linked to climate change.In the past two years, there have been seven cyclones in the Arabian Sea, though, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the ratio of cyclones in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal — which just witnessed the destructive cyclone Amphan on May 21 — is 1:4.The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) last year came out with a special report, Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate, in which it said that extreme rainfall and extreme sea level events associated with some tropical cyclones are being seen to have a cascading impact on coastal areas.“There is emerging evidence for an increase in annual global proportion of Category 4 or 5 tropical cyclones in recent decades,” the IPCC report had said.A category 4 cyclone has a wind speed of 209-251 kmph, and is referred to as an extremely severe cyclonic storm, while a category 5 cyclone has a wind speed of more than 252 kmph, and is referred to as a super cyclone. The IPCC report refers to a 2017 study led by Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences Program, Princeton University, USA, which found that in 2014 and 2015, post-monsoon extremely severe cyclonic storms (ESCS) were first observed over the Arabian Sea causing widespread damage.The study had concluded that climate change had led to an increase in the occurrence of ESCSs in the Arabian Sea. “The effect of climate change on Cyclone Nisarga, my answer is “uncertain”. Our research suggests that cyclones would be more frequent during the post monsoon season (October-December) by a series climate model simulations. However, we didn’t find any significant changes in cyclone activity during the pre-monsoon (April-June) season through the climate simulations. It is very difficult to identify if a cyclone (like Nisarga) is generated in line with climate change,” said Hiroyuki Murakami, Project Scientist, University Corporation for Atmospheric Research, Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory. Murakami is the lead author of the study.“Rising mean sea levels will contribute to higher extreme sea levels associated with tropical cyclones (very high confidence). Coastal hazards will be exacerbated by an increase in the average intensity, magnitude of storm surge and precipitation rates of tropical cyclones,” the IPCC report further stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frequent-cyclones-linked-to-climate-crisis/story-aROrjNelKKBYWNoXGXGAVJ.html
04-06-2020||India||No major impact in Gujarat due to Cyclone Nisarga, say officials||Cyclone Nisarga did not cause any major damage in Gujarat after making landfall in Maharashtra on Wednesday, officials said. Gujarat relief commissioner Harshad Patel said, “The situation in Gujarat is under control. No casualties have been reported. The administration is fully equipped in the potentially affected coastal districts of Gujarat. All activities are being constantly monitored by chief minister Vijay Rupani with the determination of zero casualty during cyclone.”He said around 63,798 people, including 252 pregnant women, from eight districts of south Gujarat and Saurashtra have been evacuated. Patel added that the state government was vigilant at the 332 shelters considering the high number of cases of the coronavirus disease in the state. “Nisarga has hit Alibag in Raigad district of Maharashtra this afternoon. The wind speed of the cyclone was 80 to 100 km per hour...wind is likely to reduce to 60 to 90 km per hour in Valsad and surrounding areas.... Six teams of SDRF and 18 teams of NDRF have been deployed in the respective districts of the state,” Patel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-major-impact-in-gujarat-due-to-cyclone-nisarga-say-officials/story-A6P6F7BW0E4PUboxPfcFGL.html
04-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you must know every day||“Behind this mask there is more than just flesh. Beneath this mask there is an idea... and ideas are bulletproof.”That’s Alan Moore in V for Vendetta, and it’s only apt that a column on masks starts with a Moore-ism.The Guy Fawkes masks worn by V in the book (and then in the underwhelming movie of the same name) became the symbol of resistance and protests after being adopted by the fragmented Occupy movement in the early 2010s. Everyone was suddenly wearing one.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThere’s another connection too. We’ve always associated masks with superheroes – with the extraordinary. And Moore created the greatest superhero comic ever, Watchmen, along with illustrator Dave Gibbons.The coronavirus disease has changed our perception of masks – despite claims through March and even some part of April that they weren’t really necessary. And this wasn’t only in the US; India’s health ministry too maintained that line for some time.Now, everybody wears masks. You don’t have to be extraordinary, or a deviant, or a thief, or want to hide your identity to do so. They have become the uniform of the ordinary. Science has established beyond doubt that Covid-19 is primarily transmitted from person to person, and through exhalations. Sure, one can also be infected by fomites (objects and surfaces carrying the infection – usually left there by an infected person) but the chances of this are much lower. Masks, then, are a must for anyone who doesn’t have super powers that give them immunity from the Sars-CoV-2. Kal-El may be immune; we aren’t.By everybody, I mean everybody sensible. There are idiots who do not wear a mask, or do not wear it all the time when in public, or do not wear it properly – risking not just themselves but others around them as well. A recent study in the Indian Journal of Medical Research says that around 28% of approximately 40,000 people who tested positive for the coronavirus disease in India till April 30 were asymptomatic – with the caveat that the proportion could be higher. In the US, for instance, it is accepted that this proportion is around a third. Worse still, we have learned that even people who show symptoms (eventually) can infect people long before they do so.There’s only one way to deal with such irresponsible people – give them a wide berth.Apart from helping us stay safe, masks have also, at least in the short term, restored our anonymity.Facial recognition algorithms have, for now, been stymied by masks, although, in theory, this is a problem that can be solved as they get more data (which, in this case, will be the selfies of their masked selves that people are so obligingly posting on social media).Despite everything the creators of these technologies claim, many still continue to have problems with people of colour, Asians, and women. Now, masks, which will continue to be used widely for years (perhaps forever, one part of my brain suggests) have made it even more difficult for them.Technology will solve the problem in time; it usually does. But enjoy your anonymity in the meantime. It can be liberating.While on the subject of masks, they can be symbols of other things too, as pointed out by a man some consider the US’s first major African American poet, Paul Laurence Dunbar. His poem, “We Wear The Mask”, published in the late 1890s in a collection titled Lyrics of Lowly Life, is perhaps even more apt today, given what’s happening in that country. Here’s its opening part:We wear the mask that grins and lies,It hides our cheeks and shades our eyes,—This debt we pay to human guile;With torn and bleeding hearts we smile,And mouth with myriad subtleties.Why should the world be over-wise,In counting all our tears and sighs?Nay, let them only see us, whileWe wear the mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-must-know-every-day/story-sI5RldQRB7zf9YKHYACFDK.html
04-06-2020||India||US launches probe into digital tax||The US on Tuesday started an investigation into taxes on digital services in effect or being considered in other countries and their impact on American businesses, which could lead to retaliatory trade actions and open up potentially another front in India’s persisting trade differences with Washington.The government imposed a new tax of 2% in April on digital services rendered in India against payments collected abroad. The levy is restricted to non-resident companies and is expected to chiefly affect American digital services giants Google, Facebook, Apple and Amazon. People familiar with developments said New Delhi has no plans to change its levy. “These investigations are just the start of a process. It’s not as if some actions have already been taken by the US,” said one of the people. “Everything will depend on the findings of the investigations. So, it’s too early to say.” Other countries that have levied this tax or are considering them are Austria, Brazil, the Czech Republic, the European Union, Indonesia, Italy, Spain, Turkey, and the UK. Most of them are allies of the US.“President Trump is concerned that many of our trading partners are adopting tax schemes designed to unfairly target our companies,” said Robert Lighthizer, the US trade representative and America’s top trade negotiator, in a statement announcing the investigation. “We are prepared to take all appropriate action to defend our businesses and workers against any such discrimination.”The investigation has been launched under Section 301 of the Trade Act, 1974, the same provision that was used by the Trump administration to slap an additional 25% tariff on $50 billion worth of imports from China in 2018, triggering a trade war between the world’s two largest economies.Any potential action against India would add to a list of trade differences that the two countries have tried to reconcile despite pressure mounted in recent years by President Donald Trump through public and private exhortation. Trump ended India’s special trade status last summer. Amit Maheshwari, a partner at AKM Global, a tax and consulting firm, said: “The US investigation will focus on whether the digital services taxes (DSTs) discriminate against US companies, they are retroactive, and they reflect unreasonable tax policy, which would be when the DSTs may diverge from norms reflected in the US tax system and the international tax system in several respects such as extra-territoriality, taxing revenue not income, and a purpose of penalising particular technology companies for their commercial success.”“The Indian tax, which is the subject of this investigation, was rushed in the recent Finance Act and made into law from April 1, 2020, without consultations and gave little time for the industry to prepare. Several countries, including India, are adopting unilateral measures in the absence of multilateral consensus spearheaded by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development . We don’t foresee global consensus anytime soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-launches-probe-into-digital-tax/story-MYBpr9IQGKUKi8SKmsPneJ.html
04-06-2020||India||Outrage as jumbo killed by feeding it cracker-filled fruit||A 15-year-old pregnant elephant died in Kerala’s Malappuram after it ate a pineapple laden with firecrackers last week, forest officials said and added they were investigating the incident that has triggered outrage.The incident came to light on May 27 when Mohan Krishnan, a forest officer, wrote a Facebook post after witnessing the death. The elephant rushed to nearby Velliyar river after eating the fruit and died there even as forest officials rushed to rescue it. The crackers exploded when the elephant chomped on the pineapple.Kerala’s chief wildlife warden, Surendra Kumar, said the elephant’s jaw was broken. “Our investigation is on and we will question locals,” said Kumar. He added strict charges under the Wildlife Protection Act, which provides for up to seven years in prison, will be slapped on culprits. Officials said post-mortem report described asphyxia as the cause of death as water entered its lungs. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has directed the wildlife crime investigation team to probe the incident. Humane Society International India’s wildlife campaign manager Sumanth Bindumadhav cited crop damage by animals for attacks but said that is no justification for maiming or killing them. Senior environment ministry officials said environment minister Prakash Javadekar has sought report from state and strict action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outrage-as-jumbo-killed-by-feeding-it-cracker-filled-fruit/story-OLebluxJoAcqX4XC6LuP1O.html
04-06-2020||India||US firm in middle of row over global HCQ study hired sci-fi writer, model: Report||The US firm at the centre of a controversy over the study on the effect of hydroxychloroquine on Covid-19 patients only has a handful of employees who have little or no scientific training, according to an investigation by the British newspaper The Guardian.The newspaper said its investigation into the ‘tiny’ US firm Surgisphere had revealed that the company’s “handful of employees appear to include a science fiction writer and an adult-content model”.The Chicago-based company owns the “questionable” database that has been used in studies published in The Lancet and also New England Journal of Medicine, the world’s two most highly-cited medical journals.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The study linked use of hydroxychloroquine for Covid-19 patients to increased heart risks, prompting the World Health Organisation to stop its use in a global trial called Solidarity.Surgisphere chief executive Sapan Desai has rebutted allegations about flaws in the data that his company had processed from 90,000 patients in 671 hospitals across the world.“There continues to be a fundamental misunderstanding about what our system is and how it works,” Desai told the newspaper, underlining that The Guardian had made “unrelated connections” and incorporated inaccuracies with a clear bias towards attempting to discredit the firm and its work.Also Read: Doubts cast over US firm’s study linking HCQ with higher Covid-19 deathsWHO resumed use of HCQ after The Lancet, which published a study based on data provided by Surgisphere, declared that it was reviewing the data and methods of the study which had come in for criticism by a large number of experts.“We are issuing an Expression of Concern to alert readers to the fact that serious scientific questions have been brought to our attention. We will update this notice as soon as we have further information,” said a statement issued by The Lancet on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-firm-in-middle-of-row-over-global-hcq-study-also-hired-adult-content-model-report/story-VHD2ySEXJRN4yd11pNMGNK.html
04-06-2020||India||Rs 50 crore deposited by LG Polymers to be used for eco restoration, compensating victims: NGT||The National Green Tribunal on Wednesday ordered that the amount of Rs 50 crore deposited by LG Polymers India Ltd with Andhra Pradesh government be spent for restoration of environment and for part compensation to victims of Styrene gas leak from the company’s Visakhapatnam plant, which claimed 12 lives on May 7.A three-member bench of the tribunal headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the final quantum of compensation to be paid by the company will be decided by a committee comprising representatives from the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF), central pollution control board (CPCB) and national environmental engineering research institute (NEERI) to be constituted within two weeks.The tribunal suggested that another committee comprising two representatives each from MoEF, CPCB and three representatives of state government be formed to work out the restoration plan in the affected villages within two months.The NGT bench asked the Andhra Pradesh government to take action against the officials responsible for permitting South Korean firm LG Polymers India Ltd to operate its plant at Visakhapatnam without statutory licences.It observed that the company had not obtained environmental clearance and the state pollution control board, on account of its ignorance of law or otherwise, gave the ‘Consent to Establish’ and ‘Consent to Operate’ in violation of law.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The bench said the LG Polymers has absolute liability for the environmental damage and consequential loss, including to life and public health, due to leakage of Styrene vapour. It said the government could go ahead with any criminal or other statutory proceedings against the company in accordance with the law.The bench ordered the state chief secretary to take action against those who had given permission to the company to operate and submit the action taken report within two months. The case was posted to November 3 for further hearings.The tribunal also ordered that the company cannot recommence its operations without requisite statutory clearances which could be given only after the examination of the tribunal.It also suggested that the environment ministry constitutes an expert committee to suggest ways and means to prevent violation of environmental norms and recurrence of such incidents in future. It asked the ministry to submit an action taken report within three months.The tribunal, quoting the reports of the expert committee, observed that the LG Polymers India and its Korean principal LG Chem betrayed lack of experience in monitoring and maintaining full tanks of Styrene that had been lying idle for several weeks without operation because of lockdown.“Even the storage tank from which the gas leaked was of old design and this possibly contributed to the problem. Operators and any industrial persons are not aware of control measures in such a situation is the main cause,” the NGT said.The LG Polymers did not present their version, except arguing that the NGT had no powers to take up the case suo motu, as the issue was pending in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-50-crore-deposited-by-lg-polymers-to-be-used-for-eco-restoration-compensating-victims-ngt/story-Bj6hsvK83UhGRtD88Ta6IP.html
04-06-2020||India||Team from petroleum ministry visits Assam OIL well blowout site||Eight days after a natural gas well operated by Oil India Limited (OIL) witnessed a blowout in Assam’s Tinsukia district, a union petroleum ministry team reached the site to take stock of the situation on Wednesday.Amar Nath, joint secretary in the ministry of petroleum and natural gas reached Baghjan, where natural gas and oil condensate from the well has been flowing “uncontrollably” since May 27.A blowout is uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well when pressure control systems fail. Condensate is a low density high gravity hydrocarbon generally found along with natural gas.Nath took a review meeting at Tinsukia, which was attended by Sanjay Kishan, Assam tea tribes’ welfare minister, district officials, forest and pollution department officials as well as senior OIL executives.In a statement issued on Wednesday, OIL informed that a two-member team of experts from Singapore-based Alert Disaster Control is expected to reach the site on Thursday to help control the blowout.“Pumping of water to the well through the casing valve is in progress to minimize chances of fire. Testing of equipment required for controlling of the well is in progress,” the statement read.To ensure that there is adequate and continuous supply of water while the process to control the blowout is underway, a reservoir is being dug up near the well and a pipeline being laid from a nearby river.The blowout happened at the Baghjan well while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 metres. Natural gas and oil condensate has been flowing from the well continuously.Around 1610 families have been evacuated from the areas near the well and have been shifted to four relief camps.Since the well is located close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the eco-sensitive Maguri wetland, wildlife and environment activists in Assam have expressed concern of long term damage to ecology and wildlife if the blow out is not contained soon.Residue of the condensate has spread to areas near the well and trees, water bodies and roofs of houses are covered in a thin oil-like layer.“All safety and security measures are continuously being monitored to protect surrounding villagers and their properties, working teams. Protection of environment would be paramount while carrying out the well control operation,” said the OIL statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/team-from-petroleum-ministry-visits-assam-oil-well-blowout-site/story-Y6R2HcAuUdFzUzlhzWTbqK.html
04-06-2020||India||Kerala CM, junior minister spar over evacuation of expatriates amid spike in Covid-19 cases||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday refuted Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan’s charge that the state wants to go slow on evacuation of expatriates and limit the number of flights from the middle-eastern countries.“We neither put any condition nor sought go- slow on this. I don’t know why people holding responsible positions are creating such confusion. I heard the union government had some problem in dispatching too many flights,” the CM said while asked about his statement.After the union minister’s statement there was outrage in the state and the Congress-led opposition parties had launched an agitation against the state government. At least 160 people from the state died in the Middle-East due to Covid-19 in the last three months and they held the government responsible for this.When contacted Muraleedharan reiterated his charges: “I stand by what I said. Let the CM first read letters he sent to the Centre. The state government had expressed its inability to make arrangements to receive more passengers. If need be, I can furnish copies of the letter he sent,” he said adding the Union government was ready to fly 24 flights daily to evacuate stranded people in the Gulf. Hailing from the state, earlier, the minister had questioned the low testing rates of Kerala and accused the CM of fudging data to maintain the record. It is a fact when comparing to other states, Kerala’s testing rates are poor-- 71,303 tests as on May 3 whereas its neighbours Tamil Nadu and Karnataka had crossed 2.50 lakh tests.Meanwhile the state reported 82 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the total number of cases to 1,494. Out of 82 cases, 53 are expatriates, 19 came from other states and others transmitted locally, said the CM adding 832 people are undergoing treatment in hospitals. Among the infected are five health workers. The state had reported 12 deaths so far. At least, 32 medical workers including 19 doctors have been asked to proceed on quarantine after an accident victim who died on Tuesday tested positive for coronavirus in Thiruvananthapuram. This is the first time such a large number of medical workers are in quarantine in the state since the pandemic began in January.A 77-year-old priest Father K G Verghese who was undergoing treatment after a road accident died of Covid-19 on Tuesday. After the accident in April, he was admitted to a local hospital and later shifted to the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital after his condition worsened. Nobody including his family members have any idea how he contracted the disease and officials say it is difficult to identify his contacts now.“Sharp rise in cases is a real concern. After the return of expatriates and people stranded in other parts of the country we expected a hike. Imported cases are OK; we can’t do anything in such cases. But we have to ensure local transmission is not taking place,” said Health Minister K K Shailaja adding doctors’ quarantine will not affect functioning of hospitals. In April, Kerala was on the verge of flattening the virus curve but cases escalated after the return of expatriates and others. Kerala was the first state to report a coronavirus case in the country in January-- a China-returned medical student. Though testing is very low it managed the disease well with high recovery and low mortality rates, statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-junior-minister-spar-over-evacuation-of-expatriates-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-we7LMNYJLEnCAkuqmUokZJ.html
04-06-2020||India||Top Jaish explosives expert among 3 killed||Indian security forces killed a top Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) explosives expert in Kashmir, suspected of planning a May 28 car bombing that was foiled by the vehicle’s interception, and two local terrorists in a major counter-insurgency operation on Wednesday, officials said.Abdul Rehman alias Fauji Bhai , a native of Rawalpindi in Pakistan, was an Afghan war veteran who had been active in South Kashmir since 2017, the officials said.“This operation was based on human intelligence inputs and all three militants killed in the operation were affiliated with Jaish,” Jammu & Kashmir Police inspector general Vijay Kumar said, adding that the bodies of the three militants would be buried in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district.Clashes erupted near the encounter site and the police made announcements asking people to stay inside their homes and not venture out.A joint team of the army’s Rashtriya Rifles, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Jammu & Kashmir Police killed Rehman, who also went by the name Waleed Ismail and was the JeM’s operational commander in the area, and the two other terrorists in a shoot-out in Pulwama district’s Kangan village where they had been holed up, the officials said .Vijay Kumar said Rehman planned the May 28 car bombing that failed when security forces intercepted a Santro car in Pulwama packed with explosives the previous night. The two terrorists killed along with him were identified as JeM’s district commander in Pulwama , Manzoor Kaar alias Abu Mansh, a resident of Sirnoo, and Javid Zargar of Rangmullah, another JeM commander.Inputs available with security forces, however, indicate that Rehman had built two more vehicle improvised explosive devices in Kashmir.“Our information was that Fauji Bhai... had fabricated three vehicle IEDs. We seized one of the three on May 27 but there are two more out there, possibly somewhere in Budgam and Kulgam areas,” a top counter-terrorism official told Hindustan Times, requesting anonymity.There have been several intelligence reports over the past two months about plans by Jaish terrorists to carry out major strikes targeting security forces.The Santro car packed with explosives seized by security forces on May 27 was the vehicle for the first of these planned attacks. It was intercepted when it was being taken to a Jaish terrorist, Sameer Ahmed Dar of Kakpora, Pulwama, by an associate.Sameer Dar is a relative of Adil Dar, the suicide bomber who drove his Maruti Echo vehicle into a CRPF convoy on February 14, 2019, killing 40 troopers. The attack was followed by India launching air strikes on a terror facility in Pakistan’s Balakot, and a subsequent dogfight between the air forces of the two neighbouring countries.This time, Sameer Dar offered to drive the vehicle IED into a security camp. Intelligence reports indicate that one of the likely targets of the car bomb was the 44 Rashtriya Rifles camp at Shadimarg, Rajpora, Pulwama.Initial reports had suggested that JeM’s current chief in the Kashmir valley, Mohammad Alvi alias Lambu, may have been killed in the latest encounter, but officials later said he was still at large. Alvi also goes by the name Ismail.“Groups like Jaish use many names and aliases while operating in different areas to confuse the security forces,” another counter-terrorism official said, requesting anonymity. “Lambu, who is said to have taken over the reins of Jaish in J&K after the killing of its leader Kari Yari (in January), is still on the run.”Alvi was also among the key planners of the May 28 failed car bombing and had a role to play in the February 14, 2019, suicide attack as well, as reported by HT on Tuesday.“The killing of Abdul Rehman alias Fauji Bhai, a Pakistani national, is a big success for security forces as he was a master in assembling improvised explosive devices for JeM,” Vijay Kumar told reporters.Kumar claimed that Rehman had managed to escape on May 28 when security forces intercepted the explosives- laden car, which was supposed to have been used to attack a security forces convoy or camp. “We had promised you that day we will get him soon. Today we did. Whether he was involved in 2019 car bombing attack on CRPF convoy, I cannot say for sure, but he was active in Pulwama at that time,” Kumar said.On Tuesday, two militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Tral area of Pulwama district.The militants, who sources said were locals, were killed in a gunfight which erupted after a search operation was launched by a joint team of the state police and the army at Saimoh village. Two AK-47 assault rifles were recovered from the encounter site. Since the Covid-19 lockdown, 44 militants and two associates have been killed in encounters in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-jaish-explosives-expert-among-3-killed/story-fCGjSeTWou5onwDuJ4crHK.html
04-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall; a lucky escape for Mumbai||Nisarga, the first severe cyclone to impact Mumbai in more than 60 years, largely spared India’s financial capital on Wednesday as the severe cyclonic storm weakened after its landfall south of the city, claiming no major damages or loss of life in the region.The cyclone crossed the coast near Alibag in Raigad district with wind speeds of up to 120km per hour at 12.30pm, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Experts said Mumbai remained largely unaffected as the landfall, initially expected to be 16km away in Alibag, deviated 75km from the coastal resort town.Two people died as the storm uprooted trees in neighbouring districts, but no major damages were reported as workers began clearing debris on Wednesday night. The deep depression that formed over the Arabian Sea earlier this week turned into a severe cyclonic storm and reached the coastline of Maharashtra on Wednesday. “It made landfall south of Alibag. The cyclone’s eye diameter was 80km and the eye crossed south of Alibag in Raigad but rest of it crossed neighbouring districts,” said IMD director general M Mohapatra. He added that while the forecast on the cyclone track was accurate, the effect on Mumbai was diminished as the landfall happened at least 75km south of Alibag, in Diveagar.IMD’s prediction of extremely heavy rainfall was not reported in several areas of Mumbai. The city, however, recorded a gale wind speed of 72kmph at its southern tip, Colaba, quelling fears that the administrative and health care resources, already stretched on account of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) caseload, would not be able to cope with a natural disaster.Private forecaster Skymet Weather said it was a close shave for the city, which has so far recorded about 43,000 Covid-19 cases and is making attempts at keeping its health care system from being overrun. “Our observation is that the impact on Mumbai was less because the landfall location was shifted somewhat south of Alibag. There was only light to moderate rains in Mumbai during and immediately after landfall,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate and meteorology at Skymet Weather.Visuals of lacerating rain, swaying trees and waves crashing against tetrapod barriers that line the Konkan coast beamed on television screens as people stayed indoors on the advice of the state government, even as teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force evacuated at least 160,000 people over Tuesday and Wednesday morning from the coastal districts of Maharashtra — particularly Raigad and Palghar — as well as Navsari, Valsad and Surat in Gujarat.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar spoke to district collectors of all seven districts on alert in Maharashtra, and directed the administration to assess the losses to citizens.Kishorraje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation said: “The alert continues till tomorrow [Thursday] morning in seven districts. There are huge losses of properties reported in Raigad district, while in other districts it was comparatively less. There is no cyclone-related loss of life reported in the state. The assessment of the losses will begin tomorrow.”As it passed over the coastline, Nisarga spanned 500km, as captured by radar and encompassed Mumbai and Thane districts, IMD stated. Its eye (the region of calm at the centre of a cyclonic storm) was about 80km in diameter — by all measures, it was every bit the severe cyclonic storm that the states were bracing for. However, cyclones tend to lose speed the more they travel inland, and by Wednesday night, Nisarga made its way towards Pune and was headed in the north-east direction towards Madhya Pradesh at a speed of 60-70kmph.The cyclone made landfall between Srivardhan and Murud to the south of Alibag, Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari said. Though the cyclone completed landfall between 12.30 and 2.30pm, its intensity lasted for another hour afterwards. Alibag received 84.3mm of rain between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Wednesday, while Ratnagiri district, south of the cyclone’s landfall site, recorded 45mm in the same time period, according to data provided by the district administration.“The entire district is cyclone-hit,” Choudhari said, as she assessed the extent of damage with the NDRF team on Wednesday evening. “It struck us exactly at Diveagar, and later moved towards Alibag and Pen tehsils. The impact was felt as far as Margaon, Khopoli and Karjat (inland) where tree and electric lines were badly damaged.” Choudhari estimated at least 10,000 trees were affected — 15 in her own office and residence, she said.A 58-year-old man died in Alibag’s Umte village when an electricity pole fell on him, and four people were injured in Ratnagiri district. Another death was reported from Raigad district, a 10-year-old who was killed due to a tree fall. The cyclone uprooted a large number of trees. Power supply was affected in most coastal districts and tenements with missing tin roofs, blown away by the high speed winds, was a common sight.In anticipation of flooding, on account of a predicted storm surge, the Birhanmumbai Municipal Corporation evacuated close to 20,000 people from low-lying areas in the metropolitan region, including Colaba, Worli Koliwada, Gorai and other western suburbs. This was to be the second severe cyclonic storm after 1961 to impact Mumbai in its path. However, as of Wednesday night, no major loss to life and property reported.The Chhattrapati Shivaji International airport, which shut operations for three hours during the day, resumed flights at 6pm.“This could have been very bad. Winds were very strong but rainfall was moderate, which probably saved Mumbai. We do not expect any major rains anymore,” Mumbai’s deputy director general of meteorology KS Hosalikar said. “We may withdraw the orange alert for Mumbai and only keep a yellow alert,” he added.Sunita Devi, incharge of cyclone department at IMD, said: “Unlike Amphan, this cyclone didn’t intensify rapidly while in the ocean but intensified very quickly when it was only 250km from the Maharashtra coast as winds picked by 20 to 40kmph early morning on Wednesday and made landfall as a severe cyclonic storm.”Climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Mathew Roxy Koll, said: “Intensification from a tropical cyclone to a Category 1 cyclone in case of Nisarga happened in about 12 hours near the coast.” His team said that this was the first time after 1998 that a severe cyclonic storm crossed the west coast. The 1998 cyclone made landfall in Gujarat’s Kandla and killed thousands of people but didn’t impact Mumbai. It is rare for a cyclone to make landfall in or near Mumbai or even on the Maharashtra coast. The storms that form during monsoon onset over Arabian Sea usually move towards Oman. Cyclone Phyan, of a much lower intensity, last impacted these districts in 2009 and even Mumbai recorded extremely heavy rainfall. The upper-level winds steered Nisarga towards the Maharashtra coast. This is the first pre-monsoon severe cyclone to have made an impact on Mumbai since 1961.Storm surge during the three-hour cyclone period ranged between 1-2m for the Konkan coast. The maximum storm surge for Raigad district was 2m from Alibag to Diveagar, and 0-0.8m for Ratnagiri, Mumbai and Thane.Storm surge warnings — shoreward movement of water above astronomical tide height under the action of wind stress — indicate the extent of inundation to expect. A storm surge of 0.5m to 1.3m over coastal Alibag may result in flooding up to 1.4km of a low-lying area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-makes-landfall-a-lucky-escape-for-mumbai/story-H0n7a8w0d7q7OaHl94AigI.html
04-06-2020||India||Over 85mn gas cylinders have been availed under Gareeb Kalyan Yojana: Dharmendra Pradhan||Union Petroleum and steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan spoke to Rajeev Jayaswal about the challenge of delivering cooking gas cylinders to 274 million consumers during the lockdown period, the impact of the rise and fall in crude oil prices, the push for energy security, new supply contracts with the US and Russia, and the role public and private players in the oil sector, among other issues. Edited excerpts:Soon after the national lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 began, the government announced that it would give free cooking gas cylinders to poor households for three months. What is the progress?The government has proposed to give free refills for PMUY (Prime Minister Ujjwala Yojana) consumers for a period of three months with financial assistance of Rs 13,500 crore. The scheme has been operational since April 1. As on May 31, Rs 8,494 crore have been transferred to the bank account of beneficiaries though DBT (direct benefit transfer). And the beneficiaries have availed the delivery of 852.49 lakh (over 85 million) cylinders under the PM Gareeb Kalyan Yojana.Low oil prices provided good fiscal space to the government to mobilise resources to fight Covid-19. But crude oil prices have started rising now. Does this worry you?This may not be a matter of worry. The OMCs (oil marketing companies) are basically dependent on cracks -- the difference in the prices of crude and petroleum products in the international markets -- for their profitability, and not on the crude prices alone. I would say that high volatility in prices is in nobody’s interest. India always looks for a reasonable and responsible price regime.Both the Centre and states raised levies and mopped up almost all benefits of low international crude oil. But petrol and diesel prices were kept frozen. Why?The prices of petrol and diesel depend on the prices of these products in the international markets. Then there is the 15-day cycle to take the moving average of these products to estimate prices in the domestic market. Although crude prices came down, the product prices did not come down by the same percentage. The cracks actually became negative, hurting the books of Indian OMCs.The oil industry, too, was faced with an extraordinary situation. There were no takers for the crude being produced; the world literally ran out of storage space for the crude and petroleum products. The reduction in demand has led to a peculiar situation where product prices are less than the price of crude. These negative margins and low crude prices do not reflect the real economics of oil refining and the pricing of end products.The pandemic has had a huge impact on government revenue. Therefore, mopping up resources has become inevitable to deal with this unprecedented crisis.Global oil prices have softened. Is this the time to reduce India’s import dependence on politically volatile Middle East?To improve its resilience to disruptions in crude supplies due to geopolitical factors, India has significantly diversified its sources of crude oil over the years. Last year, we secured steady supplies of crude oil despite significant challenges to security in the Middle-East, particularly the attacks on Saudi oil facilities and the flare-up in US-Iran tensions. Over the last four years, we significantly diversified sources of crude oil to reduce excessive dependence on the Middle-East. As the US became an exporter of crude oil, we took proactive steps to import crude oil from the US since 2017. In a short span of two years, the US has now become one of the top 10 sources for crude oil imports. Earlier this year, in February, our companies added Russia as a source for crude oil by signing a term-contract starting this year. Our companies are also exploring sourcing of crude oil from other regions, including North and South America.It will be our constant endeavour to continue to diversify our oil and gas import sources from price-competitive countries or regions to reduce our dependence on the Middle-East. India imports its crude from about 25 countries, and no doubt the Middle East supplies the majority of that crude. During recent years, India has imported substantial amount of crude from the US, Nigeria, Mexico, Brazil etc.On May 17, the government announced a Public Sector Enterprise (PSE) policy. Do state-run oil and gas firms come under the list of strategic sectors?Oil and gas sector play a predominant role, as over one-third of the energy required is met by hydrocarbons. A considerable part of the infrastructure for the government’s push to a gas-based economy, including untouched areas, is also being steered by CPSEs (central public sector enterprises).It was announced that, in strategic sectors, at least one enterprise will remain in the public sector but the private sector will also be allowed. Does that mean there will be just one integrated oil PSU?The government believes in creating a level playing field in which both public as well as private players compete with each other and contribute to the overall growth of the sector. Other decisions, like how many PSUs in which sector are strategic, are subject to market conditions prevailing in each sector.This government recently completed the first year of its second term. What are the key achievements, and what is the road ahead?The government recognises that our supply security is a critical element in ensuring our energy security. To diversify the import of crude oil, IOCL (Indian Oil Corporation Ltd) has entered into long-term contract with the US and Russia to source crude oil. Further, taking advantage of the low crude oil price, India is filling the strategic petroleum reserves (SPR) to their full capacity. This will result in savings of approximately Rs 5,000 crore for the government towards filling the vacant cavern. This will boost India’s energy security.The government has taken a number of initiatives to encourage the use of alternative fuels and incentivise production of ethanol and biodiesel. In order to encourage the production of biodiesel from used cooking oil (UCO), the OMCs have floated expressions of interest (EOIs) for the supply of UCO biodiesel from 200 locations across the country. Till April 2020, 31 entrepreneurs submitted their EOIs for production of biodiesel from UCO from 50 plants with a capacity of 1,042 MT/day.Oil and gas will continue to remain vital for India’s energy security in the foreseeable future. A concerted effort is required by all stakeholders to ensure that India is appropriately positioned to take advantage of the existing opportunity. This may require end-to-end planning, synergies, and trade-offs across sectors.You also handle the steel ministry, which has been facing headwinds due to several reasons. What are your plans to boost this sector?The main thrust of the steel ministry has been to bring in cost competitiveness, and thereby improve steel usage in India. The possible disruption in iron ore availability was addressed by policy changes enabling public sector captive units to carry out the market sale of the mineral, apart from ensuring a smooth carry over of regulatory permissions to new leaseholders post the auction.There has been a thrust to facilitate local industries for which the ISPs (integrated steel plants) of SAIL have come out with a programme to incentivise local manufacturers. For the planned development of the sector and ancillaries, steel cluster projects under Purvodaya have been given impetus.By setting up a data system which gives better visibility regarding the imports in the sector, the SIMS (steel import management system) platform will prepare the ground for informed investment decisions by domestic industry, in turn contributing to local production and employment. The system has been made operational last November in association with the commerce department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-85mn-gas-cylinders-have-been-availed-under-gareeb-kalyan-yojana-dharmendra-pradhan/story-TQCthnpH3HQGiiUQwLtaaO.html
04-06-2020||India||Jets with enhanced protection to join PM’s fleet by September||Two specially modified Boeing-777 aircraft, capable of countering missile threats, will join Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Air India One fleet by September-end, two people familiar with the development said on Wednesday.The first head-of-state Boeing-777 aircraft will arrive in India from the United States by August-end followed by the second one a month later, they said on condition of anonymity.The planes will come equipped with self-protection suites (SPS) consisting of aircraft infrared countermeasures, advanced integrated defensive electronic warfare suite and counter-measures dispensing system to protect them from inbound missiles.The aircraft will match the US President’s Air Force One in security measures, the officials said. Air India had sent a pair of new Boeing 777-300ER aircraft to a Boeing facility in Dallas to be refurbished for VVIP travel, including installation of missile defence systems worth $190 million. Aircraft records from open source websites showed both jets were less than 3 years old and have been sparingly used.The new long-haul aircraft will be used exclusively by PM Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu.“The threat to VVIPs is always there. Whatever measures a nation needs to take to protect its top leadership should be taken,” said Air Marshal KK Nohwar (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies (CAPS).The three dignitaries fly Air India’s Boeing-747 planes that the state-run airline deploys on commercial flights. These are temporarily reconfigured for the dignitaries when they need to travel, with the call sign changing to Air India One.The Boeing-747 planes that are chartered from Air India for use by the three dignitaries are two decades old.The new planes have been configured to give PM Modi some generous office space, meeting rooms, a wide array of communication systems and a section for handling medical emergencies. The aircraft can fly between the US and India without having to stop for refuelling.The protection systems on the planes can jam enemy radar frequencies and divert heat-seeking missiles by disturbing their guidance systems.The US administration announced its decision to give India access to the SPS for the special VVIP aircraft in February 2019, stressing that the sale would improve India’s capability to deter regional threats. It said the SPS would facilitate “a more robust capability into areas of increased missile threats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jets-with-enhanced-protection-to-join-pm-s-fleet-by-september/story-zSJNzcthbdNLFNeny4CKpI.html
04-06-2020||India||Man gunned down in park, chased inside an apartment complex and shot dead||A 40-year-old man was attacked by at least three unidentified gunmen while he was walking in a park in East Delhi’s Patparganj on Wednesday morning, chased to the nearby Aditi Apartments housing society, where he tried to hide behind parked cars, and shot dead, police said.The victim, Rahul Singh Nagar, contested the 2017 municipal elections in Delhi on a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) ticket from the Vinod Nagar constituency. With assets worth over Rs 9.51 crore, Nagar was among the richest candidates who had contested the elections. His immovable assets include 13 residential buildings, four commercial shops and three cars, including an Audi, his brother, Satya, said. The identity of the killers or the motive behind the crime were not clear, police said. They suspect that Nagar may have been killed over a property dispute. A police officer said they used to receive complaints against Nagar regarding “property grabbing”.Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (east), said Nagar was shot four times, and died before he could be taken to hospital. The police are investigating whether more rounds that may have missed Nagar were fired either at the park or in the apartment complex.A case of murder has been registered at Mandawali police station.Nagar, a property dealer by profession, lived with his wife and daughter in West Vinod Nagar, which is about a kilometre from the scene of the crime. His four brothers and parents live in another house in the same locality.According to the DCP, Nagar had some criminal cases against him. “Those cases were mostly pertaining to quarrels,” he said. Nagar’s brother, Satya, however, said that those were all old cases, which were eventually closed.Every morning, Nagar would walk with a friend – Satish Master,40, a government school teacher in Daryaganj -- in the park outside Aditi Apartments, which is the first housing society of the line of apartment blocks on Narwana Road, a stone’s throw from the main Mother Dairy factory in Patparganj.“He would always be accompanied by his friend,” said Satya. “The friend told us that he had stopped to urinate while Nagar kept walking. Suddenly he heard multiple gunshots,” he added. “There were 40-50 people walking in the park when the firing started. Though none of us exactly saw where the firing was taking place, all of us started running and we all were scared for our lives. I did not see the attackers. All I saw was Nagar ji running towards the apartments,” said Satish, adding that he informed Nagar’s family after seeing him dead.The DCP said the attack took place at around 7.15am, just as Nagar was walking out of the park. He added that the initial probe suggested that there were three to four assailants, but Satya said the friend told him at least two more assailants were waiting outside the park.Once the shots were fired, Nagar ran into the apartment complex to hide. An investigator who asked not to be named said he managed ran through a corridor of the complex, with the attackers continuing to pursue him. “He went to the parking lot inside and hid behind some cars. But he had already been shot four times by then. He had bullet wounds in his chest, head and hand,” the investigator said. As residents, who heard the gunshots, began coming out of their homes, the assailants escaped, police said. “No resident from our society was present in the compound where the man was shot. Our security guard was at the gate. But he was unarmed and could not do anything against armed attackers,” said Prakash Chander, secretary of Aditi Corporation Group Housing Society Limited.Nagar was taken to Max Hospital in Patparganj but was declared “brought dead”. Police said they are scanning CCTV footage for clues, but there was no breakthrough till Wednesday evening.Nagar’s family members said there was a near-fatal firing attack on him in November 2019 as well but the police did not take any action. Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Alok Kumar, however, said that four persons were arrested in that case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-gunned-down-in-the-park-is-chased-inside-an-apartment-complex/story-jkgNROxodCGgHnH4Ke5yZN.html
04-06-2020||India||Tahir ‘led, instigated’ IB official’s murder: Police||Delhi Police on Wednesday filed a second charge sheet against suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain for incidents linked to the February riots in north-east Delhi, alleging that he “led and instigated” the murder of IB official Ankit Sharma as part of a “deep-rooted conspiracy”.This is the second charge sheet filed against Hussain in two days. He was charged by the police on Tuesday for allegedly playing a pivotal role in the riots in which 53 people were killed and over 400 injured.The police on Wednesday also filed a charge sheet against the principal of Shiv Vihar Rajdhani Public school for rioting outside the premises of the school during the communal rioting that started as clashes between protestors for and against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and raged for four daysSharma’s body, which had 51 sharp and blunt injuries, was dumped in a drain, said the police in its charge sheet, which also claims to have found an eyewitness who recorded a mob dumping the body.Narrating the alleged sequence of events that led to Sharma’s death, the police said: “At around 5pm on February 25, the IB official had moved ahead from the crowd of Hindu people standing a few distance away from Hussain’s house to pacify the people of both sides, when around 20-25 rioters on Hussain’s instructions caught him and dragged him to Chand Bagh bridge, where they beat him to death.” The police said one of the suspects, identified as Salman, charged in the case along with Hussain and nine others, was arrested after the police intercepted phone calls in which he spoke to relatives about the murder of a person whose body had been dumped in a drain. Hussain’s lawyer, Javed Ali, denied the police allegations and called them a political conspiracy against his client.“There is no direct evidence and allegations which shows that my client was involved in the crime (Ankit Sharma’s murder). In the FIR, police have stated that my client was rescued on February 24 from his house. Hence, there is no question of talking, interacting or being involved in the incident which took place on February 25,” Ali said. In the charge sheet related to the rioting outside Shiv Vihar Rajdhani School, police charged 18 people, including school principal Faisal Farooque, who has been charged under sections dealing with rioting and criminal conspiracy, among others.Using call data records as evidence against Farooque, police claimed that Farooque was in touch with members of the Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC), women’s group Pinjra Tod, Popular Front of India (PFI) and the Tablighi Jamaat. Police have r arrested members of the JCC, Pinjra Tod and PFI for their alleged involvement in different incidents of violence during the riots. The groups have called the arrest of their members a “witch hunt”.Police accused Farooque of “hatching a conspiracy to aggravate the riots” around the school. Police said the allegation was based on a statement by school security guards.“His call detail analysis and links with prominent members of Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod group, Jamia Coordination Committee, Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz and some other fundamental Muslim clerics, including Deoband also show the depth of the conspiracy. In fact, it has been found that Faisal Farooque visited Deoband just one day before the riots started (February 23),” the police said in the charge sheet. Markaz is the headquarters of the Talblighi Jamaat, an Islamic missionary group. Police also attached photographs of a large catapult they found on the terrace of the school. Police said the catapult was used to launch throw bricks, acids, stones and molotov cocktails and added that the rioters had camped inside and fired bullets from the terrace of Shiv Vihar Rajdhani School. The police also attached photographs of a rope that was tied to the terrace of the school to the adjacent DRP Convent Public School, which was used by rioters to climb down to the convent school and set it on fire. Farooque’s counsel Shams Khwaja denied the police allegations and said both schools had filed police complaints of arson. “My client promptly reported the arson to police control room repeatedly as per police record and also to the fire brigade. No one came to help. His complaint precedes the neighbouring school’s and yet his FIR was registered only after the neighbouring school’s complaint.”Khwaja added that the FIR filed by the DRP convent school did not name Farooque as a rioter. “My client wasn’t named in the FIR by the neighbouring school at all. He was arrested on the basis of sham witnesses set up by the police. Talking to ulemas of Deoband is no crime. That institution has a history of pioneering the freedom movement for our Independence. How could talking to them be construed as a problem?”He also said joining anti-CAA protests or being a member of the Pinjra Tod or JCC were not crimes. “But even so my client was not involved in these protests. Unless they can show conversations with these people where my client is instigating or planning violence, he cannot be implicated.”On reports that Farooque was in touch with senior members of the Tablighi Jamaat, a school administrator who asked not to be named, said, “Tablighi Jamaat wasn’t involved in riots and their name only came up during the Covid-19 incident. How is the police linking these two? We didn’t have the time to participate in anti-CAA protests and sit on the roads because January and February is the time we usually prepare for the upcoming board exams.”Markaz, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin Basti, was sealed after the emergence of a large cluster of Covid-19 cases on its premises following a large religious congregation in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tahir-led-instigated-ib-official-s-murder-police/story-1FgyuGjdHQo6OH0OkSXLZM.html
04-06-2020||India||AAP’s Raghav Chadha accuses RML of inaccurate testing, hospital rejects claim||Raghav Chadha, the Aam Aadmi Party’s national spokesperson, on Wednesday accused authorities of Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital of inaccurate Covid-19 testing, and of violating orders that require hospitals submit test results to the government within 48 hours of their being conducted. Chadha, also AAP MLA from Rajendra Nagar, asked the Delhi government to act against the Centre-run hospital.“The Delhi government collected 30 such samples from RML Hospitals that concern individuals who tested Covid-19 positive. The government re-assessed the samples, collected less than 24 hours ago and found that 12 of those samples tested negative and results pertaining to two of them were inconclusive. This suggests a variation of around 45%. It is absolutely irresponsible, and the amount of stress that the inaccurate results could have caused to the individuals and their families is unimaginable,” Chadha said.He added, “Government directives require hospitals to give best efforts in submitting test results within 24 hours, and provides a maximum window of 48 hours. The court also upheld such directives. RML Hospital has violated that time and again. Around 281 patents got their results after three days, 210 people got their result were after four days, 50 people got their result after seven days, four people got their result after nine days, and some reports were submitted after 31 days. I urge the Delhi government to initiate action against RML Hospital.”Authorities from RML hospital disputed the allegations. “The 30 samples that were tested by the Delhi government were collected after seven to 14 days of the test being done at RML hospital. In these many days, the virus can easily clear out of the system of those infected. There is no compromise in the quality of testing here at RML. In fact, we also keep verifying our samples with AIIMS [All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences] and NCDC [National Centre for Disease Control], and have the same level of accuracy. The hospital has already submitted a written reply to the Delhi government, as well as the Union health ministry,” said Smriti Tiwari, the hospital’s spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-raghav-chadha-accuses-rml-of-inaccurate-testing-hospital-rejects-claim/story-lZWRCjF7sftdWDyca20cUL.html
04-06-2020||India||Congress seeks Piyush Goyal resignation over Shramik specials||The Congress on Wednesday demanded resignation or removal of railway minister Piyush Goyal and said the Centre has been “less than fair” with the details about the special trains for migrant workers and has created confusion.Senior spokesperson for the party, Abhishek Singhvi, said the Centre has repeatedly maintained that 85% of the cost of rail tickets for migrants is paid by the Indian railway. Solicitor General repeatedly said in the Supreme Court that all of the cost of the railways and travel for the migrants is to be borne by states sending and receiving them.Singhvi claimed that in most cases “Rs 30 and Rs 20 charge for food and water was in fact levied”. “Now, far from giving things free, which has the impression given to everybody, these are charges charged by the railways,” he said. Singhvi underlined the apex court had to give a direction that passengers must be provided with food and water.He said there is still a lot of confusion and “people don’t know, which train is going where, whether their name is on the list, whether they will get space”. Singhvi quoted media reports and said about 40% of trains ran late and the average delay was eight hours. “There were 78 trains which were delayed by more than one day and of course 43 trains which were delayed by more than 30-35 hours...”However, Goyal in an interview to HT on June 1 said the allegations on widespread delays and diversions were “completely baseless and wrong”. “Almost all trains up to May 19 were before time... only 71 out of 4,040, which is 1.75% trains, were diverted.” he said.In a statement, Bharatiya Janata Party spokesman Syed Shahnawaz Hussain separately said none of the deaths on the special trains was caused by hunger or starvation as per the post-mortem reports. “Natural deaths have occurred on the trains in the past too but the manner in which unfortunate deaths of Shramiks [workers] have been politicized is unprecedented without waiting to know about the exact cause of deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-seeks-goyal-resignation-over-shramik-specials/story-JtXmAtNsXNp8IKmSpKblJO.html
04-06-2020||India||Defence secretary is 1st top bureaucrat to test Covid +ve, goes into quarantine||Defence secretary Ajay Kumar has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and is under home quarantine, two people familiar with the development said on Wednesday on the condition of anonymity. Kumar got himself tested for Covid-19 after developing mild fever and was found to be infected, said one of the persons.“He tested positive on Tuesday. His condition is stable and he will stay at home till he tests negative,” said another person.A defence ministry spokesperson refused to comment on the matter.Necessary contact tracing is being carried out in the case of the defence secretary to identify people he may have recently come in contact with and who may now be in the high-risk category, officials said.Kumar is the first top government official to test positive for the disease.The chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs may not have had direct contact with Kumar during the last four days, the officials added. Defence minister Rajnath Singh did not attend office on Wednesday but it was not immediately known why. The minister is discharging his duties as usual, the officials said.The first-floor section of the South Block in which the defence secretary has his office is being sanitised. All protocols are being followed. Nothing is being taken lightly, the officials said. Several top officials have their offices on the first floor including the defence minister, the army chief, the navy chief and a string of bureaucrats.Also, more Covid-19 cases have surfaced in Shastri Bhawan as Delhi has witnessed a steady increase in infections. According to officials, a joint secretary in the law ministry and the driver of a joint secretary in the culture ministry have also tested positive for the highly contagious disease.Some days ago, a section officer in the coal ministry died due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-secy-tests-positive-quarantined/story-nshas2mlCukSYIWkL1qmdP.html
04-06-2020||India||Painkiller Ibuprofen tested as potential treatment for Covid-19 in London||Scientists in London are running tests to find out whether common painkiller and anti-inflammatory medicine Ibuprofen can help to treat Covid-19 positive patients and steer them away from fatal respiratory failure and the need for ventilators, news agency Bloomberg reported.A team of researchers from London’s Guy’s Hospital, St Thomas’ Hospital and King’s College are running a trial to see whether the painkiller and anti-inflammatory medicine Ibuprofen can be used to treat coronavirus patients. With around 180 countries across the world grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic amid escalating deaths, scientists and researchers are hoping that the low-cost treatment will reduce the burden on hospitals and medical facilities by keeping patients off ventilators.The study uses a type of Ibuprofen called Flarin that’s available in the United Kingdom and has a separate composition than the standard version to protect the stomach. The study is being run by Guy’s and St. Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust, King’s College London and SEEK, a proprietary drug-research firm.ALSO READ | Remdesivir most beneficial for severely ill Covid-19 patients, say researchersIf the clinical trial is successful, it would mark a turnaround in attitudes toward the drug during the Covid-19 pandemic. The trial, called Liberate, was launched after studies conducted on animals suggested that the medication could treat acute respiratory distress syndrome — one of the complications associated with the Covid-19 disease.The trial will be randomized, with half the patients receiving standard care alone and the other half receiving the drug additionally. The first half who will receive standard care, will continuously be given oxygen as well.“As a new illness, there are limited treatment options for patients with Covid-19,” said Richard Beale, a professor of intensive care medicine at the NHS trust. “The clinical trial will assess whether this unique formulation of an established drug benefits patients.”ALSO READ | WHO says anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine’s coronavirus trials to resumeProfessor Mitul Mehta, a member of the research team, stressed that the trial was for hospitalised patients and not for mild cases. Participants were drawn from among those hospitalised, but not requiring intensive care, according to the news agency.French Health Minister Olivier Veran had said in March that patients with Covid-19 should avoid anti-inflammatory drugs like Ibuprofen because it might aggravate their infections. Europe’s top medicines regulator said shortly afterward that there’s no solid evidence that Ibuprofen makes the virus worse.At the onset of the pandemic in the United Kingdom, health experts had raised concerns over whether the anti-inflammatory drug should be used by people showing mild coronavirus symptoms. Following this, the UK’s National Health Service (NHS) in March withdrew the advisory they had issued on their website for the use of Ibuprofen by people suffering from mild cases of Covid-19.The United Kingdom is one of the worst-hit countries in the world with a very high concentration of coronavirus positive patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/painkiller-ibuprofen-tested-as-potential-treatment-for-covid-19-in-london/story-eXEJHgZfey8q3OqVx56zpO.html
04-06-2020||India||India-China face-off: June 6 meet key to defusing tensions||The June 6 meeting between Indian and Chinese military officials, led by lieutenant generals from both armies, will be a significant step towards resolving the border row along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, top China expert and National Security Advisory Board member Lieutenant General SL Narasimhan (retd) said on Wednesday. The General Officer Commanding of the Leh-based HQs 14 Corps, Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, is expected to meet his Chinese counterpart on Saturday, exactly a month after tensions between India and China started building up along the disputed border.This is perhaps the first time that lieutenant generals are meeting in a sensitive sector to defuse border tensions --- the highest level of talks between India and China at the tactical level have usually involved major generals.Narasimhan said the modalities of resolving the border situation, with focus on concerns brought to the table by both sides, could figure on the agenda of the talks.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday announced that a meeting between senior Indian and Chinese military officials would take place on June 6 to discuss the border situation.Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi was in Leh on Wednesday for a security review of the sensitive sector where Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC.Several rounds of talks between local military commanders, including three rounds of discussions between major generals, have failed to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso four weeks ago.Around 250 soldiers from the two countries clashed near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6 with the scuffle leaving scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions swiftly spread to other pockets along the LAC.China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements and matched the neighbour’s military moves, as reported by Hindustan Times on May 26.China’s state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days.HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring up between India and China in north Sikkim where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-face-off-june-6-meet-key-to-defusing-tensions/story-zQ0Rau8nfOhJSiYl1hPFUN.html
04-06-2020||India||Rajasthan to buy 100 fire engines to fight locust invasion||The Rajasthan government will purchase 100 fire engines from the state disaster response fund (SDRF). The vehicles will be used in locust control apart from other calamity relief activities, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said in a statement.The district collectors have also been allocated funds from SDRF for the purchase of tractor mounted sprayers and other vehicles, chemical and for other arrangements for locust control. All the collectors have been allocated Rs 1.47 crore. Along with this, the recruitment process of 290 assistant agriculture officers and one thousand 900 agricultural supervisors in the Department of Agriculture will also be completed soon, the statement said.In a review meeting at Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s residence to take stock of the locust invasion, agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria and revenue minister Harish Chaudhary said that there is no dearth of resources to control locusts.They said a district-wise strategy has to be drawn up to fight the locusts.Congress deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary said that in view of the frequent attacks of locusts, it has become necessary to strengthen the locust warning organization.Principal secretary of agriculture department, Naresh Pal Gangwar said that till now locust control has been carried out across 95,000 hectare area.Over the past few weeks locust swarms have invaded Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and parts of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-buy-100-fire-engines-to-fight-locust-invasion/story-kGwe4wPSsZnrNj1iO4iOXI.html
04-06-2020||India||Contact tracing apps won’t elicit honest symptom reporting: Harvard epidemiologist||Caroline Buckee is a top epidemiologist at Harvard University’s TH Chan School of Public Health who pioneered something that has now become ubiquitous the world over in the fight against Covid-19—data from mobile phones.Buckee, the associate director of the School of Public Health’s Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics, had come up with the idea of using location data to study the spread of malaria while doing fieldwork in Kenya in 2011. She led a team of researchers who tracked more than 15 million cellphones for a year to map the way human mobility contributed to the spread of the disease.This year, as Covid-19 began to spread out from its epicentre in China to become a global pandemic, Buckee put her expertise to use to form the Covid-19 Mobility Data Network, connecting epidemiologists from around the world to analyze massive tranches of mobile phone location data to track the efficacy of social-distancing measures, and the spread of the disease. In this email/phone interview with Rudraneil Sengupta, Buckee talks about the intersection of big data and disease control, contract tracing apps and privacy issues, and why predicting the spread of Covid-19 has been so fraught with uncertainties.Has there ever been more interest on aggregating data on a large scale to fight a disease than what we are seeing now?For about 10 years now I’ve been working with mobile phone data in the context of epidemic modelling and trying to understand the spatial spread of human pathogens via human mobility. It’s been slow progress because of the regulatory frameworks and the privacy frameworks—there is reticence to share data and scepticism about its utility. But in the last four months, since the beginning of the pandemic, it’s become abundantly clear to the world that actually this data is incredibly useful. So we have seen an outpouring of data from different kinds of providers—mobile phone companies, but also Facebook and Google and others. It has led to a proliferation of work that builds on a lot of what we have been doing for a long time, but it’s happening in a somewhat unregulated way. It’s exciting what’s happening, but also there is some cause for concern that we are putting the cart before the horse. We really need to take care in the interpretation of these data sets and ensure that they are actually answering policy-relevant questions. We also need to make sure that we are aggregating this data in a way that protects privacy.What are the correct privacy protocols?I should distinguish between contact tracing apps and what we are doing. What we are doing is always aggregated in time and space so you can never identify an individual in that data. There are different ways of doing that; you can use differential privacy, which basically means adding a layer of noise, so it jitters the positions—the signal is fine, but the details can’t be figured out. Also you never go down to the spatial resolution where there are too few devices in a particular area. A lot of times we aggregate in a way that’s memory-less—you can’t tell that this individual went here and then there—you can only tell that X number of people moved between city A and city B on this day.For the contact tracing apps, obviously when you consent to take part in it, you are saying you are giving up your data to be analysed.You could argue that boots-on-the-ground contact tracing is also invasive and also involves collection of individual data, but the problem with digital contact tracing is that it’s more opaque. Who has access to the data? Who controls the data? How is it being used? Is there a deadline for destroying it? Contact tracing apps open up a whole new realm of questions as to what’s appropriate and in what context and it will be effective. It remains to be seen what the efficacy of these apps will be in places where the health system is not very strong. I am not sure they will be effective and I think the risk of undermining public trust further and the potential for misuse of the data and spurious false positives, poor sensitivity and specificity, are all problematic.Like the app we are using here, Aarogya Setu, where you self-declare symptoms...the feeling is, a lot of people will not complyYou need high compliance for these apps to work, and if the incentives are not there and the trust is not there then you won’t get sufficient compliance. If you try to make it mandatory then you will certainly not get honest reporting of symptoms. The second thing is that Bluetooth devices are not perfect, neither have they been tested yet. We don’t know the extent of false positives—the app may think you are close to somebody, but actually you are in an office building and behind a wall. These apps are going to have very variable false positivity rates, a lot of spurious pings, as well as false negative rates because not everybody is compliant, not everyone has a smartphone, and so on. Also can the health system even respond in a meaningful way to whatever data is coming from these apps?What about people who cannot afford social distancing?Strict quarantine and social distancing may not be appropriate everywhere. There’s also this issue of how to even think about isolating people in the context of an urban slum—it’s a very difficult problem. There are a set of approaches that’s been tried in refugee camps and low income settings that are crowded and they involve simple things like separating out infected people from susceptible people, masks, and this concept of immune shielding—though we still don’t know the extent of immunity or protection.What’s that?Usually, if you have some vulnerable groups, our tendency is to try and put them all in one place and then protect that place. But there is this idea that once you have people who have already had Covid-19, you should actually mix them in with the vulnerable population, and they will act as immune shields. For example, people who are already immune are given the task of taking care of elderly people.What are the biggest challenges you face when you try to model the way the disease may behave?The biggest one is not knowing how many cases there are. That affects all models. If you are not testing enough, if you have mild or no symptoms….then we don’t know where we are with the epidemic and we don’t know where the cases are. Without that underlying data, all the models become uncertain, we just don’t know where we are with the epidemic curve.For longer-term forecasts, we don’t know about immunity, so we don’t know how protective it is or how long that lasts, and that has an impact on whether we can expect seasonal outbreaks in the future.There’s a big question on how infectious children are and how much they are contributing. There is some data that suggests that children may be less infectious, but it’s still a big uncertaintyAll of these epidemiological models also make some assumption on the contact rate—how many people do you come in close contact with every day? That’s a very hard thing to measure or make sense of given the various interventions. We don’t really know what impact it has had on the number of exposures people have every day, so that’s a major source of uncertainty.Where do we stand right now?The answer depends on whether we will see seasonal effects. For most countries, we are well into the first wave of the epidemic, and the lockdowns that have happened has in many places flattened the curve by reducing the contact rate. The big question is the extent to which we will have massive resurgence as we reopen, and when the highest risk for that resurgence is. The northe||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandatory-contact-tracing-apps-will-not-elicit-honest-symptom-reporting-harvard-epidemiologist/story-53ElL9Ui8uKIXaPvb00SwN.html
04-06-2020||India||Lockdown avoided Covid fatalities, but may cost lives indirectly: Study||The lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India will have a lingering impact on lives, not just livelihoods, a working paper by two prominent economists has said, identifying violence, starvation, indebtedness and extreme stress as consequences of the shutdown that was in place in the last two months.The working paper titled Interim Report on India’s Lockdown, submitted to American non-profit research agency National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), analyses the philosophy of the lockdown in the Indian context, its impact, as well as the administration’s response to mitigate these consequencesLockdowns, the authors contend, have been propelled across the world by the “enormous visibility” of Covid-19 fatalities. While in advanced economies, the cost of reducing these visible deaths is a “dramatic reduction” in overall economic activity, in India, “a developing country with great sectoral and occupational vulnerabilities, this dramatic reduction is more than economic: it means lives lost,” says the paper by professors Debraj Ray and S Subramanian.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe lives lost as a consequence of the lockdown will be invisible, the paper says, adding: “It is this conjunction of visibility and invisibility that drives the Indian response. The lockdown meets all international standards so far; the relief package none.” Ray teaches at the New York University while Subramanian, a retired professor from Madras Institute of Development Studies, is a former member of the advisory board of the World Bank’s Commission on Global Poverty.India’s nationwide lockdown was enforced first on March 25, before it was diluted in phases over the next three months. The period was marked by a widespread return of low-paid urban migrants, who undertook gruelling journeys by foot, on illegally running trucks and crammed into special trains to return to their villages and home towns after losing their jobs. Since June 1, India has been in the first phase of Unlock. Union government officials have said the lockdown was successful in slowing the spread of the disease and buying time to improve infrastructure. The government last month announced a ₹20 lakh crore relief package but analysts have said that the actual government spending in the package could be much lower. “Lives lost through violence, starvation, indebtedness and extreme stress, are invisible, in the sense that they will diffuse through category and time. Someone will die of suicide. A woman will be killed in an episode of domestic violence. The police might beat a protestor to death. The deaths will occur not just now, but months and years from now, as mounting starvation and indebtedness and chronic illnesses take their collective toll,” the authors write. The authors cite three structural features that makes the Indian population vulnerable to a lockdown in the absence of welfare relief measures. “The first has to do with the ubiquity of casual labour, accounting for well over 20% of all Indian households — such individuals are particularly vulnerable. “The second is the preponderance of informal production — well over half of India’s GDP is produced in the informal sector — and these are activities which cannot be easily taken online... “Third, median household savings are low, and inadequate to take an estimated 38% of all households through even a 21-day lockdown (we are currently on our way to two months) if all their employment dries up,” the authors contend.As of Wednesday, India has 216,677 cases. On Tuesday, Indian Council of Medical Research scientist Nivedita Gupta said the country was still “very far away from the peak”. Public health experts have said that this could inevitably force federal and local authorities to bring back lockdown curbs, a measure that one of the authors of the NBER working paper described “as an even worse idea” compared to the first lockdown. “A severely comprehensive and draconian lockdown, and furthermore one without compensating welfare measures in place, was never a good idea, and is an even worse idea now in the light of the costs of the lockdown till date—costs in terms of loss of lives, loss of employment, loss of incomes, and the neglect of other (non-Covid-related) morbidities,” Subramanian said in an interview over email to HT.Subramanian added that the government will need to take a slew of measures if it is to consider such an intervention again. He divided these steps into five specific areas: (1) Adopt genuine fiscal policy measures such as “spend substantially more on compensating relief measures, raise more resources through rudimentary taxation of the wealth of the super-rich, and not rely predominantly on supply-side strategies such as liquidity expansion involving the channelling of credit through banks”;(2) Address “supply-side constraints in the form of physical bottlenecks—restrictions on mobility, closed mandis, etc -- still waiting to be eased”;(3) Deal “with the states of the Union in a genuine spirit of partnership and assistance, beginning at least with settling their dues in terms of their share of revenue from GST”; (4) See “the wisdom of engaging a panel of public health specialists, epidemiologists, social workers, economists, other social scientists, trades unions, and opposition politicians who all have a stake in this country,” and;(5) Address “both the epidemiological and social security problems that are upon us in a spirit of openness, mutuality, and special respect for those rendered most vulnerable by both the material and social burdens imposed by the pandemic.” The panel that Subramanian suggested in the fourth point should be in a position to advise on the merits of selective lockdown that “discriminates both geographically and with respect to specific industries and economic activity.” “The panel can also assist with identifying and overseeing the implementation of key relief measures—both cash and in-kind—which have been suggested by several commentators,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-avoided-covid-fatalities-but-may-cost-lives-indirectly-study/story-xNbF4l9YwQp0ituXWiUEiI.html
04-06-2020||India||Study dismissing benefits of malaria drugs under lens||The Lancet has alerted its readers that it is reviewing the data and methods of a study published in it that claimed the malaria drugs, hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine, provided coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients no benefits while raising the risk of abnormal heart rhythms and death after scientists, clinicians and governments questioned its validity.The review has put the spotlight on Surgisphere, a Chicago-based company that owns the questionable database that has been used in studies published in The Lancet and also New England Journal of Medicine, the world’s two most highly-cited medical journals.An investigation by the The Guardian revealed that Surgisphere has a sci-fi author and an adult-content model among its handful of employees; that employees have little or no data or scientific training; and that it has provided data for multiple studies on Covid-19 co-authored by its chief executive Sapan Desai. The investigation further shows that the company has consistently failed to adequately explain its data source or methodology. Desai has been named in three medical malpractice suits, unrelated to the Surgisphere database, according to The Guardian.The study, published by The Lancet on May 22, drew flak for using questionable data and flawed methodology and refusing to share data sources, including the names of participating hospitals or countries. Last week, around 120 leading scientists and clinicians wrote an open letter to the study’s authors and The Lancet asking for details about the provenance of the data and called for the study to be independently validated by the World Health Organization (WHO) or another independent body.“Important scientific questions have been raised about data reported in the paper by Mandeep Mehra et al— hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine with or without a macrolide for treatment of Covid-19: a multinational registry analysis—published in The Lancet on May 22, 2020. Although an independent audit of the provenance and validity of the data has been commissioned by the authors not affiliated with Surgisphere and is ongoing, with results expected very shortly, we are issuing an Expression of Concern to alert readers to the fact that serious scientific questions have been brought to our attention. We will update this notice as soon as we have further information,” said a statement issued by The Lancet on Wednesday.The Lancet’s editor-in-chief Richard Horton tweeted The Guardian link, calling it “an important investigation---Governments and WHO changed Covid-19 policy based on suspect data from US company,” which led to angry responses questioning the quality of peer review in medical journals.“The key concerns for us were that the data was questionable and there were clear differences in the hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine treated group that made analysis unreliable and any results misleading. If not for the name of the journal, the paper would have not have been taken as seriously. I do not think there is any lasting harm. What you see is the scientific process of self-correction. There was a questionable paper, questions were asked, The Lancet has put out an expression of concern regarding the paper. Let us wait and see. The truth will come out by this process,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.Dr Agrawal is among India’s top scientists who have also written to WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan questioning the health agency’s decision to suspend hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine part of the multi-country Solidarity Trial following The Lancet study. The letter said the WHO decision to pause trial is “knee-jerk” because the database is flawed and the malaria drugs were given to the sickest patients.“We are not saying that hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine are totally safe or that there is any certain benefit. Nobody knows. All we are saying is that the risks and benefit of hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine are open questions that need to be answered. Being inexpensive and potentially available worldwide, trials must continue. Until good evidence comes, national regulatory bodies should take decisions based on their context,” said Dr Agrawal.In a statement on Friday, The Lancet study’s author Dr Mandeep R. Mehra, professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School and executive director of the Brigham and Women’s Hospital Center for Advanced Heart Disease in Boston, said this group’s study “leveraged the data available through Surgisphere to provide observational guidance to inform the care of hospitalized Covid-19 patients” because the results of randomized clinical trials would not be available for some time”. He said the study’s authors have asked for an independent academic audit.Scientists who wrote and signed the letter criticising the study included clinicians, researchers, statisticians and ethicists from universities and medical institutes, including Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, University of Pennsylvania, Vanderbilt University and Duke University.France’s health minister Olivier Veran wrote to the scientific journal with questions about the underlying data after it was criticized for the data used in the study, French government spokeswoman Sibeth Ndiaye said after a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday.In the absence of a treatment or vaccine, two of the major drugs being repurposed to treat Covid-19 are the tried and tested malarial drugs hydoxychloroquine and chloroquine, which US President Donald Trump told White House reporters he has been having prevent infection.India is the world’s biggest producer of hydroxychloroquine, which is approved for use as a prophylaxis and given to asymptomatic health workers and contacts of Covid-19 patients since March 23. This was expanded to include frontline workers from May 22 on the basis of a study by Indian Council Of Medical Research that found that having four or more doses of hydroxychloroquine lowers the odds of getting infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease. The study, published in Indian Journal of Respiratory Research earlier this week, said the malaria drug lowered the risk of infection by 80% if taken as recommended. The National Task Force for coronavirus in India recommended a once a week maintenance dose for seven weeks -- 400 mg once every week, following the loading dose of 400 mg.A cheap, safe and widely available drug that has been used to treat malaria for at least a century, hydroxychloroquine is also approved to treat lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-dismissing-benefits-of-malaria-drugs-under-lens/story-rgiW21UU3r1QstQI1eVdgK.html
04-06-2020||India||Govt to conduct skill mapping of returned workers||With millions of migrant workers returning home, from other parts of India and from other countries, the union cabinet approved a scheme, SWADES or Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support to conduct a skill mapping exercise of these workers .The scheme is a joint initiative of the skill ministry, the ministry of civil aviation and the ministry of external affairs which aims to create a database of qualified citizens based on their skillsets and experience to tap into and fulfil demand of Indian and foreign companies.Government officials who asked not to be named said that the scheme is a part of the government’s overall plan to ensure targeted welfare and job opportunities for workers who have returned home .The lockdown imposed to fight the coronavirus pandemic, and the economic consequences of it have seen many Indians returning home. “This aims at empowering the returning citizens with relevant employment opportunities,” tweeted the government-run Press Information Bureau.“The collected information will be shared with the companies for suitable placement opportunities in the country,” the government said in a statement.“The returning citizens are required to fill up an online SWADES Skills Card. The card will facilitate a strategic framework to provide the returning citizens with suitable employment opportunities through discussions with key stakeholders including State Governments, Industry Associations and Employers,” the statement added.Union skill development minister Mahendra Nath Pandey said, “We are pleased to partner with the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Ministry of External Affairs to conduct this skill mapping of overseas returning citizens under the Vande Bharat Mission.The data collected through SWADES Skill Card will help the citizens with job prospects and bridge the demand-supply gap.”Millions of Indians stranded abroad have registered at the various Indian missions to return to India and so far, more than 57,000 people have already come back. Millions of migrant workers from large Indian cities have also returned home over the past few months (and especially in May). Former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra said, “such a data base will improve efficiency in the indian markets and help local companies who will now need more skilled people to find it easily through the government database. It will also benefit workers to get desired job in his state “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-conduct-skill-mapping-of-returned-workers/story-J7U6LIetB21w9Nir62tUaI.html
04-06-2020||India||Modi government doubles down on farm liberalisation||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday announced far-reaching steps to unshackle the country’s farm sector, approving amendments to the six-decade-old Essential Commodities Act and pushing two ordinances, one aimed at freeing up farm trade from all restrictions and the other guaranteeing a legal framework for pre-agreed prices to farmers. All these steps, which bring the full force of liberalisation to the farm economy, were announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on May 15 in the second of her series of briefings last month on proposed reforms.On May 12, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, announced a package worth Rs 20 lakh crore to spur growth. The economy grew 3.1% in the March quarter, an 11-year-low, pulling down full-year economic growth to 4.2% in the year ended March 31, compared with 6.1% in the previous fiscal. The Essential Commodities Act 1955 is mainly used to curb inflation by empowering the Union and state governments to dictate quantities traders can store and also restrict the movement of any commodity deemed “essential”. Under the law, the government generally imposes stock limits to discourage hoarding of items such as pulses and vegetables. The law was handy during the 1980s when India was still a net importer of food items. The country’s increasing food surpluses have made the law archaic. The country had 100 million tonne of foodgrains in warehouses across India at the end of April. The country’s annual requirement under various welfare programmes is 60 million tonne. India is likely to produce a record 292 million tonne of food grains in 2019-20. According to official data released on June 2, total vegetable output during 2019-20 stood at 320 million tonne, 3.13% higher than the previous year.“Farmers have been unable to get better prices due to lack of investment in cold storage, processing and export as the entrepreneurial spirit gets dampened due to hanging sword of Essential Commodities Act,” the government said in a statement on Wednesday. Since large stocks held by traders can be outlawed under the ECA 1955 anytime, they tend to buy far less than their usual capacity and farmers often suffer huge losses during surplus harvests of perishables. Such laws have kept poor farmers poor by restricting opportunities to export when global crop prices go up, according to a landmark 2018 study by the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), a grouping of 36 countries, and the New Delhi-based research firm ICRIER.“These are major reforms that will ultimately liberalise the farm sector and free it from dated rules. We need to corporatize agriculture and these moves are aimed at getting more investments and reducing dependencies on the government,” said NR Bhanumurthy, a professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, New Delhi. The agriculture sector, which supports half of all Indians, hasn’t been generating enough revenues to keep farmers profitable for nearly two decades due to trade restrictions and an obsession with keeping food prices low to avoid inflation, according to the OECD-ICRIER study mentioned above. The ECA 1955 allowed for trade restrictions specifically designed to keep domestic food inflation low, including frequent ban on exports, a source of high farm income. The ECA will be amended and cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes will be removed from the list of essential commodities. “This will remove fears of private investors of excessive regulatory interference,” an official statement said. Restrictions can only be clamped during “war, famine, extraordinary price rise and natural calamity”, a Cabinet note said.The government hopes scaling back the ECA 1955 will help drive up investment in cold storages and the food supply chain. Cold storages are refrigerated warehouses that can store perishables for up to six months. Refrigerated old stocks can cool food prices in times of scarcity. The Cabinet also followed up on Sitharaman’s announcement to free up farm trade by approving ‘The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020’. The ordinance will effectively bring the curtains down on the decades-old agricultural produce market committees regulations (APMC) system that regulates buying and selling of farm produce.APMC regulations require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area where farmers reside, rather than in an open market, scuttling price discovery.Ushered in during the 1960s, APMC regulations were meant to protect farmers from distress selling. Over time, these have often acted as cartels and monopolies, evidence suggests. In December 2010, when onion prices peaked, a probe by the country’s statutory anti-monopoly body, the Competition Commission of India, revealed that one firm accounted for nearly a fifth of the total onion trade for that month at Lasalgoan APMC, Asia’s largest onion market in Maharashtra’s Nashik.These reforms in “agricultural marketing” have been a long time in the making and various government panels and economists have often argued for changing existing structures of agricultural trade.The government’s 2017 ‘Doubling of Farmers’ Income’ report had called for greater liberalisation of the farm sector by “removing laws that force farmers to sell to local monopolies”.The ordinance will pave the way for barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade of farm goods outside the physical premises of markets notified under APMCs, the Cabinet note said. The Cabinet also approved ‘The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020’, which will effectively usher new rules for contract farming and futures. These rules have not yet been notified. “The ordinance will empower farmers for engaging with processors, aggregators, large retailers, exporters etc., on a level playing field without any fear of exploitation,” the Cabinet’s note said.The ordinance is the first Indian law to shift the risk of farming from farmers to large buyers and aggregators by potentially ushering a legal framework where contract farming will be undertaken at pre-assured prices. This will protect farmers from price crashes. “There could be initial hiccups though. States might have to be taken on board and issues of risk mitigation have to be addressed,” Bhanumurthy said. “On the whole, these are far-reaching reforms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-can-now-sell-produce-outside-states-notified-markets/story-RvQKsFEirrRg8CX8ucatqM.html
04-06-2020||India||Abducted Indian engineers were freed in exchange for Taliban members: UN report||Three Indian engineers kidnapped in Afghanistan in 2018 were freed last year by the Taliban in exchange for 11 members of the militant group, including a commander sanctioned by the United States, according to a UN report.The report, from the UN Security Council’s analytical support and sanctions monitoring team, said that in October 2019, “11 Taliban were released from Bagram Airfield detention facility in exchange for three Indian engineers who had been kidnapped in Afghanistan”.The Taliban members who were released “included former shadow governors Sheikh Abdul Rahim…and Mawlawi Rashid Baluch,” the report said.Rahim is believed to have been appointed by the Haqqani Network, which is perceived as close to the Pakistani security establishment. Baluch was sanctioned in 2015 by the US treasury department, which emphasised his role in “the Taliban and Al-Qaida nexus”, the report added.It is believed the three Indians were part of a group of seven engineers kidnapped from Afghanistan’s northern Baghlan province in May 2018. One of the men was freed in March last year and the fate of the others remains unknown.The engineers were working on power projects run by the Afghan government when they were kidnapped.At the time of the release of the three engineers last year, the Indian government had declined to provide details about how they were freed.The UN report, issued late last month, had focused on the close links between the Afghan Taliban and al-Qaeda and the presence of a large number of foreign fighters in Afghanistan, including some 6,500 Pakistani terrorists. The Pakistani fighters include members of the Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abducted-indian-engineers-were-freed-in-exchange-for-taliban-members-un-report/story-cyiTcMXtZBqWd2PlPay5nM.html
04-06-2020||India||Top Jaish bombmaker killed, hunt for 2 missing car bombs in Kashmir is on||Fauji Bhai alias Abdul Rehman, a top bomb-maker Jaish-e-Mohammed, was among the three terrorists killed in an encounter with security forces in Kashmir’s Pulwama on Wednesday morningThe operation was conducted by a joint team of security personnel that had been tracking Fauji Bhai, also known as Ismail, who has also been linked to the car bomb intercepted in Pulwama district’s Rajpora area on May 27.Inputs available with security forces, however, indicate that there are two more similar car bombs, or vehicle improvised explosive devices (V-IEDs), in Kashmir, that Fauji Bhai, a Pakistani national, had built.Also Watch | Security forces gun down 3 Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists in J&K’s Pulwama“Our information was that Fauji Bhai, also known as Ismail, had fabricated three vehicle IEDs. We seized one of the three on May 27 but there are two more out there, possibly somewhere in Budgam and Kulgam areas,” a top counter-terror official told Hindustan Times.There had been a barrage of intelligence inputs over the last two months about plans by Jaish terrorists to carry out major strikes targeting security forces.The Santro car packed with explosives that was seized by security forces on May 27 was the first of these planned attacks. It was intercepted when it was being taken to a Jaish terrorist Sameer Ahmed Dar of Kakpora, Pulwama by an overground worker.Sameer Ahmed Dar is a relative of Adil Dar, the suicide bomber who drove his Maruti Echo vehicle into a CRPF convoy on 14 February 2019 killing 40 troopers. This terror attack was followed by an Indian launching air strike on a terror facility in Pakistan’s Balakot, and a subsequent dogfight between the air forces of the two neighbouring countries. This time, Sameer Ahmed Dar had offered to drive the vehicle IED into a security camp.Intelligence reports indicate that one of the likely targets of the car bomb was the 44 Rashtriya Rifles camp at Shadimarg, Rajpora, Pulwama.Vijay Kumar, Inspector General Police of Kashmir Range described Fauji Bhai’s elimination in Wednesday’s encounter as a huge success for the security forces, next only to the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen’s Riyaz Naikoo in Kashmir’s Beighpora area of Awantipora last month.Kumar said it could not be verified that he is related to JeM chief Maulana Masood Azhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-jaish-bombmaker-killed-hunt-for-2-missing-car-bombs-in-kashmir-is-on/story-bE8xmHFJEia3pmt5lM1ZyK.html
04-06-2020||India||The invincible India: This Ram-Rahman duo prays together for the world to heal||One of the most moving pictures clicked on Eid, it summarises India’s true spirit! You see two police officers, one a Hindu and the other a Muslim, praying to their respective Gods on the auspicious occasion for the world to heal. On Eid, head constable Askar Khan was on duty in an idgah in Amroha, Uttar Pradesh to enforce the lockdown. When it was time for namaz, Khan prayed to Allah while his boss, SHO Ram Prasad Sharma, stood beside him and did his puja. “As I saw Khan offering namaz, I felt a positive aura. I closed my eyes and did my puja, praying for the world to heal. I think someone took the picture in that moment,” he says.Sharma says that Khan is like a brother to him, and they have been fighting against coronavirus together. “We have fought the deadly virus together. Khan is an amazing person who can even recite Hanuman Chalisa and Gayatri Mantra. And he never misses his namaz and roza. On Eid, we prayed to God together and it was such a happy feeling,” says Sharma.Humbled by the praise, Khan, a native of Gwalra village near Aligarh, says Sharma is an inspiration for him and for the entire city. “Sab ka marg darshan karte hain woh. Us din, jab main namaaz ada kar raha tha, sahib ke mann mein na jaane kya aaya ki woh bhi bhakti mein leen ho gaye (He is the guiding force for all. That day, when I was offering namaaz, don’t know what he felt that he also immersed himself in bhakti),” says Khan.Khan’s father used to offer namaaz five times a day, and that’s how he picked up the habit. And Khan also learnt Gayatri Mantra in his childhood. “There was an Arya Samaj Mahavidyala in my village. I used to attend the hawan there and recite Gayatri Mantra. I get a lot of peace in bhakti, whether it is namaaz or reciting mantras,” says Khan.Khan later learnt Hanuman Chalisa from his friends in the police station.“Those who have very shallow knowledge of religion poison minds. Khuda, Ram, Allah…they are all one. Antar sirf bhashaon ka hai. (just the languages differ),” says Khan.The policeman says that Hindus and Muslims have always lived as one in his village, sharing joy and grief.“Jab bhi Gwalra mein koi baraat aati thi, hum sab mil kar aadar satkaar karte ki gaun ki badnami na ho, Hindu Muslim ka fark beech mein kadapi nahin aaya (Whenever a baraat came to my village, we used to welcome it together to maintain the reputation of our village, there was no difference between Hindus and Muslims),” he says.Khan praises SHO Ram Prasad Sharma for keeping people in Amroha united in a similar fashion. “The atmosphere here is always of love, peace, unity. People celebrate all the festivals together, and the bond is so strong that no one can break it,” he says.The picture of the two cops praying on Eid went viral as soon as someone put it up on social media.IPS Rahul Srivastava says the picture is a celebration our age-old tradition of religious harmony, the richest legacy of India that defines us as Indians. “Once we don the khaki uniform, the boundaries of cast, creed, and religion cease to exist for us forever. Selfless service to human beings is our only religion. I love the way this picture captures the essence of togetherness that India is known for,” he says.“I saw this viral picture on social media. Pluralism will always be the bedrock of our nation. I salute both the cops,” says Utsav Bains, lawyer, Supreme Court.People like Khan and Sharma define the India we love!This is the India that’s worth dying for!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-invincible-india-this-ram-raheem-duo-is-keeping-almora-united/story-BP4OzyqiCJ5dS0D01HLIYN.html
04-06-2020||India||Gujarat engineer claims he got connected to astronauts aboard SpaceX capsule: Report||An engineer from Ahmedabad has claimed he got connected with SpaceX’s maiden manned spaceflight carrying two NASA astronauts into orbit. Adhir Saiyadh, a ham radio enthusiast, claims he got a response from the Crew Dragon astronauts Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken while trying to connect with the International Space Station, reports news agency ANI.“I was on video call with a student explaining how to connect to ISS. It was then that I got a response,” the 58-year-old Ahmedabad resident told ANI. Gujarat: Adhir Saiyadh, a ham radio enthusiast from Ahmedabad, got a response from SpaceX Crew Dragon's astronauts while trying to connect with International Space Station; says,"I was on video call with a student explaining how to connect to ISS, it was then that I got response" pic.twitter.com/QdqnP7u4wqAccording to another report in Ahmedabad Mirror, Saiyadh got connected around the time the astronauts were giving the viewers of NASA TV an interactive tour of the cockpit. “I was on video call with a friend from Valsad, explaining to him the features of a mobile application that helps track ISS. He asked me if we can connect with ISS. I realised that the capsule was to pass over India around then and I decided to try my luck. I coincidentally got connected to their frequency and received a response from one of the commandants of the capsule,” Saiyadh told the Ahmedabad Mirror.A qualified engineer, Saiyadh told the publication that the experience “felt personal” as he got a response from astronaut Doug Hurley when he got connected. He added that the call made him feel that he too, “was a part of the history they made.”In a first of its kind spaceflight, entrepreneur Elon Musk’s company SpaceX became the first private entity to carry NASA astronauts into orbit. A Crew Dragon capsule atop a Falcon 9 rocket, both developed by SpaceX, with Hurley and Behnken, lifted off from the Kennedy Space Center at 3.22 pm EDT on May 30 and docked with the ISS around 19 hours later. The SpaceX’s Crew Dragon flight was also the first time in 11 years that NASA astronauts were launched into space in an American space vehicle and from US soil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-engineer-says-he-got-connected-to-spacex-nasa-spaceflight-report/story-dRuYRQlks4cuHnnvKboneK.html
04-06-2020||India||Cyclone Nisarga latest: Power lines disrupted, houses and roads damaged in Raigad, Mumbai and Thane||Cyclone Nisarga has begun to move from Mumbai and Thane districts towards north Maharashtra after making a landfall in Alibagh in Raigad district with a wind speed ranging between 100-110 kmph on Wednesday afternoon and causing considerable damage to power supply network, roads, houses and trees in the region. Two deaths have been reported due to Cyclone Nisarga in Maharashtra. A 58-year-old man died after an electric pole fell on him at Umte village in Alibag, as Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Wednesday afternoon. Second death was reported from Raigad where a 10-year-boy died after a tree fell on him. So far at least four people had been injured in Ratnagiri, where several houses were also reported to have been damaged.“Four people in Ratnagiri are injured in the cyclone. Several houses in Dapoli and Mandangad tehsil in Ratnagiri district are damaged. The losses will be compensated after assessment,” said Uday Samant, guardian minister, Ratnagiri.According to ground reports, the situation in Alibagh had begun to stabilize with reduction in wind speed and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams posted there are carrying out ground assessment.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has given instructions for maintaining a state of operational readiness and to ensure immediate rescue works as the cyclone moves from Mumbai and Thane to north Maharashtra before it enters Gujarat.Also Read: From Nisarga to Amphan: How do tropical cyclones formNo loss of life has been reported so far from Mumbai metropolitan region as well, however, incidents of uprooted trees falling on roads or on railway tracks and roofs of tin houses getting blown away have been reported after initial assessments. As a precautionary measure, power supply to 8 substations in Panvel has been cut off by Maharashtra state electricity distribution company limited and all consumers have been asked to contact the company’s toll free number in case of electric pole collapse and power outage.Also Read: Cyclone Nisarga: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray shares a list of Dos and Don’ts. Read full list hereEarlier in the afternoon as the cyclone approached Mumbai, nearly 300 people from the Mora Gaon area in Juhu were shifted. 790 people were also evacuated from various villages along coastal zones in Alibag and shifted to temporary cyclone shelters.Indian Coast Guard has mobilised 8 disaster relief teams that have been placed at Dahanu, Mumbai, Murud Janjira and Ratnagiri in the state to respond to any requirement for humanitarian assistance & disaster relief arising due to Cyclone Nisarga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-nisarga-latest-power-lines-disrupted-houses-and-roads-damaged-in-raigad-mumbai-and-thane/story-3iQd1bUalHOj0rbQ4rNY7O.html
04-06-2020||India||Floyd protests: Indian-American hailed as hero after he opens his home for over 70 protesters||An Indian-American, who opened the doors of his home here to over 70 people demonstrating against the custodial killing of George Flyod, has emerged as a hero after he rescued the strangers from the clutches of the police, according to US media reports.The death of 46-year-old African-American, George Floyd, last week in Minneapolis has led to one of the biggest civic unrest in the history of America. Rahul Dubey, who lives in Washington DC, accommodated the large number of people in his house with some adjusting on the couch, some finding space in the rooms, while some were gratified to get rest even on the ledges of the bathtub.“There’s about 75 people in my house. Some have got couch space. There’s a family, a mother and daughter here, that I gave my son’s room to so they get some peace and quiet. Yeah, even the ledges of the bathtub, and no one’s bitching. They’re happy—no, they’re not happy. They’re safe. They’re cheering. “They’re backing each other,” Rahul Dubey, 44, told Esquire magazine in an interview on Tuesday.The day after the Monday’s protests, Dubey appeared in major news media outlets and was hailed as a saviour as those who took shelter in his house started tweeting about it. “Rahul saved lives last night,” one Black Lives Matter activist wrote on Twitter. “He ended this with an inspirational speech about not giving up and keeping up the peaceful fight. What a guy. Thank you Rahul.” “I’m at a house in DC after being pepper sprayed and knocked down by the police. There are about 100 of us in a house surrounded by cops. All the neighbours on this street opened their doors and are tending to protesters. The cops corralled us on this street and sprayed us down,” Allison Lane, one of the protesters, tweeted.In an interview to ABC News affiliate WJLA, Dubey said that it was about 8:30 p.m. that he was sitting outside and saw police set up a brigade on 15 St. and Swann St. that turned into a holding area. People started sitting on his porch and asked if they could charge their phone and use his bathroom, he told the news channel. The protesters left his home after the curfew ended 6 am Tuesday.“I don’t think there was even a choice in what I did, to be honest. The crowd just came racing through like a tornado. ... We had to keep the door open and just kept grabbing people and pulling them in. It’s the same that you would if it’s a storm, and you would have let anyone into your home, I know that,” he told NBC News.Another protestor, identified as Meka, told BuzzFeed that he along with dozens of other protesters, ran into the home of Dubey on Swan Street and spent more than eight hours inside his house to avoid being arrested by Metropolitan Police Department officers.Dubey told BuzzFeed News that it wasn’t a choice to open his door and provide refuge to the mostly young protesters.“If you had seen what was going on in front of my eyes, there was no choice. People were getting pepper-sprayed and beaten and slammed to the ground,” he told the media outlet.“I hope that my 13-year-old son grows up to be just as amazing as they are,” Dubey was quoted as saying by WJLA.Writing for Esquire, Dubey said that his father came to the US as a 19-year-old with just eight dollars in his pocket.“I looked around and saw kids from age 20 to 50 in the house scattered on all three floors and the backyard, and they were safe. They were active. They were asking questions. They were solving problems in little groups, and they are hunkered down here until 6 am. The police have tried to pull them out through trickery like five or six times,” he wrote.“They send decoys to the door, telling them they can’t leave out the front, but if they leave out the back alley, they’ll be safe. I mean, bullshit stuff. They just hijacked the pizza delivery guy for an hour and wouldn’t let us come through. I mean, they faked a 911 call and said ‘yeah, someone called 911,’ but no one did. There’s a lot of emotions,” he said.“I have a 13-year-old son, and luckily he’s with friends and family up in Delaware; he’s coming back tomorrow,” he wrote.“He’s not there, but at the same time, I wish he was because he could see these amazing souls that are in my house are safe and they had every right to be doing what they were doing, and the police didn’t have a right to just beat them down on the street. For now, at least for the next four hours or so, we’re going to be safe here. I’ve never been so excited to get a Ducinni’s pizza in my life,” Dubey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floyd-protests-indian-american-hailed-as-hero-after-he-opens-his-home-for-over-70-protestors/story-xNnVLoNb77S0IRhrvEAlRM.html
