06-06-2020||India||UP’s Covid tally crosses 10,000 mark with 1k cases in 48 hours||Uttar Pradesh recorded a steep spike of 1,000 coronavirus cases in 48 hours, taking the state’s tally past 10,000 cases, according to state health department data. The tally of 10,103 as of Saturday includes 382 fresh cases recorded in the last 24 hours.So far, 268 people have lost their lives to coronavirus, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said.Prasad said utmost vigil during the month of June was required citing the return of migrants and others after interstate movement of people was allowed. There was a need to remain alert to check the spread of the virus, he added.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Warning legal action against those jumping home quarantine, Prasad said violators will be put into administrative quarantine. Migrants constitute 28.26% of the total coronavirus cases in UP.“Till now, 2,856 migrant workers have tested positive out of the total 86,488 samples tested from among 13,19,004 migrants who are under surveillance,” said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer in the health department.He said a death audit was being done for the 268 people who succumbed after testing positive.Among the fresh cases, Kanpur reported the maximum of 32 cases and Bhadohi 28. According to health department data, all the 75 districts of UP, including Agra (939), Lucknow (445), Ghaziabad (403), Noida (623), Kanpur (498), Prayagraj (122), Moradabad (253) and Varanasi (237) have reported Covid cases.The state went past 1,000 cases (1,184) on April 20, 49 days after the first infection was reported from Agra on March 2. It crossed the 2,000-mark eight days later on April 28 with the tally standing at 2,053. 10 days later on May 8, it crossed 3,000-mark to register 3,214 cases, and 4,000-mark was crossed on May 15 with the total reaching 4,057 cases. The 5,000-mark came up on May 20 and the 6,000 mark on May 23.The state’s tally reached 7,000 in another five days on May 28 and shot past 8,000 in three days on May 31. On June 4, the state crossed the 9,000 mark and went past the 10,000 mark on June 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-covid-tally-crosses-10-000-mark-with-1k-cases-in-48-hours/story-odub7FkxCa8jucmeEf856L.html
06-06-2020||India||Ved Marwah: A great leader, ‘cop with a heart’ laid to rest||Ved Prakash Marwah, a former chief of Delhi police who went on to serve as governor of Jharkhand, Manipur and Mizoram, was cremated with full state honours on Saturday, a day after his passing at the age of 87.Marwah often spent time in Goa along with his wife to escape the Delhi winters on account of a lung ailment. He was admitted to a hospital almost three weeks ago after he suffered a fall at his residence in Goa.Marwah was admitted to the hospital almost three weeks back after he suffered a fall at his residence in Goa.He served as the governor of Manipur(1999- 2003), Mizoram (2000-2001) and Jharkhand (2003-2004). Marwah was the police commissioner of Delhi in 1985-88 and served as the third director general of the elite National Security Guard from 1988 to 1990. He was also an adviser to the governors of Jammu and Kashmir and Bihar.“We are deeply saddened at the loss of a great leader of the police force. Sh. Ved Marwah IPS led the force from the front through difficult times and served as a Governor to three states. Our thoughts and prayers are with the family,” Goa’s inspector general of police Jaspal Singh said in a message, describing him as a “cop with a heart.” “Paid final tributes to Shri Ved Marwah...His services and contribution to the nation will always be remembered. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, said.Former chief election commissioner SY Quraishi expressed shock at Marwah’s death.“I am shocked to know that Shri Ved Marwah former CP Delhi passed on. He was once my boss as JS Women’s Development, the best I ever had. He was President @StStephensClg Alumni Assn. I was VP with him. Pray for peace for his soul. @CafeSSC,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ved-marwah-a-great-leader-cop-with-a-heart-laid-to-rest/story-EnYTOyNBAsQLRKzTaYL3gN.html
06-06-2020||India||Nisarga leaves trail of damage in Maharashtra||In Shahabaj village, 17km from Alibag, 28-year-old Ashwini Bhagat and her husband Tanmay are surveying the damage to the roof. Residents of Mumbai, the duo visited their village two months ago and were forced to stay back after the national lockdown was announced on March 25. Last week, a severe cyclonic storm made landfall around 100 km south of Alibag, an elite resort town and a fishing village in Maharashtra’s coastal district of Raigad. At least 500,000 homes, including the Bhagats’ village home, have been damaged by Nisarga in Raigad district alone though a red alert was sounded for seven Konkan districts as well as a few in northern Maharshtra, as well. At least 5000 hectares in Palghar, and 8000 hectares of agricultural cropland in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Raigad and Nashik among other districts have been affected, including farms growing onions and grapes. “The roof of our house has been damaged and we have been living without electricity or water supply for four days now,” Bhagat said. They have been using the invertor for an hour daily, during which time all nine members of their family charge their phones. Water supply has been affected too, Bhagat added.“Officials are saying it will take minimum four days for power supply to be restored. We have been finding it very difficult,” Tanmay said.On Friday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited areas of Alibag and announced ₹100 crore for immediate relief work. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) said that it is working on a war-footing to restore electricity. More than more than 200,000 trees and 15,000 poles have collapsed.The day before the cyclone was to make landfall, the state evacuated several thousand people from the coastline, including 13, 245 in Raigad and 15,080 in Palghar. So while the destruction to life has been minimal -- only six persons have died, and 16 injured across districts -- damage to mobile towers, trees and electricity has been tremendous.In Thal, 8km from Alibag, Mukund Sapre has lost an acre of his farm, completely destroying huge coconut trees, banana and betel nut plantations. “It’s a huge loss for us,” says his grandson, Tejas Vaidya, a resident of Chondhi village, 10km from Alibag.“My mother said that she has not seen something this bad in her life. We could see the trees moving in circles before they collapsed. It was scary,” said 29-year-old Jaydatta Nikalje, resident of Vaibhav Nagar in Alibag. The Nikalje family lost two mango trees and a jackfruit tree.Till Friday, the Nikalje family had lost power supply. “Parts of the town started getting supply only by Saturday morning. Connectivity is still an issue, especially because most of us are working from home owing to the lockdown,” said Nikalje, a digital marketing professional.The last severe cyclonic storm to hit close to Mumbai was in 1961.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nisarga-leaves-trail-of-damage-in-maha/story-tIlaDisMFRrDcgj1UY9B4H.html
06-06-2020||India||Heavy rain likely over central India||A low-pressure area is likely to develop over east-central Bay of Bengal around June 8 that weather scientists are hoping will not intensify into a cyclone, but become a monsoon depression that will bring widespread and very heavy rains to the region.Cyclone Amphan battered Odisha and West Bengal in the east on May 20, causing widespread damage, but the India Meteorological Department (IMD) doesn’s expect a cyclone this time, said scientist Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD. “ It will most likely be a monsoon depression or a low which will bring a lot of rain to central and east India including Odisha, Chhattisgarh and even Vidarbha. In some years such troughs form but not every year,” she said. Parts of Odisha, Chhattigarh and Vidarbha may receive extremely heavy rains (more than 20 cm a day), she said.Cyclones normally don’t develop during the south-west monsoon, which is characterized by strong westerly winds in the lower troposphere (below 5 km) and very strong easterly winds in the upper troposphere (above 9 km). This results in a large vertical wind shear, which inhibits cyclones, according to Regional Specialised Meteorological Centre for Tropical Cyclones. During the rainy season, low pressure systems form along the monsoon trough, which extends from northwest India to north Bay of Bengal. These systems have a short oceanic spell, which is also one of the reasons for inhibiting their development into cyclones.“Odisha, Andhra will get very heavy rainfall first and then other parts of central India starting June 10 for the next three to four days. Monsoon depressions can cause a lot of rain so it is good for our monsoon,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.To be sure, cyclone NIsarga hit Alibaug in Maharashtra’s Raigad last week, bringing heavy rainfall to many parts of the state. In Raigad, the storm snapped power cables, and uprooted trees and electric poles.“Monsoon doesn’t allow these systems to intensify though we had Nisarga in beginning of the monsoon season in the Arabian Sea, which is slightly unusual. All low-pressure systems in the Indian Ocean tend to move in west-northwest direction. They may or may not cross the coast,” said K Sathi Devi, head of the national weather forecasting centre.The new low pressure will develop immediately after remnants of Nisarga disintegrate. The low pressure area was over Bihar and adjoining northeast Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. The south-west monsoon has advanced into some more parts of south interior Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal; most parts of south-west Bay of Bengal, the entire south-east Bay of Bengal; some more parts of east-central Bay of Bengal and some parts of west-central and north-east Bay of Bengal, according to IMD. Conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement of the monsoon during next 2-3 days.The monsoon is likely to cover most parts of Maharashtra; Odisha and peninsular India by June 10 and all of central India by June 20, Mohapatra said.The average annual frequency of tropical cyclones in the north Indian Ocean (Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea) is about five. The frequency is more in the Bay of Bengal than in the Arabian Sea, the ratio being 4:1. May-June and October-November are known to produce cyclones of severe intensity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-over-central-india/story-yMRUq8ZXK70J9enljla07I.html
06-06-2020||India||Govt destroying economy by refusing aid to poor: Rahul||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday alleged that the government was “actively destroying” the country’s economy by “refusing to give cash support to the poor and small and medium enterprises” amid the coronavirus disease pandemic.“Government is actively destroying our economy by refusing to give cash support to people and MSMEs. This is Demon 2.0,” he tweeted, along with a news report on the impact of the pandemic on the economy and the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector. The opposition party has been demanding immediate cash assistance of Rs 10,000 to the poor and an economic stimulus package for the MSME industry to tide over the crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic.Gandhi has also urged the government to make a monthly transfer Rs 7,500 to the poor and migrant workers for a period of six months.The Congress has argued that MSMEs contributed close to one third of the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP), accounted for almost 50% of exports and employed over 110 million people.Without appropriate support, over 6.3 crore MSME units stand on the verge of economic ruin, the opposition party has claimed.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, dismissed Gandhi’s charge.“For the first time despite being forced to stay in the country for so long, Gandhi has not found time to keep himself abreast with the announcements made by the government, especially related to the MSME sector, the poor and the marginalised as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-destroying-economy-by-refusing-aid-to-poor-rahul/story-FEnNyaJlC8wqr3h0y1Se4H.html
06-06-2020||India||Two Odisha undertrials, assistant professor and CISF sub-inspector test positive for Covid-19||Two undertrials lodged in Berhampur Circle Jail, an assistant professor, a sub-inspector of CISF deployed at Bhubaneswar’s Biju Patnaik airport and anganwadi workers engaged in quarantine centres were among those who tested positive for Covid-19 as Odisha posted its highest single-day surge of 173 cases on Saturday, taking the overall count of registered infections in the state to 2,781.State health and family welfare department officials said Covid epicentre of Ganjam district had reported 64 new cases including two people who were arrested on June 3 and 4 in connection with a murder case. The two accused lodged in Berhampur circle jail had been to a community feast with some migrant workers who had returned from outside the state. Swab samples of both accused were sent for Covid test before they were sent to the jail. The total number of coronavirus infected patients in Ganjam is now 597.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesGanjam district collector Vijay Kulange said around 20 police personnel involved in the arrest of the two accused have been asked to remain under quarantine. The first instance of an accused testing positive for coronavirus was reported earlier from Puri’s Kumbharpada police station.Ganjam is one of the 11 districts (Jajpur, Ganjam, Puri, Nayagarh, Khurda, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore and Bolangir) in the state, where two-day shutdown is being observed on Saturdays and Sundays, beginning today as people had stopped following social distancing norms.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19In Bhubaneswar, an assistant professor working with Institute of Chemical Technology of Indian Oil Corporation and a sub-inspector of CISF jawan working at Biju Patnaik airport were among the five persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. The total number of positive cases in Bhubaneswar has now gone up to 86, including 32 active cases and three deaths. As many as 51 patients have been cured.A steady rise in the number of local contact cases--- people catching infection outside quarantine centres—was worrying the state government. While 27 local contact cases have been detected between May 15 and 30, 95 such cases were recorded between May 31 and June 6.In a related development, a 6-year-old boy today died at a quarantine centre in Nuapada district, a day after he arrived with his migrant labourer parents from Andhra Pradesh. The child suffered from fever and had loose motions after arriving at the quarantine centre. However, the sarpanch refused to take the patient to a hospital at night and he passed away a few hours later, said the parents of the child.Three departments of Odisha’s biggest university, Utkal University, in Bhubaneswar were sealed today after an employee’s contact tested positive for Covid-19. The departments of Philosophy, English and Economics departments have been sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-odisha-undertrials-assistant-professor-and-cisf-sub-inspector-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-SEtIcZykox8uZnTtQUxAgJ.html
06-06-2020||India||Goa registers 71 new Covid-19 cases, highest so far||Goa witnessed it’s biggest spike in Covid-19 cases with 71 persons found positive on Friday, taking Goa’s tally to 267. Total 62 persons were found positive within the containment zone at Mangor Hill, a locality at the port town of Vasco da Gama. Goa has seen a huge spike in Covid-19 cases this week with 47 cases reported on Tuesday, 40 on Wednesday, 30 on Thursday and taking this week’s total to 188 or 70% of the total coronavirus cases registered in the state. Health authorities began extensive testing of people within the containment zone after a symptomatic patient with no known travel history emerged and was admitted to hospital in a breathless state. The testing led to the discovery of 136 positive cases within the containment zone. Besides those within the containment zone, nine persons entering the state were found positive -- three flying in from Delhi, three via train and three via road from Maharashtra and Karnataka. As per the current protocol, all patients found positive including asymptomatic are being admitted to the dedicated Covid-19 hospital. The 220 bed hospital is fast filling up with 202 of the 220 beds currently occupied. Health authorities have assured the state that a ‘back up’ hospital has been kept should the need arise for more patients to be admitted. “With the recent upsurge of Covid-19 cases in the state, I would like to make a humble appeal to the people of the state to remain calm while the government is taking all the necessary measures to keep Goa safe,” Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-registers-71-new-covid-19-cases-highest-so-far/story-BSDNlyRxvmepdI7BkFFeJI.html
06-06-2020||India||Karnataka BJP suggests 3 names to party high command for 2 RS seats it can win||The core committee of the Karnataka Bharatiya Janata Party unit which met in Bangalore on Saturday has recommended the names of Prabhakar Kore, Ramesh Katti and Prakash Shetty to the party high command for the upcoming Rajya Sabha polls. The BJP, given its strength in the assembly, can easily win two seats and would need 15 more votes in case of it deciding to field a third candidate.The meeting which took place at the state party headquarters in Malleshwaram was attended by state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, cabinet ministers Jagadish Shettar, C T Ravi, R Ashoka, K S Eshwarappa, Deputy CM Govind Karajola as well as senior leaders including C M Udasi. Union ministers D V Sadananda Gowda, Prahalad Joshi and general secretary in charge of the Karnataka unit Muralidhara Rao and D Purandareswari who is co-in-charge participated via a video conference.While the core committee is said to have discussed various names including those of media and transport baron Vijay Sankeshwar-- a former two-term Lok Sabha MP, Tejaswini - social activist and wife of former union minister and BJP stalwart Ananth Kumar, Sudha Murthy - philanthropist and wife of Infosys co-founder N R Narayana Murthy, K V Kamath - former ICICI bank chief, Prof M Nagaraj - a Sangh ideologue from Northern Karnataka and a few others, it finally decided to recommend the names of Kore, Katti and Shetty for the party high command’s final consideration.Prabhakar Kore is an education baron who controls about 250 educational institutions in Karnataka and Maharashtra under the Karnataka Lingayat Education (KLE) society and is a current Rajya Sabha member whose term will end on June 25.The second name is that of Ramesh Katti, who is the brother of eight-term MLA Umesh Katti, a prominent BJP leader from Northern Karnataka. Ramesh Katti narrowly lost out the BJP Lok Sabha ticket from the Chikkodi parliamentary seat and the brothers have been pressurising CM Yediyurappa to keep what they say is his promise to send the younger Katti sibling to the upper house of parliament.The last name on the list is Prakash Shetty a hospitality and real estate entrepreneur who runs a chain of hotels. The BJP may decide to field a third candidate only if somebody like Shetty can ensure the additional 15 votes required to get elected. A member needs 44 votes to win. Sources in the party said that they had requested the high command to field only two candidates as they would be short of 15 votes for a third candidate. “Finally the high command will decide the names from the list recommended or decide to have its own names. Since Tuesday is the last day for nominations, we expect the names to be announced on Sunday. We have not decided what we would do with the additional votes,” said a senior leader of the party who didn’t want to be identified after the core committee meeting.Congress has already announced veteran party leader Mallikarjuna Kharge as its candidate, while JD(S) which has 34 MLAs and would require 10 additional votes to get its candidate elected says party supremo HD Deve Gowda is yet to take a call on contesting. The elections are scheduled for June 19 and the last day of nominations is June 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bjp-suggests-3-names-to-party-high-command-for-2-rs-seats-it-can-win/story-ealmbnaHHz8LiwLNpgDOnN.html
06-06-2020||India||Man arrested, juvenile apprehended for killing member of rival group in Delhi||A 26-year-old man was arrested and a juvenile was apprehended in west Delhi’s Dabri area for allegedly killing a member of a rival group in May, police said on Saturday. According to police, three people had opened fire at Gaurav and Vicky on May 20 to establish their supremacy in the area. Gaurav was killed, while his associate Vicky sustained a bullet injury during the attack, police said. Vicky told police about the accused following which one of the three men was arrested on May 29. Gulfam was arrested near Dada Dev Hospital. During interrogation, he told police about his two associates -- Nitish Tiwari and a juvenile. Gulfam said he had met Tiwari in a jail who had asked him to kill Vicky and Gaurav in exchange of Rs one lakh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said. Based on a tip-off, police laid out a trap near JJ Colony in Bindapur around 9 pm on Friday and arrested Tiwari, he said. The juvenile was also apprehended in connection with the case, the DCP added. PTI NIT SNE SNE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-juvenile-apprehended-for-killing-member-of-rival-group-in-delhi/story-zjn5LhXM3uflREaHExROJK.html
06-06-2020||India||In lockdown nightmare, 9-year-old boy sexually harassed by hostel warden in Dehradun: Cops||Police on Saturday arrested a 30-year-old hostel warden of a boarding school in Dehradun for allegedly assaulting and sexually harassing a 9-year-old third standard student who was stranded during the lockdown.Police said the incident happened about one month ago in the hostel of the boarding school where the victim was stranded as his parents could not come to take him home in Uttar Pradesh due to the lockdown. The child was the only student left in the school.The incident came to light on Saturday when they finally reached school to take their son and the boy’s parents lodged a complaint in the evening, said police. SK Rawat, sub-inspector, Raipur police station said, “On Saturday the boy’s parents lodged a complaint stating that her son was stuck alone in the hostel due to the lockdown. Following the recent relaxations in lockdown when they reached school to take him with them, the school staffers were initially hesitant to let him go with them. However, when they sternly requested, they allowed the boy to go.”“It was then the boy narrated his ordeal that the accused hostel warden Harish Kumar used to often assault him and forced him to clean his room. He also harassed him sexually. Shocked, the parents then immediately reached the police station and lodged the complaint,” said Rawat. The police officer informed that following the complaint, a case was immediately registered against Kumar. “He was booked for aggravated sexual act under section 9/10 of PoCSO Act and voluntarily causing hurt under section 321 and 323 of IPC. He was immediately arrested from the school premises. Police will present him in a court tomorrow,” said Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-year-old-boy-stranded-in-dehradun-school-hostel-sexually-harassed-by-warden-police/story-BUUnI9Qs3O0TONDiph4TQN.html
06-06-2020||India||‘Actor in me is still unsatiated…’||After a series of stellar performances in his over a decade old career, actor Gautam Rode says the actor in him is still unsatiated. “As I was trying for a job in Mumbai for better living, I never knew I will become an actor someday. I bagged a few modelling assignments that brought me into the industry. After TV happened, I realised that I can actually switch to the character, I’m portraying in front of the camera, quite comfortably. Since I had no formal training, I learned the hard way so how can the actor in me get contented?” he said over the phone.Known for his titular roles in ‘Saraswatichandra’ and ‘Suryaputra Karn’, Gautam feels, “Whenever television has come with shows that are from a different league, audiences have always appreciated them. Like ‘Saraswatichandra’ was based on a Gujarati novel written in 80s and imagine the show went ahead and become a cult in 2013-14. And had a broadcast in 47 countries. So, it’s all about what goes down well with the audience else shows like ‘Mahakumbh- Ek Rahasaya’, ‘Ek Kahani’ or ‘Kaal Bhairav Rahasya Season 2’ wouldn’t have been so well appreciated as they were nowhere near the regular stuff happening on TV.”The suave actor has not only worked on diverse platforms including films but has experimented with different genres. “I am absolutely comfortable in all genres because at the end of the day, an artiste is expected to pull off every emotion convincingly. And then it’s my job and I am paid for it. As far as different platforms are concerned, I have also been fan of finite shows as they work on similar pattern like films where you know when the story will end.”Last seen playing a cameo in the ongoing show ‘Bhakharwadi,’ Gautam was about to make his OTT debut with a digital film. “Yes, it was all set and if this lockdown wouldn’t have happened, I would have completed the film by now. But due to this outbreak now it will now happen later. Though the good part is that state government has come with a set of guidelines for TV and web shoots to start in a few weeks. So, there is hope for all of us now to get back to work else we would just sit home mastering our household skills,’ said the ‘Aksar 2’ actor.Married to Lucknowite, actor Pankhuri Awasthy, Gautam wishes to come back to the city as soon as things get better. “I haven’t been to my in-laws place for long now. Also, Pankhuri to wants to visit Lucknow. So, we will plan something soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/actor-in-me-is-still-unsatiated/story-1amPVLHbfZsGwbvbIh0FYP.html
06-06-2020||India||CBI takes over probe into alleged harassment, death of Pardhi tribe woman in MP||The Central Bureau of Investigation has taken over probe into the death of Indermal Bai, a woman from the de-notified Pardhi tribe in Madhya Pradesh.Pardhi community was branded as a criminal tribe by the British along with 150 other tribes for rebelling against the regime and was forced to live outside cities in camps. After independence, the Criminal Tribes Act was repealed in 1952 and the tribe was de-notified. However, cases of harassment of the Pardhi community at the hands of police and administration have often been reported over the last seven decades.The agency was asked by the Madhya Pradesh high court to probe the death of Indermal Bai, a resident of Pardhi mohalla in Gandhi Nagar (Bhopal), who had set herself on fire on November 17, 2017 in front of four police officers – Gajraj, Dheeraj, Sandeep and Rajeshwar Yadav.It was alleged that the police officers used to harass her regularly demanding Rs 20,000 bribe and threatened her that if she didn’t pay, she will be implicated in a false case. She had even filed a complaint before the Collector against the police officers but the harassment did not stop.On November 17, 2017, Indermal Bai was incited by the officers to commit suicide. She succumbed to her injuries three days later, but not before recording her dying declaration.The police, instead of taking action against the officers, claimed she caught fire by accident.In its order in November last year, Madhya Pradesh high court observed that why police personnel, if present at the spot during the incident, didn’t take any action to stop the deceased from immolating herself needs to be probed.The court also noted that the police didn’t conduct a forensic test on the clothes seized from the deceased and it failed to take into account statements of witnesses present there.CBI has filed the FIR on Friday naming all four police officers, who will be examined soon, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-takes-over-probe-into-alleged-harassment-death-of-pardhi-tribe-woman-in-mp/story-YpU3iHn4RbaJbDthhudE5N.html
06-06-2020||India||Man beats 5-month-old stray puppy to death; arrested||A man has been arrested for allegedly beating a five-month-old stray puppy to death at Vikas Nagar in Dehradun, police said on Saturday. The arrest was made on the basis of a police complaint lodged by one of the main accused’s neighbours, who had shot the video on her mobile phone that purportedly captured him killing the stray puppy, on Friday night.“The incident occurred on Friday night after which Saumya Bajaj lodged a complaint against the main accused, Vinay Kumar. She has accused him of killing the stray puppy even though she tried to stop him,” said Nidhi Dabral, investigating officer and sub-inspector, Vikas Nagar police station, Dehradun.“We’ve registered a case against Kumar and booked him under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. Bajaj showed us a video of the incident on her mobile phone. We also saw another person in the video, Madan Pal, attacking the puppy and he, too, was arrested on Saturday,” said Dabral.The puppy’s death comes around 10 days after a pregnant elephant was killed in Kerala’s Palakkad district on May 27. The elephant had reportedly strayed into a village and ate a pineapple filled with firecrackers, which exploded in its mouth. The animal’s painful death went viral on social media, drawing widespread condemnation for the gruesome act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/men-beat-5-month-old-stray-puppy-to-death-arrested/story-Pfu3SFtH3thVpKQAl2f84N.html
06-06-2020||India||Kejriwal follows up warning to hospitals with order not to refuse Covid-related admissions||Within hours of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal cautioning hospitals in the city against refusing admission to any coronavirus related case and warning of action against incidents of non-compliance, the Delhi government issued an order to the same effect on Saturday evening.The health bulletin issued on Saturday by the city-state administration ordered all dedicated Covid hospitals under its authority to not deny admission to any person showing moderate or severe symptoms of coronavirus on the pretext of absence of a test report.Delhi has 8,637 dedicated Covid-19 beds out of which 4,225 are occupied as of Saturday.Earlier today, Kejriwal had said hospitals will not be allowed to deny treatment to patients suspected of carrying coronavirus.“We will pass an order that no hospital can deny a person treatment if they are suspected corona patient. They will have to consider that person as a suspect case and start treatment as there is no medicine for corona,” Kejriwal had said.Also Read: In Arvind Kejriwal’s defence of new Covid-19 testing norms, a warning about system collapseThe order follows a routine review meeting held by Delhi health minister with officers of the health department and medical directors of dedicated Delhi government run Covid-19 hospitals.The Delhi government also issued an order regarding follow up of all the laboratory-confirmed positive cases of Covid-19.The government said that the follow-ups by the health apparatus should be accompanied with continuous care till such time a patient gets cured or there is a final outcome to the case.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDuring the press conference earlier today, Kejriwal also sought to dispel concerns over the capital’s testing capacity, which was impacted after his government’s decision to withdraw permission to test samples for Covid-19 from several hospitals and labs who were allegedly found to be flouting testing rules set by ICMR. According to the health bulletin, Delhi recorded 1,320 coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 27,654 cases including 16,229 active Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-follows-up-warning-to-hospitals-with-order-not-to-refuse-covid-related-admissions/story-96MJAJvEHhxcH8o9pM6KLK.html
06-06-2020||India||Joe Biden clinches Democratic presidential nomination, secures 1,991 delegates||Former Vice-President Joe Biden on Friday secured enough delegates to clinch the Democratic presidential nomination at the party convention in Milwaukee slated for August this year.Late results from the June 2 primaries took the former Vice-President to 1995 delegates, taking him across the threshold of 1,991 needed to clinch the Democratic nomination (Republicans have a different count and threshold).“Folks, tonight we secured the 1,991 delegates needed to win the Democratic nomination,” Biden wrote on twitter late Friday. “I’m going to spend every day fighting to earn your vote so that, together, we can win the battle for the soul of this nation.”“This is a difficult time in America’s history. And Donald Trump’s angry, divisive politics is no answer,” he went on to say in a statement. “The country is crying out for leadership. Leadership that can unite us. Leadership that can bring us together. We need an economy that works for everyone — now. We need jobs that bring dignity — now. We need equal justice — and equal opportunities — for every American now. We need a president who cares about helping us heal — now.”Biden has been the presumptive Democratic nominee for weeks now, after Senator Bernie Sander, the last of his rival, quit the race and endorsed him. He had secure enough delegates, however, to clinch it at the convention formally to take on President Donald Trump in November.Biden had fallen marginally short of the delegate threshold on the night of June 2 primaries in seven states and Washington DC. That deficit was met by late results that came in on Friday.Biden hit the campaign trail earlier this week after weeks of virtual town halls and meetings conducted from home in Delaware, forced by social distancing guidelines related to the Covid-19 epidemic. In a speech from Philadelphia, in a key swing state, he launched a scathing attack on Trump’s handling of the ongoing civil unrest against racial inequities.The former vice-president has been ahead of the Trump in head-to-head polls. They are currently running 49.3 to 42.2 in the RealClearPolitics average of all polls.The vice president had entered the Democratic race as frontrunner, with a claim on the legacy of President Barack Obama, who remains phenomenally popular among Democrats. He survived questions about his age and lack of enthusiasm and long enough to drag his floundering campaign to the South Carolina primaries.He grabbed the state with a resounding victory, with the support of African American Democrats, that put him on course to the nomination. As moderate Democrats rallied to his side, he went on to win 10 of the 14 states that held primaries on March 4, Super Tuesday, taking a lead that grew unassailable over the next days and weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joe-biden-clinches-democratic-presidential-nomination-secures-1-991-delegates/story-MTY5Y7JWgSyX4dva4HppTM.html
06-06-2020||India||As India eases lockdown, migrants in Bihar leave state in search of work||Migrant labourers from Bihar, who came back to their native state from across the country by Shramik Special trains amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions that were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, are returning to their place of work on completion of their mandatory 14-day quarantine period.Purnia residents and 30-something Sayeed and Sajid left for Haryana by a luxury bus on Friday. “We can’t afford to let go of our jobs because of the pandemic. Our employee has been calling us back since we returned around a month ago,” they said. Both of them work for a construction firm in Haryana.Similarly, Purnia residents and construction labourers, Muzaffar and Dilshad, too, left their native district on Friday, as their employer has promised to pay them between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000 a month. “Our employer has assured us that we would make one-and-a-half times more in a month than what we used to earn earlier,” they said.Previously, they used to earn between Rs 500 and Rs 700 daily for their work.Md Izharul (35), a resident Amour block in the district, had come back from Chandigarh by a Shramik Special train and is now all set to go back to his workplace. “I’ve completed my quarantine period. It’s high time to go back since the state government is not in a position to provide us with any kind of employment,” he said.So far, over 100 migrants from Purnia have left for Haryana by special buses, which were sent by big farmers and realtors.Purnia district magistrate Rahul Kumar said, “We’re generating employment at the local level in various forms. We’re also trying to convince the migrants to stay back, but we can’t compel them if they want to go back to their workplace.”Migrants are feeling reassured to go back, as they are now in direct contact with their employers and greedy middlemen cannot dupe them any longer.“The situation has changed for the better. The middleman can no longer give us a raw deal,” said Md Parwez, a Purnia resident.Md Tarique, a fellow labourer, agreed with Md Parwez. “We had to give up to Rs 300 daily to a middleman. Fortunately, we don’t need to part with that cash anymore and our entire daily earnings are coming to us,” Md Tarique said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-eases-lockdown-migrants-in-bihar-leave-state-in-search-of-work/story-pgGURDRbikuVd3TSngQI2J.html
06-06-2020||India||With 108 new Covid-19 cases, Kerala sees spike amid large influx of expatriates||Kerala which maintained a good record in handling of coronavirus cases has started feeling the heat with the return of a large number of expatriates and others increasing its Covid-19 tally steadily. The state’s worries aggravated further after some well-settled people in the Gulf also started returning to Kerala in panic.On Saturday, it reported the death of former Santosh Trophy player E Hamsakoya (61), and 108 fresh coronavirus cases. Hamsakoya, who came from Mumbai on May 21 with his family members died in Malappuram. Five of his family members are undergoing treatment at the medical college hospital in Manjeri, said district medical officer Dr K Sakeena.A veteran striker from Malabar he played for Maharashtra in the Santosh Trophy (1981-86) and was also in the national team for the Nehru Trophy. He also represented many soccer clubs including Mohun Bagan, Railways and Tata Sports. He started his soccer career during his school days and captained the Calicut University’s football team. Many former players like Victor Manjila and I M Vijayan condoled his death. Among the 108 fresh Covid-19 cases, 64 are foreign returnees, 34 came from other states and 10 got infected locally, said state health minister K K Shailaja adding 50 people recovered on Saturday. There are 1,029 active cases and 762 people have recovered and more than 1,80,000 people are under observation.The state was on the verge of flattening its coronavirus curve in May first week but the number of Covid-19 positive cases went up with the return of expatriates and people stranded in other states. The numbers are likely to go up further as one lakh people are expected from the Middle-East by June-end. With the large exodus from the Gulf, its remittances will be affected and it will aggravate the unemployment situation in the state, migration experts said.Earlier, the state had faced many charges that it was interested in keeping its record and going slow on evacuating stranded people. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedhran had crossed swords and blamed each other. As stranded expatriates’ woes took an emotional turn, both the state and the Centre blamed each other and some of the bereaved said they never expected such an end to their kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-108-new-covid-19-cases-kerala-sees-spike-amid-large-influx-of-expatriates/story-A1a8ezpjoTe0AfOCtElMvK.html
06-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra banks on Remdesivir drug to fight Covid-19, will buy 10K vials and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra banks on Remdesivir drug to fight Covid-19, will buy 10K vialsLess than a week after India approved the use of Remdesivir drug to fight Covid-19, the Maharashtra government on Saturday said it will be procuring 10,000 vials of the drug to combat the pandemic in the state.Read more. Now, pregnant cow’s jaw blown off by explosive-laden wheat-flour ball in Himachal’s JhanduttaIn a repeat of Kerala-like animal cruelty, a pregnant cow’s jaw was severely injured after being fed wheat dough stuffed with firecrackers in Jhandutta area of Bilaspur district here.The police on Saturday arrested a person for causing grievous injury to the domestic animal.Read more. With rising Covid-19 cases, Goa’s churches, mosques will not reopen on June 8Churches and mosques will not reopen in Goa despite permission from the Central government to do so with leaders of the respective communities saying that the situation is still not conducive for reopening places of worship. In a statement to the media, the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamaats has said that until June 30, they have requested all mosques not to open their doors to followers in view of the spike in cases of Covid-19 in the state.Read more. In Arvind Kejriwal’s defence of new Covid-19 testing norms, a warning about system collapseDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday asked people in the national capital not to head to Covid-19 centres and hospitals to get themselves tested for the disease if they don’t have symptoms of the disease. The chief minister’s appeal comes days after the city government changed its testing strategy to severely restrict access to Covid-19 tests.Read more. Delhi’s Ganga Ram Hospital booked for ‘violating’ Covid testing protocolAn FIR has been filed against Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital for alleged violation of regulations governing management of Covid-19 virus outbreak in the capital, says PTI. The complaint against the hospital was made by the Delhi government, the news agency claimed.Read more. Dwayne Johnson calls for justice amid protests in US over George Floyd’s deathHollywood star Dwayne Johnson took to social media, demanding justice for Floyd. Posting a video on Instagram, Dwayne showed support to the Black Lives Matter movement. Dwayne wondered where their leader is when ‘the country is down on its knees’. Although Johnson didn’t refer to Donald Trump by name, his indication was quite clear. 46-year-old Floyd died last week in Minneapolis after a cop held him down with a knee on his neck. The white police officer Derek Chauvin was arrested and charged with third-degree murder.Watch here. ‘Can’t make Dravid act like Yuvraj or make Yuvraj be Dravid,’ Ganguly on adaptability and leadershipSourav Ganguly, president of the BCCI, believes adaptability is one of the key elements behind the success of a good leader and that one shouldn’t be discouraged with mistakes as they pave way for a bright future. Ganguly, one of India’s most successful captains, who led the team to 11 Test wins overseas, was a guest lecturer on Unacademy, and conducted a Live Class on Saturday, where he shared his experiences and lessons behind staying motivated.Read more. Google+ replacement ‘Currents’ launching on July 6 for G Suite usersGoogle shut down Google Plus last year due to low usage but the company still made a replacement for it. Called ‘Currents’ this social networking platform will roll out to G Suite customers on July 6.Read more. All lives matter? Here’s why Sara Ali Khan, Kareena Kapoor Khan and Tamannah Bhatia’s Instagram posts are tone deafWhile Bollywood celebrities jumped on the Black Lives Matter movement, only to be called out by Abhay Deol, some others went a step further and contested ‘All Lives Matter.’ Here’s why people need to stop saying ‘All Lives Matter’ explained.Read more. Dad’s hilarious review about daughter’s pretend-restaurant is viral for the best reasonWaiting 45 minutes for an order at a restaurant would frustrate anyone and earn the establishment a terrible rating. When the restaurant is run by a toddler who’s all kinds of adorable, the wait is totally worth it. That’s probably why this restaurant review is going viral.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-banks-on-remdesivir-drug-to-fight-covid-19-will-buy-10k-vials-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sfQAToQDR4Aq69cWvELdBI.html
06-06-2020||India||TDP leader alleges party member hired assassins to kill him||Senior Telugu Desam Party leader from Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district AV Subba Reddy on Saturday alleged that his party colleague and former minister Bhuma Akhila Priya had conspired to kill him by engaging hired assassins in March.Reddy, as informed by the Kadapa Police, told reporters in Hyderabad that Akhila Priya and her husband Bhargav Ram had given Rs 50 lakh as supari (fee) for eliminating him. On March 23, the Chinna Chowk police in Kadapa town arrested three persons and seized a pistol and cash worth Rs 3.50 lakh from them. During interrogation, they reportedly told the police that they had taken Rs 50 lakh as “supari” from Bhargav Ram for killing Subba Reddy, who was in Hyderabad.“The police said the money was handed over to them allegedly by the personal assistant of Akhila Priya. The police later arrested her PA as well,” Subba Reddy said.The TDP leader, once a close associate of Akhila’s father and former MLA Bhuma Nagi Reddy, said Akhila has been targeting him ever since her father died in 2018. Recounting the old association, Reddy said he had saved Akhila’s father from being attacked by his rivals with bombs. “Everybody knows what my political history is in Allagadda...I don’t understand why Akhila, who grew up like my daughter, wanted to eliminate me,” he said. The senior leader appealed to the TDP leadership to rethink Akhila’s role in the party. Akhila accused Subba Reddy of making baseless allegations and suspected it was being done at the behest of the YSR Congress Party. “The police have included my name and that of my husband as A-4 and A-5. Law will take its own course. Why should Subba Reddy jump to the conclusion that I had planned to eliminate him? Does it not amount to influencing the police investigation?” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdp-leader-alleges-party-member-hired-assassins-to-kill-him/story-kJzCJc22kdAfB0PeabluSK.html
06-06-2020||India||BSF constable commits suicide in Chhattisgarh’s Kanker district||A head constable of the Border Security Force (BSF) allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service weapon in Kanker district on Saturday.According to the police, the incident took place in Pakhanjore area of Kanker district in the morning.Inspector General (IG) Police, Bastar, Suderaj P told Hindustan Times that the deceased, Suresh Kumar, was returning after an anti-Naxal operation from the nearby jungle.The team of BSF’s 157th battalion was returning after a search operation when Kumar shot himself with his AK-47 rifle between Ghoda, just a few metres before reaching the camp, the IG said.“The primary investigation suggested that the soldier had some family problem. We are talking to his family members,” said the IG.On Wednesday, the Chhattisgarh government to contain the incidents of suicides launched ‘Spandan Campaign’ and instructions were issued to the superintendent of police and all commandants of armed forces of the state.Director General of Police (DGP), Chhattisgarh, DM Awasthi has issued an order in this regard and instructed that the order should be adhered to strictly.The government will do counselling and provide other help to soldiers posted in difficult areas of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-constable-commits-suicide-in-chhattisgarh-s-kanker-district/story-GKpFRzWnS8DYJ8tGTyYkOJ.html
06-06-2020||India||Cow’s jaw blown off after eating cracker stuffed food in Himachal||In an alleged repeat of the highly condemned killing of a pregnant elephant in Kerala by feeding it cracker, a pregnant cow’s jaw was blown off by firecracker-laced food in Himachal Pradesh’s Bilaspur district. A senior police officer said the cow was fed firecrackers stuffed in wheat dough.The alleged incident took place on May 26 in Jhandutta area of Bilaspur district but came to light on Saturday when cow’s owner Gurdayal Singh uploaded a video of the injured bovine on social media.The video soon went viral following which strict action was demanded against the miscreants.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe cow’s owner has accused one of his neighbours of the cruel act. He alleged that a person named Nand Lal fed his cow the firecracker stuffed in wheat balls while the animal grazed in the fields.The incident is a grim reminder of another in Kerala, which has led to a huge outcry. On May 27, a 15-year-old pregnant elephant died after having chewed on a coconut filled with crackers.Also Read: One arrested for pregnant elephant’s deathBilsapur Superintendent of Police (SP) Devakar Sharma said the cow was fed a highly explosive firecracker called “aalu bomb”. Sharma said a case under Section 286 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act has been registered and the role of the main accused and some other people is being investigated. This cruel method is said to be used by poachers to kill wild boars and other wild animals. Some locals claimed that farmers in Himachal Pradesh also practice such methods to save their crops from the wild animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cow-s-jaw-blown-off-after-eating-firecracker-stuffed-wheat-balls-in-hp-s-jhandutta/story-OjLTeD48Eu8zTQKHXjCoBJ.html
06-06-2020||India||With rising Covid-19 cases, Goa’s churches, mosques will not reopen on June 8||Churches and mosques will not reopen in Goa despite permission from the Central government to do so with leaders of the respective communities saying that the situation is still not conducive for reopening places of worship. In a statement to the media, the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamaats has said that until June 30, they have requested all mosques not to open their doors to followers in view of the spike in cases of Covid-19 in the state. “In Goa since June 1, Covid-19 cases have been on the rise. We have touched almost 196 positive cases in the past one week and it’s an alarming spike in coronavirus cases. We the executive committee members of the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamaats have decided to delay the reopening of all mosques in the state,” Shaikh Basheer Ahmed, the president of the association, said. In a statement, the executive has requested committee members/heads of jamaats of mosques across Goa to implement the advisory which has been issued keeping in mind the rapid spread of Covid-19 cases in the state and to help stop potential community transmission.“Masjid committees are requested to adhere to our previous advisory guidelines issued by us with regard to offering regular five times namaaz from home including Jumma namaaz (Friday prayers). These guidelines shall be followed till the end of June,” he said. Church authorities too have declined to open churches for worship and prayers. “We would like to inform our priests and faithful that we are critically assessing the novel coronavirus-related fluid situation that has come upon our state and that, therefore, we are not in a position to declare our places of worship open from tomorrow, June 8,” Father Barry Cardozo a spokesperson for the Church, said. “When we eventually decide to open up, with prudence, vigilance and careful discernment, it will be in consonance with the state government’s SOPs, which we expect to receive by then,” he added. On Friday, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that while religious institutions would be allowed to reopen, only individuals would be allowed at a time. “No functions can be held in religious places. We have said that if temples, churches and mosques open, then groups of people coming and performing prayers or aarti will not be allowed, it should be limited to routine pooja for individuals or individuals taking darshan,” Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said.Several churches including the Archbishop of Goa have been streaming the religious services live for the benefit of their congregations.Despite the Central Government allowing for the reopening of religious places, several people have expressed apprehension that the reopening would make these places hotspots of community transmission of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-rising-covid-19-cases-goa-s-churches-mosques-will-not-reopen-on-june-8/story-0tFa2fnYBdHWsTQYOvn7BI.html
06-06-2020||India||Maharashtra banks on Remdesivir drug to fight Covid-19, will buy 10K vials||Less than a week after India approved the use of Remdesivir drug to fight Covid-19, the Maharashtra government on Saturday said it will be procuring 10,000 vials of the drug to combat the pandemic in the state. “Maharashtra Government will procure 10,000 vials of Remdesivir drug. World Health Organisation suggests the drug may have some positive effects in the treatment of Covid-19,” Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said according to ANI.Maharashtra which has been hit worst by Covid-19 in India, has recorded over 80,000 cases out of the country’s tally of over 2.36 lakh. The state has recorded almost 3,000 deaths.On Tuesday, Drug Controller General of India VG Somani approved the use of Gilead Sciences Inc’s Remdesivir drug to treat Covid-19 patients.“The DCGI gave an emergency use permission for remdesivir... and this was based on evidence that was provided by the company to support its use against Covid-19,” Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, had said on Tuesday.Amid a global race to find a vaccine for coronavirus, American biopharmaceutical company Gilead has given voluntary license for production of Remdesivir to Indian pharmaceutical companies like Cipla, Jubilant Life Sciences, Hetero Drugs and Mylan under a royalty-free arrangement till an alternative drug is found or until the World Health Organization removes the designation of ‘Public Health Emergency of International Concern’ for the Covid-19 pandemic.Gilead Sciences Inc claimed this week that the third phase of its clinical trial in hospitalised patients with moderate Covid-19 pneumonia showed that a five-day treatment course of Remdesivir resulted in greater clinical improvement as compared to standard care alone.Remdesivir, an investigational antiviral therapy, has received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) by USFDA to treat Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-banks-on-remdesivir-drug-to-fight-covid-19-will-buy-10k-vials/story-1O4LnWwwQXIoC3Cennk7QI.html
06-06-2020||India||Rajasthan cop filmed kneeling on a man’s neck, but the similarity with George Floyd case ends there||A video of a Rajasthan cop kneeling on the neck of an accused went viral on Saturday for its perceived similarity with the George Floyd case in the US. However, cops claimed that the accused in this case had been pinned down after he had unleashed physical assault on a police constable and even threatened to kill him, when questioned for violating public safety norms by not wearing a mask in a public place.The incident was reported from Jodhpur on Thursday afternoon, when a city police constable confronted one Mukesh Kumar Prajapat-- who reportedly has two cases of ‘voluntarily-causing-hurt’ against him—for not wearing a mask at a public place, risking contamination from coronavirus disease.For Coronavirus Live Updates“Prajapat was not wearing a mask in a public place which is against the order of the state government, therefore the constable clicked Prajaptat’s photo. When the constable asked Prajapat to wear a mask, he threatened and abused the cop” said Priti Chandra, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), West, Jodhpur.According to her, the constable called the police patrolling vehicle for help after being threatened.Watch | Jodhpur cops thrash & kneel on man’s neck for not wearing mask “Before the vehicle arrived, Prajapat started thrashing the cop. Even in the video, Prajapat can be seen slapping and punching the constable. He didn’t stop even after the police vehicle arrived and snatched the mobile phone from a constable and tried to break it by throwing the device on the ground,” Chandra said narrating the incident.Also Read: Minneapolis to ban police chokeholds in wake of Floyd deathPrajapat was arrested and booked under section 332 (voluntarily hurting public servant, 353 (assaulting public servant), 188 (disobeying order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. Police said further investigation in the matter was being done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cop-filmed-kneeling-on-a-man-s-neck-but-the-similarity-with-george-floyd-case-ends-there/story-SbSHPaZe1ypevCrSvrqjaO.html
06-06-2020||India||In Arvind Kejriwal’s defence of new Covid-19 testing norms, a warning about system collapse||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday asked people in the national capital not to head to Covid-19 centres and hospitals to get themselves tested for the disease if they don’t have symptoms of the disease. The chief minister’s appeal comes days after the city government changed its testing strategy to severely restrict access to Covid-19 tests.Under the new guidelines, direct contacts of infected people that are asymptomatic will be tested only if they have comorbidities or are senior-citizens between Day 5 and Day 10 of coming in contact with a confirmed Covid-19 case. The co-morbidities listed in the order are diabetes, hypertension, and cancer. A senior citizen is one over the age of 60 years.Kejriwal followed up the change in policy with his appeal to people, underscoring that the Covid-19 testing system in the capital could get overwhelmed if everyone was tested.Delhi conducts the maximum Covid-19 tests among all states, the chief minister said. But it is a limited resource and was bound to fall short of the demand.If all asymptomatic people reach hospitals and testing centres to get themselves tested, “the system will collapse,” he said, adding that he did understand that people were scared of getting the disease.But Delhi has a population of 2 crore. If 10,000 people turn up everyday to get themselves tested, “our labs will fall short irrespective of the capacity that we may build”.“Please don’t get yourselves tested... Please do not insist,” he said, the appeal directed to people who do not have symptoms of the disease.Delhi’s restrictive testing policy has been faulted by doctors.“There is no other way to know how much of your population is currently infected. In fact, if possible, make it walk-in for it to be feasible and expand the list of those who need to get tested to even asymptomatic people as many of those returning positive are asymptomatic carriers,” said Dr Lalit Kant, infectious disease specialist told Hindustan Times on Friday.The new testing strategy is also a contrast to the city government 5T plan - testing, tracing, treatment, teamwork, and tracking - that was announced in April.Chief Minister Kejriwal had then argued for aggressive testing.“If you don’t test, you won’t be able to find out which houses have been affected. It will go on spreading. South Korea identified every single individual through large scale testing. We are now going to do mass testing like South Korea,” Kejriwal had said on April 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-arvind-kejriwal-s-defence-of-new-covid-19-testing-norms-a-warning-about-system-collapse/story-X1rVqumj5SAEtJQknlsfCL.html
06-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM tests negative for Covid-19, 3 other ministers opt out||A week after Uttarakhand cabinet minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive for Covid-19, officials on Saturday said that chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat who attended a cabinet meeting with Maharaj has tested negative. A senior official from Government Doon Medical College, requesting anonymity said, “We received the sample of chief minister Rawat earlier this week for testing as he came in contact with tourism minister Satpal Maharaj who tested positive for Covid-19 last week. The chief minister has, however, tested negative for Covid-19.”On June 1, Rawat and three cabinet ministers had decided to quarantine themselves despite the Dehradun district magistrate saying that all three were ‘low risk contacts’ and they just need to follow May 18 guidelines issued by the Centre.The three ministers, Madan Kaushik, Harak Singh Rawat and Subodh Uniyal subsequently underwent a health check-up on Monday and returned to work on Thursday.On May 18, the Union health ministry had issued guidelines on preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in workplace settings, including maintaining physical distancing of at least one meter, using masks, frequent hand washing, following respiratory etiquettes, self-monitoring, reporting any illness, whether in self or office staff.According to the DM’s letter, the CM and the ministers were low-risk contacts and they needed to follow the directions and protocol issued by the Union health ministry on May 18 regarding the workplace.The ministers said they did not go for testing because they were low-risk contacts.Kaushik said, “I had quarantined myself at home as per the norms, but did not go for testing as I was not suggested to do so after the district magistrate clarified that I was a low-risk contact. However, a complete health check-up was done by doctors from the district administration and my health status was monitored continuously before I returned to work.”Harak Singh Rawat, minister for forest and environment and Subodh Uniyal, minister for agriculture gave the same reasons for not undergoing Covid-19 test.“I was found to be a low-risk contact but as a precautionary measure I had quarantined myself. As we all know test kits are limited in number and I was not suggested for testing by health officials, hence I did not opt for testing. The testing kit that would have been used for me can actually be used for someone who needs it more,” Rawat told reporters on Friday.Uniyal said, “A team from the chief medical officer’s office had come for a thorough health check-up and they found that I am healthy. At the meeting, we had maintained proper distance from Maharaj and were found to be low-risk contacts hence I did not get a test done. I am constantly in touch with health officials and have not shown any symptoms so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-tests-negative-for-covid-19-3-other-ministers-opt-out/story-nxBhhoVl4lwGI3flXt4ifP.html
06-06-2020||India||‘Priyanka Twitter Vadra’: UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s swipe at Congress leader||Taking a swipe at Priyanka Gandhi’s political interventions, deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Keshav Prasad Maurya said it was only social media which was projecting the Congress leader as a “prominent national leader”.“I do not take her seriously.... We have already named her ‘Priyanka Twitter Vadra’. She only tweets for 2-3 days and the media remains busy and social media shows her as a prominent national leader,” Maurya was quoted as saying by PTI.In the recent past the Congress leader, through her Twitter posts, has shone a light on the death of a farmer in Muzaffarnagar, the closing of a cycle factory in Ghaziabad, teachers’ appointment issue, among others. Stressing his point further, the deputy CM spotlighted that even though the Congress general secretary campaigned for her brother Rahul Gandhi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, she could not ensure his victory. Rahul Gandhi lost the family bastion of Amethi to BJP’s Smriti Irani, who is now a union minister. “...But everyone knows when she came to Uttar Pradesh to campaign for the Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections hoping that she would make her brother the prime minister, she could not even ensure his victory,” he told PTI.The Congress’ UP spokesperson advised the deputy CM, who also doubles up as a minister, to appraise the works done by his ministry. “The Gandhi family has sacrificed its members for the nation. Before making such remarks, he should get the potholed roads in the entire state repaired as he is in charge of the Public Works Department,” Ashok Singh, spokesperson of UP Congress, told PTI. Priyanka Gandhi had offered to run 1,000 buses to send migrants workers from UP home and had sought the state government’s permission for the same. The government accepted the proposal but then charged the Congress of not being serious about the issue. The Adityanath government accused the party of “forgery” and said the list of buses contained registration numbers of two-wheelers, cars and three-wheelers.The deputy chief minister said Priyanka Gandhi has been critical of policies of the Yogi Adityanath dispensation only because she looks at the BJP-ruled state “from a negative point of view”.Referring to her tweet on migrant labourers, Maurya told PTI, “Congress does not want to see (what is happening in) Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. It is suffering from ‘drishti dosh’ (vision disorder). Congress leaders, be it Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra or any other, should get their eyes tested properly.” Yesterday, speaking to HT, chief minister Yogi Adityanath called the Congress offer to ferry migrants home as “bhadda mazak (ugly joke)”. Priyanka Gandhi, time and again, has been highlighting the issues confronting the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-twitter-vadra-up-deputy-chief-minister-keshav-prasad-maurya-s-swipe-at-congress-leader/story-EmtO45BX6RkghDfAMffTBK.html
06-06-2020||India||Annoyed over being given ‘bland meal’, waiter kills manager; arrested: Cops||Police claimed to have cracked the case of double murder at Mira Road in Maharashtra’s Thane district with the arrest of a 35-year-old waiter from Pune. The accused, Kallu Yadav, was arrested on Friday for the crime he had allegedly committed on May 30, a police official said.According to police, the murder was a fallout of a dispute between the accused and the victims over food.The bodies of the victims, Harish Shetty (42) and Naresh Pandit (53) had been recovered from the water tank of Sabari restaurant-cum-bar at Mira Road in the wee hours of Friday, the official said.While Shetty worked as a manager at the restaurant, Pandit was a cleaner. The accused worked as a waiter in that eatery, he added.“Several injury marks were found on the bodies of the victims. During the probe the police came to know that Yadav has started working as at a restaurant in Pune after committing the crime,” the official said.A team of police rushed to Pune and nabbed Yadav from Parvati area on Friday.“During his interrogation, Yadav admitted that he had murdered the duo. He said the manager used to get delicious food for himself, but offer bland meal to him. He said he was annoyed over it and decided to eliminate Shetty and Pandit,” the official said.“Accordingly, he attacked them with a spade while they were asleep. He then dragged their bodies and dumped them into a water tank at the restaurant,” inspector Venkat Andhale of the crime branch of Thane rural police said.He said that as per the preliminary investigation, the accused was also involved in a case murder at Kolkata in 2013 and had been behind bars in that connection in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thane-double-murder-annoyed-over-being-given-bland-meal-waiter-kills-manager-arrested-cop/story-V4pbu8mJfRqrUoKtVpEpkJ.html
06-06-2020||India||Amul Twitter account blocked briefly after ad targeted China||The Twitter account of the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation, owner of the Amul brand, was blocked briefly after it posted a cartoon apparently calling for a boycott of Chinese products. GCMMF Managing Director R S Sodhi said that Twitter blocked its handle @Amul_Coop after its advertising agency posted a cartoon featuring its mascot `Amul girl’ with the caption “Exit the Dragon?” on Thursday night.In the bottom right corner, the advertisement had the words “Amul Made in India”.The cartoon appeared to support the new policy of `Atmanirbhar Bharat’ enunciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as a call for a boycott of Chinese products on Indian social media against the backdrop of a stand-off between the two countries in eastern Ladakh.Amul’s Twitter handle could be accessed when checked on Saturday afternoon and the post containing the cartoon was also visible. “We do not know why the account was blocked as we have not received any official statement from Twitter....Amul has not run any campaign against anybody,” Sodhi said.“Amul girl campaign is on since last 55 years, and our mascot generally talks about topical subjects, reflecting the mood of the nation in a funny way,” Sodhi said.“When our advertising agency shared this ad on the night of June 4, they learnt through a forward that our Twitter account was blocked. When we requested Twitter for re-activation, the account was restored,” he said.“When we learnt about this, we asked for clarification. We do not know why this disruption occurred. We have not yet received any official message from Twitter on this,” he said.Meanwhile, #Amul began to trend on Twitter with thousands of users coming out in the company’s support and accusing the microblogging platform of a bias against India. “Fantastic by @Amul_Coop. The dragon and their slaves got scared that they restricted the account. Imagine when our Army will be knocking Chinese doors,” said Twitter user Raj.“Shocking @Twitter briefly restricted Amul account because of the post calling to boycott Chinese products. We Indians standwith our company’s across India,” tweeted Parth Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amul-twitter-account-blocked-briefly-after-ad-targeted-china/story-ozHUOuElR4RVB70gmTtBgI.html
06-06-2020||India||Delhi’s Ganga Ram Hospital booked for ‘violating’ Covid testing protocol||An FIR has been filed against Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital for alleged violation of regulations governing management of Covid-19 virus outbreak in the capital, says PTI. The complaint against the hospital was made by the Delhi government, the news agency claimed.The development comes three days after the Delhi government stopped Ganga Ram from conducting tests to detect coronavirus disease alleging it was flouting the norms set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Earlier today, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had warned hospitals in Delhi against refusing beds to Covid-19 patients. He also alleged that some hospitals were looking to fleece desperate patients looking for admission. He said his government will not spare any hospital found guilty in this regard.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn the issue of impact on the city’s testing capacity due to the government banning some labs and hospitals from conducting RT-PCR tests, the chief minister seemed to suggest that the situation was under control.“Even today 5,300 samples have been tested in Delhi. A total of 42 labs are working for corona testing. Complaints have been received against six of them, after which action has been taken. However, 36 labs are still testing the patients. Apart from these, all governments and many private hospitals have built flu clinics, where corona is being tested,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The coronavirus cases in Delhi have seen a steep rise in the last couple of weeks with the total number of infected in the national capital reaching 26,334 as on Saturday. In an attempt to expand its capacity to deal with the rising numbers, the government had issued an order on Wednesday declaring more city hospitals as dedicated Covid care facilities. Ganga Ram Hospital, too, was asked to reserve 80% of its beds for treating coronavirus patients. Ganga Ram is not the first hospital to run into trouble in coronavirus handling related matter, on May 31, the Delhi government had issued show cause notices several prominent hospitals in the city including AIIMS, Lok Nayak hospital, RML and Safdarjung hospital to explain the reasons for apparent delay in reporting Covid death cases in violation of the directions issued by the health department of the government of the national capital territory as well as by Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) under the Disaster Management Act.Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital--all located in the capital—were also issued memorandums to explain the reasons for delay in reporting death cases and for the alleged violation of the directions issued by the above mentioned authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-ganga-ram-hospital-booked-for-violating-covid-testing-protocol/story-MKNCU81KWSBw7uyVu8YnON.html
06-06-2020||India||Delhi health infra should be used only to treat residents: AAP govt panel||A Delhi government panel has suggested that the national capital’s health infrastructure should be used only for treating residents of the city, keeping in mind the Covid-19 health crisis, Delhi government sources said on Saturday.The five-member doctors’ committee set up by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has stated in its report that the national capital’s health infrastructure should only be used for residents and if people from outside are allowed in hospitals, these will reach 100 per cent capacity within three days, government sources said.The panel, headed by Dr Mahesh Verma, has submitted its report to the Delhi government in which it has said that if Delhi’s health infrastructure is open for non-residents; all beds will be occupied within three days.ALSO WATCH | ‘Black-marketing of hospital beds’: Delhi CM’s warning over Covid treatmentALSO READ | ‘I warn you’: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to hospitals over Covid-19 bedsAmid a major health crisis, residents of the national capital may not then get access to proper medical treatment for Covid-19 due to shortage of beds and health infrastructure.Witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases, Delhi on Friday, had recorded 1,330 fresh coronavirus cases taking the Covid-19 tally in the city beyond the 26,000-mark.The death toll in the national capital due to the contagious disease has now jumped to 708. India, too, has surpassed Italy to become the sixth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic with the country registering a record single-day spike of 9,887 cases which in turn pushed the nationwide tally to 2,36,657.The country’s death toll due to the infectious disease rose to 6,642 with an increase of 294 deaths in the last 24 hours on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-infra-should-be-used-only-to-treat-residents-aap-govt-panel/story-RWXc3i3oAw2wuJmN0kjmfN.html
06-06-2020||India||ED headquarters sealed after 5 staff test Covid-19 positive||The Enforcement Directorate headquarters at Khan Market has been sealed till Monday after five of its employees including a special director rank officer have tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Saturday. The employees were found infected after the agency carried out section-wise testing at its headquarters in the wake of some Covid-19 cases being reported from other floors of the Lok Nayak Bhawan in Khan Market, where the ED office is located. All the ED employees who were found infected with Covid-19 after proactive testing are asymptomatic, officials said.All of them have been admitted to isolation facilities for treatment while people who came in contact with them have been quarantined. According to procedure, the headquarters of the agency have been sealed for 48 hours and is expected to resume operations on Monday.In order to check the spread of Covid-19, a protocol has been put in place for sanitising the ED headquarters twice a week and all documents too. ‘Daak’ (post) is sanitised before it is handed over to officers and other staff of the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-headquarters-sealed-after-5-staff-test-covid-19-positive/story-9mkgr1r6C9OlgDOFWaRa6N.html
06-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand readies for Char Dham Yatra, number of daily pilgrims may be capped||As the Uttarakhand government prepares to start Char Dham yatra post-June 8 as per the guidelines of the Central government on opening religious places of worship, priests in the state are apprehensive that it might increase the chances of Covid-19 spread in the hilly regions.Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Chardham Devasthanam Management Board said that preparations in terms of maintaining social distancing and limiting the per day number of pilgrims, has already started.“We have started preparing from our end over the number of pilgrims that will be allowed for darshan at the shrines following the norms of social and physical distancing. Even if we keep a two-meter distance between the pilgrims for darshan, we have estimated that in one day around 1,800 pilgrims can be allowed at Badrinath and around 800-900 pilgrims at the Kedarnath shrine,” said Raman.He added that a software has been developed for the pilgrims to register, following which they will be given a time slot for darshan at the temple.“If the temples are opened for pilgrims then each devotee will have a limited time to complete darshan and no prayers requiring sitting and performing rituals will be allowed, as it is time taking. People will be given time slots at specified dates to manage the pilgrims. At present, the yatra is likely start only for people from the state as those coming from outside will have to first undergo quarantine,” added Raman.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDistrict administration officials have also started marking circles outside the Badrinath shrine for pilgrims to maintain physical distancing.Deepak Semwal, secretary of Gangotri Dham Committee said that priests and the traders’ body of Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines are not in favour of starting the Yatra at this moment.“No preparations have been done for starting the Yatra, be it opening of hotels or shops. The temple opened on the scheduled date and priests have been offering prayers but no other preparation has been done. If pilgrims come and they offer prayers, then we have to apply tika to them, give them the holy water, tie the holy thread on their wrists and all this is not possible if the priest has to maintain social distancing and follow the rituals too. It is not possible and that is why we request the state government to postpone the Yatra till the Covid-19 situation normalises,” said Semwal.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The priest body of Kedarnath shrine also wrote to the secretary, tourism and culture department on Friday, requesting not to start the Char Dham yatra as of now.Vinod Prasad Shukla, president of Tirth Purohit Samaj of Shri Kedarnath pointed out in the letter that the health infrastructure in the hilly and remote regions housing the shrines was not strong.“If cases increase in the remote areas because of pilgrims coming to these shrines, then it will be difficult to control the outbreak. Currently, even the locals find it difficult to reach the shrines due to the lack of preparations on the roads and given the sharp increase in Covid cases in the state. So, starting of Char Dham yatra in the near future should be reconsidered and deferred till the situation improves.”BD Singh, additional chief executive officer of the char dham board said while preparations are being made by the state government to restart yatra for pilgrims, nothing has been finalised yet.“We have not received any final update from the state government on starting Char Dham Yatra for this year. Preparations must be underway from the state government’s end, but nothing has been finalised yet. Till now, only online pujas with no attendees are being undertaken at all the four shrines and the offerings are being couriered to the devotees,” said Singh.Meanwhile, Madan Kaushik, state cabinet minister and government spokesperson said, “We are analysing the Centre’s SOPs on the opening of religious places and doing our homework. When we are assured of being in a position to follow the SOPs, we will gradually open the religious places.”Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had said on Wednesday that the state was considering restarting Char Dham Yatra in a limited, controlled and safe manner following the centre’s permission.The four Himalayan pilgrimage sites - Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath- collectively called Char Dham, are one of the most revered pilgrimage circuits in Uttarakhand. It attracts lakhs of pilgrims each year. Last year a record 29 lakh pilgrims visited Char Dham compared to over 27 lakh pilgrims the previous year, including 9.2 lakh to Kedarnath, 10.2 lakh to Badrinath, 4.4 lakh to Yamunotri, and 5.03 lakh to Gangotri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-readies-for-char-dham-yatra-number-of-daily-pilgrims-may-be-capped/story-CHqGTEtDlvUCiXYQZXWDfO.html
06-06-2020||India||BJP snubs LJP, reiterates Nitish Kumar is NDA’s face for Bihar elections||The BJP has rejected Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) national president Chirag Paswan’s proposal of backing the saffron party even if it opts for a change of face in Bihar assembly polls and reiterated that the elections will be contested only under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar only.The BJP’s Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav and another party functionary B L Santosh sent out that message at a virtual meeting of the party’s state leaders and workers late Friday evening.“Former national president and Union home minister Amit Shah had already made an announcement in this regard that Nitish Kumar will be the face of the NDA in Bihar. The BJP stands by it. Nitishji will be our face and forthcoming elections will be contested on the policies and achievements of both Centre and the state,” said Yadav, passing the message to both party cadres and alliance partners that there should be no confusion on this count.ALSO WATCH | ‘Rajasthan govt took Rs 1 cr to send stranded students from Kota’: Sushil ModiShah had declared in late 2019 that Nitish Kumar will lead the alliance in the next assembly elections.The party cadres, grass root workers were all instructed to keep this fact in mind and work for the alliance in tandem.The BJP leader’s announcement comes at the backdrop of an interview given by the LJP president to a news agency in which he mooted the idea of backing the BJP, if it opts for a change of face in the Bihar assembly polls scheduled later this year.Paswan had recently expressed his dissatisfaction with the Bihar chief minister’s handling of the migrant crisis. He minced no words in saying that the crisis could have been handled better and there was “perceptible anger among migrant workers from Bihar who are stuck in far-off places.”“If they (BJP) want to go ahead with Nitish Kumar ji, we are with them, if they want to have a change of mind... whatever decision the BJP takes, we will support,” Paswan said in the interview.The Bihar BJP in-charge, Yadav, made it clear to all party cadres that they should not bother about who will be contesting how many seats. “Whatever seats one gets, NDA will fight unitedly. Prepare for all 243 seats,” he said and asked the party workers to treat June 7 virtual rally of Amit Shah as a ‘bugle’ for election.With the election likely to be technology-based, he advised the party workers to create a WhatsApp group for each assembly segment and add 75% of the voters in that particular segment who do not toe any party line. “In each assembly segment, there will be two virtual rallies will be organised,” Yadav added.Amit Shah is scheduled to address a virtually rally in Bihar on June 7. Yadav said that from June 11 onwards, a team of two comprising a party cadre and another party office-bearer will start distributing to each voter a folder containing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s letter to people and the centre’s achievement in every constituency. Party sources said that several such teams will be involved in each assembly segment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-snubs-ljp-reiterates-nitish-kumar-is-nda-s-face-for-bihar-elections/story-KjgHjj6ZcP1c1jtKxImh2O.html
06-06-2020||India||‘This is Demon 2.0’: Rahul Gandhi launches searing attack on Centre||The Centre must allow cash support to people and the small scale industries to lift the economy, underscored Congress’ Rahul Gandhi on Saturday, tagging a Hindustan Times report to make his case. “Govt actively destroying economy by refusing to give cash support to people, MSMEs. This is ‘Demon 2.0,” tweeted the Congress leader.  Govt is actively destroying our economy by refusing to give cash support to people and MSMEs.This is Demon 2.0.https://t.co/mWs1e0g3upAlso Watch | Covid update: Trump on Covid, vaccine; Rahul Gandhi’s ‘failed lockdown’ jibe The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) expects the Indian economy to contract in the current fiscal year. Growth in the gross domestic product (GDP) in 2019-20 hit a 11-year low of 4.2 per cent, the government announced in the last week of May. The economic growth slipped to 3.1 per cent in the January-March quarter of 2019-20 showing impact of the coronavirus.Services sector activity, which makes up more than half of the GDP, weathered a second month of brutal contraction in May as lockdown brought the economy to a near halt and left millions of people jobless. Activity picked up a shade in May with the services Purchasing Manager’s Index (PMI) reading at 12.6, slightly better than the record 5.4 low reported in April, but still well below the 50-mark that separates contraction from expansion, according to data released by IHS Markit.The HT report tagged by Rahul Gandhi looks at the economic situation before the pandemic and dwells on its nature and causes.The Congress has been arguing that money be directly given to the poor. They have been saying that Rs 7,500 must be immediately given to the poor and Rs 10,000 as one time first payment to tide over the economic woes. The country and economy are presently reeling under the effect of a long-drawn nationwide lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus pandemic.The Covid-19 pandemic did disrupt economic activity towards the end of the last quarter of 2019-20,notes the HT report. However, even earlier estimates had projected slower growth for the year than 2018-19. That India’s growth momentum slowed for three years without an external shock, raises doubts on the validity of claims of a cyclical slowdown, the report argues.The Indian economy was likely facing a demand-driven, perhaps even structural slowdown before the pandemic, the report contends. The policy response most likely misjudged it for a cyclical supply-side problem, it says. RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee pointed to weak demand as a problem in its resolutions last year. The only policy tool, the report argues, available to the committee, interest rate cuts, can do little to boost demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-demon-2-0-rahul-gandhi-launches-searing-attack-on-centre/story-cHydln6I9uN9EGYeYJx1BP.html
06-06-2020||India||Former Delhi Police chief Ved Marwah cremated with state honours in Goa||Former Delhi Police chief and former Governor of Jharkhand, Manipur and Mizoram Ved Marwah was cremated with full state honours and a guard of honour with Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Chief Secretary Parimal Rai paying their tribute.Marwah, who was a former chief of the Delhi Police, passed away late on Friday evening after a brief illness at the Asilo Hospital at Mapusa in North Goa. “We are deeply saddened at the loss of a great leader of the police force. Ved Marwah (IPS) led the force from the front through difficult times and served as a Governor of three states. Our thoughts and prayers are with the family,” Goa’s Inspector General of Police, Jaspal Singh, said in a message. Marwah used to spend time in Goa along with his wife in order to escape the chilly Delhi winters on account of a lung ailment. He was admitted to a hospital recently where he breathed his last. “Paid final tribute to Shri Ved Marwah, IPS and former Governor of Jharkhand, Manipur and Mizoram and also former Commissioner of Delhi Police. His services and contribution to the nation will always be remembered. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family,” the Goa Chief Minister said. “A dynamic and honest personality, extremely sensitive to the public, a cop with a heart, Ved Marwah, IPS was like a rock that weathered many storms. In the aftermath of the 1984 riots, he led the Delhi Police through some of its most testing times. His integrity and dedication was unparalleled which helped in crucial assignments as Advisor to the J&K Government and later as Governor to 3 states. Never a man to rest, he remained active in the public domain till the very last and was a guiding light to all officers who looked to him for guidance. His loss is a loss to the nation,” Inspector General of Police, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-delhi-police-chief-ved-marwah-cremated-with-state-honours-in-goa/story-bXZuPUXgZuPBBcmg1V0TWP.html
06-06-2020||India||India now sixth worst-hit nation by Covid-19; surpasses Italy’s tally||India went past Italy to become the sixth worst-hit nation by Covid-19, with the country registering a record single-day spike of 9,887 cases which pushed the nationwide tally to 2,36,657. India’s death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 6,642, with a record increase of 294 deaths in the last 24 hours till Saturday 8 am. The country has registered over 9,000 cases for the third day in a row. India is now the sixth worst-affected nation in terms of coronavirus infection cases after the US, Brazil, Russia, Spain and the UK, according to Johns Hopkins University data.  The number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 1,15,942 in the country. A total of 1,14,073 people have recovered so far, with 4,611 Covid-19 patients having been cured in the last 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said. “Thus, around 48.20 per cent patients have recovered so far,” a senior health ministry official said. The total confirmed cases also include foreigners. The health ministry said cumulatively 45,24,317 samples have been tested so far with 1,37,938 samples tested in the last 24 hours.Of the total 6,642 fatalities, Maharashtra tops tally with 2,849 deaths followed by Gujarat with 1,190 deaths, Delhi with 708, Madhya Pradesh with 384, West Bengal with 366, Uttar Pradesh with 257, Tamil Nadu with 232, Rajasthan with 218, Telangana with 113 and Andhra Pradesh with 73 deaths. The death toll reached 57 in Karnataka and 48 in Punjab.Jammu and Kashmir has reported 36 fatalities due to the disease, Bihar 29, Haryana 24, Kerala 14, Uttarakhand 11, Odisha eight and Jharkhand has reported seven deaths so far. Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh have registered five Covid-19 fatalities each. Assam has recorded four deaths, while Chhattisgarh has reported two deaths so far. Meghalaya and Ladakh have reported one Covid-19 fatality each, according to the ministry data. According to the ministry’s website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities. The health ministry data updated on Saturday morning also stated that the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 80,229, followed by Tamil Nadu at 28,694, Delhi at 26,334, Gujarat at 19,094, Rajasthan at 10,084, Uttar Pradesh at 9,733 and Madhya Pradesh at 8,996 cases. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 7,303 in West Bengal, 4,835 in Karnataka, 4,596 in Bihar and 4,303 in Andhra Pradesh. It has risen to 3,597 in Haryana, 3,324 in Jammu and Kashmir, 3,290 in Telangana and 2,608 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 2,461 coronavirus infections so far, while Assam has 2,153 cases. A total of 1,699 people have been infected with the virus in Kerala and 1,215 in Uttarakhand. Jharkhand has registered 881 cases, Chhattisgarh has 879, Tripura 692, Himachal Pradesh 393, Chandigarh 304, Goa 196, Manipur 132 and Puducherry has 99 cases. Ladakh has 97 Covid-19 cases, Nagaland 94, Arunachal Pradesh 45, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Meghalaya have registered 33 infections each. Mizoram has reported 22 cases, Dadar and Nagar Haveli 14, while Sikkim has reported three cases till now.“A total of 8,192 cases are being reassigned to states,” the ministry said on its website, adding “our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR.” The state-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-now-sixth-worst-hit-nation-by-covid-19-surpasses-italy-s-tally/story-mSh3Fuz2Yk7G3W261YuXrJ.html
06-06-2020||India||800 Kashmiris stranded in Dubai pool money to arrange 2 spl flights, urge govt to expedite approval||Around 800 Kashmiris stranded in Dubai due to the Covid-19 outbreak have arranged two chartered flights for their return to the Valley and urged the Indian government to expedite the clearance for their landing in Srinagar.They say they have been appealing to the Centre to evacuate them to the Valley as they were facing severe problems surviving there without jobs.They say they are under distress with some of them facing medical emergencies, visa issues and others running out of money and other means.Sajad Ahmad, one of the stranded Kashmiris, said that so far only one flight under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission has been operated from Dubai.The first flight under the mission was in May and another is scheduled for June 11 in which about 150 of them are being brought back, he said.“My visa has been cancelled by the company because of coronavirus. It has been three months without any salary. Now I do not have any money left,” he said.Another Kashmiri, who did not wish to be identified, said most of them have no sources of income and they depend on some well-to-do Kashmiri families there who are providing them food.“There are many medical emergencies including pregnant women. Many people have lost jobs, some have visit visas and we have no sources of survival left now,” he said, appealing for help.They said they have now arranged two chartered flights from Dubai to Srinagar and want the government to expedite the procedure for approving their landings at the airport here.“We have somehow managed, by pooling money, to arrange and then secure an approval for non-stop chartered flights to be operated by Fly Dubai on June 9 and 10. The dates are pending approval by the authorities in Dubai and Srinagar airports. All other formalities have been completed,” Aamir Rafiq, who is among those stranded in Dubai, claimed.Officials at the Srinagar airport also said the airport authorities have been approached regarding the chartered flights.However, a decision on them has to be taken by the ministries of external affairs, defence, civil aviation, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and the Airports Authority of India in consultation with the civil administration here, they said.“This is not something directly under the authority of Srinagar airport. For any international flight, the approval of the MEA is a must. Then, since this airport is a defence airfield, the approval of MoD (Ministry of Defence) is also required,” an official at the airport said.He said the permission of the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the DGCA is also required for such a flight to land at any airport in the country.“After securing the permission from these four, it goes to an apex team which includes AAI and Air Force for slot availability. Then, the civil administration is required to approve the flight landing because it is Covid time and it has to be checked whether they can handle the flight on a given day and time or not,” he said.The official said the Srinagar airport has no problem in permitting the flights to land once the required approvals are secured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/800-kashmiris-stranded-in-dubai-pool-money-to-arrange-2-spl-flights-urge-govt-to-expedite-approval/story-x6DdvCBTuNtk0L578cpkcK.html
06-06-2020||India||‘Will miss you Sir’: Delhi Police bids adieu to its former chief Marwah||The Delhi Police has bid adieu to its former commissioner Ved Marwah, who died on Friday at the age of 87. Marwah, who was the police commissioner of Delhi from 1985-88, had also served as the governor of Jharkhand, Mizoram and Manipur. He breathed his last at a private hospital in Mapusa town in North Goa, officiating Director General of Police (DGP) of Goa, Jaspal Singh, said. Marwah was admitted to the hospital almost three weeks back after he suffered a fall at his residence in Goa. He passed away at 7.30 pm on Friday, Singh said. The Delhi Police paid tribute to Marwah on Saturday. “A quintessential civil servant of soft demeanour yet steely resolve, soft spoken yet hard task master. A brilliant Police Officer and super Administrator - in Ved Marwah Sir, we have lost a legend. “#DelhiPolice salutes & bids adieu to one of its finest Police Commissioners,” the Delhi Police tweeted. In a reply, it also tweeted, “We shall miss you Sir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-miss-you-sir-delhi-police-bids-adieu-to-its-former-chief-marwah/story-CWmcBiLYyk0O8Q8GyADvXJ.html
06-06-2020||India||‘Unlock doesn’t mean freedom’, says Adityanath as govt looks to reopen economy||“Unlock doesn’t mean freedom,” Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday and instructed officials to ensure that not more than five persons gather in public places and social distancing norms are strictly adhered to.The Centre had on May 30 said ‘Unlock-1’ will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown effectuated on March 25 will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country’s worst-hit areas.Chairing a meeting of senior officials, the chief minister emphasised on breaking the chain of virus transmission and said, “Unlock does not mean freedom.” Also Watch | Yogi Adityanath lists steps taken to create jobs for migrant workers Social distancing must be strictly adhered to and effective patrolling must be done to desist people from crowding at places, he said.In a statement issued by the Chief Minister’s office, Adityanath said, “Provisions have been made to give relaxation in areas outside the containment zones in a phased manner. For this, relaxation will be given for various activities.” He directed the additional chief secretary (Home) to issue directives in this regard. The chief minister also told officials that a plan should be made to create 1 crore man days between June 15 and 30.The urban and rural development departments should formulate a model to link street vendors to the economic package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and provide them employment. “The special economic package announced by PM Modi has a provision of availing loan up to Rs 10,000. A place should be chosen for the street vendors in such a way that they are able to do their business, and at the same time, traffic should not be blocked,” Adityanath said in the statement.The UP government wants that migrant labourers who have returned to the state, should contribute in new construction works. Directions were also issued to design a software that would streamline efforts to provide work for the migrant labourers in every district. The chief minister also said that special attention should be paid to medical colleges of Agra, Meerut, Aligarh, Kanpur and Firozabad while sanitisation should be carried out regularly in rural and urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-doesn-t-mean-freedom-says-yodi-adityanath-as-govt-looks-to-reopen-economy/story-35JPOY3fdyVFJCg03oTQFL.html
06-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 4,286 Shramik special trains operated till now, says Indian Railways and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘58 lakh migrant workers ferried to native places till date, over 4,000 Shramik special trains operated’: Indian RailwaysFifty-eight lakh migrant workers stranded across the country have been ferried to their native places amid the Covid-19 lockdown, Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman Railway Board told reporters on Saturday. Read moreJ&K Covid 19 latest: Two deaths take tally to 38The union territory of Jammu Kashmir witnessed two fresh deaths on Saturday due to Covid-19 infection—one each from Jammu and Kashmir regions. Both the deceased were above 60 years of age and suffered from comorbidities. Read moreGang hacks two to death in Hyderabad, three arrestedHyderabad police arrested three persons early Saturday in connection with a double-murder late Friday night. According to the Hyderabad West Zone police, prime accused Mohammad Ashraf and two of his accomplices were arrested within four hours of the twin murders took place at 10.30 pm on the Mehdipatnam-Langer Houz road. Read moreSingapore opposition leader Pritam Singh calls for review of Covid-19 responseSingapore’s largest opposition party called for a thorough review of the government’s coronavirus response, citing public confusion over unclear communication and actions. Read moreWasim Akram ranks Sachin Tendulkar 5th in his list of top batsmen, gives reason for his choiceFormer Pakistan captain and arguably the best left-arm paceman to have played the sport of cricket, Wasim Akram, has given his verdict on the top five batsmen that he either bowled to or played along side. Read moreTwitter restricts Amul’s account brieflyTwitter temporarily restricted Amul’s account which goes by the handle “Amul.coop”. Twitter did not provide any specific reason as to why it restricted the account other than its routine response of detecting unusual activity. Read moreThe Sleepwalkers teaser: Radhika Apte makes directorial debut with spooky project. WatchRadhika Apte has shared the teaser of her short film titled The Sleepwalkers. The film stars Shahana Goswami and Gulshan Devaiah as a married couple. The teaser revolves around Gulshan’s character asking his pregnant wife if she is aware of her habit of sleepwalking. Read moreHow not to talk to the blind: Asia’s first visually impaired person to run an independent PR agency guides usOn the night of December 29, 1990, 24-year-old Siddharth Sharma was returning home with his friend on a motorbike, when they crashed into a police barrier. Siddharth lost his vision due to the accident as his optic nerves were damaged. Read moreMHT CET 2020: Apply for exam district change nowMaharashtra CET Cell has activated the link to apply for changing district preferences in the application form for MHT CET 2020 examination. Candidates can apply to change the district of their exam centre. Read morePrivate jet, at Rs 1.6 lakh per seat, to fly six pets from Delhi to MumbaiA few pets in Delhi will soon be reunited with their owners in Mumbai. A private jet is set to fly six pets that were stranded in Delhi when the lockdown was announced back to Mumbai. Deepika Singh, a 25-year-old cyber security researcher in Mumbai set the ball rolling for this plan, reports Mumbai Mirror. Read moreWatch| USA protests: Indian-American shelters 70 demonstrators in his house||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-4-286-shramik-special-trains-operated-till-now-says-indian-railways-and-all-the-latest-news/story-S3EHaElQXQ1tMyZgvSDWqO.html
06-06-2020||India||Job for migrants should be NDA’s top priority in Bihar: Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan on Saturday said that employment for migrants, who have returned to Bihar from across the country, should be the top priority for the ruling NDA as it prepares for the state assembly polls. With some of his comments seen to be critical of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led government, Paswan said he never doubted Kumar’s intentions but there have been “shortcomings” which he as an honest ally has highlighted. “Nitish ji emerged as an alternative to jungle raaj and was known as ‘vikas purush’. But, yes, there have been shortcomings. I am not levelling allegations but offering suggestions for improvement as an honest ally,” he told PTI. Paswan said the Bihar government’s handling of the migrant crisis, triggered by the nationwide lockdown to curb COVID-19, “could have been better” and counted law and order as a concern, saying serious crimes like murder and robbery have been rising. The Lok Sabha MP from Jamui in Bihar called for a common minimum programme to guide the NDA government in case it retains power. The assembly elections in Bihar are due in October-November. Employment, especially for its migrant population, health and education should be the top priorities for the NDA, Paswan said.Asserting that the opposition alliance, which includes the RJD and Congress, is not in a position to pose any serious challenge to the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, he said the saffron combine may win more than 225 of the state’s 243 assembly seats. When Kumar became the chief minister for the first time in 2005, he had said that he will work to bring back all migrants in three months and give them employment, Paswan noted, adding that a “golden opportunity” had arrived for the JD(U) president to “realise his dream” after all these years. From religious tourism to numerous paper and jute mills, which have been closed down over the years, Bihar offers tremendous employment opportunities, he said. Asked about the number of seats the LJP will contest in the state polls, he said that will be discussed in the seat-sharing talks among the BJP, JD(U) and the LJP. His party had contested 42 seats in the 2015 polls, and he would like the share to remain the same but much will depend on talks among the allies, he said. Kumar’s JD(U) was then part of the opposition alliance which had scored a big win in the last assembly elections. He joined the NDA in 2017.Paswan asserted that his party had strengthened its organisation in every assembly constituency of the state and has worked especially intensively in 119 seats which are represented by neither the JD(U) nor the BJP in the current assembly. With the coronavirus pandemic ruling out any big political gathering so far, he said campaigning through social media will play a big role in the electioneering for the state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/job-for-migrants-should-be-nda-s-top-priority-in-bihar-chirag-paswan/story-IX58kOyEZO4kLSmJ5nrdeP.html
06-06-2020||India||J&K Covid 19 latest: Two deaths take tally to 38||The union territory of Jammu Kashmir witnessed two fresh deaths on Saturday due to Covid-19 infection—one each from Jammu and Kashmir regions. Both the deceased were above 60 years of age and suffered from comorbidities.Medical superintendent of government medical college and hospital in Jammu, Dr Dara Singh said the deceased in Jammu was a 62-year old woman patient from Miran Sahib area.For Coronavirus Live Updates“62 year old woman from Jammu’s Miran Sahib area died this morning around 6 AM. She tested Covid 19 positive. The woman had comorbidity like congestive cardiac failure, chest infection and fluid in lungs. Subsequently, she also tested Covid-19 positive. Her dead body has been shifted to hospital mortuary,” Singh said.Medical Superintendent of Chest Disease Hospital in Srinagar, Dr Salim Tak said that a 70 year old man from South Kashmir’s Shopian district, who had various ailments like asthma and high blood pressure died on Saturday.“He died of Covid 19 on Saturday,” he added.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19With these two fresh deaths, the Covid death toll in Jammu and Kashmir has reached 38 and 33 of those deaths have taken place in the Kashmir Valley. Total number of coronavirus cases in the union territory has climbed to 3324 including 1086 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-covid-19-latest-two-deaths-take-tally-to-38/story-6jEXPFhOp0Vzhp3AckuWkI.html
06-06-2020||India||Gang hacks two to death in Hyderabad, three arrested||Hyderabad police arrested three persons early Saturday in connection with a double-murder late Friday night.According to the Hyderabad West Zone police, prime accused Mohammad Ashraf and two of his accomplices were arrested within four hours of the twin murders took place at 10.30 pm on the Mehdipatnam-Langer Houz road. Three others are believed to have fled towards Mumbai in a vehicle.The police pressed into service its clues team and forensic experts, besides dog squad to trace the culprits. “The task force police caught the suspects after raiding their hideouts in Langer Houz area. Efforts are on to nab a few more persons who are reportedly involved,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (West Zone) A R Srinivas said.The deceased were identified as Shaik Mohammed alias Chandi Mohammed, a rowdy character under Golconda police station and his accomplice Faiyazuddin alias Abbu. The accused are also said to be history sheeters. An old rivalry between the two groups is believed to be the cause of the murder.“The assailants came in a Sport Utility Vehicle and rammed the two-wheeler on which the victims were going in the Ahmed Colony on Mehdipatnam-Langer Houz road. When they fell on the road, the assailants attacked them with sharp weapons killing them on the spot,” said the DCP said.Though it was a curfew time in the city in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, there was still movement of people in the area and it created panic among the locals. On being alerted by the locals, the patrol van of the Langer Houze police arrived there, but the assailants had fled the spot immediately.Late in the night, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar and the DCP West Zone visited the crime scene.A case has been registered at police station Langer Houz and investigation underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gang-hacks-two-to-death-in-hyderabad-three-arrested/story-C1ZQoHPRNJbqMKy1FFIrFJ.html
06-06-2020||India||‘58 lakh migrant workers ferried to native places till date, over 4,000 Shramik special trains operated’: Indian Railways||Fifty-eight lakh migrant workers stranded across the country have been ferried to their native places amid the Covid-19 lockdown, Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman Railway Board told reporters on Saturday.Indian Railways has conducted the operation by running 4,286 Shramik special trains till now, Yadav said.  4,286 shramik special trains carrying over 58 lakh migrants to their destined places have been operated till now. The demand for these trains has decreased from 250 to about 137 per day. We operated 56 trains in the last 2 days: Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman Railway Board pic.twitter.com/eWNUwx0HKIHe also said that the demand for these trains has been on a decline. “The demand for these trains has decreased from 250 to about 137 per day. We operated 56 trains in the last 2 days,” he stated. Meanwhile, the central government in an affidavit has stated that the migrant workers have been provided with food, drinking water, medicines, clothes, slippers and other essentials free of cost, depending upon the requirements. In the affidavit, the Centre stated that, along with the support of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), migrant workers who were found walking on roads were provided with transportation to the nearest railway stations. Indian Railways suspended operations amid the coronavirus lockdown in March, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the first phase of the lockdown on March 25. Shramik Special trains were started from May 1 in Centre’s bid to ferry stranded migrant workers to their native states during amid the Covid-19 lockdown.  The Centre has stated in its affidavit that whenever necessary, the migrants are provided with food, drinking water, medicines, clothes, slippers and other essentials free of cost, depending upon the requirements. https://t.co/MkFH2uqSQnOn May 12, 30 passenger trains to and from the national capital were also pressed into service followed by another 200 interstate passenger trains that were started from June 1 in Centre’s plan to resume rail services across the country in a staggered manner amid the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/58-lakh-migrant-workers-ferried-to-native-places-till-date-over-4-000-shramik-special-trains-operated-indian-railways/story-CfAp4jVulSSQPYY88qUiVL.html
06-06-2020||India||Not more than 20 people, no prasad: Punjab’s guideline for religious places in Unlock 1||Places of worship will open only between 5am and 8pm and not more than 20 people will be allowed to pray at a time, the Punjab government said in its fresh guidelines released on Saturday as part of the Unlock 1 phase from Monday, June 8.Religious places will reopen along with shopping malls, hotels and restaurants across the state during the phase aimed at lifting restrictions imposed to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The maximum number of people shall not exceed by 20 at the time of worship with due care for social distancing and the worship time should be staggered in smaller groups, the state government order said.According to the order, the management of these places shall make adequate arrangements to ensure hand hygiene, social distancing and wearing of masks.“There shall be no distribution of prasad, food and serving of food langar,” it added.Any violation of these guidelines and lockdown measures shall be punishable under sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The order reiterated that the state government’s guidelines and the standard operating procedures of the Union health ministry will not be diluted and will be strictly followed by the institutions.“The district authorities may, however, impose additional restrictions, as deemed necessary, based on their assessment of the local situation,” it said.In line with the Centre’s guidelines, the state government has not allowed cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars theatres, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places to open till June 30. Schools, colleges and educational institutions will not be allowed to open in Unlock 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-more-than-20-people-no-prasad-punjab-s-guideline-for-religious-places-in-unlock-1/story-8mxroKeEqHWHEUlJlBsIlJ.html
06-06-2020||India||In curtailed Amarnath yatra, no pilgrim above 55 years to be allowed||Barring sadhus, no pilgrims above 55 years of age will be allowed in the Amarnath yatra which has been curtailed to 14 days this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said Saturday.The pilgrimage to the 3,880-metre high holy cave shrine in south Kashmir has been re-jigged due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The pilgrimage will now take place through the shorter route from Baltal to the Amarnath caves. The longer route from Pahalgam will not be used for the pilgrimage which will now begin on July 21 and end on August 3.While Deputy Commissioner of Ganderbal, of which Baltal is a part, has already pressed men and machinery for clearing the tracks, officials of the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) will start leaving Jammu on Monday for assisting in clearance of Baltal track and lay bailey bridges over streams.The decision to shorten the span of yatra was taken during a meeting held by Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor GC Murmu last week.“It will be regulated in view of the pandemic and all those undertaking the Yatra must possess Covid-19 negative certificates. The pilgrims will be cross-checked for Covid- 19 infection on entry into J&K before they are allowed to undertake the yatra,” said an official who did not wish to be named.All pilgrims except sadhus will have to register themselves online. “No pilgrims above 55 years of age will be allowed,” he said.“In a first of its kind SASB is also trying to telecast live ‘Aarti’ from the cave shrine in the morning and evening for the devotees,” he said.“Since it would be a curtailed yatra, the SASB is also mulling to allow it via helicopters only,” another official said.However, the lieutenant governor’s principal secretary and CEO of SASB, Bipul Pathak said, “Board is yet to meet and take a decision. When it is decided, media will come to know.”On Friday, the exercise for the yatra got underway with the ritualistic Pratham Puja.The government had decided in February this year to hold the annual pilgrimage to the holy cave shrine.The Amarnath yatra was originally scheduled to begin from the twin tracks of Pahalgam in Anantnag district and Baltal in Ganderbal district on June 23 and end on August 3 on the day of Shravan Purnima (Raksha Bandhan).Last year, the yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days.Thousands of pilgrims either trek the traditional and longer 45-km long Pahalgam route or the shorter 14 km route through Baltal to the shrine every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-curtailed-amarnath-yatra-no-pilgrim-above-55-years-to-be-allowed/story-uRqBpfU86BHPDmnelQGBUO.html
06-06-2020||India||Indian and Chinese armies hold Lt-Gen-level talks amid Eastern Ladakh standoff||Indian and Chinese armies on Saturday held Lieutenant General-level talks in their first major attempt to resolve the month-long border standoff in eastern Ladakh, official sources said.The Indian delegation was led by Lt General Harinder Singh, the general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, while the Chinese side was headed by the Commander of the Tibet Military District, government sources said.The talks were held at the Border Personnel Meeting Point in Maldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh.Without specifically mentioning the talks, an Indian Army spokesperson said: “Indian and Chinese officials continue to remain engaged through the established military and diplomatic channels to address the current situation in the India-China border areas.” Saturday’s meeting took place after 12 rounds of talks between local commanders of the two armies and three rounds of discussions at the level of major general-rank officials could not produce any tangible outcome, the sources said.The high-level military dialogue took place a day after the two countries held diplomatic talks during which both sides agreed to handle their “differences” through peaceful discussions while respecting each other’s sensitivities and concerns.Earlier, sources had said the Indian delegation at the military talks will press for restoration of status quo ante in Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso and Gogra in eastern Ladakh, oppose huge build up of Chinese troops in the region and ask China not to resist development of infrastructure by India on its side of the de-facto border.After the standoff began early last month, Indian military leadership decided that Indian troops will adopt a firm approach in dealing with the aggressive posturing by the Chinese troops in all disputed areas of Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie.The Chinese army is learnt to have deployed around 2,500 troops in Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley besides gradually enhancing temporary infrastructure and weaponry.The sources said satellite images have captured significant ramping up of defence infrastructure by China on its side of the LAC, the de-facto border, including upgrading a military airbase around 180 km from the Pangong Tso area.The Chinese Army has been gradually ramping up its strategic reserves in its rear bases near the the LAC by rushing in artillery guns, infantry combat vehicles and heavy military equipment, they said.China has also enhanced its presence in certain areas along the LAC in Northern Sikkim and Uttarakhand following which India has also been increasing its presence by sending additional troops, they said.The trigger for the face-off was China’s stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. The road in the Finger area in Pangong Tso is considered crucial for India to carry out patrol. India has already decided not to stall any border infrastructure projects in eastern Ladakh in view of Chinese protests.The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-and-chinese-armies-hold-lt-gen-level-talks-amid-eastern-ladakh-standoff/story-92ybxQw3xEbTgnMc7KCVWL.html
06-06-2020||India||Heavy rain with gusty winds causes SpiceJet ladder to hit the wing of IndiGo aircraft||A SpiceJet ladder hit the wing of an IndiGo aircraft in the apron area of Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Saturday morning when the city received heavy rainfall with gusty winds for about an hour. IndiGo spokesperson confirmed the incident and said, “This incident occurred at Mumbai airport early this morning. A stepladder belonging to SpiceJet got detached from its parked position and damaged a stationary aircraft belonging to IndiGo. The incident is under investigation by relevant authorities.” ALSO WATCH | Amid cyclone, plane skids off runway in MumbaiThe ladder rammed into the wing (a portion between the engine and the winglet) of the IndiGo aircraft damaging the engine’s cowling. Also read: Follow SOP given by DGCA - HC to airlinesA SpiceJet official said that its step ladder was parked on stand C87 (where one of their aircraft VT-SLA was parked) at the Mumbai airport and an IndiGo aircraft was parked on stand C86. “In the morning, around 7.30 am, sudden strong winds picked up. There was no prior weather warning or advisory. SpiceJet step ladder, which was well secured and with chocks in place, was moved backwards and hit the Indigo aircraft on right wing,” SpiceJet spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-with-gusty-winds-causes-spicejet-ladder-to-hit-the-wing-of-indigo-aircraft/story-KzaWqTbtXGCMXeTxUuXnxN.html
06-06-2020||India||No hospital can turn away suspect Covid-19 patient: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday no hospital can deny admission to any suspected patient of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and it will have to start treating them immediately.“We will pass an order that no hospital can deny a person treatment if they are suspected corona patient. They will have to consider that person as suspect case and start treatment as there is no medicine for corona,” Kejriwal said during a press conference.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“They can wear PPE (personal protection equipment) if the person is a patient,” he added.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders said the hospitals will have to ensure they are tested for Covid-19 and save their lives.“If a person tests positive for corona, then we will work accordingly and if the test is negative then the person will be shifted to a non-corona ward,” he said.The Delhi government has finalised an augmentation plan according to which five government hospitals, dedicated to Covid-19 treatment in the city, will increase their cumulative bed capacity by 9,000 to 13,870, including 750 beds with ventilator support, in three phases over the next three weeks, officials said.These five hospitals together have around 4,500 beds and 300 ventilators to treat those infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19.Under the plan, which was drafted after the city touched 1,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day on May 28, these hospitals will have to ensure 4,470 beds in the first phase (by June 11, which has already been met), 4,650 more in the second (by June 18) and another 4,750 in the third phase (by June 25), according to government documents that HT has seen.The five government hospitals are Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (2,170 beds), GTB Hospital (4,500 beds), Lok Nayak Hospital (6,000 beds), Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital (600 beds) and Satyavati Raja Harish Chandra Hospital (600 beds).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-hospital-can-turn-away-suspect-covid-19-patient-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-IDPIIT9BzLoEwyPNA9ZBfM.html
06-06-2020||India||PM Modi’s participation in Yoga Day programme in Leh doubtful: AYUSH Ministry||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was to take part in an International Yoga Day programme on June 21 in Leh, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, his travel there is doubtful, the AYUSH ministry said on Friday.In March, ministry officials had said that Leh will be the venue for the main event for the International Yoga Day on June 21 and Prime Minister Modi will attend it.However, asked if the Prime Minister will participate in any Yoga Day event, AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha said no public event will take place. “It is not yet decided, as to whether the Prime Minister will participate in a programme. Earlier, it was decided that he will go to Leh, but now due to the Covid-19 crisis, it is not yet decided whether he will go to Leh or not,” the official said.The main event will be a big event, but it will be digital, he said, adding that the modalities were still being worked out. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, this year’s International Yoga Day would be celebrated on digital media platforms and there would be no mass gatherings, the government said.This year’s theme will be ‘Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family’. People will be able to join Yoga Day celebrations virtually at 7 am on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-participation-in-yoga-day-programme-in-leh-doubtful-ayush-ministry/story-rBERW4m8AlmSo8n62VavmM.html
06-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Discharge asymptomatic, mild Covid patients within 24 hrs, says Delhi govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Hospitals need to discharge asymptomatic, mild Covid-19 patients within 24 hours’: Delhi health departmentDelhi health department on Saturday said that mild or asymptomatic patients of Covid-19 need to be discharged by the hospitals within 24 hours.According to the Ministry of Health, asymptomatic and mild cases of Covid-19 don’t need hospitalization. Read moreOver 1,700 Mumbai Police personnel infected with Covid-19, 121 new cases in last four daysIn coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-hit Mumbai, 1,774 Mumbai Police personnel tested positive till Friday night, including 121 fresh cases over the past four days. So far, 660 Mumbai Police personnel have recovered from SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, and the total number of active cases stood at 1,114. Read moreAhead of 2021 state polls, Mamata Banerjee warns TMC against corruption in relief workTrinamool Congress (TMC) leader and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday warned her party against “politicising relief work” for the coronavirus pandemic and Cyclone Amphan and corruption in the public distribution system. Read moreTrump ‘promises’ India, China will find more Covid-19 cases with more testsUS President Donald Trump has said that countries like India and China would have much more coronavirus cases than America if they conduct more tests.Trump, in his remarks at Puritan Medical Products in Maine, said that the US has carried out 20 million tests. Read moreRahul Dravid one step ahead of all Indian batsmen in terms of technique: Former Pakistan captain Rashid LatifRahul Dravid would perhaps be one of the very few batsmen whose solid front-foot defence is talked about more than his run-scoring shots. Read moreApple publishes tools to help generate stronger passwordsApple has published free resources and tools to help developers who make password managers, and other apps as well, generate stronger passwords. These new tools, called the Password Manager Resources, are open-source on GitHub and available for developers right now. Read moreShah Rukh Khan to be seen as a journalist in R Madhavan’s Rocketry: reportShah Rukh Khan seems to have returned R Madhavan’s favour, who made a guest appearance as a NASA scientist in his 2018 film, Zero. Shah Rukh is reported to have shot for a small but pivotal role of a journalist in Madhavan’s upcoming film Rocketry: The Nambi Effect. Read moreThis World Environment Day, a book to celebrate 10 Indian conservationistsWith countries under a global lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, and dealing with its outbreak and spread, the one positive quotient that seems to have emerged out of this situation is that it’s helped the environment become better. Read moreWatch: Salman Khan sweeping off his porch at Panvel farmhouse on World Environment DayActor Salman Khan promoted Swachh Bharat on World Environment Day. Salman was seen sweeping leaves off his porch. The Dabangg actor helped in cleaning up his Panvel farmhouse. Salman had shared the post on his Instagram account. Reportedly, Salman’s farmhouse was affected during cyclone Nisarga. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-discharge-asymptomatic-mild-covid-patients-within-24-hrs-says-delhi-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-H1pQjF96d7qaXcutKDchnN.html
06-06-2020||India||‘I warn you’: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to hospitals over Covid-19 beds||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday a few hospitals lying about the number of beds for patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) available with them won’t be spared.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said that it is non-negotiable and private hospitals will have to treat Covid-19 patients in the national capital.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Please give me a few days… We will end this business of black marketing of beds,” Kejriwal said during a video conference. Also Watch | ‘Black-marketing of hospital beds’: Delhi CM’s warning over Covid treatment The chief minster said his government launched a mobile application to stop the black marketing of beds. “We thought of making the information about the number of beds and ventilators in hospitals transparent. There was an uproar over it as if we committed a crime,” Kejriwal said.He alleged some hospitals are lying about beds even though the information on the app is updated by them.Kejriwal had launched the mobile application on Tuesday to help people know about vacant beds in the hospital in the national capital.“We have been telling you that the Delhi government has made adequate arrangement for Covid-19 patients - in terms of the number of hospitals, beds in there, the ICU facility in those hospitals and how many ventilators are there,” Kejriwal had said while addressing a press conference on Tuesday.The app will be updated twice every day once at 10am and then at 6pm.Kejriwal said if the app shows information about empty beds in a hospital but its staff refuses to admit them, they can call on the helpline number 1031.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-warn-you-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-hospitals-over-covid-19-beds/story-I1Gf2KSAeSHNBwWE9J0P3H.html
06-06-2020||India||‘Hospitals need to discharge asymptomatic, mild Covid-19 patients within 24 hours’: Delhi health department||Delhi health department on Saturday said that mild or asymptomatic patients of Covid-19 need to be discharged by the hospitals within 24 hours. According to the Ministry of Health, asymptomatic and mild cases of Covid-19 don’t need hospitalization. In a joint press briefing with Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain earlier this week, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that thousands of Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms are being treated at home. Jain, on the other hand, explained the various categories of Covid-19 patients ranging from asymptomatic patients to severely infected.ALSO WATCH | ‘Saving lives our priority’: Manish Sisodia on Delhi’s Covid fight Also read: With over 80K Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra soon to overtake China’s recordAs per Union Health Ministry guidelines, asymptomatic & mild symptom cases don't need hospitalization. Any mild or asymptomatic patient has to be discharged by the hospital within 24 hours of admission: Delhi Health Department #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/3rtQNrDQrc“Fever and coughing would fall under mild symptoms. If a person’s breathing rate is more than 15 counts in a minute, it indicates moderate Covid-19 infection whereas over 30 breathing counts in a minute would fall into the severe category,” the minister explained.Sisodia said that while most hospitals have been able to follow the directive of reserving 20 percent of their hospitals for Covid-19 patients, some are facing logistical issues and such hospitals will soon be turned into dedicated Covid-19 health facilities.“We want to ensure that those who visit hospitals should receive all facilities, get admitted easily and face no hassle,” he said.In an address on Saturday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that some hospitals are denying admission to coronavirus patients. “I am warning those who think they will be able to do black-marketing of beds using the influence of their protectors from other parties, you will not be spared,” he said. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally zoomed beyond 26,000 cases. The national capital has reported 708 deaths while over 10,000 patients have recovered from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hospitals-need-to-discharge-asymptomatic-mild-covid-19-patients-within-24-hours-delhi-health-department/story-gKqRLE9JvLxnIuaL2s8dQN.html
06-06-2020||India||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal’s mother passes away in Mumbai||Senior BJP leader Chandrakanta Goyal, mother of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, died at her residence here due to old age. She died late on Friday night.Piyush Goyal shared the news of her death on Twitter.In a tweet, he said his mother dedicated her entire life towards the service of people and inspired others to do the same. अपने स्नेह, और प्रेम से मुझे हमेशा राह दिखाने वाली मेरी पूज्य माता जी का आज सुबह स्वर्गवास हो गया। उन्होंने अपना पूरा जीवन सेवा करते हुए बिताया, और हमें भी सेवाभाव से जीवन बिताने को प्रेरित किया। ईश्वर उन्हें अपने श्री चरणों मे स्थान दें। ॐ शांतिः pic.twitter.com/mwlIks6TBJBJP leader and former Maharashtra minister Vinod Tawde said that she was cremated on Saturday morning.Chandrakanta Goyal was a corporator in Mumbai for one term after the Emergency. Later, she represented the BJP from the Matunga Assembly constituency in Mumbai for three terms.Her husband, late Ved Prakash Goyal, was a BJP national treasurer for a long time. He was Shipping Minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-minister-piyush-goyal-s-mother-passes-away-in-mumbai/story-lgLIcyw3OoX8SvXd1JI1nM.html
06-06-2020||India||‘India, China engaged to address current situation in border areas, refrain from speculations’: Indian Army spox||Indian Army spokesperson on Saturday stated that India and China are engaged through the established military and diplomatic channels to address the current situation in the India-China border areas. The Army spokesperson said that “speculative and unsubstantiated reporting about these engagements” would not be helpful, advising the media to refrain from such reporting.The statement came amid high delegation-level talks that began on Saturday morning between the officials of both countries in a bid to resolve the month-long row over the Line of Actual Control. The foreign ministry officials of both nations on Friday discussed the flaring of tensions on the disputed Himalayan border.The talks are happening at the Chinese-side of the Chushul-Moldo Border meeting point. The Indian delegation of officials at the meet include Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the commander of 14 Corps along with 10 other officers who were part of the earlier meetings with the Chinese counterparts. From the Chinese side, the delegation is represented by Major General Lin Liu, Corps Commander, South Xinjiang Military Division and 10 other officers from the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).Also read: China’s ‘salami-slicing tactics’ displays disregard for India’s efforts at peaceDuring Friday’s meeting, both sides agreed that in accordance with the guidance provided by their leadership, they “should handle their differences through peaceful discussion bearing in mind the importance of respecting each other’s sensitivities, concerns and aspirations and not allow them to become disputes,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.Statements issued in New Delhi and Beijing after Friday’s talks referred to not allowing differences to become disputes. The Indian statement spoke about respecting each other’s sensitivities and concerns, while the Chinese side’s readout said the two sides should not pose a threat to each other and should enhance “strategic mutual trust”.Tensions built up along the LAC following violent clashes between hundreds of Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors last month. Army officers of the two sides have held several meetings along the disputed border but have been unable to break the impasse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-engaged-to-address-current-situation-in-border-areas-refrain-from-speculations-indian-army-spox/story-ijiXzAwonXPErhMy6wv5OO.html
06-06-2020||India||With over 80K cases, Maharashtra soon to overtake China’s record: Covid-19 state tally||Coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 236,657-mark on Saturday. According to the Ministry of Health, as many as 114,072 have recovered from the deadly contagion across the country while 6,642 people have lost their lives due to Covid-19. Maharashtra continues to lead the national tally with over 80,000 cases. Covid-19 cases in the state are inching toward a grim milestone, soon to overtake China’s tally of about 84,000 cases. Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi are among the top coronavirus-hit states in the country. Also read: India overtakes Italy to become sixth worst-hit countryHere’s a look at the Covid-19 state tally: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally zoomed to 80,229 on Saturday. As many as 2,849 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra - highest in the country - while 35,156 have recovered.Tamil Nadu has seen 28,694 coronavirus cases till date. Two hundred and thirty-two people have died of Covid-19 in the state, more than 15,762 people have recovered. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally rose to 26,334 on Saturday, 10,315 patients have recovered here while 708 died due to Covid-19. Gujarat Covid-19 cases jumped to 19,094 on Saturday. The state has seen 13,003 people recover from coronavirus while 1,190 people have died.Also read: 9,887 Covid-19 cases in India in 24 hours, 294 deaths in highest single-day jumpRising numbersRajasthan has reported 10,084 cases of coronavirus so far while 7,359 people have recovered. The death toll in the state stands at 218.Coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh have jumped to 8,996. Three hundred and eighty-four people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 5,878 have recovered.The number of Covid-19 positive cases has jumped to 9,733 in Uttar Pradesh. While 5,648 people have recovered from coronavirus in the state, 257 have died from the infection here. Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 7,303 while 366 people have died from the deadly contagion while 2,912have recovered. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 4,596; the death toll in the state has jumped to 29. More than 2,200 people have recovered from the deadly contagion in the state. Andhra Pradesh has reported 4,303 Covid-19 cases till date. While 73 people have died in the state, 2,576 people have recovered from the deadly contagion. Karnataka has reported over 4,800 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Assam, Tripura and Haryana are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. Coronavirus cases in Telangana crossed 3,200 on Saturday. Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Goa, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Sikkim, Dadra Nagar Haveli and Manipur have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands have recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-over-80-000-coronavirus-cases-maharashtra-soon-to-overtake-china-s-record-covid-19-state-tally/story-MqJC12xdA5P36tLIuFwvWO.html
06-06-2020||India||Chinese mouthpiece shrills the pitch on Ladakh standoff, warns India over US ties||A Chinese government mouthpiece has said Beijing will not give up an inch of territory but wants “good-neighbourly relations” with New Delhi even as it warned India must not be “fooled by Washington”.The comments were published in an editorial of the Global Times ahead of Saturday’s crucial talks between Indian and Chinese army commanders on the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.“China does not want to fall foul of India. Good-neighbourly relations have been China’s basic national policy over the past decades, and China firmly adheres to a peaceful resolution of border disputes. We have no reason to make India our enemy,” the editorial said on Friday.“But China will not give up any inch of territory. Once India makes a strategic misjudgment and nibbles away at China’s territory, China will never condone it. China is bound to make strong countermeasures. We believe India knows very well that China will not be at a disadvantage in any China-India military operations along the border area,” it said. Also Watch | ‘G7, China & Covid’: Key details of PM Modi’s phone call with Donald Trump The daily said India will enjoy a peaceful international environment with China-India cooperation.“But if the two countries face a showdown on the border issue, the entire Himalayan region and the Indian subcontinent will face instability. No external force can change this. Maintaining peace along border areas and friendly cooperation is in line with the two countries’ interests,” it added. India should not be fooled by the US, the editorial also said, as the US is only trying to “serve its own strategic interest”.“Washington is keen on placing a wedge between countries and drawing countries to its own side. But this serves the US’ strategic pressure on China, instead of other countries’ geopolitical interests,” it said.“Washington looks forward to the China-India dispute in order to gain from it. The US supports India every time China and India have conflicts to encourage New Delhi’s confrontation against Beijing and to hype new border disputes.”India, the editorial said, should return the favour “instead of being fooled by Washington”. “China’s strategic situation is not that terrible. Since we do not fear US suppression, how can we allow some force to use US support to make trouble for China?” it asked.Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a bitter face-off in several areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) following violent clashes between hundreds of Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors last month. Army officers of the two sides have held several meetings along the disputed border but have been unable to break the impasse.Lieutenant Gen Harinder Singh, 14 Corps Commander, will represent the Indian delegation while Major General Liu Lin, who is the commander of South Xinjiang Military Region, and 10 other officers of the People’s Liberation Army, will represent China. The two sides on Friday agreed on not allowing their differences to escalate into disputes while respecting each other’s concerns ahead of crucial talks between Indian and Chinese army commanders.Naveen Srivastava, joint secretary (East Asia) of the external affairs ministry, held talks with Wu Jianghao, director general in China’s foreign ministry, through video conference and reviewed bilateral relations, including “current developments”, according to a readout from the Indian side.It was the first formal diplomatic meeting between the two sides since tensions flared along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-mouthpiece-says-won-t-give-an-inch-warns-india-against-us-ahead-of-ladakh-talks/story-QRE8GBiJl8yIg88QDOahRM.html
06-06-2020||India||Odisha removes IAS officer from Covid-19 panel amid opposition allegations of irregularities||The Odisha government on Friday removed a senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in charge of procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE), masks and testing kits for fighting the coronavirus pandemic from the purchase committee amid allegations of irregularities.The removal of Hemant Sharma, the principal secretary of the industries department, came as opposition Congress raised a stinker over the procurement strategy of the government asking how masks and testing kits were bought at different rates from different suppliers, raising questions about transparency.Sharma was given the charge procurement for Covid-19 in April as chief minister Naveen Patnaik asked his officials to be “prepared for the worst”. Sharma was among the key officials who led the emergency procurement team dealing with the purchase of PPEs, viral transport media, testing kits and other medical essentials required in the management of the disease.However, as opposition parties alleged irregularities in the purchase of these equipment, the government issued a notification saying Sharma has been rescinded from the duty. The government issued another notification later in the day relieving nine other IAS officers from Covid-19 duties, saying they have been spared to attend to their original administrative responsibilities.Congress leader Sudarshan Das said the Odisha State Medical Corporation had given a purchase order for triple-layer face masks to a Faridabad-based company on April 15 at Rs 9.90 per piece. However, the corporation placed another order on April 17 for the same quality of mask with a Tamil Nadu-based firm at Rs 16 per piece. While five lakh masks were ordered at Rs 9.90, around 30 lakh masks were ordered at Rs 16.Similarly, one lakh PPE kits at Rs 900 per unit were ordered from a company on April 17 with the incentive of 50% of the value if the kits were delivered within seven days of placing the order.Apart from this, the corporation had issued a purchase order for procuring 2 lakh testing kits from a Kolkata-based firm on April 21 at Rs 1,321 per kit. On May 7, an order was placed with Regional Medical Research Centre for procuring 45,000 kits at Rs 1125 per kit. On May 11, another purchase order was issued for 4920 kits at Rs 980 per kit was placed with a Bhubaneswar-based company. Das also alleged that while the cost of real-time PCR machine is Rs 4 to 5 lakh in the market, the same machine was procured by the Odisha government at Rs 12. 94 lakh.Neither Sharma nor officials of corporation replied to the allegations of the Congress leader.Sharma had said during a Covid-19 press briefing in April that the chief minister had allowed his officers to travel with blank cheques.“We all pray that the disease does not spread more in Odisha but in case it does, the CM has directed us to prepare for that scenario. The officers travelled with two cheques, one with the required amount written on it and another one a blank cheque, so that they can procure the gears for sure,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-removes-ias-officer-from-covid-19-panel-amid-opposition-allegations-of-irregularities/story-LvBoIl3CHVCm6fqjeBjwaJ.html
06-06-2020||India||Rs 620 a day for rooms in Rajasthan resorts doubling up as quarantine centres||A committee constituted by the district collector of Rajasthan’s Bikaner has fixed Rs 620 a day as the tariff for hotels and resorts, which have been converted into quarantine centres during the Covid-19 pandemic.According to documents accessed by HT, the panel fixed Rs 210 for air-conditioned rooms and Rs 60 for non-AC rooms in deluxe class hotels and resorts with meals included.The normal tariff in these hotels and resorts ranges between Rs 3000 to 4500 per day, including breakfast.Hoteliers in the district are disappointed with the tariff and pending payments.“My hotel with 52 rooms was acquired by the administration on April 13 to turn it into a quarantine facility. We provided people under quarantine with three meals. It’s June now and I have not got even a single penny as payment,” Rajesh Chandak, a hotelier, said.Hoteliers said they have to run from one office to another to submit bills.Owner of a resort, where the district administration put up doctors, said he was told that Sardar Patel Medical College (SPMC) will make the payment.“When I raised bills in the medical college name, it told me to submit bills to the Urban Improvement Trust (UIT), which acquired the property, and UIT redirected me to the district collector’s office,” he said requesting anonymity.Hoteliers said they had a meeting with the district collector over the payments on May 11 but they haven’t got any money yet.The state government allotted untied funds to district collectors in April for quarantine centre expenses. The state disaster management and relief department, which transferred the amount, fixed Rs 2,440 as the maximum amount for one person for a day at quarantine centres.According to the state-level quarantine management committee, there were more than 10,000 quarantine centres in the state and around 21,000 people in them. Gram panchayat buildings, hostels, schools and other such buildings have also been turned into quarantine centres.In Bikaner, the district administration acquired 12 private properties.District collector Kumar Pal Gautam said the tariff for quarantine centres in government or private buildings was decided by the committee with the consent of hotel owners.“The medical college will make payment to (quarantine) centres where doctors and medical staff were put up. We are examining all aspects to compensate the property owners,” Gautam said.Members of the Bikaner Hotel Association said it was facing rough time for the past year.“Business is down and we have to repay loans. When the administration acquired them to put people in quarantine, we thought we will make some money but the administration has not released payment yet,” Ranveer Singh Rathor, the association’s general secretary, said.The hotel owners also complained about the mess the guests created. Vikram Vijayvargiya, a resort owner, said guests tore bedsheets, broke washbasins and taps. He added that telephones installed in rooms are missing and they even threw mattresses in the swimming pool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-620-a-day-for-rooms-in-rajasthan-resorts-doubling-up-as-quarantine-centres/story-v3IGU7eqZVJMDNU63gdVpM.html
06-06-2020||India||6 days after death, 73-year-old’s samples test Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand’s Almora||The samples of a 73-year-old man, who died six days ago in Uttarakhand’s Almora, has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), health officials said on Friday.Officials said the man, a resident of Talai village under Syaldey block of Almora, had returned on May 21 from Delhi where he was staying with his son. He was quarantined after thermal screening at Mohaan. His condition deteriorated on May 29 and he was brought to the community health centre in Bhikiyasain but he died the way, said an official.“He died on the way and his swab sample was taken for testing,” Dr Savita Hyanki, chief medical officer (CMO) of Almora, said.Doctors took his sample as a precautionary measure and sent it for testing. The report was received six days after his death on Thursday evening which showed he tested coronavirus positive.Administrative and health officials rushed to the deceased’s village on Friday and isolated his wife, two sons, two nephews and daughter-in-law. Three people, who were with him while he was being brought CHC, have been put under institutional quarantine.“Six of the deceased’s family members have been isolated in Almora. Others who came in his contact or his family members have been put under institutional quarantine in Bhikiyasain,” Rahul Shah, Bhikiyasain’s sub-divisional magistrate, saidDinesh Joshi, president of the local traders union, said Syaldey market has been closed for four days to check the spread of Covid-19 since the deceased’s sons were seen in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-days-after-death-73-year-old-s-samples-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttarakhand-s-almora/story-u2ZHtVskXHIJDDgen6TEoN.html
06-06-2020||India||Scientists, conservationists urge Javadekar to reconsider forest felling for highway, railway expansion||A group of scientists, academicians, conservationists and concerned citizens from across the country, in an open appeal, have urged Union Minister of Forests and Environment Prakash Javadekar to reconsider the approvals granted to three projects that affect the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife and the Mollem National Park in Goa. Goa is set to lose around 55,000 trees and 185 hectares of pristine Western Ghats forest cover for three projects - a highway, railway line double-tracking and a new power line. The Railway double tracking will itself take around 98 hectares or around half of the total land. In the letter to the Union Minister, the signatories - around 150 in number - warned that the projects, if allowed to go ahead, “are likely to lead to multiple downstream effects of fragmentation of these fragile ecosystems. The road and the railway track will create stark barriers that may lead to a rise in wild animal mortality. Movement of arboreal mammals, reptiles, fish and amphibians is likely to be hindered by these barriers.”Also read: Centre launches programme to increase forest cover in urban areas“The protected area is also home to more than 721 plant species, 235 bird species, 219 butterfly species, 80 odonate species, 70 mammal species, 75 ant species, 45 reptile species, 44 fish species, 43 fungi species, 27 amphibian species, 24 orchid species, and 18 species of lichens,” the letter reads. “Two dragonfly species which are endemic to the Western Ghats were described to science from here. In fact, the type locality of Idionyx gomantakensis is adjacent to the railway track which is proposed to be expanded. It has been recorded from few locations elsewhere in the Western Ghats and this is the only location in Goa where it has been known from, so far, close to the proposed railway tracks,” the letter adds. Also read: ‘Will leave no stone unturned to nab culprits’ - Javadekar on killing of pregnant elephant“If these projects are cleared, they will have severe repercussions on wildlife and for the livelihoods and ecological security of the people of Goa. Video-conferencing these decisions about forests that are important to us does not allow site-specific scrutiny to substantiate the facts, examine documents, or register the voices and opinions of stakeholders, in a fully democratic manner,” the letter stated. Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park are home to popular nature tourism spots such as Dudhsagar Falls, Tambdi Surla Falls, Devil’s Canyon and the 12th-century Tambdi Surla Temple, each with popular treks leading up to them. The group of signatories which includes scientists, naturalists, conservationists, artists, students and allied professionals have expressed their serious concerns regarding the virtual clearances granted to two projects passing through Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife sanctuary and Mollem National Park during the Covid-19 pandemic. The projects which are a long time in the planning were approved during the 57th meeting of the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife on April 20 held via videoconferencing due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “These forests that have existed for thousands of years are irreplaceable. Direct loss of biodiversity and the far-reaching impacts of habitat fragmentation will reduce ecosystem stability and decrease forest resilience that is also required to deal with the effects of climate change,” the letter reads. The three projects, some of which have been pending for clearance for more than two years owing to the want for clearance, will be fast-tracked now. The proposal for doubling of the existing railway line that runs between Castlerock in Karnataka and Margao in South Goa whilst running through the Western Ghats and past the scenic Dudhsagar waterfalls was earlier kept in abeyance and asked to be modified to suitably allow for properly designed underpasses and overpasses for wild animal crossing wherever required along the track.Since then, the South Western Railways, which operates the line has submitted an undertaking and has made provisions for eight underpasses for the crossing of wild animals in consultation with the forest department.The present proposal entails laying additional track to run parallel to the existing railway line including 12 tunnels with a 16 kilometre stretch through the wildlife sanctuary. Back in 2013, the Goa State Wildlife Board had rejected a proposal to construct a separate railway line through a different alignment, one which had an easier gradient but would involve a fresh disturbance in an entirely virgin area of forest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-conservationists-urge-javadekar-to-reconsider-forest-felling-for-highway-railway-expansion/story-qtDKH5OCoLHNkNBx2o2EPP.html
06-06-2020||India||Double trouble: Is there a link between Covid-19 and dengue?||With the monsoon season setting in and the threat of viral, bacterial and vector-borne infections raising its ugly head, Mumbai has reported incidents wherein Covid-19 positive patients have also tested positive for dengue.A Lancet report published in March states that dengue and Covid-19 are difficult to distinguish because of their “shared clinical and laboratory features”.The report enumerated an example wherein two patients in Singapore with false-positive results from rapid serological testing for dengue were later confirmed to have severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection - the causative virus of Covid-19.The research further emphasised the possibility of serious health implications on failing to determine Covid-19 positive case because of a positive dengue rapid test result.Also read: 9,887 new Covid-19 cases in India in 24 hours, 294 deaths in highest single-day jump“Our cases highlight the importance of recognising false-positive dengue serology results (with different commercially available assays) in patients with Covid-19. We emphasise the urgent need for rapid, sensitive, and accessible diagnostic tests for SARS-CoV-2, which need to be highly accurate to protect public health,” the report stated.Coronavirus cases across the globe are on a rapid rise with the tally now inching toward the 7 million mark. Nearly 4 lakh people have succumbed to death worldwide due to Covid-19 disease. In India, the number of coronavirus cases jumped to 236,657 on Saturday as per the data updated by the Ministry of Health. While 114,072 have recovered from the deadly contagion in India, 6,642 people have died due to the virus in the country.According to Johns Hopkins University’s global Covid-19 tally, India has overtaken Italy to climb to the sixth spot with the highest number of Covid-19 cases. The US, Brazil, Russia, Spain and the UK are the top five countries with most coronavirus cases worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/double-trouble-is-there-a-link-between-covid-19-and-dengue/story-84wUtHhzlyLPJNTZZoYdDP.html
06-06-2020||India||9,887 Covid-19 cases in India in 24 hours, 294 deaths in highest single-day jump||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surged to 236,657 after 9,887 new cases and 294 deaths, the highest so far, were recorded between Friday and Saturday, the Union health ministry data showed.According to the health ministry’s dashboard, there are 115,942 active cases of Covid-19 and 114,072 people have been cured of the highly-infectious disease so far.India on Friday had overtaken Italy as the sixth worst-affected nation in the world, according to US’ Johns Hopkins University.Also read: With more than 2.35 lakh Covid-19 cases, India overtakes Italy to become sixth worst-hit countryThe country is also inching towards adding 10,000 daily new cases, reporting more than 9,000 cases for the third consecutive day; it was 9,851 on Friday and 9,304 on Thursday. On Friday, India’s tally was 236,657.India is likely to hit the peak of infections sometime in June-July before the curve of daily new cases begins to fall.The number of fatalities has risen to 6,642, more than that of China’s which has recorded 4,638 deaths.Globally, 6.7 million people have contracted the respiratory disease and 394,887 have succumbed due to the illness, according to Johns Hopkins’ coronavirus tracker.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) or the proportion of deaths to the total number of cases has been steady at 2.8%, much lower than the global mortality rate of 5.8%, even as the number of cases has continued to see an upward trend.Follow live updates on Coronavirus outbreak hereAt an average, the country has reported 239 daily new deaths in the last seven days, 33% higher than the average of 179 of the week before that.According to experts, India has managed to slow the spread of infections with an early decision to enforce strict lockdowns, first imposed on March 25, but the number of infections is likely to continue rising as the government eases restrictions to help spur an ailing economy. The key, they say, is to control the case fatality rate, which will determine if the health infrastructure in the country is capable of withstanding the outbreak that has ravaged nations around the world.Some of the worst-hit countries and the current epicentres of the pandemic such as the US and Brazil have a mortality rate of 5.7% and 5.5%.Maharashtra has crossed the 80,000-mark and its death toll stands at 2,849, while Tamil Nadu has reported 28,694 Covid-19 cases and 232 fatalities. Delhi remains the third worst-hit area in the country with 26,334 infected people and 708 deaths. Gujarat comes next with 19,094 cases of the coronavirus disease and 1,190 deaths.Indian states worst hit by Covid-19—particularly Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat—are also the ones that have tested a higher number of samples than the national average and reported higher per-capita infections and deaths, according to an HT analysis of testing data for 10 states.Another worrying trend that has emerged from data shows that a majority of the 10 states has seen a rise in positivity rate (percentage of tests that are positive) in the past few weeks despite no major spike in their rates of testing.Delhi, which also has the highest testing numbers among the 10 states, has reported the highest number of cases and deaths per million population (1,262 and 33 respectively). Both figures are around seven times the national average of 360 and 3%, respectively. Maharashtra has also conducted 4,177 tests per million, significantly more than the national average of 3,291. Compared to the national average, it has 3.9 times the number of cases per million (637) and 4.7 times (22) the number of deaths per million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-887-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-in-24-hours-294-deaths-in-highest-single-day-jump/story-v5L5hhGI5Pf5Tj3goThmOJ.html
06-06-2020||India||‘Humanity is still alive’: Mother thanks cop who ran behind moving train to give milk for her baby||The Railway Police Force (RPF) constable who ran towards a moving train in Bhopal to hand over a packet of milk for her three-month-old daughter must be promoted and honoured for his help, the overwhelmed mother has said.Safia Hashmi, a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich, thanked the Good Samaritan Inder Singh Yadav for his extraordinary service. She said she would always remember how Yadav ran behind the moving train to provide milk to her hungry baby. “Humanity is still alive,” she said while speaking to HT.Hashmi said she had boarded a Shramik Special train along with her daughter, Saiyada, from Karnataka to Lucknow on May 31.She said Saiyada had been crying of hunger as the train covered about 1,000km and they could not find milk for her baby. Hashmi, who had been feeding the hungry Saiyada biscuits, asked for milk at Bhusawal railway station but in vain.As they reached Bhopal, she requested Yadav, who was deployed at the station, for milk for her baby. Yadav immediately went to buy the milk but the train started moving from the station.An emotional Hashmi said she cannot express her feelings in words when she saw Yadav running behind the train with a packet of milk in one hand and rifle in another. After running for a while, Yadav managed to handover the packet through the train’s window to Hashmi. The entire incident was recorded in a closed-circuit (CCTV) television camera installed at the station.Hashmi contacted Yadav at the Bhopal railway station after she reached home and thanked him for his humanitarian service.Yadav was also praised by Piyush Goyal, the railways minister, who said he “demonstrated an exemplary sense of duty when he ran behind a train to deliver milk for a 4-year-old child.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humanity-is-still-alive-mother-thanks-cop-who-ran-behind-moving-train-to-give-milk-for-her-baby/story-VuwV0cPkDM9LxK81K5U5vO.html
06-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Scuffle after Sikh leaders, activists stopped by cops from entering Golden Temple and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Scuffle and arguments after Sikh leaders, activists stopped by police from entering Golden TempleA scuffle broke out between Sikh leaders, activists and police officials on Saturday morning as they were stopped from entering the Golden Temple in Amritsar by the police. The incident took place on the day that marks the 36th anniversary of Operation Blue Star carried out by the Indian Army in the year 1984 wherein thousands of Sikhs had died. Read moreMigrant worker delivers in Shramik Special train, third such case in OdishaA 19-year-old woman delivered a baby boy in a Shramik Special train that was on its way to Bolangir from Telangana on Friday morning, in the third case of childbirth by incoming migrant workers aboard such train. Read moreWith more than 2.35 lakh Covid-19 cases, India overtakes Italy to become sixth worst-hit countryIndia has now overtaken Italy to become the sixth worst affected country after the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India rose to 2.35 lakh on Friday, data from America’s Johns Hopkins University showed. Read morePlane crashes in rural Georgia; 2 children among the 5 deadA small plane crashed Friday in rural Georgia, killing all five on board, including four members of a Florida family who were travelling to a funeral in Indiana. Putnam County Sheriff Howard Sills told local news outlets no one survived the afternoon crash about 100 miles (161 kilometers) southeast of Atlanta. Read moreReddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian quits board, asks to be replaced by black candidateReddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian has announced that he’s quitting the company board and has asked to be replaced by a black candidate. This was Ohanian’s way of showing support for the ongoing protests that have taken over the US. Read moreIn crunched La Liga schedule, youngsters like Ansu Fati could make a difference: Jofre MateuFor football fans, the next week cannot come fast enough. From next Friday, June 12th, La Liga is set to resume again after a forced break of nearly three months due to the outbreak of coronavirus in Spain. Read moreSunil Dutt’s 91st birthday anniversary: The father who never stopped fighting for Sanjay DuttSunil Dutt would have turned 91 on this day had he not died of a heart attack 11 days before his 75th birthday. The noted actor had made a successful foray into politics by joining the Congress party and went on to becoming a Member of Parliament. Read moreWatch: Donald Trump says US ‘largely through’ coronavirus pandemic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-scuffle-after-sikh-leaders-activists-stopped-by-cops-from-entering-golden-temple-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TdemTyg3tYZaXi8C0CnSbL.html
06-06-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, Sikh leaders, activists stopped by police from entering Golden Temple||A scuffle broke out between Sikh leaders, activists and police officials on Saturday morning as they were stopped from entering the Golden Temple in Amritsar by the police. The incident took place on the day that marks the 36th anniversary of Operation Blue Star carried out by the Indian Army in the year 1984 wherein thousands of Sikhs had died.According to reports, Sikh activists and leaders gathered at Sri Akal Takht Sahib, Golden Temple on Saturday when the shrine has not officially opened due to the coronavirus lockdown. Religious sites and places of worship are set to reopen only from June 8 as per the order issued by the Central government.Earlier this week, the Ministry of Health issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 and emphasised the importance of observing social distancing at religious places/places of worship once they reopen on June 8.Also read: Religious places get ready; Tirumala to open on June 11“It is important that required social distancing and other preventive measures are followed in such premises,” the statement read.It said shoes/footwear to be preferably taken off inside one’s own vehicle. “If needed they should be kept in separate slots for each individual/family by the persons themselves”.The SOP also advised devotees not to touch statues/idols/ holy books etc. It also said choir or singing groups should not be allowed. Devotees will be allowed entry only if they are using masks or face cover.This is when the coronavirus cases in the country have crossed the 2 lakh mark. India is among the top 10 countries with a high incident of Covid-19 cases after the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK and Spain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scuffle-and-arguments-after-sikh-leaders-activists-stopped-by-police-from-entering-golden-temple/story-Y0josLP1CP85n9UB5BkkYN.html
06-06-2020||India||With more than 2.35 lakh Covid-19 cases, India overtakes Italy to become sixth worst-hit country||India has now overtaken Italy to become the sixth worst affected country after the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India rose to 2.35 lakh on Friday, data from America’s Johns Hopkins University showed.India had crossed China, where the virus emerged late last year, in terms of cases for the ninth spot just a week ago.Figures from the Baltimore-based Johns Hopkins University showed around midnight that India had 235,769 Covid-19 cases and Italy 236,184. With 6,641 deaths, India has now ranked the 12th worst-hit country.The Union health ministry dashboard shows the number of Covid-19 cases in India has risen to 226,770 and the death toll is at 6,348.According to Johns Hopkins data, the US has the most number of infected people in the world with more than 1.8 million Covid-19 cases. The US has 18,80,703 infections and 1,08,496 deaths. Of these, 485,002 people have been cured of the infection.Also read: India records 300 deaths in one day for first time since Covid-19 outbreakIn Brazil also, the coronavirus outbreak has been increasing rapidly and it is second only to the US in the list of countries which are most affected by the infection.The number of infected in Brazil has crossed the five lakh mark. So far, 614,941 people have been infected and 34,021 people have died. At the same time, 2,54,963 people have returned home after treatment.Russia ranks third on the list of coronavirus affected countries. After 8,726 new cases of Covid-19, the number of infected people has reached 449,834 in Russia. Its death toll stands at 5,528 and 212,237 people have got rid of the disease.The epidemic in Italy, the most-affected country in Europe, has killed 33,774 people and infected 2,34,531 people. In Spain, 240,978 people have been infected and 27,134 people have died. Also read| US has 2 million coronavirus vaccine doses ‘ready to go’: Donald TrumpSo far, 87,174 people have contracted the coronavirus disease and 4,638 have died in China. According to a report, 80% of the deaths in China were in people over 60 years of age.The situation in European countries of France and Germany is also grim. So far, 189,569 people have been infected in France and 29,068 have succumbed to Covid-19. In Germany, 184,924 people have been infected and 8,645 have died.The situation in the UK is also getting worse where 284,730 people have been affected by this epidemic and 40,344 people have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-more-than-2-35-lakh-covid-19-cases-india-overtakes-italy-to-become-sixth-worst-hit-country/story-jPVNgfazovZv80IFBmhGmN.html
06-06-2020||India||Crucial India-China military meet over Ladakh standoff today. Here’s what to expect||Indian and Chinese military officials are set to hold high delegation-level talks today in a bid to resolve the month-long row over the Line of Actual Control. This comes a day after the foreign ministry officials of both nations on Friday discussed the flaring of tensions on the disputed Himalayan border.During Friday’s meeting, both sides agreed that in accordance with the guidance provided by their leadership, they “should handle their differences through peaceful discussion bearing in mind the importance of respecting each other’s sensitivities, concerns and aspirations and not allow them to become disputes”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement.Also read: Won’t allow differences to escalate, both sides say Meeting between the military commanders of India and China has not yet started. It was scheduled to start around 9 am but now it is likely to be held between 11-11:30 am: SourcesThe locationThe talks will take place at the Chinese-side of the Chushul-Moldo Border meeting point.The delegationThe Indian delegation of officials will include Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the commander of 14 Corps along with 10 other officers who were part of the earlier meetings with the Chinese counterparts.The Chinese side of the delegation will be represented by Major General Lin Liu, Corps Commander, South Xinjiang Military Division and 10 other officers from the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) who were part of earlier talks with India. Tensions built up along the LAC following violent clashes between hundreds of Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors last month. Army officers of the two sides have held several meetings along the disputed border but have been unable to break the impasse.Statements issued in New Delhi and Beijing after Friday’s talks referred to not allowing differences to become disputes. The Indian statement spoke about respecting each other’s sensitivities and concerns, while the Chinese side’s readout said the two sides should not pose a threat to each other and should enhance “strategic mutual trust”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crucial-india-china-military-meet-over-ladakh-standoff-today-here-s-what-to-expect/story-qzagFVIUiFgJY4lKtSEzvJ.html
06-06-2020||India||Dawood Ibrahim’s brother rubbishes Covid-19 rumours||Even as intelligence agencies report that India’s most wanted fugitive Dawood Ibrahim and his wife have tested positive for Covid-19 and are admitted in Army Hospital, Karachi, Dawood’s brother Anees Ibrahim, who controls D-company’s underworld operations and finance, denies such reports.News agency IANS quoted Anees as saying that his brother Dawood and the entire family was not affected by the Covid and are at their home. He, however, admitted to running a business in the UAE and Pakistan.Intelligence reports earlier said that Dawood and his wife have tested positive for coronavirus. The reports also revealed that his personal staff and guards have been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dawood-ibrahim-s-brother-rubbishes-covid-19-rumours/story-KCsFR4GUKm1S7EFenuv1sM.html
06-06-2020||India||The case for widespread testing||The states that have been the worst hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) — particularly Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat — are also the ones that have tested higher than the national average and have reported higher per-capita infections and deaths, according to an HT analysis of testing data in the 10 worst-hit regions, highlighting the need for widespread testing.Another worrying trend emerges that a majority of these states have seen a rise in positivity rate (percentage of tests that are positive) in the past few weeks, despite no major spike in their rates of testing.Delhi, which has the highest testing numbers among the states here, has also reported the highest cases and deaths per million (1,262 and 33 respectively). Both are around seven times the national average of 360 and 2.9 respectively.  Maharashtra has also conducted 4,177 tests per million, significantly more than the national average of 3,291. Compared to the national average it has 3.9 times the number of cases per million (637) and 4.7 times (22) the number of deaths per million.While most of these states have not massively increased their testing in the past few weeks, their positivity rates have been steadily increasing. In Delhi, for instance, the positivity rate has tripled (from 6.5% to nearly 20%) in five weeks, while the average weekly tests have only grown 1.6 times in the same period. In Maharashtra, tests have increased by 1.6 times, positivity rate has doubled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-case-for-widespread-testing/story-EdRIbDtU1Ra2G3RPa72buL.html
06-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India recorded 9,962 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Thursday. It may or may not cross 10,000 cases on Friday (Editor’s note: it did not; India saw 9,398 new cases on Friday). With the numbers continuing to rise – the country has added roughly 50% of its cases in the past fortnight – it is time to revisit some questions.1. Is there community transmission?The ministry of health has continued to insist there isn’t, but with a total of 236,037 cases as of Friday, it is time to accept that in hot spots such as Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai, there is community transmission. Studies in India have shown that around 28% of the people infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus are asymptomatic. Globally, this proportion is around a third of the infected. Many others show mild symptoms and shrug it off. The positivity rate (positive tests to total number of tests) continues to rise or, at worst, stay the same in many states, especially those with a high caseload. We can continue to define community transmission restrictively, and insist that the pandemic has still not reached that stage in India, but it is perhaps time to accept the truth and move on. It is not going to change anything.2. Do we have enough hospital beds?This is a tricky question – simply because anecdotal evidence from two cities with a high caseload, Delhi and Mumbai, seems to suggest that we do not. Sure, on paper, there are enough hospital beds, but the honest way of framing this question would be whether everyone who is sick enough to be hospitalised (and who wants to be hospitalised) manages to get admitted to a hospital. The straight answer to that question would be: not always. Some do; others do, but after a long wait; and still others do not. India is not unique in this aspect. The health care systems of even the UK and the US were overwhelmed by Covid-19. And these were in better shape to begin with. May be states should declare more hospitals as dedicated Covid-19 facilities (as Delhi has done). And maybe they need to figure out a way of ensuring that high-risk patients (senior citizens and those with other ailments) get priority.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage3. Is it easy to get tested?The short answer to that would be: Ha!The long one would be that between restrictive and limiting guidelines, long waits, and delayed results, it isn’t. India hasn’t changed its testing protocol since the middle of May. It is perhaps time that it did, making it easier to get tested. Unless there is a problem of capacity when it comes to laboratories and testing kits – which the health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have repeatedly assured us is not the case. India’s health care system (especially its public health care system) has for long been characterised by selfless health care workers labouring to do their best with inadequate infrastructure. Decades of low public investment in health care cannot be wished away by a few weeks of planning and emergency spending. Ergo, difficulties experienced in getting tested or finding a hospital bed are understandable. What isn’t understandable is the refrain from governments that there is no problem either with testing or with hospital admissions. Reports, including some carried by Hindustan Times, clearly point to a gap between what governments say is available in terms of testing and hospital capacity and what people say they have access to. It is time to address this gap now – by using technology to allot testing slots and hospital beds, and by aggressively expanding capacity. There is a very good reason to: the trajectory of the pandemic in India shows that it is yet to hit its peak here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-GQ83cwV3WUcKKsM4WRCwBK.html
06-06-2020||India||India records 300 deaths in one day for first time since Covid-19 outbreak||India on Friday saw a record number of fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day, adding 300 deaths that took the country’s toll from the viral illness to 6,575.However, India’s case fatality rate (CFR) – defined as the proportion of deaths to the total number of cases – continued to remain steady at 2.8%, much lower than the global mortality rate of 5.8%, even as the number of cases has continued too see an upward trend.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAt an average, the country has reported 239 daily new deaths in the last seven days, 33% higher than the average of 179 of the week before that. The country is also inching towards adding 10,000 daily new cases, reporting more than 9,000 cases for the third consecutive day; it was 9,398 on Friday, 9,962 on Thursday and 9,565 on Wednesday. On Friday, India’s total tally was 236,037.Experts say India has slowed the spread of infections with an early decision to enforce strict lockdowns, first imposed on March 25, but the number of infections is likely to continue rising as the government eases restrictions to help spur an ailing economy. The country is likely to hit the peak of infections sometime in June-July, before the curve of daily new cases begins to fall.The key, they say, is to control the case fatality rate, which will determine if the health infrastructure in the country is capable of withstanding the outbreak that has ravaged nations around the world. Some of the worst-hit countries and the current epicentres of the pandemic such as the US and Brazil have a mortality rate of 5.7% and 5.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/300-deaths-in-one-day-for-first-time-since-outbreak/story-UDIS8wIpC2IqVSUVNVtQfO.html
06-06-2020||India||First Covid-19 case in Bhubaneswar’s biggest slum worries officials in Odisha||Odisha saw the highest single-day recovery of 123 patients from Covid-19 on Friday taking the total recoveries to 1,604. However, the discovery of 13 new infections from Bhubaneswar, including one from the city’s largest slum, added to the state’s worries.On Friday, 123 patients recovered from the coronavirus disease. The recovered include 35 from the virus epicentre Ganjam district and 22 from Cuttack. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state surged to 2,608 with 130 new cases, including 22 in Khurda and Mayurbhanj districts each.The state lauded the health staff and volunteers for the spike in recoveries. “This has been possible due to the untiring efforts of all Covid hospitals, doctors, nurses, paramedics, ANMs, ASHAs, Anganwadi workers, teachers, Sarpanches and support staff including community health volunteers, as well as the police and administrative staff involved,” the health department said in a tweet.However, the celebration was short-lived as 13 new cases were reported from Bhubaneswar after a long time. Of these, seven were in home quarantine with travel history to Delhi, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and West Bengal while others were local contacts. One of the cases was reported from Salia Sahia, the biggest slum in Bhubaneswar with a population of over one lakh.Known as ‘Mini Odisha’ in Bhubaneswar for having people from all the districts of the state, Salia Sahi is a huge unauthorised slum that supplies most of the menial workers to apartments and commercial establishments such as hotel, restaurants and educational institutions. It has about 9,000 households staying in shanties spread over 250 acres of land.Officials said like Dharavi slum of Mumbai where cases spread like wildfire, the detection of the first case in Salia Sahi was an ominous sign. Bhubaneswar has over 450 slums of which more than 300 are unauthorised.In March and April, Bhubaneswar reported a high number of cases, however, the numbers went down following identification of containment zones and strict lockdown measures. The city has so far reported 81 cases and four deaths due to the Covid-19 infection. Since people began flouting social distancing norms after the lockdown restrictions were eased, the state government announced weekend shutdowns in Bhubaneswar and 11 other districts from June 6 onwards to contain the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-covid-19-case-in-bhubaneswar-s-biggest-slum-worries-officials-in-odisha/story-opwlp1gO8PyLlv4AMM74KJ.html
06-06-2020||India||Sun Pharma testing plant-based drug as potential Covid-19 treatment||Indian drugmaker Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd said on Friday it was testing a plant-derived drug, AQCH, for the potential treatment of COVID-19 as part of a mid-stage trial, with results expected by October.AQCH is derived from tropical, climbing shrub cocculus hirsutus, which is used in Asia for its apparent medicinal properties.The company said the trial will be conducted across 12 centers in India in 210 patients and a human safety study of the drug has been completed.“AQCH, which is being developed for dengue, has shown broad antiviral effect in in-vitro studies and hence is being tested as a potential treatment option for COVID-19,” the company said in a statement https://reut.rs/2zan0YU.Drugmakers around the world are rushing to develop a treatment or vaccine for the fast-spreading novel coronavirus that has killed over 390,000 people and ravaged financial markets.Two other Indian companies, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd and Strides Pharma Science Ltd, are also conducting trials in India for potential COVID-19 treatments.Sun Pharma received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for the AQCH trial in April, data from the clinical trials registry of India showed https://bit.ly/30bKXKw.The drugmaker has also received DCGI approval to start clinical trials of pancreatitis drug nafamostat mesilate in COVID-19 patients. (Reporting by Anuron Kumar Mitra in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sun-pharma-testing-plant-based-drug-as-potential-covid-19-treatment/story-g9eMukZEMGyuKMPEB3AvmK.html
06-06-2020||India||10 days on, Assam gas well blowout still ‘uncontrolled’, Singapore experts yet to reach||The arrival of three experts from Singapore-based Alert Disaster Control to control the blowout at a natural gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district was delayed owing to formalities related to Covid-19 pandemic. The well located at Baghjan, operated by Oil India Limited (OIL), witnessed a blowout, uncontrolled release of natural gas or oil when pressure systems fail, on May 27. The natural gas and condensate matter kept flowing from it ‘uncontrollably’ for the tenth consecutive day on Friday. After failing to plug the flow, OIL had sought services of a Singapore-based firm. The team that was expected to arrive on Wednesday has not landed in Assam yet. “Singapore-based firm, Alert Disaster Control, will reach Duliajan (Assam) late evening on June 7. The delay in their arrival is due to COVID-related clearances at Singapore,” OIL said in a statement on Friday.In an email to OIL, the firm informed that the civil aviation authority of Singapore has issued a one-time ‘exceptional clearance’ for a charter aircraft from India to land and take off from Singapore on June 7.Meanwhile, OIL has decided to provide Rs 30,000 each to the nearly 2,000 families near the well who were evacuated and are staying at four relief camps since the blowout started.“Our families are spending time at relief camps since May 27. We hope that the experts reach the site soon and control the blowout so that we can resume our normal lives,” said Madhav Moran, a resident of Baghjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-days-on-assam-gas-well-blowout-still-uncontrolled-singapore-experts-yet-to-reach/story-m2RsUcRNvBg1Ege1kzdIhP.html
06-06-2020||India||‘This is what a failed lockdown looks like’: Rahul claims India mistimed lockdown, cites data||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi again questioned centre’s handling of the coronavirus crisis on Friday while alleging that the imposition of lockdown to contain the rise of Covid-19 infections and the subsequent phase-wise unlocking to revive economic activity has been ill-timed. He posted graphs purportedly demonstrating that some of the other worst-hit countries in the west had timed their lockdown and its easing, much better than India.There was a single line comment from Rahul accompanying the graphs, which said, “This is what a failed lockdown looks like.”Rahul’s tweet on Friday cited examples from Spain, Germany, Italy and UK to allege that India had mistimed lockdown and the easing of restrictions two months later. According to worldometers.com data, Spain currently has over 288,000 cases of coronavirus patients, UK has more than 283,000 cases, Italy has in excess of 234,000 cases and Germany has over 185,000 positive cases, compared to India’s 226,770 cases as per the data released by the health ministry on Friday. However, unlike India, the number of new cases in these countries appears to have slowed down considerably.According to the current data available on worldometres.com at Friday midnight India time, Spain, Italy and Germany had reported less than 1000 cases in 24 hours, while the UK had reported over 1,600 fresh cases. Health ministry’s Friday briefing put India’s new cases number at 9,851.This is not the first time that Rahul has questioned the efficacy of the lockdown, he had asked the central government to explain the roadmap ahead in a tweet on May 26 while claiming that it had failed its purpose.“The prime minister claimed two months ago while announcing the lockdown that India will defeat Corona in 21 days. More than 60 days have passed and the number of patients is increasing with each passing day. Lockdown has not been able to defeat this virus. I have a straight question from the government- What is the plan ahead,” he had tweeted.Union minister Prakash Javadekar had responded to Rahul’s claim the same day and said that he had given a wrong statement. “He gave a wrong statement, I want to tell him, when the lockdown was imposed the doubling rate of infection was three days; now the infection takes 13 days to double. This is India’s success and everyone’s success,” Javadekar said on May 26.The health ministry, too, had said recently that India’s place among the countries with most number of cases was not a fair criterion to judge the success of New Delhi’s containment efforts. He had cited India’s low mortality rate and infection rate in comparison with 14 worst affected countries with a combined population similar to India.BJP President JP Nadda, too, hit out at Rahul on May 30 and claimed that the Congress leader had a limited understanding of “these issues” and his statements were aimed at politicizing issues instead of addressing the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-what-a-failed-lockdown-looks-like-rahul-claims-india-mistimed-lockdown-cites-data/story-IR0NxIwYYrXGKfJvB6F7pN.html
06-06-2020||India||Husband among 5 arrested for gang-rape, torture of woman||A man has been taken into custody for allegedly forcing his wife to consume liquor, torturing her and then having her gang-raped by four of his friends in front of their five year-old child near here.The man’s four friends were also taken into custody on Friday, a day after the incident, police said. The child is also suspected to have been beaten up by the accused.The Kerala State Women’s Commission has registered a case of rape. The woman told police that her husband had taken her and their two children to the beach in nearby Puthucurichy on Thursday. Then, they visited the house of one of his friends where she was forced to have alcohol and was sexually assaulted in front of her elder son.“The woman was rescued by a young man who found her in an inebriated state along the road.He drove her to her home and then informed police about the incident,” a police officer said.The man who reported the incident told some television channels that the woman was crying and had injuries on her face.A police officer from Kadinamkulam police station here said the arrests will be recorded after verification of facts.Police have recorded the statement of the woman, who was discharged after being admitted to a government hospital here. She told television channels that the men had inflicted burns on her body with cigarette butts and even slapped her multiple times. “Our preliminary investigation shows the husband was a party to the crime. He even forced her not to file a complaint. Some of the arrested men have a criminal past,” said Thiruvananthapuram rural police superintendent Ashok Kumar. He said the accused will also be charged under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). Police suspect that the men were part of a drug-peddling gang. State Women Commission member Shahida Kamal said the victim will be given protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/husband-among-5-arrested-for-gang-rape-torture-of-woman/story-2VsEE0Gtf3S6WvIhKdoMCK.html
06-06-2020||India||Counterterror in focus as India prepares to occupy UNSC seat||India, which is set to be elected to a two-year term on the UN Security Council this month after a gap of almost a decade, said on Friday it will work at the world body for an effective response to global terrorism and reforming the multilateral system.External affairs ministry S Jaishankar outlined India’s priorities for its campaign to secure the non-permanent seat in the Security Council during the election scheduled for June 17.While working for inclusive solutions, he said, India’s key priorities at the Security Council will be an effective response to international terrorism, reformed multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities, a comprehensive approach to peace and security, a commitment to international law and streamlining of UN peacekeeping, and promoting technology with a human touch.Jaishankar said India’s approach will also be guided by the “five Ss” set out by Prime Minister Narendra Modi – samman (respect), samvad (dialogue), sahyog (cooperation) and shanti (peace) in order to create conditions for universal samriddhi (prosperity).He referred to the international context that the Security Council will face, including new and continuing traditional challenges to international peace and security.“Global institutions remain unreformed and under-representative. They are, therefore, less able to deliver. The Covid-19 pandemic and its grave economic repercussions will test the world like never before,” he said. “In this extraordinary situation, India can play a positive global role.”Jaishankar emphasised India’s long-standing role as a voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue, and a votary of international law. He set out the country’s principled approach to international relations, which the foreign policy establishment will bring to Security Council once India is elected for a two-year term.“India will work constructively with partners to overcome old and new fault-lines and offer innovative and inclusive solutions, help developing countries obtain the necessary support to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic [and] help focus more on development support [and] greater involvement of women and youth in shaping a new paradigm…,” he said.Secretary (west) Vikas Swarup of the external affairs ministry said India’s candidature is set to succeed as it is the single endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific group. This would be India’s eighth term on the UN Security Council, and the two-year tenure will start in January 2021.In the past, India has been elected as a non-permanent member of the Security Council during 1984-85, 1991-92 and 2011-12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/counterterror-in-focus-as-india-prepares-to-occupy-unsc-seat/story-y19wMjjCguo4DOS5497t2K.html
06-06-2020||India||Real time data on beds soon, says govt after complaints||Are Delhi and Mumbai running out of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients? The data shows they are not: Delhi has 4,606 beds available for Covid patients according to the Delhi government, and Mumbai, 3,289, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. And health care policy makers and administrators insist there is no lack of beds, or ICU bed/beds with ventilators (184 in Delhi and 64 in Mumbai). Yet, over the past few days, several people who have been unable to find beds or get treated in Delhi and Mumbai have taken to social media to express their frustration -- this, when government data shows there is no shortage. According to Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain, there is no shortage: “The truth is that there is absolutely no shortage of beds in Delhi at the moment. In the last three days, more than 1000 patients have been admitted to various hospitals in Delhi. If beds were not available, this would have not been possible. Even now we have close to 5000 vacant beds.”Jain added that the issue lies with the hospitals not updating data on the Delhi Corona mobile application, where the official figures are made available. “So clearly the issue is that some hospitals are not updating the data on Delhi Corona app on time or misrepresenting actual data when patients call. Patients were not getting data on hospitals before, which the Delhi corona app is trying to fix. We are making hospital bed data live and real time soon.”Still, on May 26, 47-year-old Jagdish Ujjainwala who was admitted to the hospital on May 21, died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) because his family was told that there was no free ICU bed available to treat his fast-worsening condition. And on May 27, the government-run Lok Nayak Hospital, one of the Covid-19 designated hospitals in Delhi had 1386 vacant isolation beds and 64 vacant ventilator supported beds, according to the data made available by the state government in its mobile application, Delhi Corona. When asked about the number of available beds, the hospital’s acting medical director Dr PN Pandey said: “We have adequate ICU, ventilator, oxygen-supported beds available in the hospital. And, we do not refuse treatment to any patient in need of hospital care.” He added that he did not wish to comment on any particular person’s case. Ujjainwala’s case is not an exception. In Delhi and Mumbai, the incidence of people being turned away from hospitals or kept waiting for hours on end, on account of non-availability of beds, is on the rise. In Mumbai, the vacancies in the city’s 125 designated Covid-19 health centres and hospitals are even fewer. Of the total 1,097 ICU beds, 98% are occupied, according to data released by the municipal body on June 3; of the 442 ventilators, 85.5% are currently being used by the critically ill. On May 26, a 51-year-old physician from Cheetah Camp in Trombay, Mumbai, died of Covid-19 related complications after being taken to two hospitals, and finally admitted in a third, where he was forced to share a bed with another suspected Covid-19 patient for two days due to non-availability of beds. His teenage son, who accompanied him, said that patients were lying on the floor between beds in the casualty ward of the government-run Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital. He died within a day of being shifted into the Covid ward. In theory, everything is fine in Mumbai too. “If anyone calls at the helpline number— 1916, it gets connected with a doctor who asked for symptoms of the suspected patient. Depending on the condition of the person, they will be allotted with centres or hospitals for treatment,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner.Delhi has reported 1278 cases every day at an average in the last seven days; in the seven days before that the city reported 723 new cases at an average; Mumbai, meanwhile, has been consistently averaging over 1300 new cases a day in the past two weeks. This indicates that the strain on resources will certainly not abate in the coming weeks. On Friday night, Mumbai had 25768 active cases (46080 total cases) and Delhi 15,311 active cases (26,334 total cases). It is in this scenario that the Delhi government has tried to make resources available for those who are in actual need of them: on Friday, it directed five Covid-dedicated government hospitals to increase their bed capacity by 13,670, including 750 ventilators, in three weekly phases to be completed by June 25; earlier this week, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced that three more private hospitals would be converted into Covid-19 treatment facilities, and warned that hospitals with mixed use beds (20% reserved for Covid-19 positive patients) will be converted into dedicated facilities if they are found to be non-compliant. It also issued fresh orders to hospitals on Thursday to discharge mild or asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and said that designated facilities should turn away such patients.“In case the hospital refuses a bed to any patient in spite of beds being shown available, the government can and will take action. Some hospitals are refusing to take patients and the government will take strict action against them soon,” a media advisor to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said.Hospitalisation isn’t the only thing people are complaining about. There would appear to be a similar problem with testing. On Wednesday, the Delhi government modified the national testing guideline set by the Indian Council of Medical Research, to rule out testing of asymptomatic direct contacts positive cases, including close family members, unless they were above 60 years, or had conditions such as diabetes, heart or kidney disease. The following day it banned eight labs from carrying out tests on individual samples and pulled them up for not following protocol, and — according to the state health minister — for taking too long to report the results.“Some labs were giving reports very late. If someone has taken a test for the coronavirus, the reports should be ready in 24 hours. At times, some have not given results for 5-6 days. This leads to a delay in hospitalisation because the special corona facilities say they will accept only patients who have a positive test. Other hospitals refuse to admit unless someone is confirmed to be corona-free,” Jain told reporters on Thursday.However, experts said that by revoking permissions from these testing labs — another, Dr Lal’s Path Lab has been disallowed since a month — the testing capacity has come down by at least 8,000 tests a day. Thus as cases rise, this clampdown will result in people getting wait-listed for testing, delay results, and cause a great deal of trouble to those who need hospital admission for life-saving procedures, as no hospital admits a patient without a Covid-19 test.Kailash Chandra, a 43-year-old administrative worker in a private hospital, has been unable to get tested . He has had high fever for the past three days, along with a dry cough, body ache and chills and he fears they could well be symptoms of Covid-19, as he works in a hospital that treats Covid-19 patients. “My hospital has been barred from testing and I have been really struggling to look for a laboratory that can do the testing. Many of the labs said they are not doing the tests currently. Even though my doctor has put me on medicines to ease symptoms but I can feel my condition getting worse. I used to feel relieved thinking I worked for a hospital and could get tested without much effort, but here I am struggling to get the test done like many others,” he said. Several government helpline users lamented that calling on the number never led to a satisfactory resolution either.Experts said that a distinction needs to be made between those who test positive and those who wish to be admitted. Both the United States and the United Kingdom ask patients with mild symptoms to stay home, and only seek hospital admission if their conditions worsen, and the Delhi government too is hoping that residents here will exhibit similar restraint.In Thursday’s press conference, Jain said asymptomatic patients with no or very mild symptoms such as slight fever and mild cough can be treated and recover in home quarantine. “Patients with moderate (respiratory rate of more than 15 per minute and oxygen level below 94%) and severe symptoms (respiratory rate of more than 30 per minute and oxygen level below 90%) require hospitalisation,” he added.“Instead of limiting tests, we should widen testing to diagnose the asymptomatic and mild cases, so they can be self-isolate and not spread the disease to others. People will die of other diseases because of delayed testing. Limiting testing also leads to epidemics remaining undetected. If people are not tested, they may die of Covid-19 and we’ll never know. This is how pandemics begin,” said Dr Jacob John, former virology head, Christian Medical College, Vellore.“At this stage, we need more people coming forward to get tested and unless you make the process easily accessible, they will stay away from testing. Testing should be made walk-in, you shouldn’t need a doctor’s prescription or symptoms for testing at a private lab at this stage of transmission,” added Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology, Indian Council of Medical Research.“These eight labs were found to not be following the protocol prescribed by the ICMR. Therefore, action was initiated. As a temporary measure, these labs have been asked not to pick up individual samples. However, samples sent by various hospitals and other agencies will continue being processed in these labs. Every minute counts which is why Delhi government cannot compromise on any discrepancy which would consequently distort the facts in the daily health bulletin,” the Delhi CM’s media advisor said.In Mumbai too, the situation is not much better for persons seeking a test. The city, which has a testing capacity of 7,000 a day, tests only 4,000 samples daily. Further, a significant portion of Mumbaikars have been left out of the testing net; until June 3, only 1.7% of the city’s population has been tested. The state follows the ICMR guidelines of testing: symptomatic patients with international travel history; frontline medical or support staff are allowed immediate tests; asymptomatic but high-risk contacts of infected patients can be tested only after five days of getting exposed, among others. However, these in itself, aren’t enough categories. Mumbai’s Sir JJ Hospital lab has an installed capacity of 2,000 tests per day, but it only tests half of that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/real-time-data-on-beds-soon-says-govt-after-complaints/story-ujF25A4oEbBJOpkC0IkAQM.html
06-06-2020||India||Religious places get ready; Tirumala to open on June 11||The temple of Lord Venkateswara in Andhra Pradesh’s Tirumala will open for pilgrims from June 11 with stringent restrictions even as Odisha announced on Friday it will not allow religious sites till the end of June.While the Jammu and Kashmir administration is expected take a call on the opening of the Vaishno Devi shrine on Saturday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said over five people will not be allowed inside a religious place at one point of time when they open on Monday.The Union home ministry has allowed the opening of religious places from June 8, though states can take their own calls depending on the ground situation. For example, officials in Delhi and Mumbai have decided not to open places of worship for now. Jharkhand has taken a similar stand.The Union ministry of health and family welfare has issued a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs), prohibiting choirs and singing groups, touching holy books and idols, and distributing prasad and sprinkling of holy water, among other safety steps.A day after the central SOPs, officials announced the famed Tirumala temple in Andhra will be open between 6.30am and 7.30pm from Thursday. About 6,000 people will be allowed to visit every day, one-tenth of the footfall before the temple was closed on March 19.“No darshan will be allowed for elderly people above 65 years and children below 10 years. Similarly, people coming from containment zones are also barred from entering the temple, and their credentials will be verified at Alipiri (in the foothills of the Tirumala),” Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board chairman YV Subba Reddy said. The temple management will release 3,000 entry tokens a day. Another 3,000 offline tickets will be issued at the counters in Alipiri. Online tickets for June will be released on June 8.There will be frequent sanitisation of the temple premises, and devotees will have to undergo thermal screening. Wearing of face masks and maintaining six feet distance between two persons are mandatory.“Devotees will not be allowed to take bath in Srivari Pushkarini (the holy water body in the temple)...,” Reddy said. He said just two persons will be allowed to stay in a room in TTD’s guest houses. The stay cannot extend beyond a day. An official in the Jammu and Kashmir administration said lieutenant governor GC Murmu will hold a meeting on Saturday to take a call on the resumption of pilgrimage to the Vaishno Devi shrine. “Sanitisation drives are being conducted...However, final call on resumption of the yatra may take a day or two,” said the official who did not want to be named.In Kerala, chief minister Pinaryi Vijayan issued guidelines for opening of all religious places from June 9. In the famous Sabarimala temple and other religious places, entry will be allowed only after prior registration, and prasad will be distributed. Only online offering is allowed while community feasting is banned in and around religious places, according to the state’s guidelines.The Bihar government announced that religious places such as Mahavir temple, Harmandir Sahib Gurudwara and other shrines in capital Patna will reopen on June 8. The Mahavir temple will open from 6am-9pm, and devotees will be allowed entry on the basis of their name in an alphabetical order. Mahendrapal Singh Dhillon, the Harmandir Sahib Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee chairman, said: “Strict adherence to the social distancing norms will be maintained at the Gurudwara entrance and also on its premises.”In Punjab’s Golden temple, authorities instructed the cleaning and sanitization of the premises. Devotees will be allowed only from a few gates and volunteers will ensure proper social distancing at the time of langar and darshan.All religious places in Odisha will be closed till June 30, according to the latest guidelines by the government. However, Snana Purnima, an important ritual preceding the Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath slated for June 23, was held on Friday without devotees. Eight hundred priests took part in the ritual, which was televised.(with inputs from states)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-places-get-ready-tirumala-to-open-on-june-11/story-wzvJcxuzZIHsOrXPNy10cJ.html
06-06-2020||India||Centre ordinances give shield to farmers, aim to boost trade||A commercial buyer of farm produce will only need a permanent account number or PAN and no licence or other documentation to enter into a transaction, while a farmer’s land cannot be taken as a collateral or confiscated for violation of a farming contract, key provisions of the two draft ordinances announced by the Cabinet on June 4 show. The Union Cabinet had announced far-reaching steps to unshackle the country’s farm sector, approving amendments to the six-decade-old Essential Commodities Act and pushing two ordinances, one aimed at freeing up farm trade from all restrictions and the other guaranteeing a legal framework for purchases at pre-agreed prices to farmers.According to the ordinances, a buyer will have to pay a farmer within three days and in the meantime give the farmer a revenue stamped money receipt. A farmer can directly approach district-level magistrate in case of dispute with a buyer. Such transaction will not be subject to any taxes at the point of sale, the draft provisions show. The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 will effectively bring the curtains down on the decades-old agricultural produce market committees regulations (APMC) system that regulates buying and selling of farm produce. An ordinance is a law promulgated when Parliament is not in session.APMC regulations require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area where farmers reside, rather than in an open market, scuttling price discovery.Ushered in during the 1960s, APMC regulations were meant to protect farmers from distress selling. Over time, these have often facilitated the creation of cartels and monopolies, evidence suggests. In December 2010, when onion prices peaked, a probe by the country’s statutory anti-monopoly body, the Competition Commission of India, revealed that one firm accounted for nearly a fifth of the total onion trade for that month at Lasalgoan APMC, Asia’s largest onion market in Maharashtra’s Nashik.These reforms in “agricultural marketing” have been a long time in the making and various government panels and economists have often argued for changing existing structures of agricultural trade.Draft provisions of The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, which will usher new rules for contract farming and futures trading, show that farm land cannot be taken as collateral or confiscated by the sponsor of contract farming. If market prices of crops at the time of actual transaction is higher than what was agreed upon by farmer and buyer of farm produce, the farmer will get a share in higher prices too.“The ordinance will empower farmers for engaging with processors, aggregators, large retailers, exporters etc., on a level playing field without any fear of exploitation,” a Cabinet note said.The ordinance is the first Indian law to shift the risk of farming from farmers to large buyers and aggregators by potentially ushering a legal framework where contract farming will be undertaken as pre-assured prices. This will protect farmers from price crashes.According to NR Bhanumurthy, a professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, New Delhi, there could be initial hiccups in implementation of the law as it seeks to move all risks to the sponsor of contract farming with none on the farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-ordinances-give-shield-to-farmers-aim-to-boost-trade/story-WWx6oewVqOY3z3YqJfueeO.html
06-06-2020||India||SC seeks replies on pleas to reduce hospital charges||The Supreme Court on Friday heard two petitions on capping the cost of treatment of Covid-19 in private hospitals. It asked the Centre and private hospitals to respond, and also suggested that hospitals run by charitable trusts on land provided by the government at nominal rates be asked to provide such treatment at prices fixed under the government’s Ayushman Bharat insurance scheme. The first petition it heard was a public interest case filed by petitioner Avishek Goenka, who requested the court to fix a cap or a ceiling on the amount to be charged by private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients. The petitioner argued: “The fee charged by private hospitals is so exorbitant that the quantum becomes a deterrent for patients to avail treatment.” The bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, M R Shah and V Ramasubramanian, which conducted the hearing through videoconferencing, issued notice to the Centre. In its order it noted the demand of the petitioner to frame a scheme for checking unregulated treatment cost for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals. The matter was posted for hearing next week.The bench was oblivious to the fact that a similar matter was already pending consideration with another bench of the top court headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde. Incidentally, this matter too came up for hearing minutes later.This was a petition filed by an advocate Sachin Jain seeking a cap on the cost of Covid treatment by private hospitals. He argued that private charitable hospitals which received land at concessional rates or free are obliged to serve the citizens and not make profit at a time of crisis. Jain filed a subsequent application asking the court to consider directing private hospitals to charge Covid patients as per the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme. He said that under the scheme the treatment cost is around Rs 4,000 per day.The bench of CJI Bobde, AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy asked Centre to explore this suggestion. Its earlier suggestion on providing free treatment in private hospitals was turned down by the Centre. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the court that private hospitals are governed by the Clinical Establishments Act, 2010 which does not permit the Centre to make such a direction. Commenting on the applicability of Ayushman Bharat, Mehta said the scheme had identified categories of beneficiaries and will not apply to all individuals.The bench said, “We are talking of charitable hospitals who took big pieces of land from government to establish hospitals and are making profits. Why can’t they be asked to provide treatment at this tariff (of Ayushman Bharat)?”Private hospitals represented by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi informed the bench that hospitals which took land on concessional rates are already providing 25% free beds as per agreed terms. Salve added that in these times, earnings of private hospitals are down by 60-70 %. The court fixed the matter for hearing after two weeks to receive responses from the Centre and the united front of private hospitals. It also allowed NGOs Drug Action Network and Jan Swasthya Abhiyan to give their suggestions in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-replies-on-pleas-to-reduce-hospital-charges/story-OeVXbixU3bkht8HDTHiEUP.html
06-06-2020||India||In Bihar, construction workers form bulk of returnees||Workers engaged in construction, including masons, painters and temporary help, make up the bulk of returnees who have reached Bihar in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, according to a first-of-its-kind skill mapping exercise conducted by the state government.The first round of the exercise covered over 1.2 million workers in quarantine centres . According to the state government, 1.2 million workers arrived on trains and 1.1 million travelled by road to reach Bihar in the aftermath of the national lockdown imposed on March 25 .Based on the results of the skill mapping exercise, the state government will reach out to industrial houses to invest in the state and create employment, a senior government official said on condition of anonymity.Finding work for the returning migrants, most of whom are unskilled or semi-skilled, has emerged as a challenge for the Bihar government, a coalition between the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which faces assembly elections later this year.“Welfare of people is the basic premise of governance in India. States must take care of migrants at this time of distress and must ensure jobs for them,” said Ajay Kumar, an associate professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University.. “The intent is appropriate, but there are several questions with regard to its implementation – do they have proper data and resources?” Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who faced criticism for seeking the Centre’s guidelines before making arrangements to bring back Bihar’s workers from other states, has been quick to announce that the government will draft a policy on providing jobs to the returnees.According to the skill mapping data, around 730,000 returnees were engaged in various construction jobs. About 4,000 workers have experience in the information technology (IT) sector, about 9,700 in e-commerce, and 7,300 in banking, financial services and insurance. There are over 14,000 professionals from the health care sector such as nurses, lab technicians, paramedics and fitness trainers. Nearly 20,000 were engaged in electronic and electrical repairs. State minister of water resources Sanjay Jha said his department alone offered over 600,000 jobs since the lockdown began in March.“The CM has interacted with returnees at quarantine centres, he has assured them that he will create opportunities for them to stay back,” Jha said.The senior official cited above said Bihar has a shortfall of workers although its people have found jobs in so many other states.“There are many opportunities for labourers in Bihar, but for various reasons including social practices, they prefer to work outside the state if they are engaged in blue collar jobs or as daily wagers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-construction-workers-form-bulk-of-returnees/story-IzzgFXOFY4pL3rCacOxSRO.html
06-06-2020||India||Govt weighs new employment options for migrant returnees||With millions of migrant workers having returned home to the countryside in the midst of the lockdown imposed to slow the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ,the Narendra Modi government is weighing multiple options --- from road construction to horticulture -- to find them work. It’s also planning an initiative to upgrade their skills to suit the needs of a post-Covid-19 world.The employment generation and skills upgrading programme, which includes district-wise mapping of the workers and identifying their skill sets, is being designed by the Prime Minister’s Office with the help of the rural development, agriculture, animal husbandry, skill development and road transport ministries.Construction work, officials said, hold the key to the targeted programme; an initial assessment shows that most of the migrant workers who returned to their home states after the lockdown took effect on March 25 were employed in the construction sector.Millions of unskilled and semi-skilled workers and daily-wage earners have left cities and returned to the hinterland by trains and buses, and packed in trucks, in the past two months after losing their livelihoods because of the lockdown that shut many factories and commercial establishments. The workers mainly belong to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal. To be sure, anecdotal evidence suggests that some workers are also starting to head back to the cities as the lockdown is gradually eased. A senior official involved in planning the initiative said schemes such as the job guarantee programme, rural housing for the poor and village road construction will be used to provide immediate jobs to the returnees. “Apart from these schemes, we are also looking at supporting them in horticulture, animal husbandry and road construction works,” said the official, who didn’t want to be named.According to officials with direct knowledge of the plan, the programme will start in June and go on for at least for four months. The initiative will not entail any additional financial support from the exchequer, the officials explained. Existing centrally sponsored and central sector schemes will be used to address a situation they described as extraordinary.Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are one of the major employers in manufacturing, but are unlikely to be tapped for absorbing migrant workers as the sector itself is going through a difficult phase and forced to work on shoestring budgets and with minimum workers. “MSME units wouldn’t be able to absorb tens and thousands of workers,” said a second official.Preparing the ground for the plan, the government machinery has already started mapping districts that have received 25,000 or more migrant workers, the officials said. Areas with a higher concentration of migrants would see an early roll-out of the plan.Keeping in mind the fact that job supply may not match demand, the government is also preparing to unveil the skill development initiative to train workers who don’t find immediate employment.Under the Centre’s Skill India programme, the skill development ministry has launched a programme under which unskilled workers can take crash courses and be paid a stipend over its duration. Many MGNREGS workers have taken advantage of this scheme to be trained in construction in the past few months.Although the Centre wants to see a large section of migrant workers engaged in road construction jobs, policymakers are also conscious of the fact that once the south-west monsoon gains momentum this month and arrives in northern India in July, the pace of the construction works will slow.“We have to design a multi-pronged approach to help our migrant workforce. And there would be many challenges,” the second official cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-weighs-new-employment-options-for-migrant-returnees/story-ycRAURz1cqvwNyvxLBcZbJ.html
06-06-2020||India||NHRC seeks SC intervention on migrant crisis, lists 10 measures||In a sou moto petition filed in the Supreme Court on Friday, the National Human Rights Commission(NHRC) presented 10 short term measures to mitigate the suffering faced by stranded migrants and sought the court’s intervention in the matter. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, however, is yet to issue any order to this effect. NHRC’s plea was among the 14 applications for intervention taken up by the court. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta representing the Centre has supported NHRC’s intervention than the others.Laying stress on quarantine and relief measures, the human rights body recommended collection of data of migrants at the point of departure and arrival. It also demanded a journey allowance to be paid as mandated under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979. NHRC further recommended menstrual hygiene kit to be provided to each migrant woman and adolescent girl who are travelling. In addition, it sought shelter homes to accommodate special needs of lactating mothers, pregnant women, children and elderly.In a bid to provide employment opportunities to the returnees, NHRC also suggested skill mapping of labour. To ensure medical facilities, the short-term suggestions included regular health check-ups along with food and water during and after their journey. It also asked that a helpdesk or helpline be set up to support migrant and destitute workers receive compensation, avoid delay in Shramik Special trains, and create a fund to disburse fixed compensation to migrants returning home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-seeks-sc-intervention-on-migrant-crisis-lists-10-measures/story-gzFoNgszDsYcfL8xzeOJiM.html
06-06-2020||India||All states must create jobs for migrants: Supreme Court||With almost 90% of migrant workers having returned to their hometowns or villages after the lockdown enforced for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on March 25, the Supreme Court on Friday set out on its next task of asking states to prepare a roadmap for providing jobs to the returnees.Reserving its order until Tuesday on the transport of stranded migrant workers, a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, SK Kaul and MR Shah broadly indicated that its order will require states to inform the apex court, which has taken suo moto cognisance of the matter, about schemes for providing employment to migrant workers who have returned to their home towns.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed the Court that around 10 million migrant workers had been transported to their destinations in 4,228 Shramik Special trains between May 1 and June 3. On the deaths of some workers aboard the trains, Mehta informed the court that Indian Railways, in its investigations, had found that these deaths occurred because of comorbidities and not for lack of water, food or medical care.The maximum number of trains ended up in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and some 171 trains are scheduled to run in the coming days to transport the remaining migrant workers who remain stranded. Mehta said 90% of migrant workers had returned to their destinations and based on demand from the states, trains will be provided within a short notice period of 24 hours.The bench indicated that it would not prolong the issue concerning transportation and would be fixing a deadline of 15 days for states to inform it of the number of workers who are still stranded and the trains required for their travel back home. The court heard the states make their submissions on whether they had prepared a list of migrants who had returned and the measures being undertaken to provide them employment opportunities.“We propose that all states should put on record what scheme they have prepared for providing employment to these workers who have come. We would also like a district-wise or village-wise data on who has come in and from where.” The Court proposes to include this in its June 9 order.Bihar was the only state which had done something on the matter. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for the state, informed the court that in all, 2.8 million migrants had returned and no more are stranded in any states. The state has undertaken skill mapping of those workers who returned and have so far covered 1 million people. A process to provide them skilled or unskilled work has started.Uttar Pradesh, which received 2.17 million migrant workers through 1,664 Shramik trains, claimed that the state had not charged the workers for their travel expenses and food. The court told UP that now that the workers had returned to their villages, counselling centres could be opened at district or block levels to provide information to workers who wished to return to their workplaces. Kerala was the only state which informed the court of its inability to pay for the fare of migrant workers. But the bench directed the state to make the payment.Delhi claimed that about 300,000 migrants had exited the capital while close to 200,000 still remain. Most among them do not plan to return, said additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain, appearing for Delhi. Maharashtra informed the court that 1.1 million migrant workers had left the state and some 38,000 remain. West Bengal stated before the court that it does not have data on migrant workers who intend to reach the state. Citing a rough estimate, the state counsel informed the bench that roughly 600,000 persons are still to return.Solicitor general Mehta informed the court that West Bengal had requested 17 trains and Maharashtra has indicated demand for one train Mehta told the court that the present system of registration, transportation and quarantine system for migrant workers should be continued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-states-must-create-jobs-for-migrants-sc/story-uOdtK9sAtBsGQXQg1dOJPJ.html
06-06-2020||India||Cong names Kharge for K’taka RS seat; another Guj MLA quits||The Congress on Friday named veteran leader Mallikarjun Kharge as its candidate for the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections from Karnataka.Four Rajya Sabha members — two from the Congress (BK Hariprasad and Rajeev Gowda), Prabhakar Kore of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Janata Dal (Secular) leader D Kupendra Reddy — are retiring on completion of their terms on June 25.In the 223-member Karnataka assembly, a candidate will require 44 votes to be elected to the Upper House of Parliament.The BJP, with 117 legislators, is set to get two seats while the Congress, which has 68 members, will bag one.The JD(S), with 34 legislators, could get the fourth seat provided the Congress supports its candidate.In the evening, the JD(S) legislature party, which met under the leadership of former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, unanimously urged its party supremo and former Prime Minister, HD Deve Gowda, to contest the Rajya Sabha polls.Kumaraswamy later said his father was yet to make up his mind but maintained that Gowda’s “experience and vision would be an asset to the nation” if he decides to contest.Asked if his party will extend support to Gowda, Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar said it will be decided by the Congress high command.Gowda, 87, lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Tumkur to the BJP’s Gangasandra Siddappa Basavaraj. His grandson, Prajwal Gowda, won from the JD(S) bastion of Hassan, defeating A Manju of the BJP.The Congress and the JD(S) are not in the best of terms since their 14-month coalition government collapsed on July 23, 2019, following the revolt by rebels from both parties.Congress leader Kharge, popularly known as Solillada Saradara (a leader without defeat) faced his first electoral loss in his decades-long political life against BJP’s Umesh Jadhav in Gulbarga in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.The 77-year-old Kharge got elected to the Karnataka assembly nine consecutive times and twice to the Lok Sabha.An ex-union minister and a former leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, Kharge is currently the party general secretary in-charge on Maharashtra.Shivakumar and leader of the opposition in Karnataka assembly Siddaramiah welcomed the leadership’s decision to field Kharge.Meanwhile, hectic lobbying was on in the BJP, which is expected to announce its candidates in a day or two in the state.In Gujarat, the Congress suffered another jolt on Friday when its, legislator Brijesh Merja, resigned from the assembly. Two Congress legislators -- Akshay Patel and Jitu Chaudhary – already resigned from the assembly on Thursday.With Merja’s resignation, the chances of the Congress winning the second Rajya Sabha seat have diminished as its tally in the 182-member House now stands at 65.Five Congress legislators — Somabhai Patel, Praveen Maru, JV Kakadia, Mangal Gavit and Pradyuman Singh Jadeja — had resigned in March.The total strength of the Gujarat assembly now stands at 172. The ruling BJP has 103 legislators, the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) two and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) one. There is one Independent legislator, Jignesh Mevani.The Congress has fielded its senior leaders Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki, while the ruling BJP has named Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin as its candidates.The Rajya Sabha elections, earlier scheduled to be held on March 26, were deferred due to the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent imposition of the nationwide lockdown from March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-names-kharge-for-k-taka-rs-seat-another-guj-mla-quits/story-erdcmRTZCicZCDx3m0Ke4O.html
06-06-2020||India||Haj pilgrims can cancel tickets, get refund: Committee||Haj pilgrims have been told that they can cancel their applications and collect a complete refund.The circular issued by Haj Committee of India (HCOI) on Friday comes even as it awaits a notification from Saudi Ministry of Haj and the central government about provisions for Haj pilgrims this year. The HCOI said it is very difficult to make arrangements because of the epidemic and are advising people to not go for Haj which starts on June 25.Earlier, the Saudi government had suspended the Umrah - a shorter version of the Haj - which sees approximately 25 lakh people visiting the holy city of Mecca and Madina, of which around five lakh pilgrims visit from India.This year, around 1.75 lakh people were expected to leave for Haj from India from June 25 onwards. Of which, 1.25 lakh people had registered through HCOI and other 50,000 would have travelling through private tour operators (PTOs).Maqsood Ahmed Khan, chief executive officer of HCOI, said that owing to a lot of queries by pilgrims, they decided to issue the circular calling for cancellation of applications by pilgrims. Khan added that the committee is of the opinion that it will be difficult to make all the arrangements for Haj at such a short notice.“There was some cancellation charge of around Rs 5,000-7,000 that was levied in previous years if pilgrims cancel, but we are doing away with that this year. If someone cancels, a full refund will be given to them,” said Khan.Khan added those who cancel after the announcement by either of the government will also be provided with the refund, however that may happen within a year.“On our end it is very difficult to make arrangements, we would advise people to not go for Haj this year. About next year, fresh applications will be called later,” Khan added.Zafar Jamal of Federation Haj PTOs of India said that by the month Ramzan they fill their quota of 50,000 pilgrims. However, due to the pandemic, only 30% of pilgrims had registered with them.“We are awaiting details from Saudi government, which is expected to be out on Saturday. Then we will take a call on what needs to be done. There may be a change in quota and the pilgrimage may become expensive then. In that case there will anyways be a lot of cancellations. Even we would advice pilgrims to not opt for pilgrimage this year,” said Jamal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/sports/haj-pilgrims-can-cancel-tickets-get-refund-committee/story-r9WHO1aIEelFl9qLiO4oZN.html
06-06-2020||India||Journals retract two major Covid studies||Two of the world’s leading medical journals have retracted major studies on the coronavirus disease, including one that raised safety concerns about the experimental use of anti-malarial drugs for treatment of Covid-19 amid scientific scrutiny of dubious data sets used for the analysis.Both studies, which were published in The Lancet and the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM), used data from a little-known Chicago-based health analytics company called Surgisphere, which has been consistently opaque about its data sources.The study published in The Lancet retrospectively analysed around 96,000 patient records to conclude that the anti-malaria drugs hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine offered no benefits in treating Covid-19 and even raised the risk of irregular heart rhythm (arrhythmia) and death. Following the study, the World Health Organization (WHO) suspended the hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine arm of its multi-country Solidarity Trail to validate four experimental Covid-19 treatments, but announced this week that it was resuming the trials.In the absence of a treatment or vaccine, hydoxychloroquine and chloroquine are among several approved drugs being repurposed to treat Covid-19. Among its champions is US President Donald Trump, who has announced that he has been taking hydroxychloroquine as a prophylaxis to prevent infection. The drug has been used to treat people for malaria, rheumatoid arthritis, and lupus, against which it has been shown to offer benefits, experts stress.Following Surgisphere’s refusal to share its data and methodology after at least 120 scientists and clinicians called for an independent audit of the data it claimed were sourced from 671 hospitals across six continents, three of the four authors of the hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine paper not affiliated with Surgisphere retracted the study.The retraction came two days after The Lancet issued an “Expression of Concern to alert readers to the fact that serious scientific questions have been brought to our attention” on Wednesday.“We can no longer vouch for the veracity of the primary data sources,” Mandeep Mehra of Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, Frank Ruschitzka of University Hospital Zurich, and Amit Patel of University of Utah said in a statement issued by The Lancet. The fourth study author, Dr Sapan Desai, a vascular surgeon and Surgisphere’s chief executive, did not join the retraction.“As such, our reviewers were not able to conduct an independent and private peer review and therefore notified us of their withdrawal from the peer-review process,” the researchers wrote.Late on Thursday, the NEJM also retracted a study using data from the same company that found that blood pressure medications were safe for people with Covid-19.“Rapid review is actually causing problems because the reviewers are being chosen in haste and they don’t have adequate time to look at the data properly. They feel the pressure of time to respond quickly, and may not notice some of the problems with the data. Secondly, you may not get the best combination of reviewers given the deluge of studies out there. When the publication speed is high, study authors and reviewers don’t notice the traffic signals,” said Dr Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India, who is an independent expert on the executive group of the steering committee of Solidarity Trial.“I think that what happened just highlights the self-correcting nature of scientific process. The only lesson I can state is an obvious one. If the conclusions are important to your work, read the paper carefully and judge its merit independently. Do not assume quality from the names or affiliations of the authors, or the name of the journal. The publication process is as prone to human fallibility as anything else,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director of the Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology,.Agrawal is among the top scientists in India to have written to WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan questioning the health agency’s decision to suspend the hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine part of Solidarity Trial following The Lancet study. The letter said the WHO’s decision to pause the trial is “knee-jerk” because the database is flawed and the malaria drugs were given to the sickest patients.India is the world’s biggest producer of hydroxychloroquine, which is approved for use as a prophylaxis and has been given to asymptomatic health workers and contacts of Covid-19 patients since March 23. This was expanded to include frontline workers from May 22.A study from India found that having four or more doses of hydroxychloroquine lowers the odds of getting infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease. The study, published in the Indian Journal of Respiratory Research earlier this week, said the anti-malaria drug lowered the risk of infection by 80% if taken as recommended. The National Task Force for the coronavirus in India recommended a once-a-week maintenance dose for seven weeks -- 400 mg once every week, following the loading dose of 400 mg.Hydroxychloroquine does not prevent disease when given as a post-exposure prophylaxis within four days after high-risk or moderate-risk exposure to Covid-19, reported the first gold-standard clinical trial of hydroxycholoroquine in Covid-19 published in NEJM on Wednesday, Other clinical trials, including some looking at the drugs as treatments, are under way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journals-retract-two-major-covid-studies/story-EVzDlWf9bUoTgBmVvRUgVK.html
06-06-2020||India||UN terror report reiterated Imran’s ‘confession’: Govt||A new UN report that refers to the presence of thousands of Pakistani terrorists in Afghanistan is a reiteration of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s acknowledgement last year that his country hosts up to 40,000 terrorists, people familiar with developments said on Friday.Reacting to the Pakistan foreign office’s contention that the Indian external affairs ministry was using the UN report to “slander Pakistan”, the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the UN Security Council’s analytical support and sanctions monitoring team had only reiterated what Khan “has already confessed”.As first reported by HT, the UN report, issued last month, said there were some 6,500 Pakistani nationals among foreign terrorists operating in Afghanistan, and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) play a key role in bringing foreign fighters into the war-torn country.“Pakistan’s foreign office would do well to recall that their prime minister admitted last year that Pakistan still hosts 30,000 to 40,000 terrorists. Pakistan’s leadership is also on record acknowledging that in the past, terrorists had used the country’s soil to carry out terror attacks on other countries,” said one of the people cited above.At the US Institute of Peace in Washington last July, Khan had said Pakistan still has “about 30,000 to 40,000 armed people who have been trained and fought in some part of Afghanistan or Kashmir”.“The UN Security Council’s analytical support and sanctions monitoring team’s report has only reiterated what the prime minister of Pakistan has already confessed. Instead of casting aspersions on the report, Pakistan should introspect and put an end to any kind of support for terrorism emanating from territories under its control,” the person said.The person added that the UN and the world community are “acquainted with the reality that Pakistan is the nerve centre of terrorism”.Pakistan houses “one of the largest numbers of UN-designated terrorists and terrorist entities”, and its “fallacious attempts to point fingers at others cannot deflect attention from the facts on the ground”, the person said.“Moreover, Pakistan’s attempts to create a divide in the traditional and friendly relations between the people of India and Afghanistan will not succeed. The people of Afghanistan and the international community are well aware of who the ‘spoiler’ is, and who is sheltering, training, arming and financing terrorists and sponsoring violence against innocent Afghans and members of the international community,” the person said.In a statement issued on Thursday, Pakistan’s foreign office had contended the external affairs ministry had misrepresented the UN report to slander Pakistan. “Pakistan categorically rejects India’s malicious allegations, which are aimed at misleading the international community,” it said.The statement said there was no reference to “safe havens” in Pakistan in the report, which it claimed was based on “briefings provided in Afghanistan to the [UN team] by certain quarters who have long expressed scepticism about the Afghan peace process”.The foreign office also contended India was trying to “create complications for the Afghan peace process”, and that Pakistan had highlighted what it was said was India’s “sponsorship of terrorist organisations in Afghanistan”.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had reacted to the UN report by expressing India’s “serious concern” at the continued presence in Afghanistan of the senior leadership of al-Qaeda and a large number of foreign terrorists, including 6,500 Pakistan nationals. The report, he said, “vindicates India’s long-standing position that Pakistan remains the epicentre of international terrorism”....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-terror-report-reiterated-imran-s-confession-govt/story-s2tjUWV8ZAJG0JCjq1z2eK.html
06-06-2020||India||Cyclones over Arabian Sea on the rise due to global warming: Hiroyuki Murakami||The unusually high number of cyclones in the Arabian Sea, some of them extremely severe with wind speeds higher than 167 kmph, are a result of warming seas and changes in sea surface temperature distribution, says Hiroyuki Murakami, a climate scientist at the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’ Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory. His paper in the journal Nature in 2017 was among the first to make these linkages. According to India Meteorological Department, the ratio of cyclones in the Arabian Sea, over which the severe cyclonic storm Nisarga formed this week, and the Bay of Bengal, where cyclone Amphan originated on May 20 , is normally 1:4. But this is set to change. Edited excerpts from an email interview :We have been seeing a rise in cyclonic storms over the Arabian Sea in the past few years. What could be the reasons?Attached figure shows the number of extremely severe cyclonic storms (ESCSs) over the Arabian Sea since 1998. You can clearly see that ESCSs are increasing especially during the post-monsoon season (October-December). Our climate models suggest this increase is largely due to global warming.What is the normal frequency of cyclonic storms expected in Arabian Sea?The average number of observed cyclones (including both weak and intense storms) is two per year between 1998-2019 in the Arabian Sea.Why have the frequency of intense/severe cyclonic storms increased in the post-monsoon period over the Arabian Sea?Regarding the increase in ESCSs during the post-monsoon season, we found three factors may be related. One is the rising sea surface temperature, especially over the Arabian Sea. This warm ocean contributed to intensifying cyclones, leading to more severe storms in the Arabian Sea. The second factor is that onset of winter monsoon is delaying, leading to a longer storm season. The last factor is increases in anthropogenic aerosols, leading to changes in sea surface temperature distribution that in turn change monsoon circulation, resulting in more active storms.What is the impact of climate change on tropical cyclones?In general, when global warming proceeds, the surface ocean gets warmer. This warm condition is favourable for intensification of tropical cyclones. But increasing greenhouse gasses also cause warming in the upper atmosphere, that makes the atmosphere more stable. This stable atmosphere is unfavourable for tropical cyclones. Therefore, the frequency of tropical cyclone genesis would decrease when global warming proceeds. But once a storm generates, the storm can develop into an intense storm due to the warmed surface ocean. Above discussion is generally applied to global tropical cyclones. But when we discuss regional tropical cyclones, it is more complex. Some regions get more active storms by changing circulation whereas some regions get less active. Expecting changes in regional tropical cyclones contain a lot of uncertainty.Are we to expect more such severe cyclonic storms to impact the west coast of India?Yes, especially during the post-monsoon season. Our climate models suggest an increasing frequency of severe storms over the Arabian Sea during the post-monsoon season, as we have reported in our paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclones-over-arabian-sea-on-the-rise-due-to-global-warming-hiroyuki-murakami/story-s9301N9LPLRRsu0LGlrhZI.html
06-06-2020||India||One arrested for pregnant elephant’s death||One man has been arrested and two have been detained for questioning by a joint investigating team of the police and forest departments in connection with the suspected killing of a pregnant elephant in Kerala’s Palakkad that has triggered widespread outrage in the state and outside.The 15-year-old elephant died after chewing on a pineapple stuffed with crackers, according to initial reports, but the latest autopsy conducted on her found it was a coconut, and the injuries she suffered were at least two weeks old.The arrested man, identified as P Wilson, is an employee of an estate that cultivates cash crops and spices on the fringes of the Silent Valley National Park, who told investigators that he prepared such snares to check crop-raiding wild boars. Two people who Wilson said had ordered him to prepare such snares have been detained for questioning.“More arrests will take place soon,” said Kerala’s forest minister. K Raju. Union environment minister Prakash Javedkar has announced another probe by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, which has also begun its investigation.The elephant’s painful death came to light on May 27 when forest officer Mohan Krishnan wrote a Facebook post after witnessing it. After biting the cracker-filled coconut, the elephant rushed to the nearby Velliyar river in the Silent Valley rain forest and stood there for days with her trunk and head immersed in the water to nurse its injuries.Forest officials rushed to save the jumbo after local people alerted them, but she succumbed to her injuries on May 27 and during post-mortem it was found to be pregnant. Later, local people said the jumbo was around the river for more than a week.By that time she died, the animal had been enfeebled, perhaps because it was not able to consume food or water because of the injuries inflicted by the blast. Later, local people said the jumbo was around the river for more than a week.Elephants are much adored in Kerala, and caparisoned pachyderms re an integral part of festivals and big public celebrations in the state. They are also a feature of Kerala’s biggest cultural festival, Thrissur Pooram, in which one hundred-odd elephants take part along with an ensemble of percussion instrument players.The incident also highlighted growing man-animal conflict in Kerala, where, in 2018-19, 24 people were killed by wild elephants and 12 died in tiger attacks. Home to many wildlife parks and reserves, the state has 5,706 elephants, according to a 2019 census. The state has 720 domesticated elephants, too, most of them owned by temples.The death of the elephant in Palakkad acquired a political and communal colour after some Bharatiya Janata Party leaders including Maneka Gandhi, an animal rights campaigner, commented on the incident. Maneka Gandhi, inadvertently, said the animal had died in Malappuram, a Muslim-majority district she described as the most violent in the country, although the death took place in Palakkad.Many film artistes including Tovino Thomas, Ashiq Abu and others began an online campaign “#I stand with Malappuram.”“It is sad some people are venting their anger without verifying where exactly it took place. It exposes their communal intention,” said P K Kunhalikuty, the Muslim League MP who represents Malappuram, adding that such comments were an insult to the people of his constituency. Communist Party of India (Marxist) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan also condemned “the move to communalise an unfortunate incident.” Wildlife activists said this was not first elephant death of its kind. In April, another female elephant died in Kollam in south Kerala after she bit into a cracker-filled water melon. Two years ago, a tusker died in Idukki after swallowing jaggery-coated explosives, they said. Usually in such cases, it is difficult to pinpoint the offenders as elephants travel long distances in search of food and water, they said, adding most such cases remain unnatural deaths only on paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-arrested-for-pregnant-elephant-s-death/story-6T8XTVIk3uoIbJliYxZW6O.html
06-06-2020||India||UN body warns of another invasion of locusts in July||India might face another attack of crop-munching desert locusts in July, the Food and Agriculture Organization of United Nations (FAO) has warned amid an ongoing outbreak that has prompted the Centre to issue a warning to 16 states, including the worst-affected Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.In its situation update on Thursday, FAO said early migration of spring-bred locust swarms from southwest Pakistan to Rajasthan occurred in May before the monsoon, and some swarms travelled to northern states for the first time since 1962.While the swarms will oscillate east and westwards before returning to lay eggs with the onset of the monsoon in Rajasthan’s deserts, successive waves of swarms will arrive from southern Iran in June and the “Horn of Africa” peninsula in July, according to FAO.According to experts, the swarms causing the present outbreak and chomping through vegetation across farmlands in Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh entered India from Pakistan in April. The existing swarms too came from “Horn of Africa”.“In East Africa, second-generation breeding is underway in northwest Kenya and numerous hopper bands have formed that will give rise to immature swarms from the second week of June until at least mid-July.“A similar situation is underway in Somalia and Ethiopia. Most of the new swarms will migrate northwards from Kenya to Ethiopia and traverse South Sudan to Sudan after mid-June while other swarms will move to northern Ethiopia. Swarms that reach northeast Somalia are likely to migrate across the northern Indian Ocean to the Indo-Pakistan border area,” FAO said.Locusts can fly up to 150km in a day and a one-square-kilometre swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people.KL Gurjar, the Indian government’s Locust Warning Organization (LWO), said many villages in Barmer and Jodhpur districts in Rajasthan continued witnessing locust attacks. Locusts have been controlled in 65,000-hectare area, he said, adding that there has been no new swarm of locusts for the last four days in the state.“...some adult groups and swarms are expected to arrive in India from the spring-breeding areas (such as Iran and Pakistan). Therefore, vigilance will continue for expected invasion of locust in coming days,” he said.LWO, a federal agency to monitor and control the gregarious pests, said Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan are likely to see the use of helicopters to control the situation.Drones, fire tenders and tractors have been already used to spray chemicals on locusts when they settle over trees at night. But since the problem is persisting and the kharif season is about to begin, the government is considering pulling out all the stops.“We will use helicopters too to control locusts wherever these insects are moving in large numbers,” Gurjar said. “We are in the process (of getting the choppers for the same).”Locust presence was seen in parts of Vindhya, Bundelkhand and Gwalior-Chambal regions of Madhya Pradesh on Friday. In Rajasthan, places such as Barmer, Pali, Jodhpur, Jalore, Nagaur and Bikaner reported locust swarms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-body-warns-of-another-invasion-of-locusts-in-july/story-ejXzmlkPdDEqcSAArjcfoN.html
06-06-2020||India||ITBP puts into operation one command each in C’garh, Guwahati||As the standoff between the armed forces of India and China continues at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) has operationalised its newly sanctioned commands in Chandigarh and Guwahati for better supervision of troop deployment.The cabinet had, in October 2019, approved two new commands -- the Western Command at Chandigarh and Eastern Command at Guwahati -- to be headed by an additional director general (ADG) rank officer in the ITBP.In an order issued on June 3, ITBP director general S S Deswal said: an “imperative need is felt to make these establishments functional immediately”. Inspector general (operations) M S Rawat will take over charge of the western command in Chandigarh with immediate effect “in the capacity of ADG”, the order said.Another IG rank officer will soon head the Guwahati-based eastern command, an official said. The commands will streamline operations, intelligence, deployment and administrative movements of ITBP personnel to the border regions and also bring better synergy with the army that secures the LAC, the officer added.ITBP currently has no ADG rank officer posted with it so a decision was taken to deploy IG rank officers.Officials said the recent standoff between Indian and Chinese forces in the Ladakh area and other parts of the LAC was a major reason for the quick initiation of the two commands.The ITBP has recently augmented its strength at the border posts owing to the standoff with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).There are three ADG posts in the force at present and none is occupied as the Delhi high court has ordered a stay on the appointment of Indian Police Service (IPS) officers to paramilitary or Central Armed Police Forces of the rank of inspector general and above.While sanctioning the two commands on October 23, 2019, the Union cabinet had also sanctioned about 60 posts of officer ranks in the force.The western command will have control over ITBP deployments in the Dehradun-based Northern Frontier that includes the Shimla, Dehradun and Bareilly sectors, and the North-West Frontier, which was shifted from Chandigarh to Leh in April last year and includes the Srinagar and Ladakh sectors. The ITBP Leh frontier is headed by an inspector general-rank officer who is equivalent to a major general of the army.The ADG rank officer is equivalent to a lieutenant general in the army.Leh also houses the XIV Corps of the Army that was raised in the aftermath of the 1999 Kargil war.The eastern command will look after ITBP deployment in the northern frontier and the north-eastern frontier.The ITBP is trained for mountain warfare and its troops were present along with the army during the recent standoff with Chinese forces in the Ladakh area. It undertakes short-range and long-haul patrols along the LAC as part of its mandate to guard the icy Himalayan front marred by incidents of transgressions between the two countries due to differing perception of the border region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-puts-into-operation-one-command-each-in-c-garh-guwahati/story-wkvn5lX7WkdSgVHkIqdObP.html
06-06-2020||India||Won’t allow differences to escalate, both sides say||A day ahead of crucial talks between Indian and Chinese army commanders on the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the two sides on Friday agreed on not allowing their differences to escalate into disputes while respecting each other’s concerns.In the first formal diplomatic meeting between the two sides since tensions flared along the LAC, joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry held talks with Wu Jianghao, director general in China’s foreign ministry, through video conference and reviewed bilateral relations, including “current developments”, according to a readout from the Indian side.Statements issued in New Delhi and Beijing referred to not allowing differences to become disputes. The Indian statement spoke about respecting each other’s sensitivities and concerns, while the Chinese side’s readout said the two sides should not pose a threat to each other and should enhance “strategic mutual trust”.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Friday’s meeting was meant to set the stage for the talks on June 6 between the general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, Lt Gen Harinder Singh, and his Chinese counterpart.Tensions built up along the LAC following violent clashes between hundreds of Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors early last month. Army officers of the two sides have held several meetings along the disputed border but have been unable to break the impasse.During Friday’s meeting, both sides agreed that in accordance with the guidance provided by their leadership, they “should handle their differences through peaceful discussion bearing in mind the importance of respecting each other’s sensitivities, concerns and aspirations and not allow them to become disputes”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement without giving details.The two sides “recalled the consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, that peaceful, stable and balanced relations between India and China will be a positive factor for stability in the current global situation”.This was a reference to the guidance from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping to the militaries of both countries to maintain peace and tranquillity along the border after their first informal summit at Wuhan in 2018. That summit was organised to put ties back on an even keel after the 73-day standoff at Doklam in 2017.A statement issued by China’s foreign ministry in Mandarin said the two sides agreed that under the strategic guidance of their leaders, they “should not pose a threat to each other, should present opportunities for development and not allow their differences to escalate into disputes”. The statement called for the two sides to “properly manage and control differences”.The statement also called for enhancing “strategic mutual trust”, and deepening mutually beneficial cooperation and promoting the celebrations marking the 70th anniversary of diplomatic ties to “ensure that the giant ship of China-India relations always moves forward in the right direction”.The officials of the two sides also exchanged views on the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, cooperation at different multilateral forums.The Chinese statement further said the two countries should deepen cooperation in fighting epidemics, oppose the “politicisation of epidemics”, support the World Health Organization (WHO) and promote the building of public health systems.They should also uphold and promote multilateralism and oppose “unilateralism, protectionism and hegemonism”, and jointly safeguard international fairness and justice and the common interests of developing countries, the Chinese side added.India and China have been in touch through diplomatic and military channels in New Delhi and Beijing over the past few weeks to address the border tensions. Joint secretary Srivastava has been involved in these contacts, the people cited above said.The army commanders are set to met on June 6, almost a month after tensions between India and China flared along the disputed border and took bilateral ties to a new low.India has dismissed China’s contention that its troops were hindering the activities of Chinese troops along the LAC, and has accused Chinese forces of hindering patrols on the Indian side. The Indian government has also made it clear that it won’t allow any change in the status quo along the LAC and that it will tackle the prevailing situation with “strength and restraint”.Amitabh Mathur, a former special secretary in the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), said there was nothing new in the two sides talking about not allowing differences to become disputes. “Hasn’t this line been said before? It has become a sort of cliché,” he said.“While they may say they don’t want differences to become disputes, we have a dispute on our hand. The defence minister has said that the Chinese have come in, and in large numbers. We have to put an end to it somewhere. If the Chinese agree to go back, why did they come in? The clues to that will be in any possible terms of settlement between the two sides,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-allow-differences-to-escalate-both-sides-say/story-kOFEmsZcUk0d4TU0tuXrJN.html
06-06-2020||India||Ministries asked not to start new schemes this fiscal year||The government has directed ministries not to launch any new scheme that entails capital expenditure in this financial year, and suspended already approved projects, barring those under the Rs 20.97 lakh crore economic relief and stimulus package it unveiled in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The aim is to use scarce resources prudently, according to a finance ministry order. A copy of the directive, issued on Thursday, was reviewed by Hindustan Times.“It may be appreciated that in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is an unprecedented demand on public financial resources, and a need to use resources prudently in accordance with emerging and changing priorities,” the department of expenditure, an arm of the finance ministry, said in the order.The government has delegated financial powers to appraise and approve all public funded schemes and projects to the department of expenditure. The move comes against the backdrop of an expected fall in revenue and concerns that the economy may contract this financial year because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown.“This was an expected step taken by the government because of the alarming trends coming from all sectors. With the possibility of India looking at a recession for the first time in recent memory, there is an overwhelming demand for funds from all sources; there is absolutely no scope for the government to be a spendthrift,” said SR Patnaik, head of taxation at the legal firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas: The order, however, exempts schemes announced under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Initiative) and any other special package to be unveiled at a future date for alleviating the crisis caused by the outbreak of Covid-19.After the government announced the nationwide lockdown on March 24 with effect from the following day to curb the spread of the viral disease, it announced a series of relief and economic stimulus packages.The last in the five-part Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package, aimed at relieving the distress caused to small businesses, farmers and migrant workers, was announced on May 17. The total package was worth Rs 20.97 lakh crore that included a Rs 1.7 lakh crore welfare package under PMGKY announced on March 26 and Rs 8.01 lakh crore of monetary measures put in place by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).PMGKY focused on additional food transfers at no cost to poor households, additional cash for vulnerable segments, concessions on government schemes aimed at helping households reduce their expenditure, and support to those in the frontline of the battle against the pandemic.The department of expenditure said that the schemes that have been already approved for the current financial year would remain suspended until March 31, 2021 or further orders, whichever is earlier. Even schemes that have received in-principle approval from the department have been suspended.“No funds may be released for schemes that are not in strict conformity to the instructions given above...,” the order said. Any exceptions to these guidelines will require approval of the department of expenditure, it added.This is the latest set of austerity measures announced by the government to mobilise resources to fund Covid control measures and offset revenue losses caused by the 68-day nationwide lockdown starting from March 25. Although, the government has withheld the monthly Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection data for April and May, officials said on condition of anonymity that the total monthly revenue in these two months could to be only one-third of collection in normal times. The GST collection in March was Rs 97,597 crore. Earlier, the revenue collection had exceeded Rs 1 lakh crore for four consecutive months since November 2019.In April, the government held back payment of additional dearness allowance to all central government employees for 18 months and proposed a similar move for state government staff to collectively save about Rs 1.20 lakh crore that, it said, would be used in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The President, vice president, prime minister, his council of ministers, and members of Parliaments have taken salary cuts.In an interview with HT published on May 18, immediately after the last tranche of the economic stimulus package was announced, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government had plans to mobilise additional resources required to fund the fight against Covid-19. “We took a comprehensive assessment (of what we would need) and then went with this number (Rs 20.97 lakh crore). At the time itself we were conscious that we were looking at this stimulus and also a fall in revenue. We have to see how it goes,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministries-asked-not-to-start-new-schemes-this-fiscal-year/story-8DsrvzjArJ2yr1ohFhtmvI.html
06-06-2020||India||‘More arrests soon’: Kerala minister after 1 held in elephant’s death case||A man was arrested and two others were detained for questioning on Friday by the joint investigation team of the police and forest departments in connection with the brutal killing of a pregnant elephant in Kerala’s Palakkad, the state’s forest minister K Raju said.The arrested man was identified as P Wilson, an employee of an estate that cultivates cash crops and spices on the fringe areas of the Silent Valley National Park.Wilson reportedly told the probe team that he used to make explosive-laden snares to check crop-raiding wild boars. He said he made the latest snare after he was asked by two others, who have been identified.“More arrests will take place soon,” the forest minister said. Union environment minister Prakash Javedkar had announced another probe by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, which has also begun its investigation.Autopsy report The death of the 15-year-old elephant came to light on May 27 when a forest officer, Mohan Krishnan, wrote a Facebook post after witnessing its painful death in a river. Initial reports suggested that the elephant died after eating a pineapple stuffed with crackers but the latest post-mortem report said it was a coconut and that her wounds were two-week-old. By the time the elephant died, all that remained of her body was a skeleton.The 15-year-old elephant reportedly rushed to the nearby Velliyar River in the Silent Valley rain forests after eating the cracker-filled fruit and stood there for many days with its trunk and head immersed in the water perhaps to nurse its wounds. Forest officials rushed to save the jumbo after local people alerted them but it succumbed to its injuries on May 27 and during the autopsy, it was found to be pregnant. Locals later said the jumbo was around the river for more than a week.War of wordsThe incident took a political colour later after many BJP leaders, including Maneka Gandhi, said Malappuram is the most violent district in the country.Though the incident took place in Palakkad many inadvertently named the Muslim-majority Malappuram and some even dragged Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleging that it took place in Wayanad, his Lok Sabha constituency in north Kerala.“It is sad some people are venting their anger without verifying where exactly it took place. It exposes their communal intention,” PK Kunhalikuty, the Muslim League MP who represents Malappuram, said.Kunhalikuty said it was a big insult to the people of his constituency. CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan also condemned “the move to communalise an unfortunate incident.” Upset with a particular district being targeted, many film artists including Tovino Thomas, Ashiq Abu and others began an online campaign “#I stand with Malappuram” which was supported by many.Many posters came up in Malappuram condemning sweeping comments without verifying facts.Previous deathsAfter the incident triggered countrywide protests, many wildlife activists said this was not the first death of its sort.Another female elephant was killed in Kollam in south Kerala in April after it ate cracker-filled watermelon and two years ago another jumbo was killed in Idukki after swallowing jaggery-coated explosives, they said. They said in such cases it is difficult to pinpoint offenders as the animals travel 100-200km a day in search of food and water and added that most of the cases remain unnatural death only on paper.The shocking incident has revived the debate on the growing man-animal conflict in the state which has a 29.1% forest cover. In 2018-19, 24 people were killed by wild elephants and 12 died in tiger attacks and 9400 man-animal conflict incidents were reported, according to the latest forest statistics. Kerala, which is home to many wildlife parks and reserves, has 5,706 elephants, according to the 2019 census. The state has 720 domesticated jumbos and a majority of them are owned by temples.The Guruvayur Sree Krishna temple has the highest number of captive jumbos at 59.Elephants are adored in Kerala and many captive animals carry names. Caparisoned elephants are an integral part of all festivals and big gatherings in the state.Hundred-odd elephants take part in the annual festival of ‘Thrissur Pooram’, Kerala’s biggest cultural festival, along with an ensemble of percussion instrument players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-arrests-soon-kerala-minister-after-1-held-in-elephant-s-death-case/story-gd2gQPWACox1fmsp5IaCoI.html
06-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: About 80% of registered APL families took benefits of PDS||About 80% of above poverty level (APL) families in Chhattisgarh have accessed ration shops for rations distributed under the public distribution system (PDS) during the Covid-19 lockdown, according to figures from the state government.Senior officers believe there was an increase in registration of APL and blow poverty line (BPL) families since large numbers of migrant workers returned to Chhattisgarh from other states, and the average increase in purchase of PDS rations by APL families shows that the quality of rations is good and no hoarding has taken place.People who get ration at Rs1 per kg under the National Food Security Act, Antyodaya Anna Yojana and a state government scheme for disabled come under the BPL category and people who take ration at Rs10 per kg are considered as APL families.Chhattisgarh has a universal PDS and everyone is entitled to benefit from the system. In June 2019, the state government decided to provide rice at subsidised prices to APL families in the state.Food and civil supplies secretary Kamalpreet Singh said that though there is no concept of BPL and APL families since the implementation of the National Food Security Act, the state government has categorised families according to the rate at which rations are provided since everyone in Chhattisgarh benefits from PDS.“In Chhattisgarh, the National Food Security Act is being implemented but it doesn’t cover everyone. Plus, we give double the rations [allocated under] the Act. We have two other schemes – Antyodaya Scheme and a scheme for disabled people – and they all get rations for Rs 1 per kg,” he said.“The second category is for the middle class, where people can register themselves and can get rations at Rs10 per kg. They are considered as APL,” Singh said, adding that 2.47 crore people are provided rations under PDS in the state.APL card holders who went to ration shops during the lockdown said they were saving money since the government was providing rations at a subsidy.“I am from a middle-class family. I am in a private job and have an APL card. I picked up 70 kg of rice from a ration shop during the lockdown because I wanted to save money,” said Sattu Chandrakar, a resident of Raipur.Official figures show that in January, the total number of APL cards was 838,719 and rations were distributed to 613,405 card holders. In February, the number of APL cards increased to 862,197 and rations were provided to 655,936 card holders.In March, the number of APL cards again increased to 869,405 and rations were distributed to 661,334 card holders. In April, the number of cards was 881,028, and rations were provided to 744,848 people, and the number of cards in May was 894,637 and rations were given to 688,496 people.The figures show the number of APL cards has been increasing every month and more people in this category are going to ration shops to buy grains under PDS.An average of about 80% of APL cards holders were provided rations in March, April and May, with March recording the highest figure of about 84% of the total APL cards.On the other hand, registration of BPL category families has increased because of migrant workers returning to the state and an average of 97% of registered families are getting rations under the scheme, a senior officer said.Commenting on the figures, Singh said: “About 80% of APL families reached ration shops. There are reports that people went to ration shops in cars. We believe that PDS works in times of crisis and secondly, the quality of rice has improved and that is why APL families preferred using PDS rations during this lockdown.”“We have distributed about 14 lakh metric tonnes of rice under PDS till now, of which the Central government’s share is about 50%,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-about-80-of-registered-apl-families-took-benefits-of-pds/story-8qnjJTK4xXTE1nbTEUokfM.html
06-06-2020||India||Ahead of today’s meet over Ladakh standoff, India signals a realistic approach||Indian military officials will walk into a meeting on Saturday with their Chinese counterparts to attempt to resolve the month-long row over the Line of Actual Control with the knowledge that it may not be possible to achieve an immediate breakthrough to the Ladakh standoff, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.Saturday’s meeting is the first high-level meeting between Lt General Harinder Singh, the general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, and his Chinese counterpart who heads the People’s Liberation Army’s Group Army since the May 5 scuffle between soldiers near Pangong lake and subsequent stand-off at Galwan riverulet.The last round of talks between delegations led by two major general-rank officers of the two armies on June 2 had been inconclusive.Officials, however, underline that it was a positive sign that both sides were talking to each other through established military and diplomatic channels. But the dialogue does not mean an immediate resolution. “This is the eventuality that we are prepared for,” one of them said.India has already made it clear it wants the Chinese troops to move back and restore status quo ante on the four positions.“We are not in a hurry… and I believe, neither is the Chinese side,” a government functionary told Hindustan Times signalling that the government had adopted a “realistic approach” to the standoff and the dialogue process .An official said given the high stakes involved, he expected the Ladakh standoff to continue for longer than the 73-day Doklam standoff.“Both sides have brought in elements that may continue for some months”.Also Read: India China standoff explained: Bridge over troubled watersThe May 5 scuffle at Pangong triggered by an aggressive group of Chinese soldiers was the starting point of Beijing scaling up its presence along the eastern Ladakh border.Over the next few days, China amassed two Combined Arms Brigades of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso patrolling points along the 3,488-kilometre-long Line of Actual Control (LAC). This comes to around 8,000 soldiers plus support elements like artilleryIndian officials say the standoff at Pangong Tso appears to be aimed at dominating the Srijap mountain that overlooks the lake. But the game in Galwan valley - where the Chinese military has parked itself around three patrolling points - is a lot more complex.“Broadly, our understanding is that the PLA’s focus on the Galwan valley is prompted by multiple objectives that are mostly linked to stalling the upgrade of border infrastructure that has picked up pace in the past two years,” a person familiar with the government’s position on the standoff said.For one, China wants to stall the construction of the winding 255-km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie road that would give the Indian army easy access to the last military post south of the dominating Karakoram Pass.The Indian side is, however, determined to complete construction of the entire stretch by this summer including the 60-metre bridge across the Galwan rivulet or nallah near the point of its confluence with Shyok river. “We have to complete the concrete bridge this month, and the road well before the onset of winter,” one official said.Also Read: As the LAC heats up, reading China’s playbook, writes Shyam SaranOnce this road is completed, the military capacity and capability would go up manifold in the region and enable the army to put counter pressure on the PLA at the Karakoram Pass, Chip Chap river area, Trig Heights, Hot Springs, Galwan and Depsang Plains.“India will then have the capacity to counter retaliate to Chinese pressure,” an official said. This is an eventuality that the Chinese, which had been upgrading its border infrastructure for decades, is trying to avoid.In the long term, Indian strategists told Hindustan Times, the Chinese effort appears to make the Indian positions in the Daulat Beg Oldie sector untenable. On its part, China has been pushing to open a route through this sector for a better linkage to Pakistan.Currently, China and its all weather ally Pakistan are linked by the Karakoram highway via the Khunjerab Pass.But China is looking to link Tibet with occupied Gilgit Baltistan through a better all-weather road.The idea is to have a better all weather road to Pakistan so that China Pakistan Economic Corridor is serviced throughout the year.Also Read: India is sensitive to China but won’t allow change in any border sectorChina has already built a road through Gilgit’s Shaksgam valley that lies north-west of Siachen glacier. Pakistan had ceded around 5,163 sq km of the Shaksgam valley to China in a controversial 1963 boundary agreement.If the Chinese are able to cut us off at Daulat Beg Oldie, they can put pressure through axis Murgo-Saser La-Sansoma , a major logistical supply point on Shyok River for Indian soldiers deployed to dominate Siachen Glacier.That would help Beijing’s ally Pakistan.“In a way,” an army officer said, “you could say that what General Pervez Musharaff could not achieve through the Kargil war, China’s paramount leader Xi Jinping, chairman of its Central Military Commission, expects to achieve before he demits office”.Also Read: Ladakh sector’s Galwan Valley and its history in Sino-India relationsThe officer said the Chinese side could also try to stall the extension of an airstrip at Daulat Beg Oldie that would allow heavy-weight transport aircrafts also to land.While South Block has been tight-lipped about the motivation of the Chinese aggression along the LAC, it is quite evident that the pinpricks was also aimed to message Beijing’s unhappiness over certain economic measures taken by India after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Chinese government had taken offence to India’s new rule notified in early April that blocked Chinese companies from acquiring Indian firms without government approval. The decision to tilt the balance in favour of Indian companies hasn’t gone down too well with Beijing. As part of this exercise, the government decided that all procurement orders of Rs 200 crore or less could not go to foreign companies. The government’s hard push to the Make in India campaign hasn’t gone down well with Beijing also over concerns that it could discourage cheap exports from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-talks-with-china-over-ladakh-standoff-india-signals-a-realistic-approach/story-yhfSaZk0vucG6f1vPKZHrK.html
