07-06-2020||India||Delhi govt sets up 24x7 helpdesks in its hospitals to help needy patients||The Delhi government on Sunday announced setting up of 24x7 helpdesks in each of its hospitals to facilitate admissions of needy patients.“It is hereby ordered that a 24x7 helpdesk shall be set up at each hospital to ensure smooth and hassle-free admission to the needy patients in the hospital. The said helpdesk shall function in two shifts of of 12 hours each and shall consist of two officers/officials of govt of NCT Delhi and and one constable during night duty hours….The hospital administration concerned shall extend all cooperation to the officers/officials deployed at helpdesk,” said the order by the Delhi government’s health and family welfare secretary Padmini Singla.It said the decision to set up the helpdesks was taken after it observed that some needy patients visiting various hospitals for admission/treatment of diseases were facing difficulty in admission in government hospitals and that these patients “are being made to suffer.”The Delhi government had recently come under flak for the conduct of hospitals amid the Covid-19 pandemic.On Saturday, the government issued a slew of orders including one to all state-run Covid-19 hospitals that no patient with symptoms of coronavirus should be denied admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-sets-up-24x7-helpdesks-in-its-hospitals-to-help-needy-patients/story-uMmyY2TQkXA9K0fAGzs9uM.html
07-06-2020||India||PIB Principle Director General tests positive for Covid-19: Reports||Principle Director General of Press Information Bureau, K S Dhatwalia has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to AIIMS, sources said on Sunday.  Dhatwalia had on Wednesday shared stage with Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Prakash Javadekar when they had briefed media on the decisions taken by the Cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pib-principle-director-general-tests-positive-for-covid-19-reports/story-OwIwPFa93PsChDbfEotJQN.html
07-06-2020||India||J-K’s Covid-19 tally goes past 4,000 after Sunday’s surge of 620 new cases||Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid-19 tally on Sunday crossed the 4,000 mark with the highest single-day spike of 620 new cases, the government said.The union territory’s Covid-19 tally is now 4,087 after it reported the first case 91 days ago.There were also two casualties in Kashmir division taking the death toll of infected people in the union territory to 41.Officials said that most of the fresh cases were reported from Kashmir division which has been consistently recording the majority of the case load than Jammu division.“In the union territory, 620 new positive cases have been reported since our last update yesterday, 37 from Jammu division and 583 from Kashmir Division,” the government said in a statement.The statement said that among the new cases, 32 were those with travel histories.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.After the first cases of Covid-19 in J&K on March 9, this is the first time that the number of daily Covid cases has crossed 600-mark in the union territory. The last highest jump was on Thursday with 285 new cases. Since May 27, the UT has consistently seen a jump of more than 100 cases.Amid the spike, the government on Sunday put nine districts in the red zone, nine in the orange zone and two in the green zone. In Kashmir division, which has recorded the majority of the cases, eight of its districts are in red with only two districts - Ganderbal and Bandipora- were put in orange zone while in Jammu all the district were either categorized as orange or green zone. Officials said that of the two persons who died one was a 38-year-old tailor from Kolkata working in Srinagar. They said that he had brain haemorrhage and died on Saturday. His sample was taken after his death.“He died on Saturday and his sample was taken which returned positive today,” said medical superintendent of SMHS, Nazir Chaudhary. Another man, 70-year-old from Srinagar, had died at Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial hospital in Srinagar on Saturday.So far 41 people have died of Covid-19 in the UT of which 36 are in Kashmir division, five are from the Jammu division.Fresh cases were reported in all the 10 districts of Kashmir valley, taking the total tally in the division to 3,189.The highest jump in Kashmir was in Kulgam with 161 new cases while Baramulla recorded 132 new cases followed by Srinagar, Pulwama and Anantnag with 87, 60 and 59 cases respectively. “We should emphasize on precautions in public instead of triggering panic with numbers. In the later case it’s also true that out of 23,589 #Srinagar residents tested so far only 400 odd are +ve, including >50% travelers. Let’s encourage everyone to follow precautions,” said Srinagar deputy commissioner, Shahid Choudhary in a tweet.In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in seven of the 10 districts taking the division’s tally to 889.The highest jump in the division was recorded in Jammu with 22 cases followed by Doda district with five cases.Ninety patients were discharged after recovery – nine from Jammu division and 81 from Kashmir, the government statement said.So far, 1,216 out of the total 4,087 cases have recovered, 1,016 of those are from Kashmir and 200 are from the Jammu division.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 2,146 and 684 in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-s-covid-19-tally-goes-past-4-000-after-sunday-s-surge-of-620-new-cases/story-qL0d0rabDit3N0BVdmieCI.html
07-06-2020||India||Over 4 crore endangered Olive Ridley hatchlings make their way into the sea in Odisha||More than 4 crore Olive Ridley hatchlings have crawled their way to the sea over the past month after emerging from eggs at the Gahirmatha and Rushikulya rookeries in Odisha, signalling the end of the annual sojourn of the endangered species.State wildlife and forest department officials said more than 2 crore turtles emerged out of the eggs and crawled from the Nasi-2 island of Gahirmatha rookery and Rushikulya rookery between the second and third week of May.“If we take into account beach erosion and factors like rain, this year over 70 per cent of the eggs laid by the turtles hatched and baby turtles made their way into the Bay of Bengal. As there was barely any disturbance, the number of hatchlings this year was considerably higher,” Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Rajnagar Mangrove Forest Division, Bikash Ranjan Dash said.Similarly, in Gokharakuda beach of Rushikulya delta in Ganjam district, more than 2 crore baby turtles came out of the eggs and crawled into the Bay of Bengal. Divisional forest officer of Berhampur, Amlan Nayak said inclement weather did not have much impact on the hatching of the eggs.This year, around 4.70 lakh female turtles had turned up to lay eggs between the second and fourth week of March at the idyllic Nasi-2 island of Gahirmatha beach — regarded as the world’s largest nesting ground for Olive Ridley turtles-- while 3.23 lakh had nested at the Rushikulya rookery. Incidentally, the turtles had skipped Rushikulya last year, an event that had baffled turtle researchers. Both the beaches in Odisha are ideal for mass nesting due to their offshore and onshore properties.Each female turtle lays around 100 to 120 eggs. The eggs hatch in 45 to 60 days, depending on the temperature of the sand and atmosphere during the incubation period. “While rains play a role, in Gahirmatha this time we did not have any such problems,” the DFO, Rajnagar said. To protect the eggs from predators and humans, the wildlife department in Rushikulya, had put up metal net fencing over a 5 km stretch.Apart from Rushikulya and Gahirmatha in Odisha, there are only four mass nesting sites in the world for Olive Ridleys - Costa Rica, Mexico, Nicaragua and Suriname.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-4-crore-endangered-olive-ridley-hatchlings-make-their-way-into-the-sea-in-odisha/story-CM9GdhvR2yuI2g7LSBTcGI.html
07-06-2020||India||Leopard killed and paraded in Assam, 6 arrested||Five adults and a minor have been arrested in Assam’s Guwahati for killing a leopard on Sunday, said police. According to an FIR filed by the forest department, the leopard was killed by locals around 9:30 am in the Kathabari area of the city. The teeth of the animal were removed after it was killed and videos circulating on social media showed people parading the dead animal.“We have arrested 5 persons and a minor on charges of killing the leopard. Investigations are underway to arrest others involved in the act,” Dhirendra Kalita, in-charge of Garchuk police station said. He added that the minor was later sent to a remand home.According to reports, the animal, which looked old and weak due to starvation, was first trapped by the residents in the early hours of the day. However, it managed to escape.The residents allegedly pursued the animal and killed it. Kathabari area falls under the Fatasil reserve forest, spread over 670 hectares in Guwahati. Assam’s largest city has several notified reserve forests in and around it.Sunday’s incident was the fifth reported instance of leopards being killed in Assam. Three leopards were killed in Golaghat district in separate incidents while one was killed in Jorhat in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-killed-and-paraded-in-assam-6-arrested/story-Zk8KyiQRnvN1G7kuOd2G5O.html
07-06-2020||India||Six undertrial prisoners and two doctors among new Covid cases in Odisha||Six undertrial prisoners and two doctors in a Rourkela hospital were among the 75 new cases to test positive in Odisha on Sunday, taking the Covid tally in the state to 2,856. The State also reported one more death due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 9.Two doctors at Rourkela Government Hospital tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of infected doctors in Odisha to five. Both the doctors were involved in treating non-Covid patients at the hospital apart from their private clinics. Sundargarh district collector Nikhil Pawan Kalyan said the administration was conducting contact-tracing exercises for the two doctors.On Saturday, a 35-year-old doctor had tested positive in Angul district, while two other doctors — one at Cuttack and the other at Bhubaneswar – are already being treated for the infection.In Rourkela special jail, 6 undertrials, from among the 30 arrested for indulging in violence over the containment zone at Nala Road area, tested positive, Santosh Kumar Upadhyay, director of prisons confirmed. On May 26, thirty members from the minority community were arrested for indulging in violence that left 40 people including 12 policemen and some journalists injured. They were demanding lifting of the containment order imposed on the area after several Covid-19 cases were reported from there.In Bhubaneswar, an eight-year-old girl and her 40-year-old father tested positive for the disease. “The family had a travel history to Delhi,” said Bhubaneswar municipal corporation officials.In Ganjam, a 55-year-old male patient, who had tested positive for Covid, passed away during treatment in a hospital. He was suffering from tuberculosis and other comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-undertrial-prisoners-and-two-doctors-among-new-covid-cases-in-odisha/story-nNxCT9HPaUczJlzARoUuFL.html
07-06-2020||India||Forest department rescues leopard trapped in farmer’s snare in Kerala||Amid the outrage over the brutal killing of a pregnant elephant in Palakkad in Kerala late last month, a leopard was trapped in a snare laid by a farmer in Wayanad on Sunday, forest department officials said. The farmer immediately alerted forest officials after the big cat was trapped. And unlike the elephant, the leopard survived, but not without some drama.When forest department personnel tried to tranquilize the animal it escaped to the nearby forest. But they tracked it and tranquilized it after a three-hour chase. “It will now be relocated in the deep forests,” an official said.The forest department has registered a case against farmer P. Eliyas for laying an illegal trap. Officials said that he claimed to have laid the trap to scare wild boars which often raided his crops.Eliyas was later arrested.The recent killing of an elephant by using cracker-filled coconut had triggered a countrywide outrage. One person was arrested for the elephant’s killing. The latest incident shows many farmers still lay snares to trap boars and other animals that raid the fields to eat the crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-department-rescues-leopard-trapped-in-farmer-s-snare-in-kerala/story-smpjdpGZZKEvPxJiYwUuLP.html
07-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt says ‘fine-tuning’ strategy, slams reports claiming experts not consulted||Asserting that coronavirus is a “new agent” about which not everything is known, the government on Sunday defended the timing of imposition of the lockdown and rejected as “baseless” media reports expressing concerns that it did not take inputs from technical experts while drawing up its COVID-19 strategy.The government also said it is “fine-tuning” its strategy based on emerging knowledge and experience on the ground.In a statement, the Health Ministry said a section of the media is reporting on the decisions regarding India’s approach to the pandemic and asserted that the decision on the lockdown was taken in the background of rapid escalation of COVID-19 cases. “The doubling rate of cases had dropped to a low level, pointing toward a dangerous trajectory of high case load and high mortality, as experienced by many western countries. The possibility that our health systems could soon be overwhelmed with COVID-19 patients seemed to be real,” the ministry said.There was all round consensus on the lockdown among all state governments, it said.The government has already shared information on the impact of the lockdown and other restrictions to avert lakhs of infections and thousands of deaths, as also enormous gains in the health system and people’s preparedness, the ministry said. It said policies and strategies need to be calibrated to keep pace with the rapidly evolving situation the nation is faced with. “This virus is a new agent, not everything is known about it as yet. Government is fine-tuning the strategy based on emerging knowledge and experience on the ground,” the statement said.“As is well known in public health, different stages of epidemic demand different responses, and the nuanced, step-wise response is known to be a positive characteristic of a resilient health system,” it said.The ministry also said there are some reports in a section of the media expressing concern about the government’s efforts towards containment and management of COVID-19 to have excluded the larger wisdom of technical experts.“These apprehensions and allegations are unfounded and baseless. The government is constantly in consultation with experts for technical and strategic inputs, scientific ideas and domain-specific guidance to address the COVID-19 pandemic,” the statement said. A National Task Force (NTF) for COVID-19 is constituted by Secretary DHR-cum-DG- ICMR with Member (Health) NITI Aayog as Chairperson and Secretary (DoHFW) and Secretary (DHR) as co-chairs, it said The NTF comprises 21 members including technical or domain experts from the government and outside the government, the ministry said.Predominant expertise in the Task Force is from public health and/or epidemiology, it noted.Given the complexity and implications of the COVID-19 pandemic, the group has experts from medicine, virology, pharmacology and programme implementation domains as well, it highlighted.The task force has constituted four expert groups and the groups on Epidemiology and Surveillance (13 members) and on Operations Research (15 members) almost entirely comprise of public health and epidemiology experts from the government and non-government arena.The task force has held over 20 meetings and has systematically contributed towards the scientific and technical response to the pandemic, it said. Among other contributions, the Task Force has issued guidelines on testing, prevention, treatment and surveillance.In addition to the NTF, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has also constituted a group of experts with public health experts as members, the statement said.The people, the WHO and the global health community have appreciated India’s proactive and pre-emptive approach to COVID-19, it stated.Compared to countries that have eased lockdowns such as UK, Italy, Spain and Germany, India has reported the lowest number of cases per lakh population, at 17.23 cases per lakh population and 0.49 deaths per lakh population, it said, citing a WHO Situation Report.The various policy decisions, interventions and strategies for containment and management of COVID-19 have been placed in the public domain and its impact has been shared with people through various media platforms, regular media briefings, daily press releases from various ministries and departments, panel discussions on electronic and social media, the statement said. The nationwide curbs were first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.The lockdown was first extended till May 3 and then again till May 17. It was further extended till May 31 and now has been extended in containment zones till June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-says-fine-tuning-strategy-slams-reports-claiming-experts-not-consulted/story-5OXJcRYNEIflWrcLblbOqM.html
07-06-2020||India||In Jharkhand, delayed testing strands migrants in quarantine centres||After gruelling journeys to return home, many migrants lodged in government quarantine centres across Jharkhand now find themselves stranded due to the inordinate delay in testing of samples that sometimes take over 15 days even as the government struggles to boost testing rate.Some of them have been stuck in these centres for the last 25 days waiting to know their Covid-19 status while some cases have emerged where many inmates have been released from quarantine even before their confirmatory test reports came.As of June 6, there were 70,655 people in institutional quarantine across Jharkhand. There have been reports of clashes between inmates and guards at some quarantine centres in Sahebganj and Singhbhum districts.The return of migrant workers from different states to Jharkhand has increased the pace of sample collection. But it has also created a huge backlog of untested samples as the state has only seven real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machines installed in four government owned hospitals. These machines together test 2,000 samples on average every day.As on June 6, Jharkhand had a backlog of 9,599 untested samples.Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta said the government is trying to boost the state’s testing capacity.“In order to ramp up our testing capacity, 30 Truenat machines have already been installed at all 24 district Sadar hospitals and six government owned medical colleges and hospitals. Through these machines, we will be able to sort out negative patients in no time. Swab samples, which are tested positive on Truenat, will then be sent for testing on RT-PCR machines for final confirmation.”The minister also said that the government ordered 30 more Truenat machines that can test four samples in an hour. As per norms, a sample that tests positive on a Truenat machine needs to be retested on RT-PCR machine for confirmation. But, there is no requirement of retest if it turns negative on Truenat.Instances of many migrants now stranded in quarantine centres even after completion of mandatory 14-day period due to delay in testing have emerged from Dhanbad, Hazaribag, Ramgarh and other districts.As many as 14 migrant workers, who have been staying in Dhanbad’s Baghmara block quarantine centre since their return from Maharashtra and Gujarat on May 13, feel cheated as Covid-19 reports of their samples have not arrived even after 25 days.They have completed the mandatory 14-day quarantine period and ought to be released.With patience running thin, one of the migrants in the quarantine centre said, “We pray to God to infect us with coronavirus so that we can get rid of this quarantine centre. We have seen many positive patients get cured and released from hospital even in four to six days. We are healthy but still in quarantine.”Medical officer in-charge of Baghmara CHC-cum-nodal officer of quarantine centre Dr Manish Kumar said, “We had sent several reminders to testing authorities at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Dhanbad, seeking test reports of these 14 migrants as they have completed their 14-day quarantine period on May 28.”But the PMCH says testing quarantine centre inmates has the lowest priority.“Some test reports of Baghmara quarantine centre have been sent and some are in process. We test samples collected from 11 districts leading to delay. Priority is given to samples collected from dead bodies, people admitted in isolation ward and then to people staying in quarantine centres,” PMCH principal, Dr Shailendra Kumar said.In PMCH testing lab, over 4,000 samples including 1715 of Dhanbad district are waiting to be tested.There have been more shocks from Hazaribag and Ramgarh where 10 Covid-19 patients were shown recovered even before the test results of their first swab samples taken could come. All of them had tested positive.Samples of Hazaribag’s five suspects were taken on May 23 during their stay in institutional quarantine but test reports came after 14 days on June 5.In the meantime, after spending 12 days in quarantine, their second samples were taken and tested locally on Truenat machine, as per ICMR guidelines, which disclosed negative results.Finding that the patients had recovered before receipt of their first test reports, the hospital authorities discharged them on June 2.“We had sent samples taken on May 22 and May 23 to Jamshedpur and Ranchi for testing on RT-PCR machines. But their results came on June 5,” said Hazaribag civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Jaiswal.He added, “Of the total 26 people tested positive on June 5, five had recovered and discharged three days ago. Since, these five patients had completed the 14-day quarantine period and found to be asymptomatic, their second samples were taken and tested negative locally on Truenat machine on June 2. The hospital authorities, therefore, discharged them even before the confirmatory reports came on Friday.”Ramgarh also reported a similar case where five suspects tested positive on June 6. They were, however, released much before this disclosure.“Samples of these five institutional quarantined suspects of Gola block were taken long back but their confirmatory test results came on Saturday. Due to delay in results, re-sampling was done in which test results turned negative. They were therefore discharged,” said Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-jharkhand-delayed-testing-strands-migrants-in-quarantine-centres/story-EEoIISiJYWzoderZ3OR3EK.html
07-06-2020||India||Unspent funds, incomplete work mark gram panchayats in rural Bengal: Mahua Moitra||Trinamool Congress (TMC) national spokesperson and Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra on Sunday took a swipe at the gram panchayats within her constituency, Krishnanagar, mostly run by her own party, for unspent funds and unplanned work. Moitra has initiated a series of video messages to empower people and educate them about their rights and the need to stand up against corruption by local political leaders.In a 6-minute video clip, Moitra alleged that the gram panchayats were not taking up necessary work that required funds over Rs 3.5 lakh so that they could avoid mandatory administrative scrutiny. She advised people to get their own work done by dealing with the gram panchayats.“The tenure of the 14th finance commission ended in 2019-20 and the money from the 15th finance commission will start coming in soon. A panchayat on an average gets Rs. 1.2 crore every year. Those under the ISGPP (Institutional Strengthening of Gram Panchayats (ISGP) Programme) get around Rs 2 crore a year. There are 82 gram panchayats within my constituency. Many of them have failed to spend the previous money allocated. By rule, 60% of the allotment has to be spent by December, which was not done in many cases. If the money was used in a planned way, there should have been no kutcha roads in those areas,” Moitra said.The TMC MP said that each of the panchayats had unspent money ranging between Rs 1 crore to Rs 3.5 crore. She also said that there has been a misinformation campaign against her at the ground-level for taking up these issues with the administration. She alleged that she had been facing opposition in her drive to get the unspent money utilized. According to an officer of the Nadia district administration, more than 90% of the panchayats within Moitra’s constituency were run by her own party. Explaining why the panchayats were working slow and neglecting focus on essential needs, Moitra said, “The thing is, in 2014, the state government made e-tenders mandatory for any work above Rs 5 lakh. Most panchayats have not created the infrastructure yet and work requiring above Rs 5 lakh has not been taken up at all. Further, scrutiny at the block level is also mandatory for work above Rs 3.5 lakh. So, panchayats are focusing on work requiring less than Rs 3.5 lakh. As a result, crucial roadway connectivity has been neglected. Assets have not been created.”Her comments came barely two days after chief minister and party chief Mamata Banerjee warned TMC leaders about making comments against the party and their colleagues during a meeting over video conferencing. Banerjee’s warning came after consumer affairs minister Sadhan Pandey traded barbs with urban development minister Firhad Hakim, MLA Paresh Pal took digs at Pandey and panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee criticised the irrigation minister – all in the media.On Sunday, no other TMC leader agreed to comment on Moitra’s remarks. “She is a spokesperson. If anything has to be said, the party chief will decide,” said a senior minister who did not want to be named.Mitra, herself, knew that her remarks could be politically controversial and gave a disclaimer: “I’m not saying these to turn into a subject of the opposition’s mockery. I am saying these in the people’s interest. Panchayat members are only interested in getting their quota of allocation.”Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member Md Salim said that he agreed with most of what Moitra said and that the panchayat system in Bengal had collapsed under the TMC regime. “Before her, another MP, Kabir Suman, had raised the issue of corruption at the grassroot level. The party chief first dubbed him as a ‘guest’ and then sidelined him. If Moitra keeps making such remarks, she too would be dubbed a guest in TMC soon,” Salim said.Bharatiya Janata Party national secretary Rahul Sinha said, “Why is she publicly slamming panchayats run by her own party? Is she trying to save her skin sensing imminent danger of her party?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-mp-mahua-moitra-slams-party-s-panchayats-for-unspent-funds-incomplete-work/story-4d04FKtCAaAyb1kRaiCRJP.html
07-06-2020||India||World Food Safety Day: Live streaming from kitchens ensures your food is prepared well||For seeing is believing, right? Well, restaurants are going all out to do the same in times of corona. Ever wondered how your pizza or that favourite dish you ordered was made? Fret not, it’s become a reality now with some restaurants taking the baton. As the country fights the Covid-19 pandemic, what gains utmost importance is hygiene and safety when making food, for those ordering from outside. On World Food Safety Day (June 7), we speak to the restaurants taking the lead on this new way to regain customers’ trust.“Anybody can logon to www.instapizza.in/crustflix to see our operational outlets on live stream, all day, every day,” says, Ashwin Jain, founder of the pizza outlet. “We’re really excited about it because it ensures that our current and prospective customers have full transparency and visibility on exactly what we are doing to keep our teams, kitchens, and their food 100% hygienic and safe. Radical transparency in hygiene processes is important as it allows customers to know, with full clarity, what the brands that they frequent are doing to maintain the most effective and strict hygiene standards.In addition, the idea that our operations are on public display also helps keep us accountable to our own extreme standards, whether that includes frequent symptom checks, deep sanitisation every two hours, or handwashing, sanitising every 20 minutes.”For the foodies, this feature ensures complete transparency of the preparation of the food, and indeed is also a fun way to keep the mind busy while your food is being prepared, and you are desperately waiting for it, with a fork/spoon. Roseate Hotels & Resorts is also live streaming, not just for delivery but also the food preparation for dine-in guests. “We are up against unprecedented times. We don’t know how a customer out for a meal, after a prolonged lockdown, behaves. We don’t have any experience to relate to. What we know is they will only be inspired by trust. The trust will come from safety. Hence , an idea like live streaming of kitchen will ensure our customers are confident that their are having food cooked in a kitchen with highest level of sanitary and safety standards. Dining out will cease to be how it was. From selection of menu to viewing it being cooked live will be on an app. Going forward, post invention of vaccine, the trend will remain in some form. People will sometimes deem this kind of dine-out experience as novel and perhaps less time-consuming. However, it will never unseat the traditional dining experience,” says Ankur Bhatia, executive director. A Pan-Asian restaurant, Oishii Wok, in Phase-4 Gurugram, plans to go live every Friday on their social media page so that people feel assured by their safety measures and food preparation techniques. They have been regularly posting videos and pictures of their kitchen on Instagram, to make customers aware of the practices they follow while prepping the food. “We have also started a WhatsApp video and live streaming if any customer asks for it so that they can see how their food is being prepared. This is the time when customer trust is very important, and we keep on planning to gain their trust and support,” says Rohit Kumar, founder of the eatery. And the idea is getting good reviews, too. “It has shown some good results and people have now started to see the whole preparation of their food,” says Kamal Arora, founder of Kaiser, a north-Indian restaurant in Gurugram. So, have you checked out yet how’s your food cooking in the restaurant kitchen? Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/world-food-safety-day-live-streaming-from-kitchens-ensures-your-food-is-prepared-well/story-4x4ZnwgyPrRSgxmuX7FzFK.html
07-06-2020||India||Maharashtra Covid tally crosses 85,000-mark with 3,007 new cases, 91 deaths||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded more than 3,000 coronavirus positive cases to take the state tally to 85,975, including 91 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours that has led to the Covid death toll in the western state reaching the figure of 3,060.A total of 3,007 coronavirus cases were registered in the state on Sunday as per the data released by the state health department. Capital Mumbai recorded close to 50% of the new infections with 1,420 positive cases and it also accounted for more than 60% of the new deaths with 61 casualties out of the 91 recorded in the state in the past 24 hours. Mumbai has registered 48,774 Covid cases and 1,638 deaths so far.Maharashtra is not only the country’s worst affected state in terms of number of positive cases and deaths registered, it also shot past China’s coronavirus tally of roughly 83,000 cases, however, the state has registered fewer deaths than China’s toll of 4,634 deaths. There are only 16 countries that have registered more coronavirus cases than Maharashtra.India registered more than 9,000 cases in the last 24 hours to cross the 240,000-mark on Sunday. The national tally now stands at 246,628 cases as per the data released by the health ministry. Maharashtra alone accounts for one third of these cases.A total of 119,292 people have recovered from the disease or have been discharged from hospitals across the country. The national death toll due to the contagion stands at 6,929 which is little more than double the number of casualties seen in Maharashtra. The state yesterday announced procurement of 10,000 vials of Remdesivir to administer to Covid patients after the centre approved its use less than a week ago.Despite the rise in the number of cases, the state government has indicated that it is in favour of continuation of commercial activities in the state in order to prevent the economic situation from becoming even worse. The state along with the rest of the country is preparing to allow shopping malls, restaurants, hotels and places of worship to reopen to the public from tomorrow.Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are some of the other states in the country with a high number of positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-tally-crosses-85-000-mark-with-3-007new-cases-91-deaths/story-1YVDZk8hblRmCF8GucOaiJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Time to take up new challenges||Staying back in her hometown Lucknow, ‘Bhindi Baazaar Inc.’ actor Vedita Pratap Singh is back in action. The actor-model is shooting for her digital projects on mobile phone and has no plans to move back to her ‘karmaboomi’ Mumbai anytime soon.“With the change being new normal, fresh opportunities are also opening on the work front. Virtual shoots are happening particularly for the digital platform. Concepts come to us and we actors shoot with available resources in our homes and send it to the makers. I have already completed one such project and submitted. And now there is another one that I’ll be completing soon,” shares the winner of ‘India’s Hottest’ reality show.Most of projects Vedita has in hand at present are being made for social media handles. “So, work is happening though at a slow pace. But as it’s said something is better than nothing so I am going with the flow and taking up new challenges. Though remuneration is less due to small budget issues but it is okay for now. Besides, I am busy making personalised videos for my fans through an app. So there is no point in going back to Mumbai where cases are on a rise and the shootings don’t seem to restart anytime soon.”Vedita returned to Lucknow after spending eight months on Hawaii islands in the US. “I reached home in the first week of March and quarantined myself and then the lockdown was imposed. During my trip I was travelling, working backstage with a theatre group. I kept myself occupied being an animal care volunteer. Till then, there were no Covid19 cases on the island. I mean there were cases in the mainland but not in Hawaii,” said the pretty actor.Living with a house help Vedita feels life is completely based on online services. “Initial days were tough during the lockdown but as online services are back to normal life has definitely become easy. I have started going out too but with proper precautions like glasses, mask and gloves. I even went to a parlour where they were following proper guidelines with mask, face shield and covered hands. I am meeting friends but following social distancing too. We now need to learn to love with this for some more time.”Her last film ‘The Past’ got a OTT release recently. “I also shot a thriller with actor Faisal Khan tentatively titled ‘Ranger’ along with a web thriller in Baroda with Yuvraj Parashar, Diana Soares and others. But, I have no idea when all these projects will be released,” she said.An animal lover and crusader she adopted a puppy during the period and calls her a ‘Lockdown baby.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/time-to-take-up-new-challenges/story-gJaN3fNLfWjw0eX74tcZ2I.html
07-06-2020||India||‘My performance should stand tall...’||Best remembered as antagonist in blockbusters like ‘Chennai Express’ and ‘Ready’, for actor Nikitin Dheer medium of work is never been a matter of concern. Nikitin was awaiting two film releases when the lockdown happened. The well built actor is all upbeat about his OTT debut with a series that was extensively shot in Eastern UP, “I always aspire to not to repeat myself be it on small or big screen as for me medium is a secondary concern. I have been taught to do justice to the characters I play irrespective of the medium. For me, it’s important to continue doing good work and proving myself as an actor,” he says over phone.After shooting for ‘Dabangg2’ in Lucknow, his recent series too was shot in UP. When asked did he undergo any special prep for the role of UP-based warlord, he was quick to reply, “We have used simple UP ‘ki bhasha’ that has a universal appeal and we deliberately didn’t use too much of Bhojpuri or Purvanchal language. Unlike ‘Chennai Express’ where to get into the skin of a Tamilian character I had to go through a four month long prep. For this series I have put all my efforts so that my personality doesn’t overwhelm my character and my performance should stand tall.”He shot for ‘Raktanchal’ in December, last year. “I was in Varanasi for around 16 days. In my adult life this was my first visit and I had a great time there. I got a break of 1-2 days in between so had an opportunity to go for ‘darshan’ of all the important temples. I also went to Prayagraj and had a holy dip at Sangam.”The actor has a strong connection with Kanpur as his father-actor Pankaj Dheer hails from the industrial city. “Not just my father, my wife (Kritika Sengar) is also from Kanpur so it’s a very strong bond with the city and I visit it at least once or twice a year.” Talking about his upcoming films, he said, “Yes, last year was all about work and only work. Before that I was doing TV and did another film which got stuck due to some reasons. Two of my films ‘Sooryavanshi’ and ‘Shershah’ are ready for release. Also, when the work starts, I am committed to the second season of my OTT series.”For Nikitin the ongoing phase had been a lesson. “Honestly, it has been a crazy year. I am thankful to God that all my close ones are safe. Mother Nature is at her angry best with forest fire, cyclones and earthquakes. This lockdown has been a big leveller for the entire human race.”Most of the post-production of his series was done during the lockdown. “We have even done our dubbing from home and it was due pandemic that the project got delayed else it would have release in April mid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-performance-should-stand-tall/story-FmWO5d5LTtScAA3mihd3EK.html
07-06-2020||India||One more ITBP staff tests Covid-19 positive, force’s coronavirus tally now at 35||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Sunday reported one new Covid-19 positive case, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the force to 35.Currently, there are a total of 26 active coronavirus cases in the ITBP and at least 186 ITBP personnel have recovered till date, an official of the force said.On Saturday, three new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police taking the total number of cases in the force to 34.ALSO READ | 45 ITBP men test positive for Covid-19, total cases in CAPFs now 298An ITBP bulletin said that three new cases of the infectious disease had been reported in the force in the last 24 hours, on Saturday. ITBP DG SS Deswal said that all ITBP hospitals will admit Covid-19 cases among veterans of the force and treat them. “We’ve come across news that citizens are facing problems in hospital admissions and treatment. All our veterans are offered health services at our hospitals. All our hospitals throughout the country will admit Covid-19 cases among our veterans and treat them well,” he said. Earlier, in May, the ITBP had sealed the force’s Tigri camp in Delhi after 23 personnel had tested positive for coronavirus at the same time. The camp is used for the 22nd battalion of the ITBP; which has a strength of around 1,000 personnel who had all been placed under observation.With the spread of the coronavirus disease from March this year, the ITBP had designated its largest Covid-19 hospital, in Noida, for troops from all paramilitary forces.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) had reported its first Covid-19 case on April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-more-itbp-staff-tests-covid-19-positive-force-s-coronavirus-tally-now-at-35/story-auOlX75yReDuybShEyUPAJ.html
07-06-2020||India||‘ When Indira Gandhi tried to subvert democracy...’: Amit Shah on Bihar’s role in opposing Emergency||Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday recalled the role played by Jayaprakash Narayan movement in opposing the emergency rule imposed by the then Indira Gandhi government in 1975 while addressing the people of the eastern state in a virtual rally held amid the coronavirus pandemic. Shah added that Narendra Modi government’s pro-poor policies in the last 6 years have benefitted the eastern states the most.“When Congress leader Indira Gandhi tried to subvert democracy by imposing Emergency, then the people from Bihar stood up to restore democracy through the JP movement,” Shah said.Shah was referring to the people’s movement-- also referred to as total revolution-- led by socialist leader Jayaprakash Narayan, which opposed misrule in the state of Bihar and at the Centre and is widely credited with mobilising opposition to the emergency imposed by the Indira Gandhi government in 1975. Also read: Rally to boost public’s morale against Covid-19 pandemic, says Amit ShahShah also responded to RJD’s criticism that BJP was preparing for elections when the country was fighting coronavirus and said the virtual rally organised by the party was part of its culture of people outreach and is unrelated to polls. Assembly elections are due in Bihar in October this year and the NDA has declared chief minister Nitish Kumar the leader of the alliance for the polls. “This rally is not linked with the assembly elections. BJP believes in democracy. We can’t forget our culture of people outreach.” Shah said.Earlier today, several RJD leaders including Rabri Devi, her sons, Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav clanged utensils in a move to protest Shah’s virtual rally and to highlight the plight of migrant workers. The RJD says it is observing Garib Adhikaar Diwas to bring to light the sufferings of the poor class.Shah said he was happy to see people beat utensils since it was in line with an appeal made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during one day long Janta Curfew in March to show respect to corona warriors at the forefront of the fight against the disease.Also read | From Pulwama, Covid-19 to CAA: Key highlights from Amit Shah’s wide-ranging Bihar Jansamvad RallyAmit Shah also touched upon the issue of development in Bihar and said eastern India’s growth had declined since independence due to the neglect shown by past governments before the NDA took over the reins.Narendra Modi ji’s government has worked to improve the lives of crores of poor people in the last six years and this has benefited our people from eastern India the most,” Shah said.The BJP aims to connect over a crore people through virtual rallies in both West Bengal and Bihar.Shah will next address the people of Odisha and West Bengal through virtual rallies on June 8 and June 9 respectively. BJP President JP Nadda and Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will also hold virtual rallies tomorrow in Gujarat and Maharashtra respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-indira-gandhi-tried-to-subvert-democracy-amit-shah-rakes-bihar-s-role-in-opposing-emergency/story-CHGU9V9IgiUtGh6u9oGWaN.html
07-06-2020||India||Television journalist succumbs to Covid-19 in Hyderabad, had critical co-morbidity||A 33-year-old journalist working for a popular Telugu television news channel in Hyderabad succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, doctors at Gandhi Hospital announced. He is the first journalist in Telangana to fall prey to the dreaded coronavirus.According to Gandhi Hospital Superintendent Dr Raja Rao, the deceased journalist, who had been working as a crime reporter for a Telugu television channel, had undergone tests for Covid-19 in Fever Hospitals earlier this month.“After he tested positive at Fever Hospital, he was referred to Gandhi Hospital for admission in the early hours of June 4. Immediately, we started treatment, but he developed breathlessness by afternoon on the same day and he was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit,” Rao said.ALSO READ | Andhra Pradesh sees 130 new Covid-19 cases, state’s tally close to 4000-markHe said the journalist had already been suffering from Myasthenia Gravis, in which all the muscles including respiratory muscles were weak for which he had been taking treatment with steroids.“With this co-morbid condition, he contracted Covid-19 and developed bilateral pneumonia with type 1 respiratory failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). A team of doctors including physicians, anesthetists and pulmonologists, have given round-the-clock service to him. But, he had a cardiac arrest this morning and could not be revived despite attempts of resuscitation,” he said.The news came as a great shock to the journalist community in Hyderabad. In the last 10 days, at least a dozen scribes, including four belonging to various national media in Hyderabad, tested positive for Covid-19. Some of them were symptomatic and some others asymptomatic.For the last two weeks, Telangana has been reporting high incidence of Covid-19 cases, especially in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, both in terms of deaths and positive cases.On Saturday night, as many as 206 cases and 10 deaths were reported from different parts of Telangana, the highest-ever in a span of 24 hours, taking the overall death toll to 123 and the total number of cases in the state to 3,496.This is the first time that the number of positive cases in a single day has crossed 200 in Telangana. In Greater Hyderabad limits alone, as many as 152 cases were reported, while Ranga Reddy district reported 10 Covid-19 cases and Medchal reported 18. The total cases in GHMC limits alone now stand at 2,096.The state has opened up commercial activity, through gradual relaxation of lockdown restrictions since May 18. Liquor stores were thrown open on May 6. Restaurants, and places of worship and some other sectors will recommence normal activity from Monday as announced by the Centre.Director of Public Health and Family Welfare Dr G Srinivas Rao said surveillance teams had observed a surge in cases across the state.“In view of the surge, the people are requested to be alert and self-vigilant for any signs and symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) or Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). In case of onset of any ILI or SARI symptoms, they are requested to immediately contact the nearest government health facility without delay. Early reporting to the health facility will enable prompt diagnosis and management. Seeking medical care soon after the onset of symptoms is vital to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with Covid-19,” Dr Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/television-journalist-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-hyderabad-had-critical-co-morbidity/story-OAMUMe0Usyu37UlvrByXeN.html
07-06-2020||India||Security forces kill five terrorists in 12-hour operation in J-K’s Shopian||Security forces killed five terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Sunday in a joint operation, officials said.Police said security forces launched the operation early in the morning after a tip off about the presence of terrorists at Reban village in South Kashmir’s Shopian district. The encounter raged for 12 hours before all the terrorists were killed.The Indian Army, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Shopian Police were part of the joint operation.Inspector General of Police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said all five militants were killed in the operation. “The operation has ended.”Police said the militants were holed up in a residential building.Defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said there was no collateral damage in the operation. “Cordon was laid and contact established leading to a firefight in which five terrorists were eliminated. The good drills ensured no collateral damage was caused during the operation.”The identification and affiliation of the killed terrorists is being ascertained. But sources the slain terrorists belonged to proscribed Hizbul Mujahideen terror group and one among them is believed to be a top commander.On Thursday a civilian was injured when militants opened fire on a police patrol party in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district.A day earlier a top Jaish commander and an IED expert along with two other militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.Since the Covid-19 lockdown, 49 militants and two associates have been killed in encounters in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-kill-five-terrorists-in-12-hour-operation-in-j-k-s-shopian/story-cMQHhAod0hztDLAyMUYanL.html
07-06-2020||India||‘Over 2,000 cattle dead at cow shelter,’ says Bikaner mayor citing negligence||More than 2,000 cattle died at a government cow shelter in Rajasthan’s Bikaner in the last five months, states a letter by Mayor Sushila Kanwar which HT has accessed. Kanwar has alleged that the municipal commissioner was not paying attention to the crisis in the shelter at Sarah Nathaniya, situated at the outskirts of the city. Stray cattle are kept in the shelter for which Bikaner Municipal Corporation (BMC) pays Rs 50 a day per cattle to Sohanlalji Buladeviji Ojha Goshala Samiti governed by a Chennai-based businessman.The society signed an MoU with the civic body through which the BMC agreed to pay Rs 5 crore as interest-free loan to develop 148 acres into a cow shelter and to create the infrastructure and maintain the shelter. The BMC had paid Rs 2.5 crore till date. Also read: Couple beaten to death in Rajasthan’s Dholpur over affairThis loan was repaid by the society as a donation in 48 equal instalments of Rs 10.5 lakh per month from the monthly grant given to the society for taking care of the animals.According to the information from the civic body, more than 500 cattle died in March, another 500 in April. Documents showed that 262 bovines died in January, 396 in February, 594 in March, 543 in April and 387 in May. The mayor wrote to the BMC commissioner on April 29 citing poor maintenance of the shelter leading to large-scale deaths. HT has an access to this letter.President of Sohanlalji Buladeviji Ojha Goshala Samiti, Anil Kumar Ojha, said the municipal corporation did not provide doctors and staff to the shelter. “Vets and medical staff are needed for the treatment of stray cattle brought into the shelter because most of them are already sick. They require immediate medical attention,” he said. Bikaner district collector Kumar Pal Gautam said only the civic body could answer queries related to the cow shelter. BMC commissioner Kushal Yaday did not respond to calls made for his response. People in Rajasthan abandon their cattle when the animals become unproductive. Such cattle stray on the streets and are often slaughtered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-000-cattle-dead-at-cow-shelter-says-bikaner-mayor-citing-negligence/story-bvBEXyVEmKDCPrb9STyihN.html
07-06-2020||India||Congress hits out at Arvind Kejriwal over Covid-19 cases, says not right time to open Delhi||Senior Delhi Congress leader Ajay Maken on Sunday targeted chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for what he said was the government’s unpreparedness to tackle the growing number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital. Ajay Maken, the Congress’ spokesperson, blamed the Delhi government citing several reasons including the lack of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients and tests.“The Delhi government should have strengthened the health infrastructure before opening restaurants, shopping malls and borders,” Maken said in a virtual press conference.The Delhi government has decided to open restaurants and shopping malls, as well as its state borders from June 8.As he lashed at the Aam Aadmi Party government for indulging in “image-making and event management”, the Congress leader said state-run hospitals must be opened up for Covid-19 patients.“Out of the 4,400 beds for Covid-19 patients in the hospitals run by the Delhi government, only 28% are occupied. And, in private hospitals 40% beds are lying vacant,” he said.He also questioned the action against the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, which he said has a 88% occupancy rate. The Kejriwal government filed a first information report (FIR) against the medical superintendent of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital for not following protocols for testing Covid-19 patients.Maken also raked up the report by the five-member committee set up to help the government in planning the augmenting of health infrastructure in the city.“There are about 25,000 Covid-19 cases in Delhi currently and the doubling time is 14 to 15 days. This means, by mid-June, there will be about 50,000 cases and by month-end one lakh cases,” Dr Mahesh Verma, the committee’s chairperson, said.“Now, assuming that 20 to 25% of these patients need hospitalisation, Delhi would need 15,000 beds by the end of the month and 42,000 by mid-July. We have not calculated beyond that,” he added.One of the committee members, on condition of anonymity, has said there will be 100,000 cases of Covid-19 in Delhi by the end of June and it will need 15,000 beds by the end of the month and around 42,000 by mid-July.The committee submitted its recommendations on the number of beds needed till mid-July for the treatment of Covid-19 patients to the government.He also criticised the government for not giving the dead a dignified cremation. “Bodies lie in crematoriums for five days and are not cremated because of Covid-19 protocol,” he said.The Delhi government is deliberately keeping the death toll lower, Maken also alleged.Maken also that the 25% positivity rate in Delhi indicates the onset of community transmission and this was not the right time to unlock the city.Maken said it was shameful that the Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi was the highest in the country and its recovery rate the lowest. This is because Delhi hospitals are in bad shape, he said.“It is premature for the Delhi government to open restaurants, malls from June 8 till health infrastructure is improved,” Maken said at a virtual press conference.According to the Union health ministry’s data, there are 27,654 Covid-19 cases in Delhi and 761 people have succumbed to the disease. It shows 16,229 active cases and 10,664 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hits-out-at-arvind-kejriwal-over-covid-19-cases-says-not-right-time-to-open-delhi/story-8KRG2QiWtwpiFjMRdB8cSO.html
07-06-2020||India||From Pulwama, Covid-19 to CAA: Key highlights from Amit Shah’s wide-ranging Bihar Jansamvad Rally||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday addressed the ‘Bihar Jansamvad Rally’ through video conferencing and said that the rally is to bring the people of the country together amid the coronavirus pandemic and has nothing to do with the Assembly polls due in the state later this year.From emphasising the historical significance of the state to lauding the tireless fight put up by the nation’s ‘corona warriors’, Shah talked about a range of issues during his address.Also read: ‘PM Modi’s citizenship law gave respect to refugees in India’ - Amit ShahHere are the key highlights from the event:• “I want to salute the crores of ‘corona warriors’ who are fighting against the virus by risking their lives. Health workers, police personnel and others, I want to acknowledge their contribution,” Shah said.• “This virtual rally is not an election/political rally but it is a rally to bring the people of the country together in our fight against the Covid-19 pandemic,” the home minister said.• The home minister lauded PM Modi’s leadership for carrying out surgical strikes and airstrikes in the interest of the nation. “There was a time when anybody used to enter our borders, beheaded our soldiers and Delhi’s darbar remained unaffected. Uri and Pulwama happened during our time, it was the Modi and BJP government, we did,” he said. This virtual rally is not an election/political rally but it is a rally to bring the people of the country together in our fight against #COVID19 pandemic: Amit Shah https://t.co/L227X5qdZH• Shah said that India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance. “The whole world agrees that after the US and Israel, if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India,” he said.• The minister lauded the many achievements and milestones achieved under PM Modi’s leadership. He talked about the Citizenship Amendment Act and said that it provided citizenship and respect to refugees in India. There was a time when anybody used to enter our borders, beheaded our soldiers and Delhi's darbar remained unaffected. Uri and Pulwama happened during our time, it was the Modi & BJP govt, we did surgical strikes & airstrike: Home Minister Amit Shah pic.twitter.com/An4Qxh18LH• On the issue of stranded migrant labourers amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Shah said that all arrangements were made, quarantines centres were set up before special trains were run from May 1.• “They were named ‘Shramik trains’ as a tribute to the migrants. Around 1.25 crore migrants have been safely brought to their places by BJP’s Modi government,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-pulwama-migrant-workers-to-covid-19-pandemic-and-caa-key-highlights-from-amit-shah-s-wide-ranging-bihar-jansamvad-rally/story-f3ogwczTtZg4FAGnJ85SyI.html
07-06-2020||India||‘PM Modi’s citizenship law gave respect to refugees in India’: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that crucial issues which no earlier government had dared to touch  in the last 70 years had been resolved in the first year of the Modi government’s second term, making a reference to the controversial citizenship amendment law, the abolition of triple talaaq and the scrapping of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir.“Modi ji brought in the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). This Act provided citizenship and respect to refugees in India,” Home Minister and veteran BJP leader Amit Shah said addressing the Bihar Jansamvad Rally through a video conference.“This virtual rally has nothing to do with Bihar’s assembly poll campaign and is aimed at connecting with people in the fight against Covid-19,” Shah said addressing the BJP workers in Bihar.ALSO READ | Rally to boost public’s morale against Covid-19 pandemic, says Amit ShahThe home minister mentioned all the achievements of the Centre and cited the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), power connections for the poor, toilets, the surgical airstrikes in retaliation to the Pulwama terror attack, the abolition of triple talaq, the Ayodhya verdict and the establishment of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) among others.Billed the Bihar Jansamvad Rally, this is the first in a series of virtual meetings that Shah will address. He will address the people of Odisha and West Bengal through virtual rallies on June 8 and June 9 respectively. The Bharatiya Janata Party has selected Bihar BJP’s Facebook and YouTube pages for live streaming to reach out to the people residing in the 243 assembly segments of the state.BJP President JP Nadda and Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh too will hold virtual rallies on Monday in Gujarat and Maharashtra respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-citizenship-law-gave-respect-to-refugees-in-india-amit-shah/story-EpxzUIhaD0w9MjdUZeZqdL.html
07-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amid poster war, Bihar CM launches JD (U)’s outreach programme and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nitish Kumar launches JD-U’s outreach exercise amid poster war in PatnaThe Janata Dal (United) launched its outreach programme on Sunday to connect the party’s booth-level workers directly with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar through video conferencing to boost their morale and get ground-level feedback ahead of the assembly elections later this year. Read moreCaretaker overcomes lockdown hurdles to look after destitute infants in PuneWhen the Covid-19 lockdown was clamped in Pune on March 25 along with the rest of the country, one of the establishments that was hit hard was Shreevatsa Child Care Institute which takes care of infant destitutes and abandoned babies. Read moreBJP hand behind Sonu Sood’s philanthropy, alleges Sena’s Sanjay RautShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday criticised Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who has been widely appreciated for helping hundreds of stranded migrant workers home, as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stooge and prospective star campaigner for the party. Read morePolls say support for UK PM Boris Johnson drops, says reportPublic support for Boris Johnson is dropping over his government’s management of the coronavirus crisis, while backing for the opposition Labour party is on the rise, Mail Online reported, citing two surveys. Read moreJust learnt what it meant, now I’m angry: Darren Sammy says he faced racial comments during IPLAt a time when protests against the alleged killing of African-American George Floyd rocked the US, giving rise to the ‘Black Lives Matter’ campaign, former West Indies captain Darren Sammy made a startling revelation of being subjected to racism in India while playing in the IPL. Read moreShilpa Shetty’s lavish home boasts of a gym, garden and several art installations. See inside picsShilpa Shetty has been quarantining with her family at their lavish abode in Juhu which also boasts of a fully-equipped gym and a big garden. The actor often shares a glimpse of her house, named Kinara, on Instagram and it’s nothing less than a treat for her fans. Read moreSamsung Galaxy Tab S6 Lite to launch in India on June 8Samsung unveiled the Galaxy Tab S6 Lite globally back in April this year. Now, the company is planning to bring the tablet to India. The Samsung Galaxy Tab S6 Lite will be making a debut in India on June 8. Read moreCovid-19 Travel Guidelines: All you need to know about travel precautions during Unlock 1 in IndiaFor the past 4 months we have been experiencing one of the biggest worldwide lockdowns in recent history and needless to say, the impact of this has been severe on the economy as a whole. Read moreMumbai Police uses Bart’s blackboard scene from The Simpsons to put forth important messages on cyber safetyIf you are a fan of The Simpsons, then you need no introduction to Bart’s blackboard scene. For those who are yet to catch up, it is an animated American sitcom. Read moreIndian Army Recruitment Rally 2020: Apply now for post of soldier, 10th, 12th pass students eligibleIndian Army is going to conduct recruitment rallies in Hisar (Haryana), Patiala and Charkhi Dadri (Haryana) in the month of July and August. Aspirants who wish to participate in the Indian Army recruitment rally can apply online at joinindianarmy.nic.in. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amid-poster-war-bihar-cm-launches-jd-u-s-outreach-programme-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mO9Q8dIhpxfe2xviR3XhIK.html
07-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Sitarganj jail declared containment zone after inmates found Covid positive||Uttarakhand’s Sitarganj jail premises in Udham Singh Nagar district has been declared a coronavirus containment zone on Sunday till June 21, seven days after five inmates there tested positive, said officials “We have declared Sitarganj jail premises a containment zone and imposed complete lockdown there for two weeks. Families of staff will remain in their houses. Essential supplies will be provided to them at their doorsteps,” said Neeraj Khairwal, district magistrate (DM) of US Nagar.On May 31, five prisoners had tested positive in Sitarganj jail, ringing alarm bells. Sitarganj jail has 666 inmates against a capacity of around 300, said jail authorities. The positive cases came to light after random testing of 52 inmates was done on May 28. Five of these samples tested positive on May 31.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe district administration has now instructed the jail staff to stay in a hotel in the nearby industrial area to prevent spread of the infection to their family members, said officials.According to the DM, district supply officer and the assistant director, dairy have to ensure supply of daily items and milk at the doorsteps of staff quarters in the jail premises. Police will set up barricading to stop any movement of people and officials in and out of the premises, the official said.The DM has warned traders and customers to maintain social distance and wear masks.Also Read: Uttarakhand students to now get disaster management lessons at schoolsKhairwal said, “Despite the disease spreading in the state, people are not following guidelines in the district. I have instructed all officials concerned to take action against those who fail to follow the guidelines.”US Nagar is the only green zone district in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-sitarganj-jail-declared-containment-zone-after-inmates-found-covid-positive/story-4YlEolNU3YN6eYordyfmHN.html
07-06-2020||India||Nitish Kumar launches JD-U’s outreach exercise amid poster war in Patna||The Janata Dal (United) launched its outreach programme on Sunday to connect the party’s booth-level workers directly with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar through video conferencing to boost their morale and get ground-level feedback ahead of the assembly elections later this year.The exercise came hours before Union home minister Amit Shah was to address a virtual rally in Bihar.There was also a poster attack on the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) with pictures of Lalu Prasad flanked by Md Shahabuddin and Raj Ballabh Yadav – all serving jail sentences – with a slogan ‘Kaidi bajaa raha thali, Janata bajao taali’ (prisoners are banging plates, public will applaud).The JD-U feigned ignorance about the poster but it seemed to be in response to RJD’s call to oppose the BJP’s virtual rally by beating utensils. The posters came up at various strategic points in the city overnight, indicating that the poster war in the forthcoming assembly elections could get vicious.Bihar’s information and public relations minister Neeraj Kumar said he was not aware of who came up with posters against the RJD, but he appreciated the catchy slogan. “Lalu Prasad, Raj Ballabh Yadav and Md Shahabuddin are all judicial migrants and whoever came up with the posters needs to be applauded for bringing out the truth in such an apt way,” he said.Away from the poster war, Nitish Kumar interacted with party’s grassroots level workers in five districts – east and west Champaran, Sheohar, Sitamarhi and Madhubani. The digital connect with Kumar, who is also JD-U’s national president, will continue till June 12. Due to this, the ‘Sunday Samvad’ of the party involving other senior leaders through Facebook live sessions was held on Saturday.JD-U MP Rajiv Ranjan said the pandemic could change a lot of things, including electioneering.“In the changed scenario, public meetings and rallies will not be possible and hence new ways of connecting with the masses are being found out. CM’s interaction with party’s workers was a step in that direction,” he added.Singh also took a swipe at the RJD, saying those who have to clap or beat utensils should remain busy in their pursuit, while Bihar would repeat the Lok Sabha results in the Assembly polls. “Even after the election, they will have to do the same,” he added. In the LS polls last year, NDA had won 39 of the 40 seats.Another JD-U leader said that the CM could visualize the change in the wake of the pandemic much earlier to plan accordingly. “The CM is not an impulsive user of social media, like many, but he knows the importance of technology, interacting with officials on a weekly basis through video conferencing. He is now using it to connect with the party’s grassroots workers and masses,” he added.The digital connect with the booth-level workers by CM is a sequel to the major digital initiative he had undertaken from May 1-16, connecting with all the party MPs, MLAs, MLCs, district chiefs, VIdhan Sabha in-charges and other senior leaders.“Later through ‘Sunday Samvad’ the continuity was maintained by other leaders, as they reached out to the masses in various assembly segments with the CM’s message and government’s report card, especially the initiatives during the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a senior party leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-launches-jd-u-s-outreach-exercise-amid-poster-war-in-patna/story-aHSreOL09toSxibr5k5RgO.html
07-06-2020||India||Sonu Sood just a face, BJP running the show: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut targets Bollywood actor||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday criticised Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who has been widely appreciated for helping hundreds of stranded migrant workers home, as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stooge and prospective star campaigner for the party.In his Sunday column, ‘Rokhtok’ in the Sena mouthpiece Saamna, Raut questioned how Sood managed to arrange for buses and flights when many state governments were found to be helpless during the lockdown.Raut, in his piece titled “Ekta Sonu Sood Khara”, meaning ‘only Sonu Sood is real’, indicated that the BJP was helping the actor from behind the scenes to make him a “Mahatma” and soon he would be seen as star campaigner of the BJP.Also Watch l ‘There can be a political director behind Sonu Sood’s actions’: Sanjay Raut Raut said Sood had managed to send 177 girls, stuck in Kerala’s Ernakulam, in a special plane to Bhubaneshwar in Odisha. Raut alleged that since Sood was not able to find a plane in Kerala, a special plane was flown from Bengaluru to Kochi. Raut asked if it was possible for Sood to pull this off without political, government and administrative backing.Read and Watch: Sonu Sood sends 200 idli vendors back home to Tamil Nadu, they honour him with aarti “The Maharashtra government has formed a separate cell to send migrant workers to their native places. But, there is a campaign playing out, saying whoever wants to go back home should send a message on this (number) with your mobile number. Sonu Sood will send you home. This has been deliberately organised. A huge political machinery is on the job from behind. A picture is being created that the government is doing nothing but Sonu Sood is,” states the article.“What machinery did he (Sonu Sood) have (at his service) to send thousands of workers to their homes? The one who was behind this is Shankar Pawar. He is the chief of Rashtriya Banjara Sewa Sangh but he is merely a face,” Raut stated further.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesBJP slammed Raut for his comments. BJP leader Ram Kadam said, “This is an extremely unfortunate comment by Raut. It shows the extent of failure of the Maharashtra government in handling Covid-19. If an actor is helping out migrants using his own money, what is Sena’s problem with this? He is doing their job.”Kadam said that it was unfair of the Sena to make Sood a target.Meanwhile, Raut’s piece said, “I read that Sood was daily sending 1000-1200 people to their homes in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. West Bengal chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) had asked not to send workers back home while UP CM Yogi Maharaj was not ready to take anyone in the state without a health certificate, then where did these workers reach? How come so many buses were ‘illegally’ arranged during the lockdown period? It was like Sood was running a parallel government and he was getting whatever he wanted.” Indicating that the actor may join BJP, Raut said, “Soon, ‘Mahatma’ Sonu Sood’s name will appear in one of the episodes of Mann ki Baat of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, then, he (Sonu Sood) will leave to Delhi to meet the prime minister and one day, he will appear as BJP’s star campaigner in Mumbai, UP, Bihar, Delhi...”Raut also reminded his readers how Cobrapost in their sting operation a few years ago had exposed Sood for promoting BJP on social media. “Some people from the BJP have adopted Sood and tried to reach out to the North Indian workers by using him as a face... Sonu Sood is an actor. He takes money for acting and saying dialogues. The Cobrapost had exposed Sood in one such sting operation. He had agreed to promote BJP on social media platforms such Instagram and Twitter and had demanded Rs 1.5 crore a month against that,” Raut claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-hand-behind-sonu-sood-s-philanthropy-alleges-sena-s-sanjay-raut/story-KRxIjEzTRTSbiMzrMevkeI.html
07-06-2020||India||New low-pressure area likely over Bay of Bengal, to bring rain in Odisha: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that low-pressure area is likely to be formed over east-central Bay of Bengal in the next 48 hours. And under its influence, widespred rainfall is expected in Odisha, north Andhra Pradesh and Telangana from June 9 to 11.In its weather forecast bulletin on Sunday afternoon, the IMD said that the low-pressure area will become more marked in the next 24 hours and will move west-northwestwards.The IMD also predicted heavy rainfall in the Vidarbha region, Gangetic West Bengal, Gujarat and South Madhya Pradesh on June 10 and 11.It further said that the southwest monsoon has advanced to south Karnataka, and condition are becoming favourable for its advancement into parts of Maharashtra, Telangana and coasta, Andhra Pradesh.The IMD said that the maximum temperature is likely to rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius in the next two days.Temperatures in many parts of the country were on Saturday recorded to be below normal for this time of the year with a number of areas receiving rainfall.No heat wave is likely in the country in the next five days, said the IMD. It said that the highest temperature in the country on Saturday afternoon was recorded at Vijaywada and Gannavaram in coastal Andhra Pradesh at 41.4 degress Celsius.The weather department’s regional centre has predicted rains, accompanied with thunderstorms, at some isolated places in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.According to the IMD, heavy rainfall is also expected over Nagaland, Manipur and other North-Eastern states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-low-pressure-area-likely-over-bay-of-bengal-to-bring-rain-in-odisha-imd/story-p4WcIXepbM0l0PMZK2domL.html
07-06-2020||India||India has another biggest single day jump in Coronavirus cases||India reported 9,971 new coronavirus cases Sunday in another biggest single-day spike, a day before it prepares to reopen shopping malls, hotels and religious places after a 10-week lockdown.India has now surpassed Spain as the fifth hardest-hit by the pandemic with 246,628 confirmed cases and 6,929 fatalities.New Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad are among the worst-hit cities in the country. Six of India’s 28 states account for 73% of total cases.India has already partially restored train services and domestic flights and allowed shops and manufacturing to reopen. E-commerce companies have started to deliver goods, including those considered nonessential, to places outside containment zones.Subways, schools and movie theaters remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-another-biggest-single-day-jump-in-coronavirus-cases/story-47h9kGg0dOp842lRx32MOJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Kerala priests don’t want shrines to open, say peak of Covid-19 yet to come||The Kerala government may have given the go ahead to open the places of worship from June 9, but many shrines, mosques and churches are having second thoughts about it.Two prominent mosques in Kerala - Palayam Juma Masjid in Thiruvananthapuram and Muhiyuddhin Mosque in Kozhikode in north Kerala - have already decided to defer opening. And now, other shrines are also following suit.Several priests and believers of the Angamally-Ernakulam diocese, richest Catholic diocese in the country, have opposed opening of shrines in hurry. They cite the warning of medical experts to buttress their point.“Experts say peak of infection is yet to come. In Hinduism, a devotee worships his favourite God by offering prayers to the deity directly. But in Christianity, it is communitarian way of worship with clergy doing a lot of prayers with talking,” said senior priest and former spokesman of the Syro-Malabar church Father Paul Thelekkat.He said the holy mass is complete only when the communion is consumed by believers. “In the current situation it is not impossible as the government banned distribution of offerings and holy water in all shrines,” he said adding that the safety of the believers is more important than opening of shrines.The church is facing another problem - at least 70 per cent of the clergy have crossed 65 years of age. According to the directive of the government, children below 10 and people above 65 years should not be exposed to the marauding virus as they are soft targets.“We have quickly trained some young priests to conduct services including Holy Communion. At least 70 per cent of our priests are above 65. How can we keep them out? It will be a disservice to them,” said a senior priest who did not want to be quoted.Cardinal Mar Baselois Cleemis has urged the government to allow people of all ages to come to church when all sectors have opened up. “It is unfair to put a cap on aged people. It is quite unfair when all other sectors like malls, liquor outlets and hotels opened up. We are ready to make special arrangements for people who crossed 65 as they need religious places most now,” said Cleemis (61), youngest cardinal of the country. (Usually Cardinals select the supreme head of the Catholic church, Pope).Earlier, many religious heads had written to the government to open shrines saying it left a spiritual and emotional vacuum among the faithful. But now, many are having second thoughts after witnessing a surge in the Covid-19 cases. Kerala has recorded 1,807 cases of Covid-19. Out of this, more than 1,000 are active cases. The state has reported 16 deaths due to the disease so far.“Our prime concern is safety of people. Since the disease is spreading at a higher rate, the time is not ideal. It is difficult to keep a tab on people, especially during Friday prayers. So we have decided to wait for some more time,” said Palayam mosque Imam V P Suhaib. The Kerala chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), which strongly opposed opening of shrines, has lauded the bold initiatives of some shrines. All Hindu shrines are under respective dewasom boards being controlled by the government. Two major temples, Sabarimala and Guruvayur, have decided ‘darshan’ only though virtual queues.“We all are believers. But we are in a war. It is not time to take chances. More than anyone else we feel religious leaders have a bigger role to protect believers,” said medical activist and senior doctor Sulfi M Noohu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-priests-don-t-want-shrines-to-open-say-peak-of-covid-19-yet-to-come/story-9AlEwDuOUg5y8zin63VBhK.html
07-06-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, man pedals nearly 600 km on stolen bicycle to commit dacoity||Wanted in several dacoity cases in the past, a 30-year-old man pedalled nearly 600 kilometres during Covid-19 lockdown to avoid the police and commit yet another dacoity in West Bengal. He was arrested along with three other associates.“Pritam Ghosh, the mastermind of the case, is accused in several other dacoity cases in West Bengal and Odisha. He seems to have fled from a jail in Odisha and was hiding in Bihar. We are trying to verify. Further investigation is on,” said Humayun Kabir, Police Commissioner, Chandannagar.So far, an investigation has revealed that Ghosh had pedalled all the way from Basara village in Rajapakar area of Bihar to reach Uttarpara in West Bengal’s Hooghly district where he puts up at his in-law’s house.Also read: Separate Covid-19 quarantine centres for pregnant women in Chhattisgarh“He chose to pedal because he could sneak into West Bengal easily. If he had come by bus in the guise of a labourer he would have been checked at the border. He thought he might get caught because he was accused in several cases. He got the idea to pedal from migrant labourers who travelled hundreds of kilometres on foot,” said a senior officer of the local police station.After reaching Uttarpara on Wednesday, he called up his old friends with criminal past and formed a small gang. On Thursday and Friday, the gang did a reconnaissance of the area at least twice before looting the Union Bank around 3 pm on Friday, the police said.“They were carrying firearms and looted around Rs 17 lakhs. Around 10 lakhs have been recovered. We have also seized one firearm. We are also trying to seize the bicycle which he used to come to Uttarpara from Bihar,” S Pattanaik, inspector-in-charge of Uttarpara police station said.His three other associates – Sanjay Paswan, Sanjib Paswan and Tapas Das – have been arrested. Pritam’s wife and mother-in-law were also questioned as he was hiding in their house and also hid a portion of the loot there. Ghosh is the eldest and his associates were all aged between 25 – 30 years. They were all wearing masks during the dacoity and thought police won’t be able to identify them. While Ghosh was waiting outside the bank in a car, the associates entered the bank for the loot.   “It took him three days to reach Hooghly taking rests in between. He was running out of money and hence decided to loot a bank. But as it was a lockdown, he chose to pedal. He cycled all the way after stealing a bicycle. We are still interrogating him to get further details,” said Pattanaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-man-pedals-nearly-600-km-on-stolen-bicycle-to-commit-dacoity/story-Ja3Ueh6oZpPPIS9WfVgwoI.html
07-06-2020||India||Assam activist cites illegal construction in Kaziranga corridor||An environmental activist in Assam has written to the government alleging construction in the private land inside the animal corridors near Assam’s Kaziranga National Park (KNP) in violation of a Supreme Court order.In a letter to Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna on Saturday, activist Rohit Choudhury claimed a building and a concrete approach road were being built in Kanchanjuri animal corridor next to National Highway 37 in Kaliabor circle of Nagaon district.“It is apparent the district administrations of Nagaon, Golaghat, Karbi Anglong and KNP authorities have turned a blind eye to rampant construction activities in blatant violation of SC order,” the letter said.On April 12 last year, acting on an application by Choudhury, the SC had “restrained” all kind of mining and related activities along the southern boundary of KNP and in the entire catchment area of rivers/streams and rivulets originating in Karbi Anglong hill ranges and flowing into the park.“No new construction shall be permitted on private lands which form part of the nine identified animal corridors,” the order further stated.Spread over 430 sq km, KNP is home to over 2,400 one-horned rhinos and around 121 tigers.The animal corridors located in and around the park along NH-37 are used by elephants, rhinos and other animals to search for food and also seek safety in the hills of Karbi Anglong when floods submerge the park every monsoon.In his letter, Choudhury urged the chief secretary to stop the illegal construction activity in the Kanchanjuri animal corridor and get it demolished. It also sought action against forest, civil and police administration officials for failing to enforce the SC order.“Fresh construction has taken place on private land falling in the Kanchanjuri animal corridor. Despite the SC order and our efforts to enforce it, people residing in these corridors are not willing to obey,” P Sivakumar, director of the park said.“This particular corridor is not under control of forest administration as it is revenue land. Last year too, such violations took place and some constructions were removed. We have informed civil administration about the recent violation and they will be removed soon,” he added.Dyotiva Bora, circle officer of Kaliabor, where Kanchanjuri animal corridor is located, said she is not aware of any such construction or has received any complaint regarding it.“We are busy in handling the Covid-19 pandemic and I am not aware of it. I have been posted very recently to Kaliabor. If there’s any violation of SC order, we will look into it and take necessary action,” she said.Mrinmoy Das, sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Kaliabor, said they are aware of Choudhury’s letter and would soon get in touch with civil and forest administration and help in demolishing the construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-activist-cites-illegal-construction-in-kaziranga-corridor/story-25ATtxoFBkd8iCQTdmvAOJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh sees 130 new Covid-19 cases, state’s tally close to 4000-mark||Andhra Pradesh reported 130 new Covid-19 positive cases and two deaths in the last 24 hours on Sunday, taking the state’s coronavirus tally to 3,718.The death toll in the Telugu state has now climbed to 75, with the addition of the two latest deaths.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state currently stand at 1,290 and so far around 2,353 people have recovered a from the disease and been discharged.ALSO READ | Optimism and caution as places of worship get ready to reopenA day earlier, as many as 161 people had tested positive for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh, taking the state’s tally to 3,588, the state health department data read.The state department had also informed that on Saturday, 29 people had been discharged and no deaths had taken place.India registered its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases for the fifth consecutive day on Sunday, with 9,971 new infections taking the country’s tally to a staggering 2,46,628, while the death toll rose to 6,929, according to the Union Health Ministry.India registered 287 deaths in the last 24 hours since Saturday morning.The country had crossed Spain on Saturday to become the fifth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. At present, only the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK are ahead of India in terms of the number of coronavirus positive cases. The number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 1,20,406, according to the Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-sees-130-new-covid-19-cases-state-s-tally-close-to-4000-mark/story-QD3tuQYpHvZcSEydMtGUpM.html
07-06-2020||India||In Srinagar, dog lovers on a mission to save strays starved by lockdown||At 2 pm every day, a group of some 20 Kashmiri youth spreads out on the streets of Srinagar looking for stray canines to feed.Animal welfare activists say hunger and thirst have been a major cause of animal illness during the lockdown particularly among the stray dogs which used to feed on leftovers from restaurants, hotels and meat shops before the restrictions forced markets shut to prevent the spread of Covid-19.For more than two months now, these animal welfare activists in Kashmir have been roaming the deserted streets of Srinagar and its outskirts with bags of food to feed the canines.“After the restrictions were imposed, we increasingly got calls from people of ill dogs on roads and when we took them to hospitals, we came to know that they were hungry and thirsty. In fact we lost three dogs to hunger. It was then we decided to start a feeding drive for them,” said 23-year-old Nighat Lone who runs a voluntary rescue and rehabilitation organisation, Kashmir Animal Welfare (KAW).Lone, 23, said that the canines used to survive on leftovers from restaurants and from bins at shopping sites before the lockdown. “After the restrictions, there was nothing these animals could feed upon,” she said.Volunteers of Lone’s organisation, along with another animal welfare organisation called Healing Pat, have been particularly going to those areas which are commercial places or markets where the animals don’t have anything to eat.“In residential areas or colonies, animals do get something because people live there but at shopping sites and outside restaurants, the bins are empty,” Lone, who has done her BBA, said.Dawood Muhammad, who runs Healing Pat, said that they provide food to the animals once a day. “We don’t have any standard food but we are providing them one meal everyday to save their lives. We are all volunteers and working on our own with the money from our own pockets,” he said.The food is mostly biscuits, leftovers from chicken and meat shops, rice and even dog food. “On an average we feed around 1,000 dogs in the city and adjoining districts every day,” he said.Stray dogs have been a persistent health issue in Kashmir particularly in capital Srinagar where the conservative estimates put the dog population anywhere around 60,000.Between 2012-13 and 2018-19 around 37,700 dog bite cases were recorded at Srinagar’s Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital. “We are aware of the issues of the public. It is true that we have more dog population and a substantial number of dog bites but that is a universal problem. We are against poisoning and want their sterilizations, so that their population decreases with the passage of time,” Lone said.Animal birth control (ABC) or sterilisation measures by the Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) authorities to control the dog population have often been described as ‘sluggish’. Animal lovers are opposed to culling stray dogs.Lone said that the animal care gives her satisfaction. “Lives of both humans and animals are important and hunger is common. I feel inner satisfaction when I feed these animals and take care of them and I think God has chosen me for this,” she said.Dr Javaid Rather, Srinagar Municipal Corporation’s Veterinary Officer said that the corporation and the volunteers from animal welfare organisations were together in this endeavour.“It was a collaborative effort. We let the volunteers do the feeding and provided them the passes. An NGO Kashmir Animal Welfare donated us some dog feed and we also diverted some of our staff meant for animal birth control (ABC) to feed the animals because we knew that the animals would die near markets and commercial areas where people don’t live nearby,” Rather said.The officer said that the sterilization of animals suffered a pause during the pandemic. “For the past one year we have sterilized some 1,000 dogs and gave anti rabies vaccines to an 1,800 canines,” he said.“The dog bite cases have been showing a decline due to sterilizations as well as after we managed to minimise the availability of garbage in open in the city,” Rather said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-srinagar-dog-lovers-on-a-mission-to-save-strays-starved-by-lockdown/story-GRwp2lTLDW1zM4d7n6ZLiJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Drunk man inserts mobile charger cables in urinary tract, doctors remove them from his bladder||Doctors in Jharkhand’s Dumka removed two cables of mobile phone chargers from a 35-year-old man’s urinary bladder, the owner of a private hospital said on Sunday.The man, who is suffering from depression after his wife reportedly eloped, inserted the cables in his penile urethra after getting drunk around three months ago, doctors said.Amita Rakshit, the owner of the hospital in Dumka, said the man came to the hospital’s outpatient department (OPD) on Thursday with a complaint of severe abdomen pain.“The man did not mention anything regarding mobile phone charger cable to the doctors attending the OPD. He was crying and asking us to save his life. Then, the doctors sent him for X-ray and we were surprised to see two wires in the urinary bladder,” Rakshit said.The general surgeon of the hospital, Dr Sunil Kumar, performed the surgery, which took around one hour.“There were two mobile phone charger cables in the urinary bladder. Even though we did not measure the length of the chord, each chord will be around 1.5 feet,” Kumar said.The man told the doctors that he had inserted the chord through his penis after getting drunk.“Initially, I did not feel any problem during urination. After a month, I started feeling pain during urination, which turned unbearable later. But, I could not tell anybody about the reasons due to the social stigma attached to it,” the man told doctors.The man had gone to Jharkhand’s premier hospital, Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS), in Ranchi for treatment but he fled as he feared he would face social criticism.“The man might not have faced any problem initially, as there was still space to pass urine smoothly. Later, deposits started accumulating in the wire, which started causing blocking the urine path that caused pain. If it had remained in the body for a longer time, it could have damaged his kidneys and also caused cancer,” Kumar said.The doctors said there could be two reasons behind the act by the man.“The man might be a pervert suffering from depression as his wife reportedly eloped with another person. In a few rare cases, we have also seen that men do such an unusual act to have sexual pleasure. Under the acute influence of alcohol, he might have not understood the consequences,” Dr Kumar said.Doctors performed the surgery without charging the man, who paints houses for a living. A similar case was reported in Assam’s Guwahati earlier this week. A 30-year-old man was operated upon after similar complaints of stomach ache and a nearly two-feet-long cable was found in his urinary bladder. The doctor, who performed the surgery said, the man had inserted the cable through his penile urethra.He said the patient doesn’t have any mental disorder and indulged in the act only for sexual pleasure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drunk-man-inserts-mobile-charger-cables-in-urinary-tract-doctors-remove-them-from-his-bladder/story-2ls8ELFHzWRiLVGnze2EeL.html
07-06-2020||India||3 terrorists gunned down in J-K’s Shopian, operation underway||Three terrorists, including those from the Jaish-e-Mohammed and Hizbul Mujahideen, were killed by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Sunday after a joint operation in the area, officials said.The terrorists were shot dead in Reban village of Shopian in south Kashmir, according to officials aware of the development. They said security forces launched the operation early in the morning after they received credible input about the presence of the terrorists. Personnel of the Indian Army, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Shopian Police are involved in the operation, which is still underway.Officials said the firing between security forces and the terrorists had stopped for some time and the teams were conducting the search. While the search was on, the hiding terrorists fired again.Police said more terrorists could be hiding in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-gunned-down-in-j-k-s-shopian-operation-underway/story-eVakCeDW57iDSVbVAvOigL.html
07-06-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Tripura rise to 750||The number of coronavirus cases in Tripura rose to 750 on Saturday after 55 more people tested positive for the disease, officials said. Most of the new patients have a recent travel history to other states. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb in a tweet said, “Alert. 55 people found Covid-19 positive cases in Tripura today out of 1125 samples tested. Majority of the positive patients have travel history and others were in contact of Covid-19 patient. Stay Cautious & Safe.” Of the total 750 patients in the state, 173 have been cured. According to latest reports, 24,826 out of 37,761 persons put under surveillance have completed their 14 days observation period and been discharged.However, 542 people are still in different quarantine centres and 12,093 others home quarantined. The state has so far tested 33,276 people for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-tripura-rise-to-750/story-QwFLHiSZ8KGJHsP5DjF1sI.html
07-06-2020||India||Woman arrested in March for alleged links with ISIS tests Covid-19 positive in NIA custody||A suspected operative of terror group Islamic State - Hina Bashir Beigh - has tested positive for coronavirus while in the custody of National Investigation Agency (NIA) following which she had been admitted at a Delhi hospital, people familiar with the development said.Beigh (39) and her husband Jahanzaib Sami, residents of Srinagar, were arrested by Delhi Police’s Special Cell from the national capital’s Jamia Nagar area in the first week of March for their alleged links with ISKP. The also allegedly instigated protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the police said.Since NIA is probing several cases pertaining to larger conspiracy involving Islamic State in India, it took custody of Beigh along with Sami and another ISIS operative - Mohammad Abdullah Basith - from Tihar jail on May 29. Basith is a Hyderabad-based Islamic State operative arrested in August 2018 for allegedly inspiring several persons to join the outfit and carry out major attacks in India.At the time of NIA taking the custody, Tihar jail authorities had conducted the test for Covid-19 on three accused in which they tested negative. They were brought to NIA headquarters and questioned at length about their affiliation with the terror outfit over the past nine days.Beigh, during the interrogation, developed symptoms following which she underwent Covid-19 test.The NIA informed the duty magistrate at Patiala House on Sunday that Beigh has been found “positive” for coronavirus.“I urged the court that Beigh should be immediately referred to a hospital and permission be granted for her to talk to me regularly, which was not allowed earlier,” said Beigh’s lawyer M S Khan.The court has referred her to Delhi’s Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) hospital for treatment. Her husband Sami and Abdullah Basith have not shown any signs of the infection yet.It is not known yet whom she contracted the virus from within the agency since then whole team investigating the case has been asked to undergo Covid-19 test and follow quarantine. An official said that around 7-8 officials including a Superintendent of Police (SP) had questionned Beigh last week.NIA spokesperson didn’t respond to HT’s calls till filing of this report.The agency took their custody on May 29 claiming that it is necessary to unearth a larger criminal conspiracy as they were in touch with several unknown accused people in India and abroad.“Beigh, Sami and Basith were motivated by ISIS ideology and working for banned terror organization ISKP in India for which they had created a lot of email IDs and secured social media chat platform IDs to interact with the like-minded persons for sharing the contents propagating the ideology of ISKP and ISIS in general,” according to NIA remand paper accessed by HT.Delhi Police Special Cell DCP Pramod Kushwah, in March, had said, “They (Hina and Sami) are members of banned terrorist outfit ISIS and propagating its ideology of hatred against non-Muslims and, thereby, also inciting Muslims to kill non-Muslims. They are also inciting Muslims to take up violent struggle against the state. They are inciting Muslims against CAA too”.The cops had claimed that the couple created several anonymous IDs on social media platforms, such as Telegram, Facebook, Threema, Sure Spot, Instagram and Twitter, to propagate ISIS ideology.Sami’s sister Sehrish Sami had told HT in March, “We are shocked. They are being framed just because they are Kashmiri Muslims. They are career oriented people and have a very clean record. They had no interest in the Kashmir issue and the CAA is out of question. Why would they instigate other people?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-arrested-in-march-for-alleged-links-with-isis-tests-covid-19-positive-in-nia-custody/story-Rw0UvqVgKnq5EwpXLZ6ewO.html
07-06-2020||India||Separate Covid-19 quarantine centres for pregnant women in Chhattisgarh||For better nourishment and care, the Chhattisgarh government is developing separate quarantine centres for pregnant women in various districts. The first such Covid-19 quarantine centre has been made in Bilaspur district by the government.Chhattisgarh’s Health Secretary Niharika Barik Singh said that the department has instructed all districts to make separate arrangements for pregnant women.“The first separate quarantine centre for migrant pregnant women started at village Kesla in Bilaspur district. At this quarantine centre, migrant pregnant women are kept,” said a senior health official, adding that presently eight women are kept at this centre.Also read: Chhattisgarh IAS officer accused of rape suspended“We have made all necessary arrangements for pregnant women. Doctors have been deployed at this quarantine centre who are providing medical facilities with social distancing,” said the officer.The official further added that along with their health check-ups, samples have been taken for tests and nutritious food is being provided to them.“Pregnant women need better food and nutrition hence we have decided for a separate arrangement ... We have also instructed officials that in case any woman wants to stay with her family then let her. Besides, we have advised the district officials to keep an ambulance ready near these quarantine centres,” Singh said.Meanwhile, on Saturday, total 97 coronavirus patients were detected in Chhattisgarh. The number of coronavirus cases in the state is now 997 while the death toll has risen to four.There are 660 active cases of coronavirus as 259 people have been discharged on recovery.On Friday, a 19-year-old woman died while a 32-year-old man passed away on Saturday at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur.The woman, a native of Bastar district, was suffering from leukaemia (a type of blood cancer). She was shifted to AIIMS on June 1 from a private hospital after she tested positive for coronavirus. The other patient who died was from Bilaspur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/separate-covid-19-quarantine-centres-for-pregnant-women-in-chhattisgarh/story-JSX4L19RMTxtBRHhyuE1nK.html
07-06-2020||India||Manesar land scam: ED filed charge sheet, names 13 individuals and entities||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed the second supplementary charge sheet in the Manesar land scam case in Haryana. Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda is under probe in this scam but he has not been named in the charge sheet filed on Sunday.The ED has named 13 individuals and entities in the charge sheet and has attached properties worth Rs 108.79 crore.The agency initiated money laundering investigation in the case on the basis of FIR registered by the Manesar Police, and the investigation carried out by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB).The FIR claims that Haryana government issued a notification in 2005 for acquisition of 912 acres for setting up an industrial model township in Manesar, Naurangpur and Lakhnoula villages under the Gurugram district. Many owners sold their lands at throwaway prices, resulting in wrongful loss of Rs 1500 crore to them, the FIR further says.The ED investigation revealed that builders/private entities extorted the land from the farmers and landholders on meagre rates by exhibiting the fear of acquisition. These builders in turn obtained licences and gained handsome profits in a fraudulent manner.Investigation further revealed that most of the land parcels were purchased by ABWIL group which is controlled by Atul Bansal who has been named in the ED charge sheet today. The ABWIL group sold the licensed/unlicensed land and licences to developers thereby making huge profits, said ED.Hooda has already been charge sheeted in this scam by the CBI in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manesar-land-scam-ed-filed-charge-sheet-names-13-entities/story-tSCStObgh9jaDONftsLxPO.html
07-06-2020||India||80-year-old MP man found tied to hospital bed over alleged non-payment of bill, CM Chouhan takes note||An 80-year-old man in Madhya Pradesh’s Shajapur was found tied to a bed at a hospital over alleged non-payment of hospital bill, prompting chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to assure justice. According to Virendra Singh Rawat, Shajapur district collector, a team has been sent to the hospital to investigate the matter and a police probe is underway. “The report is awaited. Action will be taken accordingly,” the official told news agency ANI. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday took note of the incident and said the culprits will not be spared, assuring strict action. शाजापुर के एक अस्पताल में वरिष्ठ नागरिक के साथ क्रूरतम व्यवहार का मामला संज्ञान में आया है। दोषियों को बख्शा नहीं जायेगा, सख्त से सख्त कार्रवाई की जायेगी।“A case of cruelty with a senior citizen in a hospital in Shajapur has come to notice. The culprits will not be spared, strict action will be taken,” Chouhan tweeted.Watch: MP hospital ties 80-year-old man to bed after family failed to pay dues Madhya Pradesh: An 80-yr-old man found tied to bed with rope at a hospital in Shajapur allegedly over non-payment of hospital bill. Dist Collector says,‘We’ve sent a team to hospital to investigate matter. Police probe on. Report awaited. Action will be taken accordingly.'(06.06) pic.twitter.com/fWaY4nIi5zTime and again, the Central government, has called for the need to show compassion amid such distressing times and treat people, especially those in the front-line of India’s Covid-19 fight, with respect and dignity. In many of his addresses, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated that violence or ill behaviour against doctors, nurses, patients and personnel engaged in the Covid-19 care shall not be tolerated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-year-old-mp-man-found-tied-to-hospital-bed-over-alleged-non-payment-of-bill-cm-chouhan-takes-note/story-XZ9lgRqtjCvRvIYLfrx45I.html
07-06-2020||India||Covid-19: 7 cities account for half of all cases across the country||Seven cities in India account for nearly half of the nationwide Covid-19 tally which saw a record surge of almost 10,000 on Sunday, according to the data from Union health ministry.Mumbai is hit the hardest with 47,354 confirmed Covid-19 cases. Delhi comes next with 27,564 cases of the coronavirus disease. Tamil Nadu’s capital Chennai is third with 20,993 cases of Covid-19 and Kolkata has 2,684 cases. The numbers of these four cities add up to 98,595.Other major urban clusters affected by the deadly virus outbreak include Ahmebdabad in Gujarat, Pune in Maharashtra and Indore in Madhya Pradesh.There are 13,968 cases of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad, 8,049 on Pune and 3,722 in Indore. When these numbers are added to the above tally, the overall number reaches 1,24,334 or 50 per cent of the nationwide Covid-19 infections.India on Sunday reported 9,971 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 287 deaths, another highest spike, were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry.With a tally of 2,46,628 infections, India is now the fifth worst-hit country in the world after the United States, Brazil, Russia and the United Kingdom, according to America’s Johns Hopkins University.The surge in numbers comes a day before several public places, such as places of worship, shopping malls and restaurants, are scheduled to open on Monday.This is also the fourth straight day India has seen more than 9,000 cases in a row.There are 120,406 active Covid-19 cases and 6,929 people have been killed after contracting the highly infectious disease, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.With 119,292 patients were cured of Covid-19, India’s recovery rate has now gone up to 48.36 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-7-cities-account-for-half-of-all-cases-across-the-country/story-RaDthYFNmV55AwdA3W0dWO.html
07-06-2020||India||Eight-year-old boy sodomised in UP’s Muzaffarnagar||An eight-year-old boy was allegedly sodomised by a man in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar district, police said on Sunday. The boy, who was found unconscious, was undergoing treatment at a local hospital, SHO HN Singh said. According to a complaint lodged by the boy’s family on Saturday, the minor had taken his goats for grazing in a forest when the accused, identified as Nitu Singh, took him away and allegedly sodomised him. A case under relevant sections of the IPC was registered against the 23-year-old accused and a search was underway to nab him, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-year-old-boy-sodomised-in-up-s-muzaffarnagar/story-Ze7vytgzWsxHuWcbzmTrlM.html
07-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Petrol, diesel prices go up by 60 paise per litre and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Petrol, diesel prices go up. Here’s what you will have to payState-run fuel retailers have raised the price of petrol and diesel by 60 paise a litre each, in the first such hike in the base price of auto fuels in 80 days. Read moreSource of foul smell remains unidentified: Mumbai Fire BrigadeThe Mumbai Fire Brigade is yet to identify the source of the foul smell, which was reported by residents in parts of the city’s eastern suburbs late on Saturday night, the department’s chief said on Sunday morning. Read moreCongress moves 21 Gujarat MLAs to a resort in RajasthanFollowing the resignation of three MLAs in Gujarat, the Congress ahead of Rajya Sabha elections moved 21 MLAs to a private resort in Rajasthan on Saturday evening. The Rajya Sabha elections are scheduled on June 19. Read moreBMC requisitioning SRA buildings for Covid-19 isolation facility ‘unjust, unfair’: Bombay High CourtBombay High Court has said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC’s) decision to requisition buildings constructed under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) scheme for setting up temporary isolation facilities for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients was “absolutely unjust and unfair”. Read moreThe Great Diamond Glut: Miners stuck with gems worth billionsIn one of the world’s biggest diamond vaults, hidden inside a nondescript office compound on the dusty outskirts of Botswana’s capital, the precious stones just keep piling up. Read more‘Knew my story could be different,’: Unmukt Chand on not attaining Virat Kohli-like successAt one time, Unmukt Chand was talked about as the Next Big Thing of Indian cricket. After leading India to their third Under-19 World Cup win in 2012, comparisons between Unmukt and Virat Kohli started doing the rounds, with people suggesting that the youngster is likely to climb the same ladder of success Kohli has since he led India to a U19 WC win in 2008. Read moreFacebook gives tips on handling Group comments, posts during social unrestWith the rising number of hate messages on social media and authorities taking action in real life regarding racism and protests happening everywhere in the US, it has become more than important how social media websites handle the related content, specially when it comes to groups and communities. Read moreCan you solve Bengaluru Police’s riddle tweet? It has an important messageGiving a twist to the popular fairy tale phrase “Mirror mirror on the wall” and using as their tweet’s caption, Bengaluru Police has now invited people to take part in a riddle whose answer reveals an important message. Read moreLockdown Life: Did you become a curfew cliché?Did you lie to a colleague about being busy, so you could sneak in a nap? Did you judge a celebrity by his kitchen, an academic by her bookshelf and a stand-up comic by the living room in the background of their posts and videos? Read moreWatch| ‘They acted as Corona carriers, action justified’: Yogi on Tablighi Jamaat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-fire-brigade-yet-to-identify-source-of-foul-smell-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cVXI1qVeN6HgLUS090zyJI.html
07-06-2020||India||Congress moves 21 Gujarat MLAs to a resort in Rajasthan||Following the resignation of three MLAs in Gujarat, the Congress ahead of Rajya Sabha elections moved 21 MLAs to a private resort in Rajasthan on Saturday evening. The Rajya Sabha elections are scheduled on June 19.The MLAs are from North Gujarat assembly constituencies and arrived in their personal vehicles. They are staying at Wildwinds resort on Abu Road near Ambaji temple in Rajasthan and are likely to stay for 3-4 days.Recently, three Congress MLAs resigned - Brijesh Merja, Akshay Patel and Jitu Chaudhary - diminishing the chances of the Congress winning the second Rajya Sabha seat as its tally in the 182-member house now stands at 65.Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda said, “Instead of working to help and save people from Corona crisis, the Gujarat government and its machinery is busy terrifying and trading public representatives. We have come here to discuss strategy ahead to ensure party candidates win.”On the party’s new strategy to keep MLAs separately in groups, he said the MLAs are kept near their respective areas ensuring they have availability to their family or any important issue. Gujarat MLA Gulab Singh Rajput said, “BJP needs to be ‘Atmanirbhar’, instead of using such means to get MLAs, they should have worked to get their party people elected. People will not forgive those who have left and joined BJP. It is under Congress banner the people voted them.”He alleged that BJPis trying to break Congress MLAs by frightening and luring them.Earlier, five Congress legislators — Somabhai Patel, Praveen Maru, JV Kakadia, Mangal Gavit and Pradyuman Singh Jadeja — had resigned in March.The total strength of the Gujarat assembly now stands at 172. The ruling BJP party has 103 legislators, the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) has two and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has one. There is one independent legislator, Jignesh Mevani.The Congress has fielded its senior leaders Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki, while the ruling BJP has named Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin as its candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-moves-21-gujarat-mlas-to-a-resort-in-rajasthan/story-tqe2XmG5saDw8RbX307icO.html
07-06-2020||India||‘Delhi government hospitals reserved for residents only’: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that Delhi government hospitals will be available only to the residents of Delhi amid the coronavirus pandemic while Central government hospitals will remain open to all. Select private hospitals, except those where special surgeries like neurosurgery are performed, are also reserved for Delhi residents, the chief minister said. Kejriwal said that people coming to the national capital for specific surgeries will be treated at private hospitals. Earlier this week, the chief minister called for public suggestion on whether hospitals in Delhi should be reserved exclusively for the residents amid the coronavirus pandemic. The chief minister’s office (CMO), in a tweet, stated that the suggestions can be sent by June 5, 5 pm. Watch | ‘Delhi govt hospitals will only cater to residents of capital’: Arvind KejriwalAlso read: Delhi borders opening from tomorrow, hotels and banquet halls to remain closed#WATCH Delhi hospitals will be available for the people of Delhi only, while Central Govt hospitals will remain open for all. Private hospitals except those where special surgeries like neurosurgery are performed also reserved for Delhi residents: CM Arvind Kejriwal #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/D47nRhXaUZIn an address on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the national capital, Kejriwal on Sunday announced the opening of Delhi borders from Monday. All restaurants, malls and places of worship will also open in the national capital from tomorrow. However, hotels and banquet halls will remain closed. Kejriwal said that by the end of June, Delhi could need 15,000 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The chief minister also cautioned the elderly against the Covid-19 infection and urged them to stay protected. The Delhi government has also decided to withdraw the ‘special corona fee’ levied at 70% of the maximum retail price on all categories of liquor. The order will come into effect from June 10.Coronavirus cases in the national capital rose to 27,654 on Sunday as per the figures updated by national capital. The city has seen over 10,000 people recover from Covid-19 while 761 patients have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hospitals-to-cater-to-covid-19-patients-from-city-for-now-kejriwal/story-XNdEs6HWOo4znRQzniSQCP.html
07-06-2020||India||Delhi govt to withdraw ‘special corona fee’ on liquor from June 10||The Delhi government has decided to withdraw the ‘special corona fee’ levied of 70% of the maximum retail price on all categories of liquor. The withdrawal will come into effect from June 10, news agency ANI reported.The fee was approved by Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal last month and a notification was later issued by the Delhi government’s finance department.Senior government officials had said that the lockdown since March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 cost the Delhi government around Rs 645 crore in revenue from the sale of alcohol, when calculated on the basis of revised estimates in the 2019-20 state budget.The decision was taken to boost the government revenue but had resulted in a steep rise in the prices of retails liquor bottle.The special corona fees came into effect as the liquor shops opened in the national capital in accordance with the lockdown relaxations given by the Union home ministry.The liquor sale was allowed in Delhi from May 4. It was closed since the lockdown was imposed on March 25.On the first day of sale, when the special cess was not imposed, liquor worth over Rs five crore was sold, as per the Excise Department data. The Delhi government imposed a special fee from May 5. Four government corporations - Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation; Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation; Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited; and Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store - control the sale of liquor in the city-state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-to-withdraw-special-corona-fee-on-liquor-from-june-10/story-bhKqOQGnvqyNexufd1uuCI.html
07-06-2020||India||Coronavirus has led to more thrust on agroecology, natural farming: Niti Aayog||With people looking for healthy food to boost their immunity in the situation created by Covid-19, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar has said that demand for “nutritious and chemical-free food” is going up exponentially in the world and agroecology is the only option to save the planet.Kumar said Niti Aayog recently organised an online high-level round table where international experts from countries like US, Australia, Germany, UK, Netherlands and officials from the United Nations acknowledged India’s pioneering leadership in agroecology, an integrated approach that simultaneously applies ecological and social concepts and principles to the design and management of food and agricultural systems.He said “agroecology is the only option to save the planet”, is in line with Indian traditions and it is not man versus nature but the man in nature or man with nature.“Humans need to realize their responsibility in protecting other species and nature. We need knowledge-intensive agriculture and the metrics need to be redefined where production is not the only criteria for good performance. It has to include the entire landscape and positive and negative externalities that are generated by alternate forms of agriculture practices,” Kumar told ANI.He said that in the international round table experts from 12 countries participated and they said that agriculture now “needs to be converted into climate-friendly agriculture which will make sure that your environment will improve and also the quality of your land which is becoming hugely affected by the extensive use of chemicals and pesticides.”The essential point is that we need to increase the organic carbon content in the soil and trigger the microbial activity in the soil which will make the soil healthy again.He said that the use of water can be reduced to a tenth of the current usage.“Ninety-two per cent of water today is used up in agriculture and we can reduce that and our country will no longer water-stressed. The best thing that we call Indian natural and traditional farming is what Subhash Palekar is doing from the last 20 years all over the country. The best thing about this is the productivity of the land does not decline. The yields remain the same as in the previous times but the cost of production goes down so the farmers’ income rises immediately,” Kumar said.The NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman said that close to 30 lakh farmers in India are already practising this very successfully and there is a need to scale it further.“In states like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh this is being practised already quite widely. It has proven its benefit on the ground. Now is the time that we should scale it and make it reach 16 crore farmers from the existing 30 lakhs. The whole world is trying to move away from chemical farming. Now is the time to make Indian farmers aware of its potential,” Kumar said.According to FAO, agroecology seeks to optimize the interactions between plants, animals, humans and the environment while taking into consideration the social aspects that need to be addressed for a sustainable and fair food system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-has-led-to-more-thrust-on-agroecology-natural-farming-niti-aayog/story-yqw29rvGhCnQWQ8bpNBRtM.html
07-06-2020||India||RJD launches protest ahead of Amit Shah’s virtual rally in Bihar||The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar launched a protest against the virtual rally on Union home minister Amit Shah. The party has named the protest “Garib Adhikar Diwas”.RJD leaders Rabri Devi, Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav clang utensils as part of the protest. The leaders stood in a circular marking and observed social distancing while observing the protestTejashvi had on Saturday called Shah’s rally during the coronavirus crisis “political vulturism” and alleged that the BJP was only interested in electoral victory even at the cost of human lives.“Electioneering at this juncture is nothing but political vulturism. Rather than helping the poor, needy and migrants, they want to win elections even at the cost of human lives,” he had told news agency PTI on Saturday.Shah will address the people of Bihar on Sunday, in his first virtual rally ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar. The elections are due in the state later this year.Through this rally, Shah will sound the poll bugle and it will also be broadcast live on Facebook, Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal said. He also said that the party has set a target of roping in “at least one lakh people across the 243 assembly segments in the state” for the event.Days before the rally, the BJP rejected Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) national president Chirag Paswan’s proposal of backing the saffron party even if it opts for a change of face in the assembly polls. The BJP reiterated that the elections will be contested only under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar only.Shah had declared in late 2019 that Nitish Kumar will lead the alliance in the next assembly elections.The BJP leader’s announcement comes at the backdrop of an interview given by the LJP president to a news agency in which he mooted the idea of backing the BJP, if it opts for a change of face in the Bihar assembly polls scheduled later this year.Paswan had recently expressed his dissatisfaction with the Bihar chief minister’s handling of the migrant crisis.The BJP, the Janata Dal United or JD(U) and the LJP are part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state and are likely to be challenged by the RJD-Congress combine besides some smaller parties in the assembly polls.In the 2015 assembly polls, the NDA had lost badly to the grand alliance of the RJD-JD(U)-Congress but Nitish Kumar broke ties with his allies in 2017 and entered the saffron alliance again after a gap of over four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-launches-protest-ahead-of-amit-shah-s-virtual-rally-in-bihar/story-nvekbymAlYWTOYFBvaKoCP.html
07-06-2020||India||‘India, China agree early resolution would contribute to further development of relationship’: MEA||India and China will continue military and diplomatic engagements to resolve a weeks-old stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the external affairs ministry said on Sunday, indicating that a meeting of top army commanders had ended without a breakthrough.A delegation led Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, had held an hours-long meeting with a Chinese delegation led by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC on Saturday – the first meeting of top military officials of the two sides since the stand-off began in early May.The talks, slated to begin early on Saturday morning, were delayed by several hours. They began at about 11.30 am and continued till late on Saturday evening. People familiar with developments said they had ended inconclusively.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry on Sunday morning said that, “the two sides will continue the military and diplomatic engagements to resolve the situation and to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas”.Also read: India China Ladakh standoff talks to continue at Brigadier-Colonel levelThe statement said Saturday’s meeting between the Indian and Chinese army commanders “took place in a cordial and positive atmosphere”. It added that both sides had agreed to work towards resolving the situation through peaceful means and in line with existing agreements for peace along the frontier.“Both sides agreed to peacefully resolve the situation in the border areas in accordance with various bilateral agreements and keeping in view the agreement between the leaders that peace and tranquillity in the India-China border regions is essential for the overall development of bilateral relations,” the statement said.“Both sides also noted that this year marked the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries and agreed that an early resolution would contribute to the further development of the relationship,” the statement added.The statement further noted that, in recent weeks, India and China have “maintained communications through established diplomatic and military channels to address the situation” along the LAC.The people cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they expect the process to resolve the stand-off to be long-drawn.A day ahead of the crucial talks between the army commanders, India and China agreed on Friday on not allowing their differences to escalate into disputes while respecting each other’s concerns.Joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry had held talks with Wu Jianghao, director general in China’s foreign ministry, through video conference on Friday and reviewed bilateral relations, including “current developments”. This was the first formal diplomatic meeting between the two sides since tensions flared along the LAC.The army commanders met almost a month after tensions between India and China flared along the disputed border and took bilateral ties to a new low.India has dismissed China’s contention that its troops were hindering the activities of Chinese troops along the LAC, and has accused Chinese forces of hindering patrols on the Indian side. The Indian government has also made it clear that it won’t allow any change in the status quo along the LAC and that it will tackle the prevailing situation with “strength and restraint”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-believe-early-resolution-would-contribute-to-further-development-of-relationship-mea/story-v5nLlonHbKiUsOm02WNu3N.html
07-06-2020||India||With nearly 83,000 cases, Maharashtra has more coronavirus patients than Belgium and Qatar: Covid-19 state tally||Coronavirus cases in India crossed 240,000 on Sunday with the national tally jumping to 246,628 cases as per the data released by the Ministry of Health. While 119,292 people have recovered from the disease or have been discharged from hospitals, 6,929 patients have lost their lives to the deadly contagion across India. Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country with the state tally jumping close to China’s total of around 84,000 cases. Coronavirus cases in Maharashtra alone are more than the national tally of countries like Egypt, Belgium and Qatar that have reported less than 80,000 Covid-19 cases till date. As per the Covid-19 tally by Johns Hopkins University, India has outnumbered Spain with respect to Covid-19 cases to become the fifth-worst affected country in the world. Here’s taking a look at the statewise breakup of Coviod-19 numbers.  Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat are the top four states affected by Covid-19 in India. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally zoomed to 82,968 on Sunday. As many as 2,969 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 37,390 have recovered.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 246,628, death toll at 6,929Tamil Nadu has seen 30,152 coronavirus cases till date. Two hundred and fifty-one people have died of Covid-19 in the state, more than 16,395 people have recovered. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally rose to 27,654 on Sunday, 10,664 patients have recovered here while 761 died due to Covid-19. Gujarat Covid-19 cases jumped to 19,592 on Sunday. The state has seen 13,316 people recover from coronavirus while 1,219 people have died.Rajasthan has reported over 10,000 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 10,331 have contracted the contagion in the state while 7,501 people have recovered. The death toll in the state stands at 231.Also read: India now fifth worst-affected by Covid-19, surpasses SpainStates with under 10,000 casesMadhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have less than 10,000 coronavirus cases. While the former has reported 9,228 Covid-19 patients, the number of Covid-19 positive cases jumped to 9,733 in Uttar Pradesh.   Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 7,738 while 383 people have died from the deadly contagion, 3,119 have recovered. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 4,915; the death toll in the state has jumped to 30. More than 2,400 people have recovered from the deadly contagion in the state. Andhra Pradesh has reported 4,510 Covid-19 cases till date. While 73 people have died in the state, 2,620 people have recovered from the deadly contagion. Karnataka has reported over 5,000 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir have over 3,400 coronavirus cases. While Haryana nears the 4,000-mark. Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jharkhand, Assam, Tripura are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. Coronavirus cases in Telangana crossed 3,200 on Saturday. Chandigarh, Manipur, Goa, Nagaland, Himachal Pradesh have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Sikkim, Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands have recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-nearly-83-000-cases-maharashtra-has-more-coronavirus-patients-than-belgium-qatar-covid-19-state-tally/story-90fMAX1nctt9B6Wc6bTK3O.html
07-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 246,628, death toll at 6,929||India on Sunday reported 9,971 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 287 deaths, another highest spike, were recorded in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed.With a tally of 246,628 infections, India is now the fifth worst-hit country in the world after the United States, Brazil, Russia and the United Kingdom, according to America’s Johns Hopkins University.The surge in numbers comes a day before several public places, such as places of worship, shopping malls and restaurants, are scheduled to open on Monday.Also read: India now fifth worst-affected by Covid-19, surpasses SpainThis is also the fourth straight day India has seen more than 9,000 cases in a row.There are 120,406 active Covid-19 cases and 6,929 people have been killed after contracting the highly infectious disease, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.With 119,292 patients were cured of Covid-19, India’s recovery rate has now gone up to 48.36%.According to available data, the recovery rate has nearly doubled from 24.5% on April 29.A senior health ministry official has said the recovery rate indicates the country is managing the disease well and pointed out that the number of serious cases, requiring a ventilator, is also not very high.Also read| Unlock 1: Rising number of Covid-19 cases concerns Centre, revised guidelines likely, says reportTen states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka and Bihar with the highest number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) account for 84% of the country’s tally and 95% of the fatalities, data shows.Maharashtra has 82,968 Covid-19 cases and 2,969 people from the state have succumbed to the disease. Tamil Nadu has more than 30,000 people who have contracted the coronavirus disease and 251 have died.The national capital of Delhi is the third worst-affected region with 27,654 patients and 761 fatalities. Gujarat is inching towards the 20,000-mark with 19,592 cases. It has reported the deaths of 1,219 people so far.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has ramped up testing capacity for Covid-19. The number of government testing labs has increased to 520, and the number of private labs testing for Covid-19 to 222 across the country from about 100 at the start of March.“We have a target of increasing our (daily) testing capacity to two lakh by the end of June, and we are well on the path to achieve this. The testing capacity has been ramped up in no time and many more labs have been identified and are in the process of being approved for Covid testing,” Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, a spokesperson for ICMR, said.The health ministry has released detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for public and semi-public premises where Covid-19 has a higher chance of spreading such as shopping malls, food courts, hotels and restaurants, places of worship and offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-246-628-death-toll-at-6-929/story-qucOFmXMVxWYGbxkOPKv6K.html
07-06-2020||India||‘Good signs’: India, China take small, sure steps to resolve Ladakh standoff||India and China are taking incremental steps to resolve the month-long troops standoff at four points in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times after the meeting between military commanders of the two armies at the Moldo-Chushul border meeting.Saturday’s 7-hour-long meeting was the first meeting at the level of lieutenant generals of the two armies locked in the border standoff that began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong lake on May 5. Over the next few days, three more standoff points emerged near Galwan River.Lt General Harinder Singh, the Leh-based 14 Corps Commander, led a 10-member Indian team. The Chinese delegation was led by South Xinjiang Military District Commander Major General Liu Lin.The discussion, said to have been held in a ‘cordial and positive atmosphere’, stretched well into the Saturday evening with both sides not only discussing the standoff points but also the friction caused by upgradation of border infrastructure on both sides.Also Read: Psy Ops: In Ladakh standoff with India, China’s PLA replays Doklam tactics“The direction of the military commanders talks was positive and both sides showed the inclination to resolve…..so there were good signs,” said a senior official.But the two sides also expect the resolution to be a long-drawn process. They have, however, agreed that the militaries should not allow the situation along the Line of Actual Control to escalate.“It is going to be a deliberate process where the two sides negotiate and resolve the differences, step by step,” a person familiar with the development said, requesting anonymityAlso Read: Ahead of meet over Ladakh standoff, India signals a realistic approachIt is understood that the two military commanders favoured continuing the talks at the brigade and battalion commander level to resolve all the outstanding issues, point by point, the person mentioned above said. This implies that the next round of discussions could be led by teams led by Brigadier and Colonel-rank officers.An external affairs ministry statement released on Sunday said: “Both sides agreed to peacefully resolve the situation in the border areas in accordance with various bilateral agreements and keeping in view the agreement between the leaders that peace and tranquility in the India-China border regions is essential for the overall development of bilateral relations.”While the statement notes that “early resolution” of the stand-off would contribute to further development of bilateral relationship, senior officials say that the situation will be eventually resolved to the mutual satisfaction of both the sides.Also Read: India is sensitive to China but won’t allow change in any border sectorIndia and China have maintained communications through established diplomatic and military channels to address the situation in areas along the India-China border.Saturday’s discussion between the military commanders was preceded by a ground-setting video conference between diplomats of the two countries that resolved to not allow their differences to escalate into disputes while respecting each other’s concerns.The border row coincides with the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries that the two sides had planned to celebrate with 70 events. “Both sides also noted that this year marked the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries and agreed that an early resolution would contribute to the further development of the relationship,” the MEA statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-ladakh-stand-off-talks-to-continue-at-military-formation-level/story-nnG8atahZxi716OXX0EyzL.html
07-06-2020||India||After complaints of foul smell, Mumbai fire department says no gas leakage||The Mumbai Fire Brigade has said no leakage of any gas was found in areas where residents complained about the foul smell to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) late on Saturday, news agency ANI reported on Sunday.PS Rahangdale, Mumbai’s chief fire officer, however, said there was a smell in Andheri area, according to ANI. “No gas leakage was found at given locations. Further calls were received from Powai and leakage smell was felt in Andheri. Total 17 fire engines were deputed for the search of gas leakage and it was announced to not panic. Hazmat vehicles were ready for an emergency,” Rahangdale was quoted as saying by ANI.“HPCL (Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited), BPCL (Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited), MGL (Mahanagar Gas Ltd), RCF (Rashtriya Chemicals & Fertilizers) and the police were informed,” he added.Rahangade said senior officers are conducting an investigation.Residents of Chembur, Ghatkopar, Powai and Vikhroli areas had complained of a suspected gas leak on Saturday night.The civic body had said earlier the situation was under control and that 17 fire appliances are on field equipped with public announcement system after receiving complaints of suspected gas leak from residents from several parts of Mumbai.“Situation is under control. All necessary resources have been mobilised. Origin of the smell is being investigated. 17 fire appliances are on field equipped with public announcement system and ready for response if required (sic),” BMC tweeted.It had, in a series of tweets, urged people not to panic or create panic.“We’ve received a couple of complaints of suspected gas leak, from residents in Chembur, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli & Powai...Please don’t panic or create panic. 13 fire appliances to monitor situation have been activated as precaution (sic),” BMC tweeted.“All concerned agencies have been mobilised to check the source of the foul smell being complained of by several residents in the areas of Chembur, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli & Powai,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-complaints-of-foul-smell-mumbai-fire-department-says-no-gas-leakage/story-dcbqXZczAFnKLgHRKMirxI.html
07-06-2020||India||Unlock 1: Rising number of Covid-19 cases concerns Centre, revised guidelines likely, says report||The Centre is concerned about the number of increasing number of Covid-19 cases since June 1, when the relaxations announced by the government came into effect.According to Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan, the Centre has got information from various state governments that social distancing norms and other protocols are not being followed since the day relaxations have been announced.It further reported that the Centre will issue an order to strictly follow all the necessary protocols.Though the fatality rate has improved, the situation in Delhi and Mumbai is still not under control, Hindustan reported quoting sources.Some states want the Centre to issue stringent guidelines so that the spread of the infection can be checked, Hindustan reported. These states are not able to enforce strict guidelines due to relaxations given by the Centre.India raced past Spain on Saturday to become the fifth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic after a record spike in cases for four consecutive days pushed total infections to over 2,46,628.In less than 24 hours, India surpassed Italy and then Spain to reach the grim milestone. Now, only the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK are ahead of it.According to the Union Health Ministry, India registered a record single-day spike of 9,971 cases and 287 deaths by Sunday 8 am. The death toll rose to 6,929.The country registered over 9,000 cases for the fourth day in a row.Of the total fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 2,969 deaths, followed by Gujarat (1,219), Delhi (761), Madhya Pradesh (399), West Bengal (383), Uttar Pradesh (257), Tamil Nadu (251), Rajasthan (231), Telangana (123), Andhra Pradesh (73), Karnataka (59) and Punjab (50).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-rising-number-of-covid-19-cases-concerns-centre-revised-guidelines-likely-says-report/story-TrZCUkBwqauz4msPXV5eoO.html
07-06-2020||India||Shopping malls, restaurants and hotels to reopen from June 8: List of dos and don’ts||Monday (June 8) will almost bring an end to the stringent restrictions imposed by the Centre to control the spread of the coronavirus disease. After the central government’s recent order, malls, restaurants and religious places will reopen after a gap of more than 70 days.The Centre had on May 30 said that ‘Unlock 1’ will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown that was clamped on March 25 will be relaxed to a great extent. It had, however, said that strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country’s worst-hit areas or Covid-19 hotspots.However, various state governments have said that these places and activities will be allowed to resume only if precautionary measures laid down by the Centre against coronavirus are followed.Here is a list of what will open from Monday:Restaurants: The Centre has allowed opening of restaurants from June 8. But at the same time, it also released a list of the SOPs to be followed. Seating arrangement has to be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained. In restaurants, not more than 50 per cent of seating capacity will be permitted. The restaurants have been advised to use disposable menus.Places of worship: These have been allowed to open but their administrators have been asked to strictly follow social distancing norms and other protocols to check the spread of the coronavirus disease. Also, touching of statues, idols and holy books is not allowed. No physical offering, prasad or holy water allowed; the devotees have to take off their shoes in their vehicles only. Physical contact should be avoided as much as possible.Shopping malls: Only asymptomatic customers or visitors will be allowed, and the number of customers inside a shop has to be kept minimum. The government has made mall management responsible for ensuring social distancing is followed. The mall administrations have been asked to deploy adequate manpower for this. The mall entrances should mandatorily have sanitiser dispenser and thermal screening provisions. Gaming arcade, children’s play area and cinema halls inside the mall will remain closed. There is also a bar on trial of clothing.Hotels: Though hotels have been allowed to reopen, they have to maintain a proper record of the travel history of all the guests and their medical condition. The guests will also have to fill the self-declaration form. The hotels have been ordered to ensure contact-less check-in and check-out and sanitise the luggage before sending it to the rooms.This is the first phase of relaxations (known as Unlock 1). International air travel, metro rail, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars, auditoriums and assembly halls will remain suspended for the time being. The Centre will decide on reopening of schools and colleges in the second phase in July.The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown ended on May 31 and the Centre gave time till June 8 for the new relaxations to come into effect while extending the overarching lockdown to June 30.The Centre’s notification added that all activities will be permitted outside the containment zones which are now being decided individually by states and union territories based on the local factors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shopping-malls-restaurants-and-hotels-to-reopen-from-june-8-list-of-dos-and-don-ts/story-HrcsbdN6FmUR7zbsl48kQL.html
07-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After 70 days, malls, restaurants prepare to restart business in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Malls, restaurants draw up plans to restart businesses but with restrictionsAnticipating that the Delhi government will allow them to reopen businesses after June 8, restaurants and mall owners in the national capital are busy with preparations to open shop after a gap of over 70 days. Read moreDelhi: 6 days of June were coldest in 9 years with temperature below 40 degreesThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said the first six days of June have been the coldest in the last nine years in Delhi and there is no possibility of scorching heat till the 15th of the month. Read moreWHO changes stance, calls for 3-layer Covid-19 masks in publicIn a big shift from its earlier position, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has issued new guidelines that say everyone should wear a three-layer fabric or non-medical mask in public to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreBlack Lives Matter protests mostly peaceful in AustraliaBlack Lives Matter protests across Australia proceeded mostly peacefully Saturday, as thousands of demonstrators in state capitals honored the memory of George Floyd and protested the deaths of indigenous Australians in custody. Read more‘Am I going to the heart of the pandemic...where it all began?’The pick-up vehicle arrived at his doorstep in Malad. His mind crowded with doubts, fear and anxiety, Gavin Ferreira set off for the airport. For the Air India cabin crew member, this was a journey into the unknown. Read moreHow to hide Google Meet shortcut in GmailGoogle made Meet free for everyone last month. It also introduced a Google Meet shortcut in Gmail so users can easily join a meeting or start a new one. Read moreTaapsee Pannu is most successful actress of last 12 months with films making Rs 352 cr: ‘Didn’t realise this happened’With five film releases in the last one year, Taapsee Pannu has emerged as the most successful actress at the box office. According to a Zoom TV report, Taapsee’s movies collectively made Rs 352 crore. Read moreWorld Food Safety Day 2020: Significance, dos and don’ts to practice food safety at homeAccording to the World Health Organisation (WHO), food safety refers to the absence or acceptable levels of hazardous microbiological, chemical, or physical components present in food that might cause harm to consumers. Read moreWatch| ‘India can still achieve $5 trillion target by 2024’: Yogi Adityanath||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-70-days-malls-restaurants-prepare-to-restart-business-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SfikOmwHMdFEKQRGfSXJbI.html
07-06-2020||India||These 10 states have 84% of India’s Covid-19 cases||Ten states with the highest number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) account for 84% of the country’s tally and 95% of the fatalities. These states are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka and Bihar. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHowever, a higher number of Covid-19 tests per million population by a state may not necessarily mean more confirmed cases detected or high fatality rates.For example, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Maharashtra have carried out the maximum Covid-19 tests per million population. But Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan are among the top five states in terms of maximum confirmed cases per million.Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal have recorded the highest number of deaths and account for 83% of the 6,600 fatalities across the country. However, Gujarat, West Bengal, MP, Maharashtra and Delhi stand out in terms of case-fatality rate or number of deaths per 100 cases.The 10 states with the highest number of Covid-19 cases together have reported more than two lakh cases of India’s tally of 2.36 lakh till June 6. Also, more than 6,300 deaths have been reported in these states out of the 6,642 fatalities across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-10-states-have-84-of-india-s-covid-19-cases/story-PXoMHSPGUzRcjunE9yi1jJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Encounter erupts in J-K’s Shopian, at least 3 terrorists trapped||A gun battle broke out in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Sunday morning after security forces launched a joint operation in the area, police said.The encounter has started in Reban village of Shopian in south Kashmir, according to officials. Two to three terrorists are believed to be trapped in the area, they added.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-erupts-in-j-k-s-shopian-at-least-3-terrorists-trapped/story-RcSIDSgGRBDVBxTbw5yNaP.html
07-06-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah to hold first virtual rally in Bihar today, will sound poll bugle says BJP||Union home minister Amit Shah will address the people of Bihar on Sunday, in his first virtual rally ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar. The elections are due in the state later this year.Through this rally, Shah will sound the poll bugle and it will also be broadcast live on Facebook, Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal said. He also said that the party has set a target of roping in “at least one lakh people across the 243 assembly segments in the state” for the event.Days before the rally, the BJP rejected Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) national president Chirag Paswan’s proposal of backing the saffron party even if it opts for a change of face in the assembly polls. The BJP reiterated that the elections will be contested only under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar only.“Former national president and Union home minister Amit Shah had already made an announcement in this regard that Nitish Kumar will be the face of the NDA in Bihar. The BJP stands by it. Nitishji will be our face and forthcoming elections will be contested on the policies and achievements of both Centre and the state,” the BJP’s Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav said at a virtual meeting on Friday.Shah had declared in late 2019 that Nitish Kumar will lead the alliance in the next assembly elections.The BJP leader’s announcement comes at the backdrop of an interview given by the LJP president to a news agency in which he mooted the idea of backing the BJP, if it opts for a change of face in the Bihar assembly polls scheduled later this year.Paswan had recently expressed his dissatisfaction with the Bihar chief minister’s handling of the migrant crisis.Meanwhile, the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) called Shah’s rally during the coronavirus crisis is “political vulturism” and alleged that the BJP was only interested in electoral victory even at the cost of human lives.“Electioneering at this juncture is nothing but political vulturism. Rather than helping the poor, needy and migrants, they want to win elections even at the cost of human lives,” RJD leader and Leader of the Opposition in Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Yadav told news agency PTI on Saturday.The RJD is set to observe “Garib Adhikar Diwas” to counter Shah’s rally.The BJP, the Janata Dal United or JD(U) and the LJP are part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state and are likely to be challenged by the RJD-Congress combine besides some smaller parties in the assembly polls.In the 2015 assembly polls, the NDA had lost badly to the grand alliance of the RJD-JD(U)-Congress but Nitish Kumar broke ties with his allies in 2017 and entered the saffron alliance again after a gap of over four years.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-to-hold-first-virtual-rally-in-bihar-today-will-sound-poll-bugle-says-bjp/story-BelXFxC223Q5MjI6LN9qgM.html
07-06-2020||India||After being denied entry to quarantine centre, Odisha man spends 2 days in jungle||A migrant labourer spent two days in jungle after allegedly being denied entry to a quarantine centre and his village in Behrampur.According to a local from the village, no one helped the labourer. “He came from Chennai. He went to the police and block office but no one helped. Then, he went to the jungle.”Later, the police took him to the quarantine centre.As per the Union Health Ministry, there are 2,608 confirmed Covid-19 cases in the Odisha, including 996 active cases, 1,604 recovered/discharged/migrated and 8 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-being-denied-entry-to-quarantine-centre-odisha-man-spends-2-days-in-jungle/story-ytxazhukFJ1CbmITKpP90J.html
07-06-2020||India||India now fifth worst-affected by Covid-19, surpasses Spain||India is now among the five worst-affected countries by the coronavirus disease. It achieved the grim milestone on Saturday evening when the total tally of infections reached 2,45,670. Spain so far has recorded 2,41,310 cases, according to Johns Hopkins University.Just 24 hours ago, India had surpassed Italy in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases.However, India is still far behind in number of fatalities caused by the disease. While Italy has recorded 33,774 deaths due to Covid-19, Spain has seen 27,134 fatalities, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) data. In India, the Covid-19 death toll stands at 6,642.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThere has been a spike in the daily Covid-19 count of the country. From around 6,500 cases a week ago, India is now recording close to 10,000 cases daily.According to the Union Health Ministry, India registered a record single-day spike of 9,887 cases and 294 deaths by Saturday 8 am, pushing the tally to 2,36,657. The country registered over 9,000 cases for the third day in a row.The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 1,15,942. A total of 1,14,073 people have recovered with 4,611 Covid-19 patients having been cured in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said.The ministry also said that cumulatively 45,24,317 samples have been tested so far with 1,37,938 samples tested in the last 24 hours.According to the ministry data on Saturday morning, the highest number of confirmed cases are from Maharashtra at 80,229, followed by Tamil Nadu at 28,694, Delhi at 26,334, Gujarat at 19,094, Rajasthan at 10,084, Uttar Pradesh at 9,733 and Madhya Pradesh at 8,996.Also read: Delhi will need 42,000 Covid beds by mid-July, projects govt panelThe number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 7,303 in West Bengal, 4,835 in Karnataka, 4,596 in Bihar and 4,303 in Andhra Pradesh.It has risen to 3,597 in Haryana, 3,324 in Jammu and Kashmir, 3,290 in Telangana and 2,608 in Odisha.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-now-fifth-worst-affected-by-covid-19-surpasses-spain/story-TXBrMENMt0tDJdypbZrnaK.html
07-06-2020||India||Did you become a curfew cliché?||Depending on where you are, you’re probably emerging from months indoors or hoping to. And you’ve probably been doing the same things as everyone else to cope. A global stereotype of lockdown life is slowly emerging. But how much of it fits you? Ten points for each statement that holds true:Your score:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-you-become-a-curfew-cliche/story-hqvbeu2sbKrNCdCy1iye0I.html
07-06-2020||India||Love, loneliness and violence||It’s early morning. Two women, on holiday in Puri, stand in the balcony of their hotel room after a passionate night together. They recall their heated lovemaking with laughter and pleasure.This is not a scene out of a contemporary film. As we enter Global Pride Month, when LGBTQ communities around the world assert their right to the freedom to love, it’s a good moment to recall an extraordinary short story, Prateeksha (Waiting), written in October 1962 by the late Hindi writer Rajendra Yadav.Most readers are probably familiar with Ismat Chughtai’s 1942 story, Lihaaf (The Quilt), with its erotic lesbian undercurrents. It caused such an uproar at the time that the feisty Urdu writer, often called ‘the female Manto’, faced trial for obscenity. But somehow Yadav’s complex, no-holds-barred lesbian love story fell through the cracks. Few people have heard of it; fewer still have read it, and yet it is a gem.Yadav, who died in 2013 aged 84, was the enfant terrible of Hindi literature — acerbic, mocking, uncaring of critics. Invariably seen with a pipe clamped between his teeth, jet-black hair combed severely back from a craggy face, the writer from Agra tore into the hypocrisies of middle- and lower-middle-class life, in his short stories and novels.Prateeksha weaves a tangled web of love, loneliness and violence. Gita is an unhappy middle-aged college teacher living a solitary life in Calcutta. Till the young, lovely Nanda, a typist at a private firm, moves into a room in her flat, on rent. Soon Gita’s life begins to revolve obsessively around Nanda, and the two women become intimate. But Nanda is young and restless, and gets drawn into a friendship with a smart Miss Raymond in her office.Gita’s jealousy spirals out of control, erupting one day in an orgy of violence against Nanda. Oddly enough, the two grow even closer after this and go to Puri on a romantic holiday. But there’s a bigger threat than Miss Raymond on the horizon — Harsh, a man Nanda has been in love with since college. Gita resents their relationship, but she also watches over them with a strange maternal benevolence.Rajendra Yadav was not a writer of queer short stories. Prateeksha seems to have been a one-off, though it was in keeping with his general disdain for convention. Even so, how was the story received in those socially conservative times? I spoke to the writer’s daughter Rachana to see if she had found anything in his papers that would provide some clue. But she had not. Perhaps the reactions were expressed privately.Historian and scholar Saleem Kidwai, who co-edited a book titled Same-Sex Love in India: A Literary History (which contains an English translation of Prateeksha by Ruth Vanita), didn’t know about reactions to it either, but offered some general pointers. He suggested that maybe people were too embarrassed to talk about it openly. And added that, though the theme would have certainly been shocking for the times, stories of lesbian love — especially when written by men — have always been considered more palatable than tales of male homosexual intimacy. There may even be an element of titillation for readers when it comes to the former. (In 1924, the Hindi journalist and writer Pandey Bechan Sharma ‘Ugra’ wrote a short story, Chocolate, about male homosexuality. The ensuing storm spurred Ugra, who delighted in the notoriety, to write even more stories on the subject. Chocolate was still selling 30 years later.)For me, though, Yadav’s Prateeksha, apart from being a remarkable story for its time, is also a comment on the oppressive Indian family (both Gita and Nanda face abuse in their homes before they escape to Calcutta). And it is about ‘waiting’, as the title suggests — Gita has grown old waiting for a suitor her father drove away to come back for her, even as she now waits for Harsh and Nanda, lost in each other’s company, to return to her empty flat.But in the end, Rajendra Yadav’s Prateeksha is really about the universal yearning for love and companionship||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/love-loneliness-and-violence/story-vLQ3bUPhu8xRfrDLZJBZzM.html
07-06-2020||India||Lessons from the field, lessons for life||I have watched The Test. I have binged on The Last Dance. Heck, I’ve even seen The Carter Effect. In this new world without sport, I now have nothing except nostalgia and memories to fall back on. None of us does.For the first time, we, the ones on this side of the sport-watching fence, are envying those on the other side who don’t have to rely on events thousands of miles away—events they have absolutely no control over—for their sanity.What is it about the absence of sport that is making this Covid-infected planet—a dangerous place where aerosols, surfaces, and physical contact could get you, but where you still have to worry about money, clothes, rules and courtesies, unlike, say, in The Walking Dead—so much harder to negotiate?The overlap of sport and life has, of course, been both studied by science and romanticised by literature. Reams of research papers and volumes of books have attempted to define what connects the playing and watching of sport with how people lead their lives, peppering their daily routines with sweating in the mornings, cheering in the evenings, or sometimes both.The starting point in the link, perhaps, is that sport is our first true teacher. It’s like a simulated sub-universe where we face disappointment, experience joy, learn to be graceful in victory, and hopeful in defeat. It offers lessons that prepare us for the few times in our lives when we truly experience such emotions—achieving a professional milestone, being in a debilitating accident, finding love, losing a loved one.I always joke, for example, that nothing can break me because I am a fan of the Arsenal football club—I get broken every second weekend.These emotions are addictive; they are what make us human. And sport allows us a weekly micro-dose of triumph and defeat, delight and despair. It’s harder to derive all the scales of the sensory octave from any other activity or distraction—music largely pleases and uplifts; films and books don’t offer a sense of loyalty and association. Two strangers, from different countries, sitting at opposite ends of a pub, can instantly know they experienced the same joys and sorrows at the exact same moments only when they see that they’re wearing t-shirts with the same team logo emblazoned on them.In July 2014, in Rio de Janeiro, I experienced the extreme highs and abysmal lows of sporting emotion over two unforgettable days. July 12, the night before the final: the largest, most amorphous party anywhere in the world that year as Argentinians drove across the border to Brazil, slept in their cars, and sang and danced and drank, taking over the city in infectious revelry. As an Argentina football fan, I sang every song, danced every jig, and drank everything. July 13, after Germany won in extra time: the life was sucked out of the city, the gloom audible in the silence, tangible in the faces of those who had driven across the border and slept in their cars. At one end of Copacabana, a stranger in the same blue jacket I was wearing caught my hand and started weeping. Though the loss meant much more to him than it did to me, I cried a little with him. We exchange greetings on Facebook to this day.Fandom is defined not by raucous victory marches, but by the sweet pain of defeat. It teaches us to accept when we’re beaten, be okay with not always winning, but have the resilience to keep fighting back. We, the people who watch, play, and sometimes travel for sport, are lost without that kick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lessons-from-the-field-lessons-for-life/story-H3Cwl55LHPyDkmqfyhng3J.html
07-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Know which stage of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic we are in now.No, I am not going to get into a discussion on whether we are seeing community transmission in India, a subject on which the health ministry is strangely touchy.Nor am I going to resort to numbers other than to say what this column has said at least five or six times (this is the 76th instalment of this column; there will be things I repeat; actually, I’ve said this too — that I will repeat things — before): the only number that matters is the number of daily deaths. The number of cases is largely irrelevant because we are clearly not testing enough (positivity rates, the proportion of positive cases to tests done, continue to rise); ergo, we have no idea about the true prevalence of the Sars-CoV-2 virus here. As for the daily deaths, they are, unfortunately, increasing, and touched 300 on Friday. Even if they stay at this level, India will record 10,000 Covid-19 deaths in the next 33 days.But I digress; like I said at the beginning of this column, I know which stage of the Covid-19 pandemic we are in now.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageWe are in a stage where many of us know people (people like us, may I add) who have been infected with the virus. The people behind the numbers we see in the papers are no longer nameless and anonymous. We know the names of some; we know their stories (and back stories); some of them are our friends and we know their dreams and aspirations; some of them are related to us.We know them.The good news is that not all of them are ill enough to require hospitalisation. Many show no symptoms. Others have mild infections and should recover in a few days.But suddenly, there seems to be a lot of people who have the coronavirus disease.Earlier this week, I met a colleague for the first time in two months. He told me that there were five cases of coronavirus in his gated enclave (in Delhi). Two days later, we met again — the number had gone up to 12, he said.My health editor tells me there is a case in the house opposite hers.A former colleague from Mumbai (and, for good measure, his wife) both had mild cases and went into home quarantine.Another former colleague from Mumbai tells me his apartment block is like an island (because it has no cases) and is surrounded on all sided by apartments where there are cases.The same is true of Chennai to some extent — despite living in Delhi for almost a quarter of a century, Chennai is home, and it is where my old parents live.Bengaluru would appear to be an exception, but part of my brain refuses to accept the fact that a city as connected to the outside world as Bengaluru has as few cases as it does.In addition to knowing people who have been infected, many of us are also seeing, on social media, horror stories of people who need to be hospitalised but can’t find any beds, or those who need to be tested (in some cases, because a member of their family died of Covid-19) but aren’t being tested.In short, the information is coming at us from all sides. It can be overwhelming.At such times, it’s important to remember what the good book said: Don’t Panic.Masks, gloves (when venturing out shopping), hand washing, and social distancing are all that are required — and perhaps now, more than ever.Remember the early days of the lockdown in India when you were oh-so-careful and tentative about venturing out unless absolutely necessary? It’s time to return to that mode and hunker down even while we ensure that life and work don’t suffer.It can, will, and should be a real janata curfew.Stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-PV5hhqm1Mkj3VCtv3qU6QP.html
07-06-2020||India||WHO changes stance, calls for 3-layer Covid-19 masks in public||In a big shift from its earlier position, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has issued new guidelines that say everyone should wear a three-layer fabric or non-medical mask in public to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).People aged above 60 years or with health issues should wear a medical mask in settings where social distancing is difficult, and all others should wear a three-layer fabric mask that acts as “a barrier for potentially infectious droplets,” according to the new guidelines released on Friday.“In light of evolving evidence, WHO advises that governments should encourage the general public to wear masks where there is widespread transmission and physical distancing is difficult, such as on public transport, in shops or in other confined or crowded environments... Based on this new research, WHO advises that fabric masks should consist of at least three layers of different material,” said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general of WHO.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageWearing masks in public is already compulsory or recommended for everyone in some countries, including India, Singapore, France, Spain, Germany and Argentina, among others. Those wearing a cloth mask should choose a three-layer fabric mask made of absorbent cotton closest to the face, followed by a polypropylene layer and then a synthetic layer that is fluid-resistant, WHO said.The advisory includes tips on how to don and doff, discard or reuse masks . “People can potentially infect themselves if they use contaminated hands to adjust a mask, or to repeatedly take it off and put it on, without cleaning hands in between. Masks can also create a false sense of security, leading people to neglect measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing,” said Dr Tedros.Previous WHO guidelines limited mask use to healthcare workers, healthy people taking care of suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients, and people coughing and sneezing. The health agency was against universal use because of fears that a scramble for masks would lead to shortages and deprive those who really need them of masks.The new guidance follows research commissioned by the global health agency that found that wearing masks and keeping a distance of two metres from others are the most effective ways of stopping the spread of Covid-19. But these interventions, even when properly used and combined, do not offer complete protection from infection when used alone, and must be used with other protective measures, such as hand hygiene, found a review of 172 studies from 16 countries published in The Lancet, on June 2. “Based on the available evidence on physical distancing, face masks, eye protection and handwashing, we cannot say which one is best at this point. They are all effective, but the combination of those interventions it likely better than any of the interventions alone,” said study co-lead Professor Holger Schünemann of the department of Health Research Methods, Evidence and Impact at McMaster University in Canada, in an email.The study also found that respirators and multi-layer masks are more protective than single-layer masks. “This finding is vital to inform the proliferation of home-­made cloth mask designs, many of which are single­-layered. A well designed cloth mask should have water-­resistant fabric, multiple layers, and good facial fit… Universal face mask use might enable safe lifting of restrictions in communities seeking to resume normal activities and could protect people in crowded public settings and within households,” said Professor Raina MacIntyre from the Kirby Institute, University of New South Wales in Australia, in an accompanying comment. She was not involved in the study.With the pandemic yet to peak in India, protective behaviours are critical to stop the spread of the disease. “We need very strict wearing of masks, social distancing and frequent handwashing. I would say, we literally need policing of masks and other social distancing behaviours to enforce compliance whenever you’re out, whether it is in public transport, office, school or a market,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.Current evidence suggests that Covid-19 is most commonly spread by respiratory droplets, especially when people cough and sneeze, entering through the eyes, nose, and mouth, either directly or by touching a contaminated surface, but there is increasing concern about spread through aerosols, which are tiny saliva and vapour droplets suspended in air that are produced when we speak or breathe.“I cannot say this clearly enough: masks alone will not protect you from Covid-19. Masks are not a replacement for physical distancing, hand hygiene and other public health measures. Masks are only of benefit as part of a comprehensive approach in the fight against Covid-19,” said Tedros.“The cornerstone of the response in every country must be to find, isolate, test and care for every case, and to trace and quarantine every contact. That is what we know works. That is every country’s best defence against Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-changes-stance-calls-for-3-layer-masks-in-public/story-bXfjG9ISayWGEZW3HJLyzN.html
07-06-2020||India||Migrant crisis may hurt incomes in poorer states||What will be the Covid-19 pandemic’s impact on India? The Reserve Bank of India expects the Indian economy to contract this financial year. But given the recent release of gross domestic product (GDP) numbers for the quarter ended March , a big-picture analysis may be needed. In a three-part data journalism series, of which this is the second part, HT attempts to do exactly that. The first part, published on June 6, looked at the economic situation before the pandemic. The second part will look at the immediate effects of the crisis and their macroeconomic consequences. The third part will argue that the existing policy response may not go far enough.On March 11, the World Health Organization declared the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic. With effect from March 25, India announced a nationwide lockdown. This was among the most stringent in the world. A database compiled by Oxford University has ranked countries in a stringency index. The more severe the lockdown, the higher the stringency index score. Data shows that among the top five countries by GDP ( the US, China, Japan, Germany and India ), only India scored the maximum 100 for almost a month. To be sure, restrictions have been eased in the past month, and the country is now emerging out of the lockdown. (See Chart 1) As had been expected, economic activity has suffered heavily. The only high frequency indicators which are available for the period after the lockdown are the Purchasing Managers’ Indices (PMI). Both the manufacturing and services indices crashed to their lowest-ever values, 27.4 and 5.4, respectively in April. They have increased to 30.8 and 12.6 for May, but continue to signify massive contraction in economic activity. PMI indices signify expansion when they are above 50. The GDP data for the quarter ending June 2020 will only be available in August. Lockdown related restrictions are also likely to hinder data collection efforts. For example, the National Statistical Office (NSO) was unable to properly collect inflation data in April.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThese statistical difficulties notwithstanding, it is possible to lay down some general principles. Among the most visible economic impacts of the lockdown has been a massive reverse migration of workers to villages. The actual estimates of such migration by reputed scholars vary from 5 million by Nomman Majid of the International Labour Organisation to as much as 30 million by Chinmay Tumbe of the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad.Anecdotal evidence suggests that the number is likely to be far more than 5 million. For example, the Uttar Pradesh government alone was looking at expanding daily employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme by 3 million in March.The humanitarian aspect of the reverse migration has caught everybody’s imagination. But its economic impact is equally important. Migrants have an important role in India’s economy.An example from a unique multigenerational research project in an Indian village can help us understand this. Palanpur in Moradabad district of Uttar Pradesh has been studied by many economists since 1974-75. In their 2018 book on the Palanpur surveys, as they are referred to by economists, Himanshu, Peter Lanjouw and Nicholas Stern give accounts of six such surveys between 1957-58 and 2015.In 1957-58 less than 40% of non-farm jobs were located outside the village. This number increased to 84% and 76% in 1974-75 and 1983-84. It subsequently dipped and was around the 60% mark in 2015. The share of non-cultivation incomes has continuously increased during this period. It was 22% in 1957-58 and increased to 60% in 2008-09, the latest period for which data is available. Of the non-farm jobs located outside the village, 60% were located at least 50 kilometers away in 2008-09.Reverse migration also entails loss of income for migrant workers. This can be very significant for poorer states. A 2018 World Bank paper by Gaurav Nayyar and Kyoung Yang Kim found that migrant remittances had a share of 35% in Bihar’s gross state domestic product (GSDP) and positively affected consumption at the household level. Any severe disruption of these remittances, which is what the lockdown must have inflicted, can result in a massive income shock in poor states.India’s workforce was already under distress even before the pandemic. The unemployment rate, according to the 2017-18 Periodic Labour Force Survey, was 6.1%, the highest in four decades. Real rural wages declined continuously between September 2019 and January 2020, the latest period for which data is available. (See Chart 2) The sudden exodus of migrants who have returned to their villages from the cities will push wages down even more. This will further squeeze earnings and subsequently demand. Weakness in demand may generate additional headwinds for revival of economic activity even in urban areas. According to the 2011-12 Consumption Expenditure Survey (CES), rural areas have a bigger share of total consumption expenditure in India. Per capita consumption was almost double in urban areas, but with the much bigger population share, the share of rural areas in total consumption was greater. Rural India must have lost some of its population advantage between 2011-12 and 2020. However, it is unlikely that the rural share of consumption will be insignificant. Obviously, this is not the only economic disruption due to the pandemic. Economic activities that cannot ensure physical distancing will have to wait for revival. The resolution of this, however, will largely depend on medicinal advances vis-a-vis Covid-19. There is little scope for policy intervention on this count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-crisis-may-hurt-incomes-in-poorer-states/story-TF0HV99AhDKN53ecdrNWaJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Gujarat Covid-19 tally nears 20k as state adds 510 fresh cases||Gujarat saw its highest spike in daily new Covid-19 cases on Saturday since May 16, with 510 new cases, which took the number of positive cases in the state to 19,617. Over the past 24 hours, the state reported 35 deaths, taking the disease’s death toll in the state to 1,219.Gujarat health secretary, Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health), said 239,911 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state.“A total of 35 deaths reported today include 30 from Ahmedabad, two from Surat, and one each from Anand, Bhavnagar and Surendranagar. Also, a total of 221,149 people have been quarantined in various districts of the state, out of whom 213,717 are in home quarantine and 7,432 in facility quarantine,” Ravi said. Gujarat has the fourth-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country. Maharashtra has the highest count, followed by Tamil Nadu and Delhi.In an unrelated development, the state government announced it would extend the validity of caste certificates for students of socially and economically backward classes (SEBC) classes for another one-year. The caste certificates issued had, as per the previous rules, expired on March 31, 2020. Ashwani Kumar, secretary to chief minister said the government has decided that the validity of income “certificates being issued by the state government, which expired on March 31, 2020, has also been extended up to March 31, 2021. The validity of the income certificate for non-creamy layer of SEBC is of three-years. To extend the validity period of the certificate, the holders need not require to visit the Mamlatdar office, or to make online application,” Kumar said. He added that the two decisions would impact nearly 1,700,000 people in the state. Of them, 1,392,000 are beneficiaries of income certificates and 298,000 are beneficiaries of non-creamy layer certificates. “Such certificates obtained from competent authorities by holders are valid without any time limit,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-covid-19-tally-nears-20k-as-state-adds-510-fresh-cases/story-DH7uwLSdFRRn9VNdU0odXN.html
07-06-2020||India||MHA studies tools to monitor darknet||A Union home ministry think-tank is studying software solutions to help law enforcement agencies monitor the darknet, or a network of secret websites and encrypted networks, and track cybercriminals through digital footprints, people aware of the matter said. The Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) is also looking into an interactive web portal that will provide information on cyber crimes, their modus operandi, investigation techniques as well as digital solutions for tracing sources of voice over internet protocol calls, cracking passwords, and decrypting protected files.Academia, start-ups/Incubation centres, and research and development (R&D) organisations are working on the project to find solutions for cybercrime investigation and digital forensic challenges.Around 11 problem statements based on consultations with state police and central agencies have been identified and sent to 120 institutions and R&D organisations across the country as part of the project.“It is a capacity-building measure for LEAs [law enforcement agencies] and an exercise to take cybercrime investigation tools to the cutting edge level,” said BPRD chief V S K Kaumudi.According to a BPRD document, seen by HT, a solution for the darknet will help get inside hidden networks, gather threat intelligence, conduct profiling, analyse specific links and provide alerts regarding suspicious activity. It says the interactive web portal will assist investigating officers with their queries regarding cybercrimes, fetch details of cybercrime investigations workflows, use artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques for on-time updates. It is planned to have an integrated online case management platform for financial fraud.Tracking fake news and fake profiles on social media is another key objective of BPRD’s plan to ensure cyber criminals or specific groups, individuals do not run political or religious propaganda on a large scale against individuals, organisations or the government and create unrest in the country, according to the document.The solution for fake profiles and fake news will involve assistance to investigators in tracing anonymous social media suspects. It will help them detect fake news, fake images, offensive videos as well as trace people posting them on social media.Officials said the risk of cyberattacks has increased manifolds with the heightened d ependency on digital infrastructure amid the Covid-19 pandemic that has prompted lockdowns globally. The Centre’s Computer Emergency Response Team has repeatedly warned over the last two months that cyberattackers may take advantage of the pandemic to target individuals and organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-studies-tools-to-monitor-darknet/story-ylWPaSJi3fwOwQUvxrzTvJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Manipur to launch mobile Covid 19 testing kit||Manipur government has decided to launch a mobile coronavirus testing kit at the earliest to reduce the effort and time taken to collect and test samples, said Manipur health & family welfare minister Langpoklakpam Jayantakumar on Saturday.Jayantakumar said the mobile testing facility will specially be helpful for testing in the remote hill areas. The minister was speaking at a gathering at Senapati district headquarters, 60 km north of Imphal, after a visit to different quarantine centres in the district on Saturday, said officials.He said since the state didn’t have adequate medical equipment and manpower required to fight the pandemic, the state cabinet approved the decision to recruit 300 doctors as soon as possible. He added that the pending recruitment of 106 staff nurses under the national health mission will be finalized at the earliest to bring down the shortfall.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The state’s capacity to test 1,000 samples daily is insufficient to cover the steady stream of residents returning to the state and efforts are on to raise it, the minister added.He also had a discussion with the civil society organisations in the Senapati district after a visit to the district hospital at Kangpokpi.The total number of Covid 19 positive cases has reached 157 in the state including 105 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-to-launch-mobile-covid-19-testing-kit/story-M7aiPWPYAajRxdVipFX5eI.html
07-06-2020||India||In Rajasthan, hotels, restaurants and malls to reopen from June 8||The Rajasthan government on Saturday issued orders allowing hotels, restaurants and malls to open from June 8, while adhering to Covid-19 protocols such as wearing masks, social distancing and hygiene.An order by home secretary Rajeev Swarup said in continuation of theimplementation of lockdown 5.0 order dated May 31, hotels, restaurants and malls will be permitted to open from June 8.The order said hotels and other hospitality industry would be allowed to open on the condition that they follow the guidelines issued by the union ministry of health and family welfare in its order dated June 4, 2020 and put in place preventive measures in hotels and other hospitality units to contain spread of Covid-19.The order stated that restaurants too would be required to follow all the standard operating procedures given by the union health ministry on preventive measures in restaurants to contain the spread of the disease.As per the order, table seating arrangements will have to ensure a distance of at least 6 feet between them.Fast food restaurants with standing table arrangements will have to ensure a distance of at least 8 feet between tables and not more than two guests per table.Shopping malls too will be allowed to open but will have to adhere to all guidelines on preventive measures.The guidelines issued by the Centre include measures such as temperature checks of visitors and staff, masks, social distancing, hygiene and staggered entry of visitors. Cinema halls, children’s play areas and gaming zones in these establishments will remain shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rajasthan-hotels-restaurants-and-malls-to-reopen-from-june-8/story-6wRer01ixlz1LLZjAxQGwO.html
07-06-2020||India||Karnataka BJP okays 2 names for 3 Rajya Sabha seats||The core committee of the Karnataka Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit, which met in Bengaluru on Saturday, has decided to recommend the names of Prabhakar Kore, Ramesh Katti and Prakash Shetty for the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections, according to people aware of the developments.Two of the three names are likely to be finalised by the central leadership of the party for the June 19 elections, they said. Of the four RS vacant seats in Karnataka, the BJP is expecting to win two and the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) are likely to battle it out for the remaining seats.Prabhakar Kore oversees about 250 educational institutions in Karnataka and Maharashtra under the Karnataka Lingayat Education (KLE) society and is a current Rajya Sabha member whose term will end on June 25. Ramesh Katti, who is eight-term MLA Umesh Katti’s brother, is a prominent BJP leader from northern Karnataka. Prakash Shetty is a hospitality and real estate entrepreneur who runs a chain of hotels. For a member to be elected to the RS from Karnataka, they would require 44 votes. “The high command will decide the names from the list recommended or decide to have its own names. Since Tuesday is the last day for nominations, we expect the names to be announced on Sunday. We have not decided what we would do with the additional votes,” a senior BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.The Congress has already announced veteran party leader Mallikarjuna Kharge as its candidate, while the JDS, which has 34 MLAs and would require 10 additional votes to get its candidate elected, says party supremo Deve Gowda is yet to take a call on contesting. The elections are scheduled for June 19 and the last day of nominations is June 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/k-taka-bjp-okays-2-names-for-3-rs-seats/story-RAgkGOH2WMjgHRNfZx0BBI.html
07-06-2020||India||BJP banks on a new team to counter TMC in Bengal polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that has been at loggerheads with the Trinamool Congress government over the latter’s response to the coronavirus pandemic has now picked a new team in West Bengal, with known Mamata Banerjee-baiters getting key positions.“It is a mix of the old and the new to take on the state government. For the 2021 assembly polls, these faces will lead the campaign against the Trinamool government’s 10 year-misrule,” said a senior functionary.On Monday, state unit president Dilip Ghosh announced the names of BJP’s new state leadership--12 vice-presidents, five general secretaries, and 10 secretaries—which is seen as a major rejig in the state unit ahead of the polls.Ghosh, a former pracharak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), was given a second term in January, amid speculation that the he could be replaced.Members of the Lok Sabha, Arjun Singh, who represents Barrackpore, Locket Chatterjee who represents Hoogly, and Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan, who are known for their fiery speeches and often controversial stances are part of the new team. While Khan has been made in charge of the Yuva Morcha; Singh is now a vice president and Chatterjee is the party’s general secretary.“These young MPs are West Bengal’s voice in Parliament and now they will be the faces of the party on the streets. The state has suffered for years and the BJP will end the politics of appeasement,” said the functionary quoted above.A second leader said the party wanted a team that has “aggressive opening batsmen, the reliable mid order and the all-rounders” who can take forward the party’s forceful posturing in taking on the Mamata government.The new team also has on board a former confidant of the CM, the ex-West Midnapore police superintendent Bharati Ghosh; fashion designer Agnimitra Paul who has been given charge of the women’s wing.Even though the BJP began assiduously increasing its footprint in the state after winning three seats and 10% of the votes in 2016 assembly elections, it has had to accommodate rebels to help consolidate its position.In the new team too, the party has accommodated Khangen Murmu and Dulal Bor; who joined the BJP from the CPIM and Congress respectively. Khan, Singh and Sabyasachi Dutta, who is now a secretary, were part of the TMC before switching to the BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.“We have been chosen by the party to expose the dynastic rule of Mamata and her nephew. We will fight the good fight like loyal soldiers of the party,” Khan said.Even as the state has been engaged in fighting the pandemic and subsequently engaged in relief work following the cyclone Amphan, the BJP has kept up the pressure on the state government.“The state government’s response to the pandemic has been deplorable. Instead of taking help from the centre, the state government has taken an adversarial position. Even after the cyclone, the PM gave Rs 1000 crore for the relief and rehabilitation, but there has been no change in the TMC’s stance,” the first functionary said.Political commentator Kumar Rana however said the BJP’s attempts at drawing a parallel between the state and the Centre’s response to the pandemic will not cut ice. “In the BJP-ruled states and at the Centre too, the response has not been any different. States have no money, so TMC government cannot be singled out. The BJP is trying to create a stir,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-banks-on-a-new-team-to-counter-tmc-in-bengal-polls/story-HLU8PGc3o7nRWAurwrLr1J.html
07-06-2020||India||Infighting in Gujarat Congress over Rajya Sabha polls||A tug of war has started in the Gujarat unit of the Congress over whom it will choose between two candidates for the lone Rajya Sabha seat it can win from the state after a raft of resignations by its legislators dashed its hopes of wining half the four seats up for grabs in the June 19 elections to the upper House.Eight Congress legislators have resigned from the assembly since March, and apart from two other vacancies due to court cases over poll-related disputes, the effective strength of the 182-member Gujarat assembly now stands at 172.The Congress, with 65 legislators, is now in a position to win just one seat while both Bharatsinh Solanki and Shaktisinh Gohil remain in the fray for election to the Rajya Sabha from the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. A candidate will need 35 votes to get elected to the House.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), with 103 legislators, is comfortably placed to win three seats. It has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin.The Congress’s predicament has triggered a show of strength between supporters of Solanki and Gohil.A Gujarat Congress leader said on the condition of anonymity that 42 of the 65 legislators back Solanki and would vote for him.“Though the final decision rests with the party high command there is also a possibility that Gohil might announce his withdrawal from the contest if all other options dry up,” he said.Asked to elaborate on the options, the leader claimed that some “disgruntled” BJP legislators might cross-vote in favour of the Congress candidate.“Wait and watch,” he said.However, a Gujarat BJP functionary rubbished the claim. “The Congress is daydreaming. Unlike Congress, there are no disgruntled legislators in BJP,” the functionary said, requesting anonymity.The Congress is also banking on the support of the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) which has two legislators, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) with one and independent legislator Jignesh Mevani.The Rajya Sabha elections to 55 seats were earlier scheduled to be held on March 26 but deferred due to the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent imposition of the nationwide lockdown from March 25.While 37 candidates were later declared elected unopposed, polls were to be held for the remaining 18 seats – four each from Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat, three each from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, two from Jharkhand and one each from Meghalaya and Manipur.The Election Commission later clubbed four Rajya Sabha seats from Karnataka and one each from Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram and the elections to all the 24 Rajya Sabha seats will now be held on June 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infighting-in-guj-cong-over-rs-polls/story-2S5Xsnm5mX6vJQSMKanZjL.html
07-06-2020||India||Ten new Covid-19 cases take Mumbai’s Dharavi’s coronavirus count to 1,899||Mumbai’s Dharavi recorded 10 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the city’s slums to 1,899.At least, 71 people have succumbed to the highly infectious disease in Asia’s largest slum dwelling till date.A day earlier, on Friday, 20 people had tested positive for the Covid-19 disease in Dharavi, according to data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Maharashtra on Saturday reported 2,739 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally of people infected with the virus to 82,968, the state health department said.As Maharashtra continues to remain the worst-hit Covid-19 state in the country, it is inching closer towards overtaking China’s tally of over 83,000 cases.Maharashtra recorded 120 deaths on Saturday, with the total fatalities now at 2,969. According to the health department’s bulletin, 2,234 people were discharged on Saturday after recovering from the infectious disease.Currently, there are 42,600 active cases in the state.Mumbai’s Covid-19 case count reached 47,128 on Saturday after 1,274 new cases being detected in the last 24 hours.With 57 new deaths, total fatalities in the city stands at 1,575.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-new-covid-19-cases-take-mumbai-s-dharavi-s-coronavirus-count-to-1-899/story-68T4p8jvBSbyCHABimxhJI.html
07-06-2020||India||Coronavirus death toll hits 400,000 worldwide||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has claimed 400,000 lives globally since it surfaced in the Chinese city of Wuhan late last year and went on to ravage countries across the world that are now attempting to revive economies battered by the lockdowns imposed to curb the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes the disease. It took nearly four months for the death toll from the respiratory illness to reach the grim milestone of 100,000 deaths. As the virus spread from China – where it first originated in December 2019 – to find a strong foothold in Europe, the number of fatalities doubled to 200,000 in another 15 days. The subsequent 100,000 deaths were added in 20 and 23 days, respectively, offering a glimmer of hope that many of the hot spots such as Spain, Italy, UK and France may have seen the worst. Although European countries have begun to reopen businesses and industries, Latin America, particularly Brazil, has emerged as the latest epicentre of the viral disease, according to the World Health Organization.In the United States– the hardest-hit country with 1.97 million cases and 111,658 deaths -- the numbers have continued to mount even as the rate of the infection appears to be slowing down. On Friday, US President Donald Trump said the economy was bouncing back and that the country was “largely through” this “horrible pandemic”. “I think we’re doing really well,” he added. Countries such as Mexico, Russia and India too are clocking thousands of daily new cases and hundreds more fatalities, driving part of the third wave of the pandemic after the first in China and the second in Europe and the US.Till Saturday, 400,012 fatalities had been recorded from 6,916,826 cases world over. It means the case fatality rate – defined as the proportion of deaths to total infections -- from Covid-19 stood at 5.8% on Saturday, according to data by worldometers.info.At 246,472 cases, India on Saturday overtook Italy to become the country with the sixth-highest number of Covid-19 infections. However, with a death toll of 6,873 from the disease and a fatality rate of 2.8% till Saturday, it is significantly lower than the case fatality rate of other hard-hit nations such as the US (5.6%), UK (14.2%) and Italy (14.4%). Experts say the number of deaths from the pandemic is a more accurate representation of the virus’ prevalence in a region instead of the number of infections, as a large percentage of Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic and are never officially reported. The fatality rate, they add, will eventually determine if the health infrastructure of a country will survive the public health crisis or be burdened by it. “We know that the absolute number of deaths will go up with the increasing number of cases, but has there been a change in the proportion or case fatality rate?... And, if the case fatality rate is indeed going up, then that is a cause of concern” Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, had told HT. At its early peak, the pandemic forced half of humanity into some form of lockdown and risked tipping economies into the deepest recession since the Great Depression of the 1930s. Governments from Africa to Europe to Asia are now focusing on reviving economies toward a post-pandemic normal.Seeking to revive the key tourism sectors in time for the summer season, the European Union said it could reopen borders to travellers from outside the region in early July, after some countries within the bloc reopened to European visitors. Still, bleak numbers streamed in from Latin America.Brazil’s death toll rose to more than 35,211 on Saturday, the third-highest number of virus-related deaths after Britain and the United States.“The curve is steepening -- the sky is the limit,” Julio Croda, an infectious disease specialist and former Brazilian health ministry official, said about the trajectory in his nation. “The current data show no signs of stabilisation.”Tolls are also rising sharply in Mexico, Peru and Ecuador. And in Chile, deaths have risen by more than 50% in the past week.Russia reported 8,855 cases on Saturday, bringing the total number to 458,689, according to data from the government’s virus response centre. The death toll increased by 197 to 5,725 people.Fresh concerns have arisen over another wave of infections as lockdown restrictions are eased across the world. In South Korea, considered a success story for its quick response to control the virus’ spread, 51 new cases were reported on Saturday, mostly in the densely populated capital region, as the authorities scrambled to stem transmissions among low-income workers who can’t afford to stay home.With no certain cure and a vaccine only in the development stage, scientists believe that lockdowns and social distancing measures are the only way to stop the virus. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-death-toll-hits-400-000-worldwide/story-vHmvROCYTKApc0Nlkqh0CP.html
07-06-2020||India||Optimism and caution as places of worship get ready to reopen||Several states are fine-tuning their plans to open places of worship on Monday in line with the central government’s guidelines while others are willing to wait and watch before taking a final call amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The states’ response on the issue has been layered. States such as Karnataka, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh have followed the central directive and decided to open religious sites on June 8 after two-and-a-half months, laying down stringent guidelines. Others such as Delhi, Maharashtra and Odisha have preferred to wait, though the authorities in the national capital say they will hold a review meeting before Monday. Uttar Pradesh has said it will follow the central guidelines, albeit with area-specific restrictions.Government officials and the managements of religious places HT spoke to across the country on Saturday sounded cautiously optimistic, while detailing the safety measures being planned and giving a glimpse of how experiences at places of worship will change in the aftermath of the pandemic.The Amarnath Yatra, an annual pilgrimage to the cave shrine of Lord Shiva in South Kashmir that generally takes place in July-August, might take the shorter Baltal route this year, according to officials aware of the development.As reported by HT, the pilgrimage to the shrine at an altitude of 3,880 metre is likely to begin on July 21 and continue till August 3 with the one-and-a-half month ritual cut short to a fortnight. According to the original schedule, it was to begin on June 23 and end on August 3.Authorities in Ganderbal — of which Baltal is a part — have already deployed men and machinery for clearing the tracks by removing snow and debris, while the Shri Amarnath Ji Shrine Board (SASB) — which manages the temple — will start sending teams beginning on Monday to clear the 16-km Baltal track.“Pilgrims will be screened for Covid-19 before they are allowed to undertake the yatra,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. In a first, the official said, the shrine board is trying to telecast live aartis.However, Bipul Pathak, the Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor’s principal secretary and the chief executive officer (CEO) of the shrine board, said a final decision is awaited. “When it’s decided, media will come to know,” he said.In Uttarakhand, another Himalayan state, the government is preparing for the Char Dham Yatra after June 8, but a section of priests and traders is apprehensive of the move.Ravinath Raman, CEO of Chardham Devasthanam Management Board (a government body managing 51 shrines in the state), said preparations to maintain social distancing and limiting the number of pilgrims have started.The four Himalayan pilgrimage sites —Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri — are collectively called Char Dham. Traditionally, the pilgrimage begins from the west from Yamunotri, then proceeds to Gangotri and finally reaches Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. Last year, a record 2.9 million pilgrims visited Char Dham.The portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines opened on April 26. While the Kedarnath shrine opened on April 29, Badrinath opened on May 15. No devotees were allowed.“We have started preparing from our end as to how many pilgrims will be allowed for darshan at the shrines...,” Raman said, adding that pilgrims who want to visit the shrines will have to register themselves online first and may be given a time slot.But Deepak Semwal, the secretary of the Gangotri Dham Committee, said priests and traders’ bodies int Gangotri and Yamunotri are not in favour of the pilgrimage at this moment.“No preparations have been done...be it opening of hotels or shops; nothing is open here...we request the state government to postpone the Yatra till the Covid-19 situation normalises,” Semwal said.Vinod Prasad Shukla, the president of a Kedarnath priests’ body, pointed out in a letter to the state government that “the shrines are in hilly and remote regions of the state where health infrastructure is not strong”. “If (Covid-19) cases increase in the remote areas because of pilgrims, coming to these shrines then it will be difficult to control the outbreak...,” the letter said.Madan Kaushik, a cabinet minister and a government spokesperson, said authorities are analysing the Centre’s standard operating procedures (SOPs) for opening of religious places. “When we will be assured that we are in a position to follow the SOP, we will gradually open religious places,” he said.In neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said not more than five people will be allowed inside a religious site at one point of time.“We have issued specific instructions to all temples (management) not to allow crowding inside the temple. Devotees will be allowed to enter temple premises only in batches,” Neelkanth Tewari, state culture and religious affairs minister, said on Thursday.But late Saturday night, Varanasi district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said religious places, hotels and malls in the temple town will not open on Monday.Sharma said officials managing religious places, hotels and malls, which have completed the arrangements according to the state’s guidelines, should fill up a checklist and submit it to the police station in their area which will ensure all steps mentioned in the list are being are being implemented. In Goa, the government said though it has allowed religious places to open, groups and congregations are not allowed. “No functions can be held in religious places. We have said if temples, churches and mosques open, then groups of people coming and performing prayers or aarti is not allowed; it should be limited to routine pooja for individuals or individuals taking darshan,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said.This effectively means mass services at churches with large gatherings will not commence immediately. “We will not begin the celebration of mass with the people unless the Goa government gives us guidance and the SOPs, and until it is safe to do so. Safety is the key word,” Father Joaquim Loiola Pereira, Secretary to the Archbishop of Goa, said. In Rajasthan, a representative of the Ajmer Sharif Dargah said the shrine of revered Sufi saint Moinuddin Chishti will not open to public from Monday. In West Bengal too, Muslim religious leaders favoured a wait-and-watch approach. Though the eastern state announced it will allow religious places to resume from June 1, authorities at Nakhoda Masjid — Kolkata’s biggest mosque where as many as 10,000 people can offer prayers — said they were not allowing religious gatherings.“We did not have gatherings even on Fridays although relaxation was allowed by the state from June 1. We will observe what happens in the rest of the country on June 8, and follow the advisory of the government and the health department,” Maulana Md Safi, the imam of Nakhoda Masjid, said on Saturday. Authorities at Hyderabad’s Mecca Masjid have taken steps to resume operations from Monday, but said they are awaiting a final word from the government. “We have made arrangements for following Covid-19 guidelines such as asking the devotees to use sanitizers, bring their own prayer mats, have ablutions at home, but we have no information from the government as to how many people we can allow into the mosque for prayers,” Mecca Masjid superintendent Abdul Khadeer Siddiqui said.Two prominent mosques in Kerala — Palayam Juma Masjid in Thiruvananthapuram and Palayam Muhiyuddin Mosque in Kozhikkode — too have decided to wait for now. “Our prime concern is safety of people,” said Palayam Masjid imam VP Suhaib. At places that are set to open, stringent restrictions have been put in place. The Guruvayur temple in Kerala’s Thrissur district has prohibited the entry of people above 65 and children below 10.“My grandson promised to take me (to the temple) in his car on the opening day (June 9), but that’s not going to happen...If God is willing, I can see Lord Krishna again,” said 74-year-old Viswanathan Nair, a retired central government employee.The Golden Temple in Amritsar is expecting a rush of devotees. “Since the lockdown started, only around 2,500 devotees on an average, most of them locals, have been visiting the shrine daily. Now that the government has allowed the religious places (to open) from June 8, we are expecting a huge increase in the footfalsl,” said Mukhitar Singh, manager of the shrine.“We are increasing the deployment of our employees from June 8, especially to maintain social distancing among the devotees,” he said.(With inputs from Ravi Krishan Khajuria in Jammu, Suparna Roy in Dehradun, Pawan Dixit in Lucknow, Sudhir Kumar in Varanasi, Gerard de Souza in Panaji, Urvashi Dev Rawal in Jaipur, Srinivasa Rao Apparasu in Hyderabad, Ramesh Babu in Thiruvananthapuram and Anil Sharma in Amritsar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/optimism-and-caution-as-places-of-worship-get-ready-to-reopen/story-CKkW9qTmd1RPsTGY4FnhBJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Case against Vinod Dua for ‘spreading fake news’||The Delhi Police on Thursday registered a case against journalist Vinod Dua for allegedly making statements incite trouble through his YouTube channel. Police said the first information report (FIR) was filed on the complaint of Naveen Kumar, the Bhartiya Janata Party’s Delhi unit (BJP) spokesperson.Kumar said Dua was “continuously spreading and publishing false and ill-motivated news for his ulterior motive.”Speaking to HT, Kumar said he first filed the complaint against Dua on April 13, after he came across instances of Dua trying to instigate the minority community.“He is trying to create a narrative that the government is against Muslims and was responsible for the riots in Delhi. He has tried to misuse the media,” he said.Dua said he is yet to receive a copy of the complaint and the police are yet to inform him. In his written complaint, Kumar alleged, that Dua who runs a show on YouTube channel called the “Vinod Dua show”, in an episode broadcast on March 11 presented news in a false context.  Kumar also alleged that Dua misreported the Delhi riots and stated that the central government did nothing to stop the violence and misquoted BJP leader Kapil Mishra. He claimed that Dua reported that Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) was solely responsible for the Delhi riots. The complaint further adds that Dua’s act is not only in violation of strict guidelines of the ministry of Information and Broadcasting and press council of India for which his accreditation is liable to be revoked but apart from this his act constitutes several offences punishable under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-against-vinod-dua-for-spreading-fake-news/story-ABO1ZgHtRvlZFuzETEjzzN.html
07-06-2020||India||Ahead of Bihar polls, Sushil Modi rejects talk of rift with JDU||As the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) begins preparations for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar, deputy chief minister and senior party leader Sushil Modi has dismissed speculation that BJP and the Janata Dal (United), or JDU, will not seek re-election as allies.Describing the alliance as “a reliable partnership,” Modi said the synergy between the Centre and the state government had created a successful model of governance in the state.“Schemes at the Centre and at the state level have ensured that Bihar has seen development that eluded it for years. Villages have been electrified, water is being provided under har ghar jal (water in every household), power is being provided for agricultural purposes at low cost,” he said in a phone interview.Signs of discord between the allies surfaced on the issue of brining back migrant Bihar workers stranded outside the state during the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. As BJP leaders pushed for letting the workers travel back home, chief minister Nitish Kumar insisted on he Centre first framing guidelines for the return of migrant workers.There have also been murmurs within the party that the state government’s response to the migrant worker and it inability to offer jobs will have an adverse impact on the electoral fortunes of the allies and that the BJP should consider fighting the Bihar elections on its own.Modi said no dichotomy existed between the allies on the issue.“Our CM said there have to be proper guidelines for bringing back migrants. And once the Centre came up with those; 20 lakh workers were brought back on trains, their fare was reimbursed; we set up quarantine centres, transferred money to their accounts, we gave free ration up to 10 kg. So where is the question of workers not having been looked after,” he said.On Sunday former BJP president and Union home minister Amit Shah will address a virtual rally in the state, an indication that party has resumed political activity ahead of the elections to the 243-member assembly.The JDU and B JP two parties will continue the alliance because it offers them a better a chance of coping with anti- incumbency, said DM Diwakar, former director of the Patna-based A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies.“There have been failures on many fronts, development, law and order and governance. The corona pandemic has exposed the collapsed state of health infrastructure so it makes sense for the two parties to go together and cover up for these failures by offering doles and more work under MNREGA {Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act},” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bihar-polls-sushil-modi-rejects-talk-of-rift-with-jdu/story-WxuA3yjQhtMSlDcUeoImhK.html
07-06-2020||India||SC to hear pleas challenging Aadhaar verdict on June 9||A five-judge constitution bench of the Supreme Court will hear on June 9 a batch of review petitions challenging the top court’s September 2018 verdict upholding the validity of Aadhaar, the unique identity number assigned to people resident in the country .The bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde will decide the review petitions in chambers.In its judgment on September 26, 2018, the top court had by a 4-1 majority affirmed the constitutionality of the 12-digit unique identity scheme and the Aadhaar Targeted Delivery of Financial and other Subsidies, Benefits and Services Act, 2016 (Aadhaar Act). The court held that Aadhaar would be mandatory for accessing social welfare schemes, but it cannot be forced on people for opening bank accounts or for mobile and internet connection.The Aadhaar scheme was first challenged in the Supreme Court in 2012 on the grounds that it lacked statutory backing and invaded the right to privacy.Parliament later introduced the Aadhaar Act in 2016 to give it legal backing. The Aadhaar Act itself was then challenged before the apex court on the grounds that it was passed as a money bill, thereby circumventing the upper house of Parliament, the Rajya Sabha.A money bill, according to Article 110 of the Constitution, is a bill which contains only provisions relating to taxation, borrowing of money by the government, appropriation of money out of the Consolidated Fund of India and expenditure from or to the Consolidated Fund of India. A money bill originates in the Lok Sabha and once passed by the lower house by a simple majority, is sent to the Rajya Sabha for its recommendations. The recommendations made by the Rajya Sabha on money bills are not binding on the Lok Sabha. When the challenge to the Aadhaar Act was being heard, a constitutional question came up – whether or not right to privacy is a fundamental right under the Constitution?A 9-judge bench of Supreme Court heard this issue and gave a unanimous verdict in August 2017 declaring privacy a fundamental right, being a facet of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution. More than a year later, a five-judge bench headed by then CJI Dipak Misra delivered its judgment, upholding the validity of Aadhaar saying it saying it involved “parting with minimal information” to fulfil the “larger public interest” of the marginalized and the poor, who can use it to obtain government benefits and subsidies, an argument which was strongly put forward by the central government in defence of the unique identity number.The sole dissenting judge, justice DY Chandrachud, said the Aadhaar Act could not have been passed as a money bill, calling it a “fraud on the Constitution”.This issue of whether certain laws including Aadhaar Act could have been passed as a money bill is to be heard by another seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court in a separate case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-pleas-challenging-aadhaar-verdict-on-june-9/story-F0fzhuen7DIhtbhIijNlzM.html
07-06-2020||India||Pregnant cow fed cracker-laden dough; 1 arrested||The Himachal Pradesh police on Saturday arrested a man for injuring a pregnant cow by feeding her wheat flour ball laced with firecrackers. The cow’s jaw was blown off-- reprising the tragic story of a pregnant elephant that lost its life after eating a pineapple stuffed with a firecracker in Kerala. While the incident took place on May 26 in Jhandutta area of Himachal Pradesh’s Bilaspur district, it came to light only on Saturday when the cow’s owner, Gurdayal Singh, uploaded a video of the injured animal on social media.The cow has given birth to a healthy calf since but Singh said the animal is still not able to eat because of an injured jaw and is being administered Glucose. The video went viral with people demanding strict action against the person who fed firecrackers to the animal. The practice of studding dough balls with firecrackers isn’t uncommon in Himachal, and farmers resort to this to keep wild animals, especially boards, off their fields. In the Kerala incident too, the explosive-filled-fruit was meant for wild boars. In many parts of the country, including Himachal, the method is also used to hunt for bush meat -- an illegal practice. Bilaspur superintendent of oolice (SP) Devakar Sharma confirmed the incident and said the cow was fed a highly explosive firecracker popularly called “aalu bomb”. Aalu is Hindi for potato. He said a case under Section 286 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act has been registered and the role of the neighbours named by Singh is being investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-cow-fed-cracker-laden-dough-1-arrested/story-uMQX4qDk95ae2YukeZ9zmL.html
07-06-2020||India||200 urban forests to be developed in 5 years||The Centre has announced the implementation of a scheme to develop 200 urban forests across the country in the next five years, with Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar saying there was a need to increase forest cover in such areas.Javadekar on Friday announced the implementation of the “Nagar Van” scheme to develop the urban forests. The environment ministry announced the scheme in 2016 but officials said it couldn’t be implemented on a large scale so far.The urban forests will be on any forest land inside a city or any other vacant land offered by local urban bodies. A document on the scheme released by Javadekar said that the urban forests will be developed by involving local communities; corporates; local bodies; NGOs, etc. Once established, they will be maintained by the state government and an entry fee can be charged from visitors for maintenance, it said.“These will be on public private partnership (PPP) mode where fencing will be done by the government but planting, public convenience infrastructure, walkways can be done by private companies as part of their corporate social responsibility,” said a senior official of the environment ministry (forestry division). Sanjay Kumar, director general of forests, said: “It’s a collaborative approach rather than a PPP. We are expecting local people, municipal corporations and even industries both small and big to contribute. The Centre will fund a part of it. Industries can give funds to the forest department to support the project. Planting of local species will be prioritised. Forests in urban areas are most stressed. Such projects can also prevent their encroachment,” he said.Legal researchers said there should be clarity on the policy and which areas will be earmarked for the development of urban forests. “Forests within cities are not empty spaces; they are used for multiple purposes by people. An example of this is the Aarey forest in Mumbai. What are vacant spaces? That needs to be clarified. Will it cover floodplains, district parks, wetlands for example? This runs the risk of enclosing open spaces where rights of admission may be reserved. We need more clarity,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-urban-forests-to-be-developed-in-5-years/story-C2IPui9QCHBFF1aayVaXZL.html
07-06-2020||India||India-China military talks on LAC row inconclusive||A critical meeting on Saturday between Indian and Chinese military officials, led by lieutenant generals from both armies, ended up “inconclusively” as both sides made attempts to resolve a weeks-long row along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, officials said.This is in line with what Hindustan Times reported on Saturday that it may not be possible to achieve an immediate breakthrough to the Ladakh standoff.The general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, Lt Gen Harinder Singh, met his Chinese counterpart, Major General Liu Lin, who is the commander of South Xinjiang Military Region of Chinese PLA. This came almost a month after tensions between India and China began building up along the disputed border. The row has already taken bilateral ties to a new low.This was perhaps the first time that lieutenant general-equivalents from both sides met in a sensitive sector to defuse border tensions – the highest talks between India and China at the tactical level have so far usually involved major generals.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday announced that a meeting between senior Indian and Chinese military officers will be held on June 6 to discuss the border situation.The Northern Army commander, Lt Gen YK Joshi, has been in Leh for a security review of the sensitive sector where Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along LAC.Several rounds of talks between local military commanders, including three rounds of discussions between major generals, have failed to break the impasse that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong lake four weeks ago.Around 250 soldiers from the two sides clashed near Pangong lake on the night of May 5-6, and the scuffle left scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the immediate situation, tensions swiftly spread to other pockets along LAC.China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery on its side of the disputed border in Ladakh sector, where India has also sent military reinforcements and matched the neighbour’s military moves, as reported by Hindustan Times on May 26.Chinese state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days. HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring up between India and China in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd) said, “What has happened is that face-offs used to take place first and then the build-up. Now, they got troops who were training and this led to a build-up and then face-offs. The intention has changed. Thus, this de-escalation will not take place so easily. There will be certain amount of withdrawals in due course, but they will not completely back up from the transgressed line without taking concessions….”This is not going to be solved anytime soon, Jaswal said, adding could be longer than the 73-day Doklam. “It will require military and diplomatic maneuvering.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-military-talks-on-lac-row-inconclusive/story-JehubCI6LdXytq3hhU00dK.html
07-06-2020||India||HCQ trial halted over doubts on benefits||A major trial of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine was halted in the UK on Friday after scientists found it provided “no benefit” for patients hospitalised with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but with several trials still under way, the last word is still awaited on the drug’s effectiveness against the viral ailment, scientists said.The preliminary results of the UK’s Recovery trial were released a day after a flawed study that raised safety concerns about hydroxychloroquine was retracted from the highly cited British medical journal, The Lancet, following scientific scrutiny.Following The Lancet study, the World Health Organization (WHO) suspended the hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine arm of its multi-country Solidarity Trail to validate four experimental Covid-19 treatments, but announced on Wednesday that the trials had been resumed. Researchers from the Recovery trial said they will share their data with the WHO.The Recovery trial is a randomised clinical trial, considered the gold standard for clinical investigation, that used data from 11,000 patients in 175 hospitals in the UK to study the benefits of several experimental treatments against Covid-19. For the malaria drugs study, 1,542 patients were randomly assigned to hydroxychloroquine, and compared with 3,132 patients on standard hospital care.Unlike previous trials that found increased risk of death, the Recovery trial found no significant difference in deaths between the two groups after 28 days. Treating patients with hydroxichloroquine did not shorten a patient’s hospital stay.“If you are admitted to hospital, don’t take hydroxychloroquine. It doesn’t work,” said Martin Landray, professor of medicine and epidemiology at the University of Oxford, and deputy chief investigator of the Recovery trial, which has stopped recruiting patients on hydroxychloroquine treatment with immediate effect.Another unrelated study from researchers in the US and Canada found hydroxychloroquine does not prevent disease when given within four days after high-risk or moderate-risk exposure to Covid-19. It was published in New England Journal of Medicine on June 3.Some 203 Covid-19 trials with hydroxychloroquine are under way, 60 of which were focused on prophylaxis (preventive care), registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, the world’s the largest clinical trials database.“We need to stop discussing hydroxychloroquine and wait for further study results. Unless there is clear evidence, it doesn’t help the public. Clinical trials must be completed, and that takes time,” Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at WHO, told HT.Hydroxychloroquine is a century-old malaria drug that is also approved for treating autoimmune conditions such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. It’s been in the spotlight as a possible treatment for Covid because of early studies in the laboratory that showed it reduces viral load, and for public endorsements from US President Donald Trump.“Small in-vitro studies from China and Italy initially provided proof of concept by showing hydroxychloroquine lowered viral load. Its strong immunomodulatory properties are effective against autoimmune conditions like lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, which gave the legitimacy for its use against Covid-19, which may drive an unregulated immune response or cytokine storm. Since then, large studies like the Veterans’ trial in the US and the Recovery trial in the UK have found no benefits from hospitalised patients. The authors of the Veterans’ trial reanalysed their data after The Lancet debacle and stand by it,” said Dr N K Ganguly, former director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research.As several trials on hydroxycholoroquine are still ongoing, the last word has not been said on the drug’s effectiveness, but there is need for a cautious approach, expert said.“It’s a dynamic situation and should be reviewed periodically before a studied decision is taken at the national level. Till then, all treatment using hydroxychloroquine, whether as a prophylaxis or as treatment, must be done under strict clinical supervision and the highest quality of care,” said Dr Ganguly.India is the world’s biggest producer of hydroxychloroquine, which is approved for use as a prophylaxis and has been given to asymptomatic health workers and contacts of Covid-19 patients since March 23. This was expanded to include frontline workers from May 22.A study from India found that having four or more doses of hydroxychloroquine lowers the odds of getting infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease. The study, published in the Indian Journal of Respiratory Research earlier this week, said the malaria drug lowered the risk of infection by 80% if taken as recommended.“Indiscriminate use, however, will make this drug redundant for malaria, which is endemic in India, so no one should have it without prescription,” said Dr Ganguly.The Recovery trial will continue to study the evidence from other experimental treatments, which include a combination of antivirals drugs lopinavir and ritonavir used to treat HIV; low dose of the steroid dexamethasone used to reduce inflammation; the antibiotic azithromycin; and the anti-inflammatory drug tocilizumab, and convalescent plasma therapy that uses antibodies found in the blood of people who have recovered from Covid-19 to fight the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hcq-trial-halted-over-doubts-on-benefits/story-QQNj7DfdseDBjsMf6rJrKO.html
07-06-2020||India||National rate of recovery rises to 48.2%, says govt||India’s recovery rate for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients has reached 48.20%, with a total of 4,611 positive cases having been cured in the past 24 hours, according to data released on Saturday by the Union health ministry. The recovery rate has nearly doubled from 24.5% on April 29.“Our recovery rate has been moving up steadily. The number of serious cases, requiring ventilator, is also not very high in the country; that itself speaks volumes about how well we are managing the disease,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity.India has 115,942 active Covid-19 cases currently, and all are under active medical supervision.“This is a good sign that people are getting better and our mortality is low. Most positive cases do not require hospitalization, and those needing intensive care is actually a minuscule number,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, senior consultant in the department of internal medicine at Max Healthcare. “Most people in hospitals have moderate disease with good chances of recovery. The need is to take care of our old and vulnerable population with co-morbidities that is at high risk of developing severe illness.”The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has r ramped up the testing capacity for Covid-19. The number of government testing labs has increased to 520, and the number of private labs testing for Covid to 222 across the country from about 100 at the start of March.In the past 24 hours, 137,938 samples were tested for Covid-19, taking the total number of samples tested to 4,524,317 since January 22 when the first test was conducted at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.“We have a target of increasing our (daily) testing capacity to 2 lakh by end of June, and we are well on the path to achieve this. The testing capacity has been ramped up in no time and many more labs have been identified and are in the process of being approved for Covid testing,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, a spokesperson for ICMR.Covid-related health infrastructure has also been strengthened with the availability of 957 dedicated Covid hospitals with 166,460 isolation beds, 21,473 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 72,497 beds with oxygen support.India has 2,362 dedicated Covid-19 health centres with 132,593 isolation beds; 10,903 ICU beds and 45,562 oxygen-supported beds. There are 11,210 quarantine centres and 7,529 Covid care centres with 703,786 beds in the country. So far, the Centre has also provided 12.84 million N95 masks and 10.47 million personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to the states and central institutions.As India eases lockdown restrictions, the health ministry has also released detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for public and semi-public premises where Covid-19 has a higher chance of spreading such as shopping malls, food courts, hotels and restaurants, places of worship and offices.“The new guidelines aim to instil Covid appropriate behaviour to contain the chain of transmission while allowing social and economic activity to resume,” the health ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-rate-of-recovery-rises-to-48-2-says-govt/story-aVnYfFhEeCCfDGr94eQ0KM.html
07-06-2020||India||Psy Ops: In Ladakh standoff with India, China’s PLA replays Doklam tactics||Psychological operations against the adversary is the key ingredient in the Chinese War Zone Concept (WZC) doctrine. Although Psy Ops, as it is called, is an age-old concept since the times of Chanakya and Sun Tzu, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has refined it by influencing the influencers among the adversaries, on and off social media, to lower the morale of enemy troops and the political decision makers.Under this strategy, its version of ground position maps and videos are leaked among the influencers to create political friction within the enemy country and seed doubt in the mind of the adversary on his capability to fight. Exaggerated information about deployed weapons systems against the enemy is circulated through official media even if the theatre weapons are untested or unproven in the field.The basic idea is to overwhelm the enemy into panic so that his capacity to negotiate is weakened.Just like the 73-day Doklam stand-off, the Chinese PLA is up to its old tactics to weaken the Indian resolve in the on-going stand-off at Pangong Tso and Galwan River in Eastern Ladakh. With the battle theatre totally transparent to the engagers through technology, the Chinese misinformation campaign has shrilled the pitch to seed the minds of the public with mistrust towards their government through tailored images and conjured up huge deployments to convey the threat of an imminent conflict.Also Watch | Explained: Trump’s G7 offer to India, how it may help amid China standoff Also Read: ‘India, China engaged to address current situation’: Indian Army on Ladakh standoff talksLike the recent Chinese propaganda over a reconnaissance helicopter drone. Never mind that in a contested airspace, a slow-moving drone can be shot out of the sky in one go.The propaganda about deploying latest motorised cannons and missiles in eastern Ladakh by Chinese too fails to mention that India too has the same systems in its armoury, if not better.The PLA may be a step better in indigenous development of drones but India has already blunted that edge through imports from Israel. The air force of the two countries are evenly matched with both using Russian Sukhoi-30 as their front-line fighters. The Indian Air Force calls it Mark India (MKI) and PLA Air Force, Mark China (MKC). Despite China tom-toming about its two aircraft carriers, the Indian carrier-based naval aviation is miles ahead of anyone in the region barring a select few.Also Read: Ahead of today’s meet over Ladakh standoff, India signals a realistic approachThe other critical aspect of Psy-Ops is first, to create hope of resolution through dialogue and then lead it to disillusionment among the public, which is always looking for instant noodles. It is quite evident that the resolution of the current stand-off in eastern Ladakh will require a series of engagements with small incremental steps each time, if at all. Given the heavy deployment on both sides, each side would look for concessions from the other before the status quo ante is restored.It will also be very difficult for either the diplomats or generals on both sides to reconcile due to historical memories constantly refreshed by Chinese attempts to dominate the 3,488 kilometre long Line of Actual Control (LAC).Also Read: As the LAC heats up, reading China’s playbook, writes Shyam SaranAlthough China marched way ahead of upgrading border infrastructure in comparison to India at the turn of the millennium, New Delhi after initial lag, is fast catching up by building strategic roads right up to patrolling posts in eastern, middle and western sector of the Line of Actual Control.Faced with a daunting Himayalan terrain in comparison to the flat Tibetean plateau, India is surely nullifying the Chinese military advantage. The standoff in eastern Ladakh and the belligerence of the PLA should be understood in this context.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/psy-ops-in-ladakh-standoff-with-india-china-s-pla-replays-doklam-tactics/story-jdayDZNxROU1MOzeZ6Q7wM.html
