08-06-2020||India||Kolkata Police team nab JMB operative, second such arrest in 10 days||The Special Task Force (STF) of the Kolkata Police have arrested yet another man for allegedly being an operative of the banned Bangladeshi terror outfit, Jamaat-ul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), from West Bengal’s Hooghly district.The arrest comes within 10 days of the STF arresting an alleged JMB operative, Abdul Karim, from Murshidabad district.“Sk. Rezaul alias Kiron, a resident of Birbhum district, was wanted in the STF police station case number 01/2018 and has been arrested from Dankuni police station area in Hooghly district. He will be produced before a court,” an STF spokesperson said on Monday.The spokesperson said Rezaul was “a key person of JMB” who is “supposed to have worked in close liaison with Salahuddin Salehin” and served as “a leading fund collector of JMB in India”.Salehin, the helmsman of what is known as ‘old JMB’ or the pro-Al Qaeda faction of JMB, was sentenced to death in Bangladesh but was ‘freed’ during a terror attack on a prison van carrying him and has since been hiding in different parts of India. In 2018, Salehin announced the launch of JMB’s India chapter. He is in the list of “most wanted” declared by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).“Rezaul is said to have coordinated meetings of key personnel in the organisation,” the spokesperson said.Since the 2014 Burdwan blast that opened the lid on a flourishing JMB network in West Bengal, and also some other states like Assam, Jharkhand and Karnataka, more than five dozen suspected JMB operatives have been arrested in West Bengal, according to a senior police officer who is involved in anti-terror operations.The NIA had unearthed several JMB modules in the districts of Burdwan, Birbhum, Nadia and Murshidabad. Karim alias Boro Karim, who was arrested from Murshidabad on May 29, was described by the police as “the main leader of the Dhuliyan module (Murshidabad) and would actively supply logistics and support and shelter top leaders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-police-team-nab-jmb-operative-second-such-arrest-in-10-days/story-6agnwn1kHaU59uBUxbFzKL.html
08-06-2020||India||Kashmiri Pandit sarpanch killed by terrorists in Anantnag, parties condemn attack||Ajay Pandita alias Bharti, a 40-year-old Kashmiri Pandit sarpanch in south Kashmir’s Anantnag, was shot dead by terrorists on Monday evening. Ajay Pandita, sarpanch of Lukbawan village in Larkipora, was attacked at his orchard at around 6 pm, police said.Bharti, who was affiliated with the Congress, was taken to a hospital but did not survive, police said.Locals said the family of the sarpanch had migrated from south Kashmir in early 1990s but returned around two years back. He successfully contested the panchayat polls.The police and army have launched a search operation to track down the terrorists who killed the sarpanch. Today at about 1800hrs some unknown #terrorists fired upon one #Congress Sarpanch identified as Ajay Pandit at #Lokbawan #Anantnag who later on #succumbed to his injuries at hospital. #Police is on the spot. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPoliceAll state political parties have condemned the killing. Later in the evening, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also condoled the gruesome killing of his party’s grassroots worker“My condolences to the family and friends of Ajay Pandita, who sacrificed his life for the democratic process in Kashmir. We stand with you in this time of grief. Violence will never win,” Gandhi tweeted. Congress Sarpanch Ajay Bharti had been pleading for security. Yet BJP Govt denied him security. This when the BJP-RSS miss no opportunity to exploit the Kashmiri Pandit issue. What hypocrites. They are morally responsible for Ajay's death! pic.twitter.com/Vegbjd9DS3Union minister Jitendra Singh said: “It is a desperate attempt by anti-national elements to defeat the process of grassroots democracy, which is sought to be established in Jammu and Kashmir for the first time at the instance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi”.Former chief minister Omar Abdullah also condemned the “terror attack on a grassroots political worker”.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti who is handling her mother’s social media account, tweeted a double-barrelled attack that targeted the government also.“Condolences to the family. Shrinking political space in Kashmir has made party workers all the more vulnerable. They are stuck between punitive actions of a vindictive government & militants on the other end,” she tweeted.Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said Bharti had no security cover and sought a judicial inquiry. The party also demanded a judicial inquiry into the gruesome incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmiri-pandit-sarpanch-killed-by-terrorists-in-anantnag-parties-condemn-attack/story-KaeSpT9BYDYtn0wFHrCSdM.html
08-06-2020||India||Nine, including minor boy killed after being hit by lightning in Odisha||Nine people including a minor boy who had gone out to watch a cricket match were killed after being struck by lightning in different places of Odisha on Monday.Narasingha Majhi of Sunadangari village in Nabarangour district had gone to Miriguda village to watch a cricket match. When he was returning home at around 3 pm, heavy rain accompanied with lightning began. The boy collapsed on the ground after being hit by lightning. When he was rushed to the Papadahandi Community Health Centre, doctors declared him dead.In Dhenkanal, two women were killed by lightning while they were sitting on the balcony.Apart from these incidents, six other people lost their lives due to lightning in the state. The six victims include three from Keonjhar, a farmer from Jagatsinghpur, and others from Kendrapada and Cuttack districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-including-minor-boy-killed-after-being-hit-by-lightning-in-odisha/story-e6DDf3GRp3zPlpwukyf5eJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Kerala reports 91 fresh Covid-19 cases, state’s tally crosses 2000-mark||With 91 fresh Covid-19 cases, Kerala’s coronavirus tally crossed the 2000-mark and the state also reported one more death on Monday taking the death toll to 17, state health minister K K Shailaja said. She warned people not to lower their guard in the name of ‘Unlock 1’ as more people are expected from abroad and other states in the coming days.A 41-year-old man from Thrissur, who came from Maldives two weeks ago, died at the Thrissur Medical College Hospital, said the minister adding out of 2005 cases, 1174 are undergoing treatment in various hospitals. Among 91 fresh cases, 73 have returned from abroad, 15 came from other states and two people contracted the disease from the primary contact. Two health workers are among those infected. “The state is going through a critical phase. We have to keep utmost vigil. Some provisions were eased to reduce hardships of people but some are behaving as if normalcy has returned to the state. We have to discourage such tendencies,” the minister said asking everyone to keep social distance when shrines and malls open in the state on Tuesday. Many prominent mosques and churches have decided to defer opening saying the time is not ripe for it.Earlier many religious heads had written to the government seeking its help to open shrines saying it left a spiritual and emotional vacuum among the devotees. But now many have second thoughts after witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases. Cases went up sharply after the return of expatriates and people stranded in other states. Around 2 lakh people are under observation in the state now, the highest number since the outbreak began in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-91-fresh-covid-19-cases-state-s-tally-crosses-2000-mark/story-4lkMt69KKPgy4u4D0RowGI.html
08-06-2020||India||Bengal extends lockdown restriction in containment zones till June 30||Even as shopping malls, restaurants and places of worship opened across the country on Monday under Unlock 1, the West Bengal government extended lockdown restrictions in containment zones till June 30. The restrictions on the Covid-19 hotspots were to end on June 15.In an order issued on Monday afternoon by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, the government also offered certain relaxations. It said 25 people at a time can attend marriages, funerals and places of worship. The number is now fixed at 10.“Norms of physical distancing and health hygiene protocol must be strictly followed. Any violation in compliance of norms of physical distancing, health hygiene protocol and wearing of masks shall attract penal action as per law,” the order said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The night curfew will remain in force.“It is reiterated that movement of individuals shall remain prohibited between 9 PM to 5 AM, except for essential activities. District administration and local authorities shall issue appropriate orders in this regard and ensure strict compliance,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-extends-lockdown-restriction-in-containment-zones-till-june-30/story-kwJPeQMROBx4DqldkoJlLI.html
08-06-2020||India||49 personnel of National Disaster Response Force test Covid-19 +ve in Odisha||At least 49 personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), who had returned from West Bengal after Cyclone Amphan restoration work, have tested positive for coronavirus in Odisha, said officials. The personnel belonged to the 3rd battalion of the NDRF at Mundali area of Cuttack.NDRF sources said the 49 jawans who tested positive today were part of the 173-member force that had gone to Bengal for Cyclone Amphan relief and restoration work and returned to Odisha on June 3. “On June 3, one of the personnel showed Covid-19 symptoms and tested positive. He was admitted to Ashwini Hospital in Cuttack. Afterwards, the swab of all the jawans of NDRF who had gone to Bengal were tested. The swab results of 49 tested positive,” said an NDRF official in Mundali.All those who tested positive have been quarantined inside the NDRF campus at Mundali.In addition, 376 personnel of the Odisha Fire Services and 271 of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force were also sent to West Bengal for relief and restoration works. The results of their swab samples are yet to be received.NDRF officials said the force has developed a new Standard Operating Procedure for its personnel and victims during floods in the light of pandemic guidelines. Odisha has provided free Covid-19 test for the NDRF personnel deployed for Amphan. The government had supplied 60,000 normal PPE to the NDRF and two sets of customised PPE per person.Meanwhile, two jawans of the military wing of Proof and Experimental Establishment, a unit of DRDO at Chandipur in Balasore district tested positive for Covid-19. The jawans had gone to Kolkata where they were tested during health check-up at Command Hospital, Kolkata. Three others who also visited the hospital have been isolated there.Associate Director of PXE, HS Panda said the PXE has been shut down and the campus, including the office premises, has been sanitised. Its employees have been advised to work from home and stay in isolation. Eight jawans of Integrated Test Range at Chandipur, who had been to the military camp of PXE, are now in quarantine. ITR has been declared a containment zone.The total number of cases in Odisha surged to 2,994 today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/49-jawans-of-national-disaster-response-force-test-covid-19-ve-in-odisha/story-S3htPn5wlm4pTUcGrZT9gO.html
08-06-2020||India||On Sonu Sood’s relief work, defence minister Rajnath Singh’s nudge to Sena||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who has been getting migrant workers home, deserves credit not criticism, underlined defence minister Rajnath Singh, a day after the actor found himself being criticised by a Shiv Sena leader.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, in his Sunday column for Sena mouthpiece Saamna, accused Sood of being a BJP stooge and prospective star campaigner for the party.“Instead of lauding his work, the government has criticised actor Sonu Sood for his efforts to send migrant workers back home. The Maharashtra government should learn from UP and Karnataka on how to contain coronavirus spread,” the defence minister said while addressing a virtual rally of BJP workers, titled Maharashtra Jansamvad.The BJP seems to have restarted the political activities as its leaders have been holding virtual rallies to drive home the party and the government’s message to its workers across the states. Home minister Amit Shah conducted similar rallies for Bihar and Odisha. The actor, among his many other relief acts, had managed to send 177 girls, stuck in Kerala’s Ernakulam, in a special plane to Bhubaneswar in Odisha. Raut alleged that since Sood was not able to find a plane in Kerala, a special plane was flown from Bengaluru to Kochi. Raut asked if it was possible for Sood to pull this off without political, government and administrative backing.The BJP slammed Raut for his comments. “This is an extremely unfortunate comment by Raut. It shows the extent of failure of the Maharashtra government in handling Covid-19. If an actor is helping out migrants using his own money, what is Sena’s problem with this? He is doing their job,” said Maharashtra BJP leader Ram Kadam.Soon after the controversy broke, the actor met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at his residence on Sunday night.“This evening Sonu Sood met up with CM Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray ji along with Minister Aslam Shaikh and me. Better together, stronger together to assist as many people through as many people. Good to have met a good soul to work for the people together,” tweeted Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray, without a hint of resentment with the work that the actor was doing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-sonu-sood-s-relief-work-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-s-nudge-to-sena/story-SvR5sL2Ib4xU7lE3ZnthFO.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Talks with China positive, will continue’: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said India’s military and diplomatic levels talks with China have been positive and will continue.Addressing the BJP’s Maharashtra Jan-Samvad Rally via video link, the minister also said the Narendra Modi-led government will ensure that India’s pride is not affected as far as the situation along Indo-China border is concerned.“The border dispute between India and China has been ongoing for a long time. We want to resolve it as soon as possible,” Singh said.“Talks with China are on at military and diplomatic level. The June 6 talks were very positive and both the countries have agreed to continue talks to resolve the ongoing tussle,” he said.“I want to assure people that leadership of the country is in strong hands and we will not compromise on India’s pride and self-respect,” he said.Singh said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and some opposition leaders had sought the government’s clarification on what is happening at the India-China border.“As the Defence Minister of the country, I want to say that whatever I have to say I will say it inside Parliament, I will not mislead the people,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-with-china-positive-will-continue-rajnath-singh/story-tAjAOrJrBfRMgAK0m98WSJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Goa revises SOPs for arrivals, Covid-19 test no longer mandatory||Goa has decided to amend its SOPs and do away with mandatory testing of anyone entering it following increased movement of people to and from the state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. Sawant, who had a series of meetings throughout the day, said that it was becoming increasingly difficult to test all persons given the increasing numbers which have created a backlog of test reports.“Almost 2,500 test results are pending. We are conducting 1,500 to 2,000 tests per day which will continue, but we have to change the standard operating procedure for arrivals,” Sawant said. “Persons entering the state can opt for 14-days home quarantine and their movements will be monitored through the local representatives so that they do not mingle during the period. People can also opt for a paid quarantine if they do not wish to go home or the third option for those who are coming to the state only for a few days and do not wish to quarantine themselves is to take a swab test by paying Rs 2,000,” Sawant said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Under the revised protocol all persons will be scanned upon entry and will have to walk through thermal scanners that will be set up at airports, railway stations and road check points and if found symptomatic will be compulsorily tested, Sawant said. The Goa government had made testing compulsory for all persons entering the state including those who arrived by air, rail and road. However, with the further relaxation on movement as part of the Unlock 1 guidelines, the resumption of regular train services with several stops within the states has made it logistically impossible to continue with the compulsory testing. The new protocol will come into effect from June 10. The opposition has accused the government of going down a ‘dangerous path’ that could come at a huge cost to lives. “The State government has thrown its hands in the air and is going for herd immunity. Herd immunity can either be achieved by injection (vaccination) or infection. This will come at a huge cost to Goa. The vulnerable people will be very badly affected,” said Vijai Sardesai, leader of the Goa Forward Party. “The major proponents of the herd immunity theory have suffered a lot. Boris Johnson in the UK himself got infected and 42,000 people have died. Bolsonaro in Brazil who dismissed the virus has seen 36,000 deaths. The man who was saying to make America great again has seen more than a lakh deaths in the USA. This is a rightist government that doesn’t care for the people,” Sardesai saidGoa’s Covid-19 tally went up to 330 on Monday with 30 new cases. There are now 263 active cases, most of which are linked to the state’s lone containment zone at Mangor Hill. After a relatively lengthy period with no new cases, Goa began to witness a rise in the number of positive cases no sooner special trains services commenced allowing for interstate travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-revises-sops-for-arrivals-covid-19-test-no-longer-mandatory/story-4GxCt1jpkjwtldzLD6qhmJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Delhi’s coronavirus tally climbs to 29,943 with 1,007 new cases; 17 deaths in last 24 hours||The national capital on Monday reported 1,007 new Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths due to the coronavirus infection, taking Delhi’s total tally over the 29,000-mark to 29,943, according to Delhi Health Department data.With 17 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, the capital’s death toll has now mounted to 874. There are currently, 17,712 active coronavirus positive cases in the city.Sixty-two Covid-19 deaths took place in Delhi from May 30 to June 6, and 27 of these fatalities occurred on June 5.ALSO READ | Delhi govt sets up 24x7 helpdesks in its hospitals to help needy patientsThe highest spike of 1,513 fresh Covid-19 cases was recorded on June 3.At least, 11,357 patients have recovered from the highly infectious disease and been discharged from various hospitals. A total of 358 coronavirus patients were discharged in the last 24 hours.The current doubling rate of the coronavirus infection in the national capital is 14 days, so Delhi is likely to see over 56,000 cases by the end of the next two weeks, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday.ALSO READ| Arvind Kejriwal goes into self-quarantine, may undergo Covid-19 test tomorrow“The expert committee, which was set up by us earlier, has said that the doubling rate is 14-15 days and currently the city has recorded 29,943 cases in total so by the end of two weeks, it is estimated to rise to 56,000,” the minister said.Except for June 1, when Delhi saw a spike of 990 cases, it has been recording over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases every day from May 28 to June 7, the highest being 1,513 on June 3.With 9,983 new coronavirus cases, India’s Covid-19 tally on Monday mounted to 256,611, according to the Union health ministry data. The country also recorded 206 deaths.This is the fifth day in a row that India has reported more than 9,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day. The number of active cases in the country stands at 125,381 and the recovery rate at 48.35% with 124,094 people cured of the respiratory disease, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-coronavirus-tally-climbs-to-29-943-with-1-007-new-cases-17-deaths-in-last-24-hours/story-fNRIVNyzSBm9l47aAqhPIN.html
08-06-2020||India||Lockdown effected downturn to cause spike in child trafficking, SC told||A Supreme Court bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, on Monday issued notice to the central government, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and nine states and asked the petitioner Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi-run non-governmental organisation (NGO), Bachpan Bachao Andolan’s counsel HS Phoolka and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta to work together and come up with solutions to curb the growing child trafficking menace in the country.Earlier, the NGO in its plea said that the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, would lead to a spike in child trafficking cases because of the pandemic-induced economic crisis.The petitioner prayed that the Central government should frame appropriate policy and guidelines at the earliest in a bid to prevent child trafficking cases that are likely to go up among the marginalised sections of the society because of the growing economic crisis triggered by the raging viral outbreak in the country.The plea, filed through advocate Jagjit Singh Chhabra, said: “The economic crisis, increased insecurity, poverty and marginalisation induced by Covid-19 are key drivers for families grasping onto straws of survival for pushing their children into trafficking.”Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Delhi, Maharashtra and Telangana have been made a party to the case, as the petitioner received complaints about child trafficking from these states.The petitioner pointed out that the lockdown has proved to be catastrophic for lakhs of migrant labourers and daily wage workers, who were forced to trek back to their villages, as they were staring at a sudden loss of their livelihood and an uncertain future.“It’s a poignant reality that poverty and hunger awaits them, as they would have migrated (to cities) in the first place due to lack of work in their native villages. Many will be forced into a vicious debt cycle at predatory interest rates because of their dire financial situation, which will prove to be a fertile ground for child traffickers,” the petitioner said.Child labour and sex trafficking are the two primary ways of this heinous crime, the petitioner highlighted. “Children are trafficked first and then placed in labour, either forced or for a sub-minimal wage. However, the most unfortunate ones, particularly young boys and girls, are forced into sexual exploitation,” the plea argued.The NGO contended that it received inputs from multiple sources that traffickers have become active and have started approaching potential victims and families and even started handing out advance payments for their children.“Once lockdown is lifted and normal manufacturing activity resumes, factory owners will look to cover their financial losses by employing cheap labour and the easiest way of doing this is by employing child labour,” the plea stated.CJI Bobde remarked that policing alone would not be a solution and the problem of child trafficking persists because there is a ready market for child labour. He said that contractors, who are engaged in supplying labour, should be kept under strict vigil in a bid to prevent child trafficking and child labour.The apex court also contemplated setting up an expert committee to address the issue raised by the NGO. However, no directions were passed to this effect on Monday and the matter was posted for the next hearing after two weeks.“Policing alone will not do. You’ll have to find some measures to prevent contractors from employing children,” CJI Bobde said.The petitioner claimed that the business of commercial sexual exploitation, which took a downturn due to the lockdown restrictions, would look for innovative ways to be back in business and overcome the losses by engaging younger girls, as they fetch higher returns.“Underage girls will be sold into prostitution and the number of street children pushed into begging will also go up,” the plea warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-effected-downturn-to-cause-spike-in-child-trafficking-sc-told/story-cYh4qgoP9aN2z4Qpyli6YM.html
08-06-2020||India||13 days on, experts from Singapore will try to plug gas blowout in Assam||Three experts from a Singapore firm reached Assam’s Tinsukia district on Monday to try to plug the uncontrolled release of gas, 13 days after a natural gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) had a blowout.The well located at Baghjan close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park continued to release natural gas and oil condensate “uncontrollably” since it first started on May 27.The experts from Alert Disaster Control, who landed in Guwahati on Sunday by a special chartered flight, reached Duliajan on Monday morning where they were briefed by OIL officials about the situation on the ground.“The experts complimented OIL for all the preparatory works carried out so far. They are confident of controlling the well at the earliest,” OIL said in a statement.Nearly 2,000 residents of the area have been shifted to four relief camps in view of the blowout which is described as uncontrolled release of gas or oil from a well when pressure systems fail.According to OIL, safety of the local people in the area and the technical team working at the well site will be of prime concern while carrying out the operation to control the blowout.Last week, a team from the Union petroleum ministry had visited the site to take stock of the situation. In 2005, when a similar blowout took place at an abandoned oil well of OIL at Dikom in Dibrugarh district, it took nearly a month to bring it under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-days-on-experts-from-singapore-will-try-to-plug-gas-blowout-in-assam/story-eX86o4wZWXGr5BHHheCBIN.html
08-06-2020||India||2,553 new Covid-19 cases take Maharashtra’s tally past 88,000||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally went up to 88,528 on Monday after 2,553 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, the government said.Out of the 2,553 cases, 1,311 cases were from Mumbai alone. The new cases have taken Mumbai’s tally to 50,085 on Monday. The Maharashtra capital’s count alone is higher than Telangana, the second worst affected state with more than 31,000 Covid-19 cases.The pandemic also claimed 109 lives in Maharashtra over the last 24 hours to take the death toll to 3,169. Mumbai recorded 64 of the fatalities. The death in Mumbai is now 1,702.On Saturday, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope had said that the government will procure 10,000 vials of the Remdesivir drug to combat the Covid-19 pandemic in the state.Last week, India had approved the use of Remdesivir drug to fight Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-553-new-covid-19-cases-take-maharashtra-s-tally-past-88-000/story-AOTaHeB6k4EBIkCcmijHRI.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Power without responsibility is a character trait’: Rajnath Singh on Congress||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and his party and alleged that “power without responsibility” was nothing new for the Congress. The union minister was referring to the role of the Congress in Maharashtra, where it is part of the coalition that helms the state government. “Rahul Gandhi had said that Congress is not a key decision maker in Maharashtra. What does this mean? Are they washing their hands off their responsibility at this time? This is nothing new, power without responsibility is their character,” Singh said addressing a virtual rally for BJP workers in Maharashtra.The defence minister also criticized the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government over its handling of the Covid-19 health crisis, saying the current situation in the state looks like a circus is going on instead of proper governance. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in the country with the highest number of coronavirus positive cases.ALSO READ | ‘Do gaz ki doori’ cannot become distance between BJP and people: Amit Shah“The Maharashtra government should learn from Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka on how to contain the coronavirus outbreak. Isn’t it fair to say that the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra shows the government’s incapability?” Singh asked. Simultaneously, he also assured all possible assistance to the Maharashtra government to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Hitting out at the Congress more than once, the defence minister said, “Today, Rahul Gandhi and some opposition leaders said the Centre should clarify what is happening at the India-China border. As the Defence Minister of this country, I want to say that whatever I have to say, I will say it inside Parliament, I will not mislead the people on any issue.”Singh also backed actor Sonu Sood for his work for stranded migrant workers amid the pandemic and questioned the state government’s criticism of the actor. Sood had recently come in for criticism by the Shiv Sena which had alleged that he was only a front and the BJP was using him “Instead of lauding his work, the government has criticised actor Sonu Sood for his efforts to send migrant workers back home,” the minister said.ALSO READ | ‘PM Modi’s citizenship law gave respect to refugees in India’: Amit ShahBilled the Maharashtra Jansamvad Rally, the event is one of a series of virtual meetings through video conferencing, that senior BJP leaders have started since Sunday. Home Minister Amit Shah had addressed BJP workers in Bihar through a similar virtual rally yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-without-responsibility-is-a-character-trait-rajnath-singh-on-congress/story-PPe6OWawYHaQ3QD2HuvzUI.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Biggest blow’: RSS body opposes pictorial warning on beedi packs by Centre||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has opposed the union health ministry’s notification for allowing pictorial warning on beedi packages, claiming it will be “the biggest blow” to the industry that employs over 4.5 crore people.The body, which is an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, has asked the ministry to view beedi as separate from other tobacco products and formulate new policies accordingly.In May, the Union ministry of health and family welfare issued a notification specifying new health warnings on tobacco packs that will be enforced from September 1. All tobacco products will have to come with pictorial warning about the ill-effects of using them.Pointing out that there is no nodal agency to address the concerns of those dependent on the beedi industry, the BMS said the Labour Ministry and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) have tried to find alternate livelihoods for beedi workers. The attempts, said the BMS, have not succeeded as a large number of workers employed here are mostly uneducated women from OBC, SC and ST categories and minorities.“…Similarly, the ministry of agriculture has tried to find alternative crops for tobacco and is spending crores of rupees every year to encourage farmers to grow alternative crops. All these attempts have failed. The Tobacco Research Institute could not convince the farmers to grow other crops,” the BMS said in a statement.It blamed the multiplicity of authorities for the lack of comprehensive policy on beedi.“Almost seven ministries are dealing with this subject. Each ministry is thinking differently…Ultimately it is the workforce which becomes the victim of the wrong and lopsided policies of the central government. To formulate a comprehensive policy, the government should form an inter-ministerial committee comprising labour, health, agriculture, commerce, finance, forest, tribal affairs, home affairs, women and child welfare and skill development. This committee should suggest an action plan within a month after tripartite consultations,” the statement said.Taking up cudgels for them, the RSS body underscored that workers in this agro-forest-based industry are predominantly unorganised and uneducated.“Entire rural and small industries in the country are witnessing huge job losses, particularly among rural areas and unorganised sector workers, under crisis due to unprecedented pandemic. In such a situation, this is the most inappropriate time for the government to amend the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003 (COTPA),” the BMS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-blow-rss-body-opposes-pictorial-warning-on-beedi-packs-by-centre/story-KBWmyGss5ls8ws59XSqbbJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand hotels to remain shut, hoteliers say govt guidelines impractical||Hoteliers in Uttrakhand have decided to keep their hotels shut saying the government’s guidelines were impractical for their business. The Uttarakhand government has allowed hotels and homestays in the state to open from Monday with fresh guidelines in Unlock 1.Under the new guidelines issued on Sunday, hotels cannot accept bookings from guests from high-load Covid-19 cities which include Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Jaipur, Noida and others.It has also prohibited the guests from visiting the tourist spots and public places along with a minimum stay of seven days in the hotels. The hotel associations of popular tourist towns like Mussoorie and Nainital have termed the guidelines as impractical and have decided to keep their hotels closed. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Dinesh Shah, president of Nainital Hotel Association under which there are about 120 hotels said, “Though the government has allowed us to resume our operations but has put conditions which if followed will be difficult for our business. Hence, we have decided to keep the hotels closed.”Shah while pointing out the conditions said, “The government has prohibited us from taking bookings of guests from high-load Covid-19 cities among which there are those from which we get our maximum business. Also, people come here to visit the tourist spots from distant places but now why would they come if they won’t be allowed to visit those spots? They are not fools to come here and quarantine themselves for seven days inside the hotel.”“We have already suffered losses during our peak business months of April and May. We will only open when it will be favourable for us,” said Shah adding “The government has also not released the hotels which it has taken as quarantine centres.”RN Mathur, president of Mussoorie hotel association which has about 200 hotels under it, gave similar reasons and said they will also not open their hotels. “Mussoorie is a place where tourists stay in hotels for a maximum one of two days. But the guidelines say that they have to stay for seven days. Why would he stay for such a long period?,” said Mathur. “We will keep our hotels closed for the next 10 days till we take some decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hotels-to-remain-shut-hoteliers-say-govt-guidelines-impractical/story-2HMnDSqnZ9v2fiQHgIiWvI.html
08-06-2020||India||Unlock 1: Bengal’s most popular shrines remain shut to ward off coronavirus||Even as religious places in states across the country welcomed devotees on Monday, some of the most visited shrines in Bengal decided to keep their doors closed on the first day of Unlock 1.At the famous Dakshineswar Kali Temple by the Hooghly River near Kolkata, the gates remained closed. The temple was built in 1855 by Rani Rashmoni who became a living legend by helping poor people and farmers. She appointed Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa; one of India’s most well known saints, as the main priest of the temple. His disciple, Swami Vivekananda, formed the Ramakrishna Mission in 1897. “In a day or two we will start letting in 10 people at a time as prescribed by the state government but managing the crowd that will wait outside the main gates is going to pose a problem. Even on ordinary days, the temple is visited by at least 10,000-15,000 people,” Prasun Hazra, one of the trustees of the temple and descendant of Rani Rashmoni said.“The temple complex is huge. Efforts are on to put in place a health safety mechanism. Initially, we installed a gate where devotees would have to pass through a shower of sanitizing liquid. But the local district administration said it might affect children and infants. Now we have to think of an alternative,” said Hazra.“I used to visit the Dakshineswar Temple at least once a week. This is quite a dilemma but what can one do when there is a pandemic?” said Taranath Chatterjee, a resident of Bally in Howrah district.Beside common people, the temple has been visited over the years by hundreds of eminent personalities, movie stars and politicians. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have both offered prayers at the temple. Incidentally, the famous Kali temple at Kalighat near the south Kolkata residence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee is also closed. Shah offered prayers at the temple in March this year.At the famous Furfura Sharif shrine in Hooghly district, Bengal’s most visited place of pilgrimage for Muslims, the lockdown continued and devotees were not allowed to enter the campus. Furfura Sharif is built around the mausoleum of Pir Abu Bakr Siddiqui. It also has a mosque built in 1375. Furfura Sharif draws millions from across the country during the annual fair dedicated to the Pir and the Urs festival.“We have kept the gates closed because fighting the coronavirus infection is more important right now. True believers can offer their prayers from anywhere. One need not enter the mazar,” Pirzada Jiauddin Siddiqui, one of the custodians of the shrine, told HT. “People offered prayers from outside the gates maintaining safe distance from each other,” he added.Following the decision taken by the Bengal Imams Association last months, prayers at mosques are being offered by a small group of people accompanying the resident imams but no gathering or Jamaat is being held.“I have not visited a mosque in two months. I offer prayers at home along with my family,” said Abdul Rezzak who repairs air-conditioners and lives in Kolkata’s Park Circus area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-bengal-s-most-popular-shrines-remain-shut-to-ward-off-coronavirus/story-T3rRJtEtgRnByMaQhHEbRJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Troop movements halted at India-China standoff points but defences are up deep inside||There hasn’t been any activity at the four standoff points along the Line of Actual Control after Indian and Chinese military commanders held a 7-hour-long ice-breaking meeting over the weekend, people familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times on Monday.India, which was the first to speak about the meeting at the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point some 14,000 feet above sea level, had underlined on Sunday that the two sides had agreed to peacefully resolve the situation. On Monday, the Chinese foreign ministry statement about the discussions over the weekend made the same point.To be sure, the two sides are not anywhere close to a resolution of the standoff at three points in the Galwan valley and the fourth, near Pangong Lake.Saturday’s meeting between Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and a Chinese delegation headed by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, agreed to keep talking at the brigade and battalion commander level.Also Read: India China standoff explained: Bridge over troubled watersThe Indian assessment is that the shortest time frame that one could look at for a resolution is next month, if not later. That would be comparable to the time taken to end the Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days and ended only after conversations at the highest level.ALSO WATCH | India-China tension: What happened at border meeting of top army officersBut the good thing, people familiar with the development told HT, is that there has been very little activity at the standoff sites over the past day or two.The Indian side, however, has taken note of a defensive military buildup by the People’s Liberation Army in places such as Kashgar, the headquarters of the PLA’s Xinjiang military district some 480 km from the standoff points along the LAC.An Indian official said the buildup at the district headquarters had happened over the last few weeks and days, around the time that China had been talking about dialogue to resolve the standoff that started from a May 5 clash between soldiers at one location in eastern Ladakh.According to senior indian officials, India had responded and mobilised its troops also.Also Read: The first move on the India-China chessboard | HT Editorial“Our buildup matches the Chinese deployment, if not more, in terms of troops, support elements, force multipliers and aerial support,” a senior official said.Chinese troops did have an advantage in the initial days of the standoff when its soldiers took the first steps to adopt an aggressive stance at Pangong lake and Galwan valley. But the Indian deployment was beefed up rapidly after additional troops underwent the seven days of acclimatization required to enable them to operate at 16,000 feet height.One official said the Chinese forces had been putting pressure on the Chip Chap river-Karakoram-Trig heights-Galwan-Depsang bulge axis after the Indian Air Force revived the Daulat Beg Oldie airfield by landing an AN-32 transport aircraft in May 2008. After a standoff with Chinese troops in April 2013, the Indian Air Force had landed the Lockheed Martin C-130J Super Hercules four-engine military transport aircraft as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/troop-movements-halt-at-4-ladakh-standoff-points-but-defences-are-up-deep-inside/story-OfoihTqPa6GqMINcgaMLUO.html
08-06-2020||India||Mizoram imposes total lockdown from midnight on Monday to control Covid-19||Guwahati: As the rest of the country further eased restrictions to control the spread of Covid-19 on Monday, the Mizoram government decided to impose a total lockdown in the state for two weeks.The decision was made at a consultative meeting on Covid-19 in state capital Aizawl that was attended by legislators, senior officials, NGOs, church groups, hospital associations, and village council members.“Total lockdown for two weeks starting midnight tonight (Monday). Quarantine period will be for 21 days. Home quarantine option to be limited to only extremely unavoidable cases,” chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted.Other guidelines for the lockdown are being framed, he said.Mizoram has recorded 42 Covid-19 cases till date. The first patient, a 50-year-old pastor, was found recorded on March 24, after he returned to the state from the Netherlands.But with the return of thousands of people to the state after a ban on inter-state travel was lifted on May 4, the number of Covid-19 cases has been on the rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-imposes-total-lockdown-from-midnight-on-monday-to-control-covid-19/story-lSOQSLOpy9AgMrsQUQXWEL.html
08-06-2020||India||‘I live and work in Delhi, am I a Delhiite?’: Chidambaram asks CM Kejriwal||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday sought to know from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as to who qualifies to be a Delhi resident, reacting to the government’s decision to mark hospital beds for its residents. “Mr. Kejriwal says Delhi hospitals are only for Delhiites. Will he please tell us who is a Delhiite? If I live or work in Delhi, am I a Delhiite?,” tweeted the Congress leader. Chidambaram, who also doubles up as lawyer, asked if any legal opinion was taken before making such an announcement. ALSO WATCH | On The Record: Why the government is fighting a hospital during pandemic“I thought if a person had enrolled in Jan Arogya Yojana/Aayushman Bharat, he can seek treatment in any enlisted hospital, public or private, anywhere in India? Did Mr Kejriwal take legal opinion before he made his announcement?,” asked Chidambram. Mr. Kejriwal says Delhi hospitals are only for Delhiites. Will he please tell us who is a Delhiite?If I live or work in Delhi, am I a Delhiite?However, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal has directed authorities that no patient should be denied treatment for not being a resident of Delhi, overruling the AAP government’s earlier order.As complaints escalated on social media on the quality of treatment at Delhi’s hospitals, CM Kejriwal declared on Sunday that all government and private hospitals in the city would only treat Delhi residents while the Central government hospitals will remain open to all. The declaration sits at odds with the stated aim of the AAP government: “AAP ki sarkar (government for you).” For identifying the residents, voter IDs, bank passbooks, ration cards, driving licences, phone and electricity bills in addition to Aadhaar cards carrying a residential address from the city were said to be considered. Earlier today, the Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the current doubling rate of Covid-19 in the city-state is 14 days so the national capital as per that estimation will see over 56,000 cases by the end of next two weeks.Defending his government, he said, “Delhi and Mumbai are big metros which are facing a heavy brunt of the virus. A lot of foreigners come here, and had flights been closed earlier, the infection would not have spread that much. But given the situation now, when for the past several days, over 1000 cases are being reported every day, the situation is that Delhi people would need more space in hospitals.”The minister claimed that cases weren’t much in neighbouring cities.The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital crossed the 28,000-mark with 1,282 fresh infections, while the death toll climbed to 812 on Sunday.Barring June 1, when Delhi saw a spike of 990 cases, it has been recording over 1,000 fresh cases every day from May 28 to June 7, the highest being 1,513 on June 3.The national capital has nearly 29,000 coronavirus cases, country’s third highest after Maharashtra (85,975) and Tamil Nadu (30,152).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-live-and-work-in-delhi-am-i-a-delhiite-chidambaram-asks-cm-kejriwal/story-6Rqqi8uWfO90jOA1OuUEQI.html
08-06-2020||India||Lt Guv overrules Kejriwal order on reserving Covid-19 beds for Delhiites||No patient should be denied treatment for not being a resident of Delhi, directed Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Monday, overruling the AAP government’s decision to reserve beds in government and private hospitals for only Delhi residents.Baijal impressed upon the state government that the Supreme Court has held in several judgments that right to health is an integral part of right to life. “Direct departments and authorities concerned of NCT of Delhi to ensure that treatment is not denied to any patient on the ground of not being a resident of Delhi,” said the L-G in a statement. As complaints escalated on social media of the quality of treatment at Delhi’s hospitals, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal declared on Sunday that all government and private hospitals in the city would only treat Delhi residents while the Central government hospitals will remain open to all. ALSO WATCH | On The Record: Why the government is fighting a hospital during pandemicEarlier today, defending the government’s decision, state health minister Satyendar Jain said, “Delhi and Mumbai are big metros which are facing a heavy brunt of the virus. A lot of foreigners come here, and had flights been closed earlier, the infection would not have spread that much. But given the situation now, when for the past several days, over 1000 cases are being reported every day, the situation is that Delhi people would need more space in hospitals.” The current doubling rate of Covid-19 here is 14 days so the national capital as per that estimation will see over 56,000 cases by the end of next two weeks, said Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain.Jain claimed that cases weren’t much in neighbouring cities.The Congress’ P Chidambaram, who also is a lawyer by training, asked the Delhi CM if legal opinion was sought before making such a decision. Citing his own case, as a person living and working in Delhi, he wanted to know from the CM as to who qualifies to be a Delhi resident. The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital crossed the 28,000-mark with 1,282 fresh infections, while the death toll climbed to 812 on Sunday.Barring June 1, when Delhi saw a spike of 990 cases, it has been recording over 1,000 fresh cases every day from May 28 to June 7, the highest being 1,513 on June 3.The national capital has nearly 29,000 coronavirus cases, country’s third highest after Maharashtra (85,975) and Tamil Nadu (30,152).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-lt-governor-overrules-aap-s-decision-to-reserve-hospitals-for-residents/story-iJgaHfBYDJbxeYpSwgORXM.html
08-06-2020||India||Four militants killed in south Kashmir ‘s Pinjora village||Srinagar: Four militants were killed in a gun battle in south Kashmir ‘s Pinjora village after security forces launched an operation in the area on Monday.This was the second such operation against militants in Shopian district since Sunday. Earlier, police killed five militants at Reban village, around 12 km from the site of Monday’s gun battle.The four militants, believed to be locals affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen, were killed inside a house that was damaged during the clash.Inspector general of police Vijay Kumar confirmed nine terrorists of Hizbul Mujahideen were killed by security forces in the two gun battles in Shopian since Sunday.“Four militants were killed in today’s (Monday’s) encounter, which took place at Pinjora, and the operation ended in the afternoon,” he said. Kumar described both operations as “clean” and said there was no collateral damage.Though police haven’t identified the militants killed in the two operations, local residents said they belonged to Shopian and Pulwama and some of them had recently joined militancy.Director general of police Dilbag Singh said 22 terrorists, including six commanders, had been killed in nine different operations across Jammu and Kashmir in the past fortnight.He told a media briefing the intensity of operations against militants has gone up in the past two weeks.“Among the dead militants were six top commanders, who were involved in attacks and killings of innocent civilians, police and security forces. They all had a long list of crimes. They also killed an SPO, a young girl named Khushboo, in south Kashmir,” he said.He said of the 22 dead militants, 18 were from Pulwama, Kulgam and Shopian districts in south Kashmir. “The killing of 18 terrorist from the area is a big relief for people of that area,” he said.In Jammu region, three terrorists were killed in Rajouri and Poonch while trying to infiltrate into the area. “Another terrorist who infiltrated was killed in Kalakote sector. This shows Pakistan and its agencies are trying to infiltrate terrorists from all sides, from Rajouri, Poonch, Kashmir and the international border,” Singh said.He added an attack involving an improvised explosive device (IED) was foiled while militants were trying to use the bomb on a highway. “Abdul Rehman alias Fauji Bhai, who was affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen and developed this IED, was killed,” he said.Singh said the banned Jaish-e-Mohammed is still trying to make IEDs for attacks.“This year, 88 terrorists have been killed in around 36 operations,” Singh said, adding security forces were “neutralising” terrorists who infiltrated into the region in the hinterland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-militants-killed-in-south-kashmir-s-pinjora-village/story-BYuOsnqJFVLO5NHm5lwarO.html
08-06-2020||India||Assam: Despite relaxation, Kamakhya Temple to remain closed till June 30||Guwahati: All religious places of worship in Assam opened their doors on Monday amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.However, Kamakhya Temple, the oldest and most sacred Hindu shakti peeth located in Guwahati, is still shut.The temple trust authorities have decided to keep it shut in a bid to prevent the spread of the viral outbreak in view of the upcoming Ambubachi Mela, slated to be held between June 22 and 26 this year, as it attracts lakhs of devotees from India and neighbouring countries. The congregation at the Ambubachi Mela would not be held this year, they said. “The shrine was shut on March 20 following the government directives, and it’ll remain off-limits for devotees at least till June 30,” said Kabindra Prasad Sarma, chief priest (junior), Kamakhya Temple.“If the Covid-19 outbreak shows any sign of improvement in Assam, the temple may be opened from July. Else, it’ll continue to remain shut beyond June 30,” he added.Located on Nilachal Hill in Guwahati, Kamakhya Temple is considered the most sacred and oldest of the 51 shakti peeths of Hinduism. It is the centre of the tantrik cult in the country, and on an average, nearly 3,000 devotees visit the temple daily.Ambubachi Mela is the biggest annual religious congregation in the north-east. It is held every year in June, when the revered Goddess Kamakhya is said to have her annual menstrual cycle, and the temple remains closed during those three days.“This year, the mela was to be held from June 22 to June 26. Nearly 25 lakh devotees from across the country and neighbouring Bangladesh and Nepal visited the shrine during Ambubachi Mela last year,” said Sarma.“We’ve decided to keep the temple shut, as the Ambubachi Mela could have led to a massive congregation and a violation of the social distancing norms amid the pandemic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-despite-relaxation-kamakhya-temple-to-remain-closed-till-june-30/story-zdSPlnMvMl0Jo7iXI5ktrM.html
08-06-2020||India||Cadets at Indian Military Academy to sport masks, keep distance at passing out parade||In a first, the Gentleman Cadets (GC) will be wearing masks as a precautionary measure while participating in the ceremonial parade during the upcoming Passing Out Parade (POP) event of the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on June 13, IMA officials said on Monday. The development has come days after the IMA administration had informed that as a precautionary measure for the safety of the GCs and IMA staff, the parents of the cadets would not be allowed to attend the POP at the academy. Lt Col Amit Dagar, public relations officer, IMA said, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, this time the IMA has introduced many changes in the POP as per the Centre’s guidelines. Among that, one is wearing of facemasks by the GCs during the parade. They will also be maintaining more distance than usual from one another during the parade in full adherence to the guidelines.”Lt Col Dagar also informed that there would also be some changes in the Pipping Ceremony following the parade during which the GCs celebrate and get their stars put on their shoulders by their parents as a symbol of becoming an army officer. “This time as their parents and dear ones won’t be able to attend the event; their instructors at the academy along with their wives will be playing the role of their parents and putting the stars on their shoulders. However, they will not be able to celebrate by hugging each other and singing during the Pipping Ceremony due to social distancing,” he said. The IMA official also added, “This time as the parents won’t be able to attend the ceremony, we have requested the media to cover it extensively so that the family members of the GCs could witness their wards passing out as Indian Army officers.”The POP which will be held on June 13, will see a total of 423 GCs passing out from the academy, including 333 from India and 90 from friendly foreign nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cadets-at-indian-military-academy-to-sport-masks-keep-distance-at-passing-out-parade/story-l0viLbpKLwdcSdBjWIzHZL.html
08-06-2020||India||History will record Janta Curfew in golden letters, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the way he has led the country’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic.‘’During the Covid-19 pandemic crisis, the government fought along with 130 crore Indians. This is exactly why India is among those countries which have fared better in the fight against coronavirus. On the behest of PM Narendra Modi, 130 crore people stayed indoors and co-operated with his vision to fight the pandemic,” Shah said at the Odisha Jan Samvad virtual rally.“When the history of epidemics is written, the one on janta curfew will be written in golden letters no matter who writes it. I have never seen that kind of response to a public curfew.”He conceded that migrant workers including those from Odisha did face difficulties when returning home but the government ensured that they eventually reached home.“Migrant workers initially faced problems but the government was more concerned about their safety from Covid-19. PM Modi started running Shramik Special trains from May 1 to take migrants home,” he said.The Centre had come under flak for announcing the lockdown with a four-hour notice and then delaying the evacuation of migrant workers. Shah said the PM regularly kept in touch with chief ministers to discuss the strategy against Covid-19. “He discussed measures for the pandemic with chief ministers five times.”Shah said the Centre pumped in Rs 53,000 crore to crores of Indians to help them tide over the lockdown‘When PM Modi came to power, 7 crore families had no bank accounts. Under the Jan Dhan Yojana, 31 crore bank accounts were opened. During the lockdown, the Modi government sent Rs 53,000 crore to crores of Indians to help them during these times,” Shah said. In the second such virtual rally after the one for Bihar on Sunday, he also said BJP workers have fed more than 11 crore people during the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/history-will-record-janata-curfew-in-golden-letters-says-amit-shah/story-ufmzIj8CWWWN4HXkSNYtBP.html
08-06-2020||India||India-Malaysia ties back on upswing; Kuala Lumpur to buy more rice, sugar||Relations between India and Malaysia are back on the upswing after taking a hit under former premier Mahathir Mohamad, with Kuala Lumpur increasing its purchases of rice and sugar from New Delhi in recent months.India quietly initiated steps to reset the relationship after Mahathir, who irked New Delhi with his repeated criticism of the situation in Kashmir and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), resigned in March, people familiar with developments said on Monday.India’s ambassador to Malaysia, Mridul Kumar, was the first foreign envoy to meet new Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin and foreign minister Hishammuddin Hussein within a week of the formation of the new cabinet in March, and the two sides have worked behind the scenes to put ties back on an even keel.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said India is buying 200,000 tonnes of palm oil for the June-July period from Malaysia, the world’s second-biggest producer and exporter of the commodity after Indonesia.Earlier this year, India, the world’s largest buyer of edible oils, had changed its rules to effectively bar imports of refined palm oil from Malaysia, largely because of the position taken by Mahathir.“This is the largest order for palm oil by India in the past few months,” said one of the people cited above.Indian importers will also benefit from Malaysia’s decision of June 5 to fully exempt palm oil from export duty for the rest of this year as part of efforts to help industries hit by the Covid-19 crisis.“This move will benefit India’s refining industries, which had been hit hard by the imposition of this duty earlier in the year. This duty has been a focus of India’s commerce ministry,” the person said.On the other hand, Malaysia has placed an order with India for 100,000 tonnes of rice for May-June, whereas its total import of rice from India last year was around 85,000 tonnes, the people said.MSM Malaysia Holdings, the country’s leading refined sugar producer, bought around 88,000 metric tonnes of raw sugar from India last year, whereas it procured 130,000 metric tonnes of raw sugar worth $50 million for the January-March quarter this year, the people said.Following the Covid-19 outbreak, the Indian government also approved the supply of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol for Malaysia, the people said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Malaysian counterpart Hishammuddin Hussein also spoke in mid-April about the response to the pandemic and efforts to assist citizens stranded in each other’s country.Malaysia is one of India’s key trading partners in Southeast Asia, and bilateral trade was worth $17.25 billion in 2018-19, up from $14.71 billion in 2017-18However, bilateral ties were hit after Mahathir repeatedly criticised CAA and the situation in Kashmir after the Indian government scrapped the region’s special status last August.Despite push back from India, Mahathir continued his criticism and the diplomatic spat led to India imposing curbs on palm oil imports that hit Malaysia for some time.Last December, Mahathir had said people were “dying” because of CAA, prompting India to dismiss his remarks as factually inaccurate. During the UN General Assembly last September, Mahathir said Kashmir had been “invaded and occupied”. At that time, New Delhi had said he was interfering in India’s internal affairs and such statements went against the spirit of long-standing bilateral ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-malaysia-ties-back-on-upswing-kuala-lumpur-to-buy-more-rice-sugar/story-NqWfiAhMOl0CjVaeakatKL.html
08-06-2020||India||BJP banks on Amit Shah to give impetus to Bengal campaign||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is banking on Union home minister Amit Shah’s virtual rally in West Bengal on Tuesday to galvanise its cadre and give impetus to the main opposition party’s campaign in the eastern state for the assembly polls slated to be held in May next year.Shah’s rally, which will be digitally broadcast via social media platforms, is expected to serve the twin purpose of highlighting the Centre’s “achievements” and flag the “failures” of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s “misrule” amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, said BJP functionaries.“There’s a lot of anger and disappointment among the people in Bengal. People can see the weak response of the state government, whether it was Covid-19 management, or the relief work after the cyclone Amphan. The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) has failed the public, as compared to the Centre’s timely actions,” said Saumitra Khan, a Member of Parliament (MP) representing Bishnupur constituency in Bankura district, and the newly appointed chief of the BJP’s youth wing.ALSO WATCH | ‘What did you do?’: Amit Shah questions opposition on migrant exodus“The rally will give an opportunity for the Union home minister to explain to the public how the BJP will help West Bengal become self-reliant and how it can overcome the problems created by the TMC government,” he added.Shah’s digitised rally aims to reach out to 50 lakh people in the state and also seeks to send out a message that the former BJP chief will continue to play a decisive role in the next year’s assembly polls, seen as one of the final frontiers for the saffron party to conquer.“Shah was instrumental in shaping the BJP’s campaign in the state ahead of the 2019 general elections and the party won 18 seats of the 42 seats. Now, when a new team is in place and the workers are being targeted by the TMC government to the extent that they’ve not even been allowed to carry out relief work during the pandemic, Shah’s involvement will act as a motivator,” said a party functionary.A second functionary said Shah has focused on the eastern states of West Bengal and Odisha, as he sees potential for the BJP’s growth in the region. On Monday, Shah addressed a virtual rally in Odisha.“Even chief minister Mamata Banerjee has focused more on targeting Shah. She realises that targeting Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi is counterproductive, which explains her attacks have been largely against Shah,” said the second functionary.Earlier in March, the state government had refused to give permission for Shah’s rally in support of the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, citing law and order concerns.Banerjee and Shah have been engaged in a war of words over several issues, including the response to the pandemic and the migrant workers’ plight during the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.Banerjee was upset at the Modi government’s decision to send two central teams to Bengal to do a “reality check” on the Covid-19 outbreak and for being kept in the dark about ferrying stranded migrant workers to the state by Shramik Special trains from across the country amid the easing of lockdown restrictions.Kumar Rana, a Bengal-based political commentator, said political parties should focus on handling the crisis of poverty and hunger, which have been exacerbated by the pandemic and cyclone Amphan.“It’s unfortunate that they are focusing on electoral politics instead of dealing with the growing Covid-19 positive cases. Their priority should be to tackle the problems caused by the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-banks-on-amit-shah-to-give-impetus-to-bengal-campaign/story-PjAUVYlpi409Uvi4E2oJJM.html
08-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BJP and people can’t be distanced due to ‘Do gaz ki doori’, says Shah and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Do gaz ki doori’ cannot become distance between BJP and people: Amit ShahPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s “go gaz ki doori (a distance of two yards) mantra to fight against the coronavirus pandemic cannot mean to put a distance between the BJP and its people, underlined home minister Amit Shah at a virtual rally on Monday. Read moreOnce a Covid-19 hotspot, Mumbai’s Dharavi reports no deaths in last weekMumbai’s civic body officials have said that no coronavirus fatalities have been reported from the slum area of Dharavi in the past week and that it could be close to flattening the Covid-19 curve. Read moreEx-school principal and mother found dead at home, neighbours suspected they had Covid-19Sharmistha Dey (56), a former school principal, and her mother, Papiya Dey (79), were found dead at their home in Salt Lake on the eastern outskirts of Kolkata on Sunday morning. They were the only occupants of the two-storey house at BE Block. Read moreRupee settles 3 paise higher at 75.55 against US dollarThe rupee settled on a muted note, up 3 paise, at 75.55 (provisional) against the US dollar on Monday as dollar-buying by banks as well as importers and rebounding crude prices restricted gains of the local unit. Read more‘I wanted revenge’: Wasim Akram recalls incident when Allan Donald bouncer left him with 20 stitchesFormer Pakistan captain Wasim Akram bowled in an era when international cricket was dominated by a good crop of fast bowlers. The 1990s witnessed a steep rise in the quality of fast bowling as almost all the international teams boasted of pacers, who made their presence felt at the highest level. Read moreGujarat Board 10th Result 2020: GSEB SSC result to be declared on June 9Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSEB) on Monday said that the Gujarat Board 10th (SSC) Result will be declared on June 9 at 8 am. Students who have appeared in the SSC examination can check their results online at gseb.org, after it is declared, by using their roll number. Read moreAnurag Kashyap’s girlfriend Shubhra Shetty reviews Choked, gives it 5/5: ‘Definitely lost objectivity now’Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap’s girlfriend Shubhra, who brought the script of his new movie Choked to his attention, has reviewed the film, giving it a five star rating. Shubhra posted her review on the website Letterboxd, a social media directory for film fans. Read moreFrom lockdown 4.0 to vaccine: What India searched for in MayThe Covid-19 pandemic has locked everyone inside their homes. Amid the circumstances, Google has been releasing Search trends that give us a glimpse into the collective interests of people in India. Now, the company has shared insights into what people in the country searched for in the month of May. Read moreAnand Mahindra asked tweeple to share the first thing that came to their mind upon seeing this picture. Responses are interestingAnand Mahindra is known for sharing some of the most interesting and entertaining posts on his Twitter handle. From funny videos to posts showing innovative inventions, the business tycoon uses his tweets to keep his Twitter followers engaged and one of his recent posts is no different. Read moreHappy 45 Birthday Shilpa Shetty: A look at the actor’s stunning wardrobeTo talk of beauty is to talk of Shilpa Shetty! She is not only a stunning model and a kind-hearted, beautiful soul, but her brilliant talent has immortalized her in the hearts people worldwide. Read moreWatch: ‘If Centre would’ve stopped..’: Satyendar Jain on Delhi’s rising Covid tally||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bjp-and-people-can-t-be-distanced-due-to-do-gaz-ki-doori-says-shah-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NEP1mivH5PsQUGKLReQBXM.html
08-06-2020||India||Relaxations in place, Covid-19 lockdown extended till June 30 in West Bengal: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced extending the coronavirus lockdown, which was due to expire on June 15, had been extended till June 30.“The lockdown is being extended in the state till June 30, with all existing relaxations and conditions still in place. Earlier, we had allowed only 10 people at social programmes such as a marriage or a funeral ceremony, now we have increased it to 25,” Mamata Banerjee told reporters after a meeting of the state cabinet, according to news agency PTI.West Bengal had relaxed lockdown curbs from June 1 along with other parts of the country. In an order later issued on Monday afternoon by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, the government said the hard lockdown restrictions would apply to containment zones. Elsewhere, the order raised the number of people who can attend marriages, funerals and enter places of worship from the existing limit of 10 to 25.Mizoram government also announced a similar directive after a consultative meeting was chaired by chief minister Zoramthanga on Monday. The state government has decided to impose a 2-week total lockdown starting June 9 in view of the prevailing coronavirus situation. Consultative meeting chaired by Chief Minister Zoramthanga decides to extend the period of quarantine which currently is 14 days to 21 days with immediate effect: Mizoram Government https://t.co/FwhW4ZTpzg “Lockdown guidelines will be notified shortly,” a statement from Mizoram government noted. The period of Covid-19 quarantine has also been increased from 14 days to 21 days with immediate effect in the state.  We have decided to extend the lockdown till June 30 in West Bengal: Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee pic.twitter.com/LHl8tFxSmuAlso Watch | Mamata Banerjee announces relaxations in WB, offices, shrines to reopen Last week, Manipur government also to extend the lockdown restrictions in the state till June 30. Chief minister N Biren Singh announced the same at a press conference last Sunday describing the extension of lockdown restrictions as a preventive measure that would help save people’s lives from the viral outbreak.Besides this, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Punjab have also batted for restrictions to remain in place and have extended the lockdown till June 30 with some relaxations. Maharashtra government rolled out guidelines on lockdown relaxations that are to be implemented in three phases under its mission ‘Mission Begin Again’.Tamil Nadu government also announced the extension of lockdown till June 30 coupled with a number of relaxations, barring containment zones. Ban on places of worship and interstate transport will remain prohibited across the state. Coronavirus cases across the country continue to rise unabated with the national tally soaring beyond 256,000. India now stands fifth on the global Covid-19 tally after countries like the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decided-to-extend-the-lockdown-till-june-30-in-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-sP0OgKjNy43TLn6gNiTyAJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Boiler pipe bursts at dyeing factory in Gujarat’s Surat, 6 suffer burn injuries||Six workers suffered burn injuries on Monday after a pipe attached to a boiler burst open and released hot water at a fabric dyeing factory in Palsana in Gujarat’s Surat, officials said.The condition of three of them is serious and they have been kept in the ICU, said an official.“Early Monday morning, we admitted six workers who suffered burn injuries due to a blast in a pipe joined to a boiler. Three of them are serious and have been admitted in the ICU,” Mukesh Rana, medical officer of Sanjeevani Hospital said.Prem Sharma, the manager of Viveklene Industries, where the accident took place, said the workers were sleeping near the pipe and got scalded by hot water when it burst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boiler-pipe-bursts-at-dyeing-factory-in-gujarat-s-surat-6-suffer-burn-injuries/story-DrBPwW3CuCdwzbOh785BdL.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Do gaz ki doori’ cannot become distance between BJP and people: Amit Shah||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “go gaz ki doori (a distance of two yards) mantra to fight against the coronavirus pandemic cannot mean to put a distance between the BJP and its people, underlined home minister Amit Shah at a virtual rally on Monday. The minister has been conducting a series of virtual rallies to drive home the message of the government.“Do gaz ki doori’ cannot put a distance between BJP and its people,” said Amit Shah at Odisha Jansamvad virtual rally.On Sunday he conducted ‘Bihar Jansamvad’, underscoring it is not a poll rally and adding that this virtual rally for the people of Bihar was to bring the country together in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.The BJP seems to be the first party off the blocks, giving a push to political activities with these rallies. The Congress, on its part, has been conducting various press conferences to seek answers from the government and suggest measures to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Rahul Gandhi, in particular, has been holding online conversations with experts to find a way out of the grave health crisis that has severely hit both the economy and the people. Just last week, the BJP appointed its new state unit chiefs in Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Manipur, signalling a restart to political activity.After four phases of nationwide lockdown, it has now been ordered in containment zones till June 30. The Centre, with an “economic focus” in mind, has decided to open up gradually in a three-phase plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-gaz-ki-doori-cannot-become-distance-between-bjp-and-people-amit-shah-on-virtual-rallies/story-v7KlYkgPHdbkY0Xs64gsQJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Delhi HC seeks police response on Tharoor’s plea to keep wife’s Twitter account, tweets||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought the Delhi Police’s response on a plea filed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor seeking direction to it to take measures to preserve the Twitter account and tweets made by his wife socialite Sunanda Pushkar before her sudden death in 2014.Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri, who was hearing the petition, issued a notice to the Delhi Police on Tharoor’s application.The plea sought a direction to the investigating officer (IO) in the case to write a letter to social media micro-blogging platform ‘Twitter’ to secure and preserve the inactive Twitter account of Sunanda Pushkar, as her tweets are crucial for the criminal trial.ALSO READ | ‘Never been an opportunist’: Tharoor tweets to end speculation he may join BJPTharoor, is the prime accused in the death case of his wife, and has sought direction to the Delhi police to take steps to preserve the social media account and tweets by asking ‘Twitter India’ to preserve Pushkar’s account till the legal proceedings are over before the trial court.The court, which held the hearing through a video conference, has listed the matter for further hearing on July 15.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa and lawyer Gaurav Gupta represented the Congress MP and argued that perusal of Pushkar’s tweets would reflect her actual frame of mind which is contrary to the case built by the prosecution.The lawyers said that she never had any suicidal tendencies which were reflected in the series of tweets withheld by the Delhi Police from the trial court.Tharoor, in his application, has said the tweets and Twitter timeline of Pushkar are of vital importance in the case and there is an apprehension that they might be deleted, denying him a crucial right to exonerate himself from the alleged charges brought against him by the prosecution.ALSO READ | Sunanda Pushkar’s body had 15 blunt force injuries, scuffle marks: PoliceThe former Union minister was accused by the Delhi Police under Sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.The plea also referred to Twitter’s policies as per which it can delete the accounts of users who have been inactive for a prolonged period of time.“Further, in certain cases, if some authorized person or close relative of a deceased person contacts Twitter, the account of such a deceased person can be deactivated. In such cases of deletion of account or deactivation of account, the tweets and contents of the Twitter timeline are lost forever,” the plea said.The Delhi Police had earlier told the court that Pushkar was suffering from mental agony due to a strained relationship with her husband. She had allegedly had a scuffle with her husband and had various injury marks a few days before her death, it had said. The maximum punishment for the offence listed in the chargesheet is 10 years of imprisonment. However, if convicted for 302 (murder), the maximum punishment is death penalty while the minimum is life imprisonment.Pushkar, 51, was found dead in a suite of luxury hotel Leela Palace in Delhi’s Chanakyapuri on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying at the hotel at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-seeks-police-response-on-tharoor-s-plea-to-keep-wife-s-twitter-account-tweets/story-AqBssARCWJ7PfUeNlwv2zJ.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Delhi’s status on Covid-19 community spread to be discussed tomorrow’: Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the administration will hold a meeting on Tuesday to discuss if Delhi has reached the state of community transmission of Covid-19.The minister took to Twitter and said that in view of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s ill-health, he will be presiding over the meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority tomorrow.  Also read: Once a Covid-19 hotspot, Mumbai’s Dharavi reports no deaths in last weekकल दिल्ली आपदा प्रबंधन अथोरिटी की बैठक अपने निर्धारित शेडयूल के अनुसार होगी. मुख्यमंत्री की तबियत ठीक न होने के कारण उन्होंने मुझे इस बैठक के लिए अधिकृत किया है. कल की बैठक में चर्चा होनी है कि क्या दिल्ली में कोरोना community spread की स्थिति में पहुँच गया है ...“The chief minister has authorized me for this meeting as he is not feeling well. It is to be discussed in tomorrow’s meeting whether Corona has reached the status of community spread in Delhi,” Sisodia posted.WATCH | Covid: Delhi in community infection stage? Top committee to decideSisodia said that the number of coronavirus cases are increasing by the day and that is why the meeting is being called tomorrow. The minister said that the most important feature of the meeting will be the discussion on the status of coronavirus transmission in Delhi. “Tomorrow’s meeting will see the presence of experts wherein it will be determined if Delhi has reached the state of community spread concerning Covid-19 and what would be the strategy ahead,” he said. This comes on a day when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was reported ill with fever and cough. Kejriwal is set to take a test for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “He had consulted a doctor over the phone and plans to get himself tested tomorrow if symptoms don’t subside,” a party spokesperson said on Monday. The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital jumped to 28,936 on Monday. As per the data by the Ministry of Health, Delhi had witnessed 812 fatalities whereas 10,999 patients have recovered from the deadly infection here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-discuss-if-delhi-is-witnessing-community-spread-of-covid-19-in-meeting-tomorrow-manish-sisodia/story-YLTK5P7YnLPtmBIlBAT8EM.html
08-06-2020||India||Congress tells PM Modi to double days of employment under MNREGA to 200||The Congress on Monday asked the Centre to scale up MNREGA and expand the number of days of work under the scheme to 200 from the current guaranteed 100 days of employment for rural workers for the next six months to a year to offset the devastating economic effect of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Please consider expanding employment under MNREGA to 200 days. The Bihar government has also demanded such a thing. Those employed may be paid in advance for 10 days which can then be adjusted with the payment for the rest of the days,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said at a video press conference. “We demand MNREGA in its content, reach, boundaries be scaled up as it has proved to be the closest glove that fits the hand of Covid distress. PM should forget his words have come back to haunt him, that Covid marks clear negation of whatever the PM and the BJP said about MNREGA,” He also suggested that employment be provided to people within four to five kilometers of their houses.Singhvi also asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to take the remarks in an adversarial spirit“Please consider how much good you can do to the nation through this scheme. Don’t take our remarks in an adversarial spirit. In May 2020, 2.19 crore households benefited from this scheme, the highest for May in eight years,” he said.The Congress spokesperson also said that there is a need to ensure that states that are grossly lagging need to push MNREGA and cited examples of Haryana and Gujarat.He warned that the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic will last many months and alleged that numbers of employment under MNREGA are fudged.“Innovation of MGNREGA was that the statutory right to get work on demand was created i.e. work for up to 100 days couldn’t be denied upon demand. Sadly people are fudging figures. 50-75 days is being passed off as 100. This is deplorable, the government should punish all culprits,” he said.Singhvi claimed that it was the Congress’ pressure under which the government increased the allocation for MNREGA but pointed out that Rs 16,000 crore out of an allocation of Rs one lakh was arrears for unpaid wages and that the actual increase in allocation was Rs 24,000 crore.“It is because of the Congress’ sustained pressure that compelled this Government to increase the allocation by Rs 40,000 crores but Rs 16,000 crore out of Rs 1 lakh total allocation is arrears for unpaid dues,” he said.He also suggested freeing MNREGA from budgetary limits and ensure that gram panchayats are given primacy in implementing the employment scheme at the ground level“At least, for the duration and aftermath of the Covid distress, it is imperative to free MGNREGA from the fetters of budgetary limits. It is important that gram panchayats are given privacy in selecting, implementing, segregating at the ground level,” Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-tells-pm-modi-to-double-days-of-employment-under-mnrega-to-200/story-TXDvIMx7Jon9gbYXjZGUwJ.html
08-06-2020||India||New planes to fly PM Modi, President to have self-protection suites||Two custom-made B777 aircraft, which will be used to fly Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top Indian dignitaries, are likely to be delivered by Boeing to Air India by September, senior officials said on Monday.In October last year, government officials had said that the delivery of these two planes, which are earmarked for VVIP travel only, would be done by July.“There has been some delay, primarily because of Covid-19. The two planes are likely to be delivered by September,” the officials said on Monday.The two B777 aircraft will be operated by pilots of the Indian Air Force and not of Air India.However, the new wide-body planes will be maintained by the Air India Engineering Services Limited (AIESL), which is a subsidiary of the Indian national carrier, the officials said.Currently, the Prime Minister, the president and the vice president fly on Air India’s B747 planes, which have the call sign ‘Air India One’.Air India pilots fly these B747 aircraft for the dignitaries and the AIESL maintains them.When these B747 aircraft are not flying the dignitaries, they are used by the Indian national carrier for commercial operations. The new planes will be used for travel of the dignitaries only. These two aircraft were part of Air India’s commercial fleet for a few months in 2018 before they were sent back to Boeing for retrofitting them for VVIP travel.The B777 planes will have state-of-the-art missile defence systems called Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS).In February, the US agreed to sell the two defence systems to India at a cost of USD 190 million.The Centre has already initiated the process of divestment of its stake in Air India, which has a debt of over Rs 60,000 crore. However, the process has been postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.“We would not like to make any comment on these issues pertaining to the (aviation) ministry and the government of India,” an Air India spokesperson said in response to queries sent by PTI.Boeing has not responded to queries on this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-planes-to-fly-pm-modi-president-to-have-self-protection-suites-report/story-lkphkMXi7TVNs5LktSJeBJ.html
08-06-2020||India||SC seeks response from Centre, J&K in plea on detention of J&K leader Saifuddin Soz||The Supreme Court on Monday sought responses from the Central government and the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir to a petition challenging the detention of Congress leader and former union minister Saifuddin Soz.The habeas corpus petition filed by Soz’s wife, Mumtazunnisa Soz, was heard by a bench of justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee, which declined a request by Soz’s counsel, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, for an early hearing of the case. The bench posted the matter to be taken up in the second week of July.The term habeas corpus literally translates as “produce the body”, and is a plea seeking a directive to the government to produce a detainee in court and to release her or him if the detention is found to be illegal.Soz, an octogenarian, is a former member of Parliament who represented Baramulla constituency in 1983. Since then, he has been re-elected to Parliament numerous times and served as Union minister for environment and forests during 1997-99, and as Union minister for water resources during 2006-2009. He has also been president of the Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress committee.Soz has been detained since August 5, 2019, when the Central government nullified Article 370 of the Constitution that conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the state into two union territories. Numerous mainstream and separatist leaders were detained and the Kashmir Valley was placed in a state of lockdown.Similar petitions were filed in the Supreme Court in February, challenging the detention of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, both former chief ministers.While Mufti’s detention was challenged by her daughter Iltija Mufti, Abdullah’s detention was challenged by his sister Sara Abdullah Pilot.The plea by Mumtazusinna said Soz had emerged from his house on August 5 last year with the intention to visit an ailing neighbour. The guards of his property informed him that he could not go out as he had been placed under house arrest.“The guards further informed him that in the intervening night, the concerned Station House Officer had visited the premises and had passed on the instructions for keeping the detenu (Soz) under house arrest, purportedly under the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, 1978,” the petition said.It was alleged Soz had not been provided a copy of his detention order. He asked authorities and the guards at his residence to provide the order but to no avail.“The Jammu and Kashmir Police, refusing the request, intimated the detenu that written orders have been received by the concerned officers for implementation of the order, but a copy cannot be provided to the detenu,” the petition said.It said the non-supply of material which is the basis of detention makes the order unconstitutional and liable to be quashed.“Since August 5, the detenu has been wrongfully detained and kept in house arrest for an indefinite period, grounds of which have neither been communicated to him, nor has a copy of the impugned detention order been furnished to him despite several requests over the course of ten months, which is in violation of the exercise of his fundamental rights,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-response-from-centre-j-k-in-plea-on-detention-of-j-k-leader-saifuddin-soz/story-LBYCm0m2SHNtM5DagmGQ7L.html
08-06-2020||India||Once a Covid-19 hotspot, Mumbai’s Dharavi reports no deaths in last week||Mumbai’s civic body officials have said that no coronavirus fatalities have been reported from the slum area of Dharavi in the past week and that it could be close to flattening the Covid-19 curve.Nearly 1,900 coronavirus cases have been reported from Dharavi so far of which 939 have recovered, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said on Sunday.“Dharavi has not reported a single death in the last six days, which is the first major indicator that we are on the right track. The number of people getting discharged is also increasing,” BMC Assistant Municipal Commissioner of G North Ward, Kiran Dighavkar said. Also read: Traffic snarls reported across the city as offices in MMR open partially“A total of 34 people had tested positive for coronavirus on June 1 which has now come down to 10,” Dighavkar said.The official said that aggressive testing and the setting up of fever clinics helped in tackling the Covid-19 challenge in the area which is among the most densely populated in the country.“With the help of fever clinics, we could identify the people showing symptoms similar to that of coronavirus infection. We isolated them immediately which helped in either containing further transmission of the virus or spreading any kind of infection from those who are feeling unwell,” he said.Also read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases outnumber China’s, Mumbai has over 48,000 patientsMumbai is one of the top Covid-19 hotspots in the country. The city has reported over 48,000 Covid-19 cases till date while over 1,600 people have succumbed to death. Maharashtra continues to lead the Covid-19 tally in the country with 85,975 coronavirus cases - more than China’s total. More than 3,000 people died in the state till date. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-a-covid-19-hotspot-mumbai-s-dharavi-reports-no-deaths-in-last-week/story-G0QGuXIJvesO157IAYZdPI.html
08-06-2020||India||Only poor and middle-class will continue to pay, Chidambaram’s take on fuel price hike||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday criticised the government after it increased the prices of automobile fuels twice in two days.State-run oil companies raised the prices of petrol and diesel by 60 paise per litre for the second consecutive day on Monday. They had hiked fuel prices by the same amount on Sunday as well.“Fuel selling prices raised twice in two days, following tax hikes two weeks ago. This time to benefit oil companies,” Chidambaram tweeted.“Government is poor, it needs more taxes. Oil companies are poor, they need better prices. Only the poor and middle class are not poor, so they will pay,” the former Union finance minister said.Monday’s hike came after oil marketing companies resumed the dynamic pricing system for daily revision of fuel prices after a gap of more than 80 days.Prices of transportation fuel were last revised under the dynamic pricing policy on March 16 and there were few instances of price hike only when the respective state governments hiked value-added tax (VAT) or cess.Several state governments had raised taxes imposed on transportation fuels to increase revenues during the nationwide lockdown.The Centre had raised the excise duty on petrol by Rs 10 and on diesel by Rs 13 per litre on May 6 to recompense for revenue loss due to Covid-19 lockdown but it did not affect the retail sale price of the fuels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-poor-and-middle-class-will-continue-to-pay-chidambaram-s-take-on-fuel-price-hike/story-548sArgSiWyqJNH96PnkLP.html
08-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh police detains two policemen for alleged involvement in supplying ammunition to Maoists||Chhattisgarh police detained an assistant sub-inspector and a head constable in Sukma district on Monday for alleged involvement in supplying ammunition to Maoist rebels in Bastar region. Senior police officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they were looking into the possible involvement of some more policemen in the matter as part of an ongoing investigation.People familiar with developments said the two detained policemen were allegedly involved in supplying ammunition to the rebels with the help of middlemen. “They were doing some forgery in the record-keeping of the stock of cartridges and then supplying them to the Maoists,” said a senior police officer.Director general of police DM Awasthi confirmed that two people had been detained.“We were following this gang for a long time and some more people are on the scanner. Interrogation of the two policemen is going on in Sukma district,” Awasthi said.Police in Sukma had earlier arrested four people who were involved in this racket and more arrests will follow, he said.On June 4, two people were arrested in Sukma, and two more were arrested in Kanker on Sunday. Police recovered ammunition for SLRs, INSAS rifles, AK-47 assault rifles and 303 rifles from them. “We were following the gang for the last 45 days. We got information on June 4 that two middlemen - Manoj Sharma and Shankar – had been arrested and told us that two persons from Kanker district, Atmaram Nerti and Genesh Kunjam, were supplying the ammunition. We arrested them in Kanker on Sunday,” said a police officer from Sukma who declined to be named.The people cited above said the alleged middlemen had supplied ammunition, police uniforms and caps to the Maoists in the past too.“The secretary of the Pratapur Area Committee of CPI-Maoist group in Kanker district, Darshan Padda, was directly in contact with Nerti and Kunjam and they used middlemen to send the ammunition to the Maoists in the jungles. The price for one bullet was Rs300 to Rs500 and they would get a commission on each consignment ,” said an official.When police accessed the call records of the mobile phones Nerti and Kunja, they uncovered their alleged links with the assistant sub-inspector and the constable and began questioning them on Monday, the official said.“We are working on this nexus and we are expecting something big will come out. We working on many angles,” said Sukma’s superintendent of police Shalabh Sinha.In Bastar, police are lenient in maintaining records of bullets used by police personnel because it is very difficult to bring back spent cartridges from jungles after gun battles.“During the anti-Naxal drive, the police personnel are not told to bring back cartridges after firing and this sometimes helps them to hide some bullets. Earlier also, there were complaints that policemen were supplying bullets due to which we had made the rules strict. Now, after every anti-Naxal operation, each and every policeman is thoroughly checked after they reach their camps. But this is a different case, the person involved was the stockkeeper of cartridges,” said an IPS officer posted in a Maoist-affected district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-detains-two-policemen-for-alleged-involvement-in-supplying-ammunition-to-maoists/story-pWLuqtzcymAq69cixcYDvL.html
08-06-2020||India||Once a coronavirus hotspot, Covid-19 recovery rate in Indore now at healthy 64%||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that the Covid-19 recovery rate has climbed to an encouraging 64% in Indore, which was earlier identified as a coronavirus hotspot with a high concentration of positive cases.“The recovery rate in Indore is over 64% now. Positive cases are being reported but more and more people are recovering. With the cooperation of the people, the situation in Indore is now under control,” Chouhan said on Monday.The Madhya Pradesh chief minister was reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the city and also held a meeting at the Indore District Collector’s office on Monday.On reaching Indore, the MP chief minister underwent a thorough health checkup at the airport. ALSO READ | Nearly half of Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 cases in IndoreMadhya Pradesh has so far reported a total of 9,401 Covid-19 positive cases while the total number of active cases in the state stands at 2,658.The Madhya Pradesh government on Sunday had announced that shrines in Bhopal and Indore, two major Covid-19 hotspots in the state, will not open their doors for devotees today.The famous Mahakal Temple, however, and four other shrines in Ujjain city, another Covid-19 hotspot in the state, will see entry of devotees on Monday in a staggered manner, after closure of these shrines for more than two months now, according to the district administration.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had on June 1 announced opening of the shrines across the state from June 8. However, he had made it clear earlier, that the decisions on commercial activities and other establishments will be taken by district crisis management groups in every district after reviewing the Covid-19 situation over there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-a-coronavirus-hotspot-covid-19-recovery-rate-in-indore-now-at-healthy-64/story-aBSED72uA4xZKlQLoOgc6L.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Inhuman, not acceptable’: Chhattisgarh CM reacts to viral clip showing police official thrashing people||Videos showing a police officer thrashing people for reportedly violating containment zone guidelines in Birgaon area of Raipur, Chhattisgarh has gone viral on social media. Senior officials have ordered an enquiry and sent the officer on leave. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel took note of the incident and described it as “inhuman”.In one of the purported clips, Urla Station House Officer (SHO) Nitin Upadhyay is seen without his uniform, thrashing people with a stick. The video, which was shot by the locals, was widely shared on social media by journalists and activists of the state.Chief minister Baghel tweeted on the incident and wrote, “This is inhuman and not acceptable. Departmental enquiry has been constituted and he (the SHO) has been sent on leave.” Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Arif Sheikh said that he has initiated a departmental enquiry into the incident. Also read: 80-year-old MP man found tied to hospital bed over alleged non-payment of billThis is inhuman and not acceptable.Departmental enquiry has been constituted and he has been sent on leave. https://t.co/jLXxxCkApu“A departmental enquiry has been ordered against the concerned officer. Besides, a separate enquiry into the incident headed by Raipur Additional Superintendent of Police (Rural) has also been ordered,” the SSP told media.The senior police official said that a suspected Covid-19 patient died in Birgaon area on Sunday, which is already a containment zone, after which six to seven fresh coronavirus cases were reported from the area.“In view of the death, the officials had requested people in the area to stay indoors. Despite repeated requests, when people did not adhere to the containment guidelines, the officer went there to disperse the crowd and stop the movement,” he added.“Excesses committed by him are not acceptable and suitable action will be taken in this regard after the probe,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inhuman-not-acceptable-chhattisgarh-cm-reacts-to-viral-clip-showing-police-official-thrashing-people-in-raipur/story-0thuAaHvjZMbyBP9sXYmQO.html
08-06-2020||India||BJP drops names given by Karnataka CM for Rajya Sabha polls, stuns state unit||Placing its bets on two relatively unknown Karnataka leaders - Eranna Bhimappa Kadadi and Ashok Jasti - as its candidates for the upcoming Rajya Sabha election on June 19, the BJP central leadership has pulled a surprise, both on the opposition and within its party.After hectic lobbying, the state unit, which had met under the leadership of CM BS Yediyurappa and Karnataka BJP unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, had recommended the names of Ramesh Katti, Prakash Shetty and Prabhakar Kore. None of the names were considered by the party high command.Even Karnataka BJP spokesperson S Prakash admitted to being surprised at the names chosen by the central leadership, but defended the move as ‘rewarding grassroot workers.’“Yes, it is a surprise but both of them are grassroot workers and it only goes to show that the BJP is the only party that identifies and rewards those who have worked at the ground level,” S Prakash told HT.Also Watch | Gujarat Congress shifts 19 MLAs to Rajasthan resort ahead of Rajya Sabha polls Eranna Kadadi is a former president of the Belgaum rural unit of the party, while Ashok Jasti is a party leader who hails from Raichur district. “Ashok Jasti belongs to Savitha Samaja and thus a ticket to him is recognition to the backward classes in the state,” Prakash added.However, a senior cabinet minister in the Yediyurappa ministry, who did not wish to be identified, sounded shocked at the choice of candidates.“I honestly don’t know the reason why the recommendations of the local unit were not considered. I myself barely remember Eranna though the other (candidate) I have never met in spite of having been in the party for this long,” the party leader told HT.The Congress on Friday nominated former Union minister and senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge, also a prominent Dalit face of the party, as its candidate for the June 19 polls.Kharge, a former leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha, had lost the 2019 general election from his Gulbarga parliamentary seat.Adding to the mix, former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Deve Gowda has decided to throw his hat in the ring and contest the polls, the party announced on Monday.The announcement comes as a surprise as in January Gowda had said that he is not interested in going to the Rajya Sabha. The JD(S) leader had said that he will “work towards strengthening the party”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-drops-names-given-by-karnataka-cm-for-rajya-sabha-polls-stuns-state-unit/story-gs2MpSLH1E7f8KWemkzMJK.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Differences should not become disputes’: China says consensus at military talks on border standoff||China on Monday said the militaries of the two countries had reached a consensus during the weekend talks not to allow differences to escalate into disputes.In brief comments on the meeting between senior military officers on Saturday to resolve the standoff in Ladakh, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday that the two sides had agreed to implement the consensus reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping not to allow differences to become disputes.Modi and Xi have reiterated several times including during their second informal summit in Chennai last October that New Delhi and Beijing should not allow differences to escalate into disputes; differences can be managed, they reiterated.Also Watch | India-China tension: What happened at border meeting of top army officers Also read: Chinese army carries out large-scale drill to check preparedness at border with IndiaIn the first meeting of senior military officers since Indian and Chinese border troops got locked in a standoff along the LAC in Ladakh, a delegation led Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, held talks with a Chinese delegation led by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC on Saturday.“On the afternoon of June 6, a meeting was held between the commanders of China and India in the Chusul-Moldo region. The two sides held consultations,” foreign ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying said at regular ministry briefing on Monday.“Recently through diplomatic and military channels, the two sides have maintained close communication on the situation along the border,” she said.“One consensus (of the talks) is that the two sides need to implement the two leaders’ consensus and make sure that the differences do not escalate into disputes. And, the two sides will work to maintain peace and tranquility along the border and create a good atmosphere,” she said.“So, the situation overall is stable and controllable and the two sides are ready to engage in consultation to properly solve the relevant issues,” Hua added.Also read: India, China will continue talks on border stand-offThe Chinese foreign ministry’s statement echoed the Indian one – at least in tone if not in length -- issued by the external affairs ministry on Sunday.“The two sides will continue the military and diplomatic engagements to resolve the situation and to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” the Indian statement said.That Hua said that the “two sides are ready to engage in consultation…” is seen as an indicator that more dialogue was needed to resolve the current friction.On Friday, joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry had held talks with Wu Jianghao, director general in China’s foreign ministry, through video conference to review bilateral relations, including “current developments”.This was the first formal diplomatic meeting between the two sides since tensions flared along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-says-differences-with-india-to-not-escalate-into-disputes-will-maintain-peace/story-LlcXqNDfztkbiMu2cCAgsN.html
08-06-2020||India||Yes Bank case: ED raids five premises of Cox and Kings in Mumbai||Mumbai: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday raided at least five premises linked to global tour and travel company Cox and Kings in Mumbai in connection with the Yes Bank money laundering probe.Cox and Kings is one of the top borrowers of the bank, with an exposure of about Rs 2,267 crore. It is the second borrower to be searched by the agency after DHFL.A senior ED officer confirmed the development and said searches being underway. The agency had summoned Peter Kerkar, promoter of Cox and Kings, in March.ED, in a recently filed charge-sheet, had quoted former Yes Bank CEO Ravneet Gill as saying that he analysed the asset portfolio of the bank and found it had assumed very large exposures (relative to its net worth) to many entities that were facing significant stress and liquidity.It also said that for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, the bank disclosed a credit watch list with names of clients vulnerable to short-term slippages. The notable cases where large non-performing assets arose included ADAG group, Dewan Housing Finance, Essel Group, Cox and Kings, Omkar Group, Radius Developer, Sahana Developers and Avanta group.The agency recently filed a charge-sheet in connection with the Yes Bank fraud against the bank’s former chief operating officer and managing director, Rana Kapoor, his Bindu, and daughters Rakhee, Roshni and Radha in a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Mumbai.ED officials said the charge-sheet also named entities allegedly associated with them – Morgan Credits, RAB Enterprises (India) Private Limited and Yes Capital India Private Limited.The agency, which probes financial crimes, conducted searches under provisions of PMLA last Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-case-ed-raids-five-premises-of-cox-and-kings-in-mumbai/story-Bi7208vYhjndCpObP5zkuM.html
08-06-2020||India||First Covid-19 case reported in Election Commission, staffer’s room sealed for sanitation||An assistant section officer in the Electronic Voting Machine (EVM) division of the Election Commission has tested positive for Covid-19, EC officials told Hindustan Times.This is the first case of coronavirus in the Election Commission. The official’s room on the second floor has been sealed for sanitisation, said a source in the EC. “The rest of the office will continue to function as usual,” the source said. “As per norms laid by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the office will be sanitised and those who came into contact with the person will be home quarantined and tested,” the official said. Election Commission officials have been working from the office, even during the lockdown, as per requirement. Most officials have attending office two to three days a week. The source mentioned above said that the officials have been reporting to work daily since last week. Also read: Arvind Kejriwal goes into self-quarantine, may undergo Covid-19 test tomorrowThe Commission held its first in-person meeting last week, after which the dates for the Rajya Sabha polls were announced. This was the first in-person meeting of the Commission with chief Sunil Arora in attendance who was in the US when the lockdown was imposed and subsequently under home quarantine. “There are sanitisers installed everywhere and all officials wear masks to office,” said a second EC official. “The rooms are also being sanitised daily, we are taking adequate precautions for our safety.”The total number of Covid-19 cases in the country rose to 256,611 on Monday. The national capital has reported 28,936 cases as per the data by the Ministry of Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-covid-19-case-reported-in-election-commission-staffer-s-room-sealed-for-sanitation/story-uSFwzRs4BAcUofAl0PxU0K.html
08-06-2020||India||Sikar inmate gives birth to baby boy in jail||A woman from Rajasthan’s Sikar district, who had allegedly axed her husband to death after he molested her minor sister, delivered a baby at the district jail on Sunday morning, officials said. They added that it was an emotional moment for the entire jail staff as it was the first time when they had heard any good news in the jail.Sourabh Swami, deputy jailor at Shivsinghpura district jail, said that for the first time in the history of the jail, which is functional since August 1992, an inmate has delivered a baby inside its premises.  Also read: Teenager commits suicide in Rajasthan’s Kota after playing Pubg game“The lady was admitted to the jail on Friday. She remained very silent and was not speaking to anybody but around 2.30 am on Sunday, she suffered from labour pain after which the staff immediately called the jail doctors and an ambulance. As she was been taken to the hospital, the inmate told the doctors to carry out her delivery inside the jail only,” Swami added.He further said that the doctors and the jail staff agreed and the delivery was carried inside the jail premises. The undertrial inmate gave birth to a baby boy after which both were admitted to a government hospital. Both mother and child are healthy. The weight of the baby is around three kilograms.The undertrial inmate was arrested on June 3. The woman had told the police that she had called her 15-year-old minor sister to take care of her as the delivery date was nearing. On June 1, her 30-year-old husband, who works as a daily wage labourer, molested her sister. When she intervened, her husband, who is an alcoholic, started beating her, she said. On June, at around 3.30 am, when the husband was sleeping, she attacked him multiple times with an axe which led to his death. She allegedly dug a pit behind her house and buried the body. In the morning, the woman reached the local police station and confessed to the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikar-inmate-gives-birth-to-baby-boy-in-jail/story-Km23pO4Ssl3gt6lxpnRPCO.html
08-06-2020||India||Thermal screening, social distancing as devotees back in places of worship||Devotees and faithfuls were back in places of worship as temples, gurdwaras, mosques and churches reopened in most states following Unlock 1 guidelines on Monday amid an uptick in coronavirus cases. Presenting numbers, the Union health ministry said there have been 9,983 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 206 deaths between Sunday and Monday morning. This is the fifth day in a row that the country has reported more than 9,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day. The opening of places of worship is the first of the three-phase plan for reopening of prohibited activities in non-containment zones with a stringent set of Standard Operating Procedures(SOPs) which will be in place till June 30.The new phase is especially challenging for the five worst affected states, accounting for nearly 70 per cent of the total coronavirus cases, and nearly 78 per cent of the death. Maharashtra(85,975 cases), Tamil Nadu(30,152), Delhi(28,936), Gujarat (20,097) and Rajasthan (10,599) were the five worst-hit states. Here’s a look at the devotees:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thermal-screening-social-distancing-as-devotees-back-in-places-of-worship/story-GZ9ZfDQAEuRSLIVplsZtjJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Mumbai rush-hour traffic increases, concerns arise over social distancing||Mumbai: Mumbaikars took to the streets on Monday morning in large numbers amid the Maharashtra government’s third phase of Mission Begin Again campaign.The state government has undertaken a staggered plan from Monday onwards to unlock Maharashtra and has allowed private offices to operate with 10% of strength or 10 employees, whichever is more, and the rest of the staff to work from home. The offices in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reopened after almost three months, as they were shut because of the lockdown restrictions, which were enforced since mid-March to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.On Monday morning, office-going Mumbaikars could be seen trying to catch a Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus that resumed operations or a private taxi to their respective workplaces.Long queues of office-goers could be seen at BEST bus stops amid concerns over the violation of social distancing norms, as Mumbai is bracing for 50,000 Covid-19 positive cases.Mumbai Police’s traffic control room recorded moderate or dense traffic flow in many parts of the country’s financial hub.The major arterial roads of Babasaheb Ambedkar Road in south and central Mumbai, LBS Road in the eastern suburbs, SV Road in the western suburbs, and freeways such as the Western Express Highway and the Eastern Expressway reported dense traffic. Toll plazas, which are the entry points into Mumbai such as in Navi Mumbai, Mulund, and Panvel, also reported heavy traffic.The BEST authorities operated 2,132 buses on 81 routes on Monday morning. Passengers and BEST conductors have been asked to adhere to social distancing norms and 30 people are allowed to board a bus at one time, including 25 sitting and five standing.However, a few passengers complained about BEST bus services that were either cancelled or delayed. “I work as a security guard and Monday was my first day to work since the lockdown. I waited for 40 minutes to board a bus from Ghatkopar to Mulund. The buses were delayed. There was no space in most of the buses,” said Akhlakh Khan, a Ghatkopar resident.Though shops in Mumbai, except those in the containment zones, opened last Friday, shopkeepers are expecting better business activities from Monday.Viren Shah, president, Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association, said, “Many shops were either closed or were not working at full capacity last Friday, as a majority of staff couldn’t get to work due to lack of public transport facilities. We’ll have a better picture by this afternoon about how businesses are shaping up.”Many essential workers and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) employees, who live in satellite towns in and around Mumbai such as Thane, Kalyan, Navi Mumbai, and Dombivali, used public transport on Monday morning to report to work instead of the special transport facilities that were being provided to them during the lockdown restrictions.Suburban trains, Mumbai’s lifeline, are yet to resume their operations due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-rush-hour-traffic-increases-concerns-arise-over-social-distancing/story-tgDO9Hm4KARnmdWmzIxBhL.html
08-06-2020||India||22 terrorists, including 6 top commanders, killed in last two weeks, says J-K DGP||At least 22 terrorists, including 6 top commanders, were killed in last two weeks in nine different operations, Jammu and Kashmir’s Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said on Monday.He said that nine Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists were killed in the last two days in Shopian. Four terrorists were killed in the encounter which broke out on Monday morning. Addressing a press conference here, Singh said: “In last two weeks, security forces in Jammu and Kashmir are carrying out an operation against terrorists. In the last two days, nine Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists have been killed. Among them were three top commanders against whom several cases were registered including the killing of innocent civilians, attacks on police and security forces.”“In Awantipora, an alert police team arrested those who were readying new boys to join militancy. Three youngsters were rescued from the clutches of militants and have been handed over to their families. In the last two weeks, nine big operations were conducted in which 22 terrorists including 6 top commanders were killed,” he added. Singh said that three terrorists who were trying to infiltrate were killed in Nowshera sector in Jammu. “Another terrorist who infiltrated was killed in Kalakote sector. This shows that Pakistan and its agencies are trying to infiltrate terrorists from all sides,” he said. “An IED attack was averted on May 28. Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists along HM terrorists were trying to harm security forces. They tried to take IED to their target locations but alert forces foiled their attempt. 150 kilogram IED which was recovered on May 28 can cause harm like Pulwama. Abdul Rehman alias Fauji Bhai who was affiliated with HM and developed this IED was also killed,” the DGP added. The senior police officer said that 88 terrorists have been killed this year in around 36 operations.“This year, 88 terrorists have been neutralised in around 36 operations. 40 terrorist associates were arrested and 240 Over Ground Workers (OGW). Some of them have also been booked, including some in PSA,” he said. “Our border grid has to stay alert. We have reports that JeM terrorists who are commanded by Pak agencies are developing IED. We have alerted all our forces. It is the first time that launching pads maintained by Pakistan were active during winter. They did not wind up. The first terrorist group infiltrated in Keran sector on March 31. They tried to infiltrate but alert security forces killed them,” he said. Responding to a question on the number of terrorists at launchpads along the Line of Control (LoC), Singh said: “There is an assessment that the number could be around 150-250 for Kashmir region and 125-150 for Jammu region.”Singh said that a very significant low number of terrorists have joined terrorist ranks this year and most of them have already been neutralised.“2018-19 was very successful years as counter-terrorism operations are concerned. Their numbers have fallen considerably. They are trying to prepare more local youths... People appreciated our role post abrogation of Article 370. We have not allowed anybody to put under harassment that was also appreciated by people at large. A very significant low number of terrorists have joined terrorist ranks this year. A large number of them have been neutralised already,” he said.Singh said that Pakistani terrorists are infiltrating into Jammu and Kashmir under the banner of Lashkar-e-Toiba and JeM.“There is no such report of Taliban’s hand in the Valley. As of now, Pakistani terrorists are infiltrating to Jammu and Kashmir under the banner of Lashkar-e-Toiba and JeM. They also named an organisation called TRF which we call Terrorist Revival Front. Most of the people joining TRF are from Lashkar-e-Toiba and JeM. Pakistan Army is involved in a big away apart from the ISI. All launching pads are manned by Pakistani Army,” the DGP said.“I will say that Chenab Valley will be free from militancy soon. There is no militant in Ramban, one in Doda and three in Kishtwar. Weapons with them are in low numbers that’s why they have pistols and grenades. They attempted to drop ammunition through drones but there have been no reports of a successful drop,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-terrorists-including-6-top-commanders-killed-in-last-two-weeks-says-j-k-dgp/story-JG3KRz5oXw6b1wuKUKRB5N.html
08-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Election Commission staffer tests positive for Covid-19 in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Election Commission staffer tests positive for Covid-19 in DelhiAn official at the Election Commission of India (ECI) has tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, news agency ANI reported on Monday. This comes amid reports of government officials testing positive for coronavirus across the nation amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more9 terrorists killed in J-K’s Shopian district in 24 hours, say policeNine terrorists of the Hizbul Mujahideen have been killed by security forces in two operations since Sunday morning in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district, a senior police official said on Monday. Read moreIt’s your time now: Beyonce pays tribute to Black Lives Matter, calls out sexism and racism is powerful graduation speechBeyoncé Knowles-Carter is not only an iconic black musician whose powerful ballads have resonated with people all around the world, but is also a huge inspiration for the Black community and her recent powerful statement on sexism, the Black Lives Matter movement and being ‘othered’, asking people to stand up and be seen during YouTube’s “Dear Class of 2020” virtual graduation on Saturday has won people over all around the world. Read moreWill stump microphones make all the noise in the absence of crowds?Mumbai Call it the candid microphone. On YouTube, some of the most watched cricket videos are the pirated ones, where voice scores over visuals. Read moreApple granted patent for creating synthetic group selfies, here’s how it will workLooks like post-pandemic world will not just change the way we interact with others in real life but will also bring a massive change when it comes to taking selfies. And Apple seems to be at the forefront of all this. Read moreMaharashtra’s covid cases go past China’s total tally, over 7 million cases worldwideHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, relaxation of norms for import of certain drugs, acute water crisis in Bundelkhand, resumption of party with social distancing rules in Dutch nightclub. Read morePenguin teaser: A helpless Keerthy Suresh is searching for her missing sonThe teaser of Keerthy Suresh’s forthcoming Tamil thriller, Penguin, was unveiled on Monday. Going by the visuals, the film follows the story of a mother in search for her missing son with a serial killer on the prowl. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-election-commission-staffer-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0lzVKYtcLiLTMDpu2CYlKN.html
08-06-2020||India||Kerala elephant may have accidentally eaten cracker-filled fruit: Environment ministry||The pregnant elephant, who died in Kerala’s Palakkad last month triggering widespread outrage, may have accidentally eaten a cracker-stuffed fruit, the Union ministry of environment has said.The 15-year-old elephant died after chewing on a pineapple stuffed with crackers, according to initial reports, but later an autopsy conducted on her found it was a coconut, and the injuries she suffered were at least two weeks old.“Primary investigations revealed, the elephant may have accidentally consumed in such fruit. Ministry is in constant touch with Kerala Govt & has sent them detailed advisory for immediate arrest of culprits & stringent action against any erring official that led to elephant’s death,” the ministry has said.Also Watch | Kerala: Two arrested in connection with pregnant elephant’s death in Palakkad It also noted locals illegally plant explosive-filled fruits to repel wild boars from entering plantation farms. The ministry has also said, in a series of tweets, one person has been arrested in connection with the elephant’s death.“As of now, one person has been arrested & efforts are on to nab more individuals who may have participated in this illegal & utterly inhuman act. The @WCCBHQ has also been directed to act on this matter with utmost sense of urgency,” the ministry posted.The minister of state for environment Babul Supriyo has requested people not to believe “rumours and fake news” being circulated on social media, it said. The Kerala government and all departments of the ministry are handling the matter in an unbiased manner, it added.“We are confident of concluding the investigation sooner than later, to be followed by exemplary #LegalActions & punishment that will act as strong deterrent to committing such future acts,” it said.The ministry had held a meeting headed by Sanjay Kumar, the director general of forests and special secretary, on Sunday with several officials to discuss the progress in the matter.News agency PTI reported citing an unnamed official that the meeting was also attended by an official from the National Tiger Conservation Authority(NTCA), inspector general of wildlife, the additional director of Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and scientists from the Elephant Cell, PTI.The details of the meeting, however, are still awaited, it added.The elephant’s brutal death came to light on May 27 when a forest officer wrote about it on Facebook after witnessing it. The elephant had rushed to the nearby Velliyar River in the Silent Valley rain forest after eating the cracker-filled coconut and stood there for days with her trunk and head immersed in the water to nurse its injuries.Forest officials rushed to save the jumbo after local people alerted them but she succumbed to her injuries on May 27. Later, locals said the elephant was around the river for more than a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-elephant-may-have-accidentally-eaten-cracker-filled-fruit-environment-ministry/story-tCeHRIOdiFbeyJJ0qSiTEM.html
08-06-2020||India||Deve Gowda to contest Rajya Sabha election from Karnataka||Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) (JD-S) leader HD Deve Gowda has decided to contest Rajya Sabha elections, news agency ANI reported. He is doing this at the request of party legislators, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and many other leaders, ANI further reported.His son and former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy said that Deve Gowda will file the nomination on Tuesday.Deve Gowda had said in January that he is not interested in going to the Rajya Sabha. The JD(S) leader had said that he will “work towards strengthening the party”.Four Rajya Sabha seats from Karnataka are falling vacant this month after Rajeev Gowda and BK Hari Prasad of the Congress, Prabhakar Kore of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and D Kupendra Reddy of the JD(S) retire.Gowda left his traditional stronghold of Hassan - from where he was elected five times between 1991 and 2014 - to his grandson Prajwal Revanna in the Lok Sabha elections held last year.He had contested from the Tumkuru Lok Sabha seat. While Revanna won, Gowda lost to the BJP’s GS Basavaraj by about 13,000 votes.The BJP won the Lok Sabha polls in the state with a huge margin as it cornered 25 of the 28 seats and one Independent backed by the party also won. The Congress and the JD(S) were reduced to a seat each.The elections to fill the vacant 18 Rajya Sabha seats from seven states will be held on June 19. The last date of filing nominations has been fixed on June 9 while scrutiny of papers would be held on June 10.The last date of withdrawal of papers has been fixed on June 12, the notification from Election Commission of India said.Congress has decided to field one candidate for the Rajya Sabha polls. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief DK Shivakumar said on Monday that the party would soon take a decision on the issue of support Deve Gowda’s candidature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deve-gowda-to-contest-rajya-sabha-election-from-karnataka/story-tqu7OXttYTDayK9IMWYneO.html
08-06-2020||India||We paused to save lives, now we need to start again to save livelihoods: Sajjan Jindal||Industrialist Sajjan Jindal on Monday pitched for restarting the economy and said that saving lives is as important as saving livelihoods. “The Covid-19 crisis brought the world to a stop! We paused to save lives but now we need to start again to save livelihoods,” the Chairman of diversified JSW Group said in a statement. He further said the economic implications of the lockdown can be severe and opening of business activities is crucial for India to achieve its aim of becoming a successful economy. “Global economies are opening up. Staying at home till a cure is found will make the loss of livelihoods as severe as the loss of lives in India,” he said adding “the slower we are to re-start, the more we lose against countries out of lockdown. We can’t lose any more time”. He further said India as a country needs to get back to its full capacity at the soonest to be the successful economy that it aims to be. “Europe opened up. People in Spain, France, Amsterdam and Germany have accepted a new normal and have started living again. Restaurants, Shopping complexes, public transport have all sprung back into action. That’s how you save the economy! Not by staying indoors!, he said. The government has announced a phased exit from the over-two-months-long nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-paused-to-save-lives-now-we-need-to-start-again-to-save-livelihoods-sajjan-jindal/story-cnyBqCw3F8Su2MsncTKOYN.html
08-06-2020||India||Election Commission staffer tests positive for Covid-19 in Delhi||An official at the Election Commission of India (ECI) has tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, news agency ANI reported on Monday. This comes amid reports of government officials testing positive for coronavirus across the nation amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier this month, a NITI Aayog official was reported positive for coronavirus. A floor of NITI Aayog’s Delhi’s office was sealed for sanitation after the staffer tested positive for Covid-19. Also read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases outnumber China’s, Mumbai has over 48,000 patientsDelhi: One official at the Election Commission of India's office has tested positive for #COVID19. pic.twitter.com/b2b7onqmFKAlso Watch | Covid update: India’s 9000 daily stat; Delhi doctors ‘insulted’; China’s defence On June 2, at least 13 employees at Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal’s office, Raj Niwas, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), an official spokesperson said.Baijal tweeted out saying, “Deeply concerned about health of officials of my secretariat who tested positive for COVID-19 Health of all officials is stable & is being closely monitored. All of these officials were working tirelessly in these difficult times shoulder to shoulder with other frontline workers.” At least two officials working with the external affairs ministry tested positive for coronavirus last month. While one official who tested positive worked as a consultant in the ministry’s Central Europe (CE) division in New Delhi, the other staffer worked as a legal officer in the law division, news agency Reuters reported.Covid-19 cases in India now stand at the fifth spot in the world. With over 250,000 cases, India follows countries like the US, Brazil, Russia and the United Kingdom. On Monday, the Ministry of Health updated the national Covid-19 tally to 256,611. While over one lakh people have recovered from the deadly infection, more than 7,000 patients have lost their lives. Globally, the number of Covid-19 cases have zoomed beyond the 7 million-mark, more than 4 lakh people have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-staffer-tests-positive-for-covud-19-in-delhi/story-qOwEqn77qzV75nFdGUJFQM.html
08-06-2020||India||Diesel sales from Delhi, Rajasthan shift to neighbouring states due to price advantage||Cheap diesel is flowing from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab to neighbouring Delhi and Rajasthan through legal and illegal routes, executives of oil marketing companies and petroleum dealers said.Both consumers and unscrupulous elements find a price difference of up to Rs 7 a litre lucrative enough, and diesel vehicles, particularly long-distance trucks save on an average up to Rs 5,000 on the fuel in a trip, they said.Pump prices of petrol and diesel across the country are market-determined and attract uniform central excise duty, but their prices differ from state to state because of wide variations in the local levies or value-added tax (VAT).In oil retail economics, diesel is the most important fuel in terms of revenue income for both dealers as well as the exchequer because of high sales volume compared to petrol, executives and dealers mentioned above said requesting anonymity. Delhi and Rajasthan markets became uncompetitive after the two states raised VAT on auto fuels sharply compared to their neighbouring states to mop up additional revenues to fight the slump during the Covid-19 lockdown, they said.This has paved way for sales shifting to neighbouring border cities where prices are Rs 5 to Rs 7 per litre cheaper, said petrol pump dealers.“A diesel-run car registered in Delhi saves at least about Rs 250 if it gets tank full in Gurgaon [Gurugram] and for long-distance trucks that have double fuel tanks easily save up to Rs 5,000 at one go,” Nischal Singhania, a Delhi-based dealer and former president of the Delhi Petrol Dealers Association (DPDA), said.“Smuggling of diesel is now rampant. Double-tank trucks coming from Punjab bring diesel and sell it locally. They make about 2,500-3,000 in one trip as the price difference is very high,” Meerut-based Hemant Sirohi, who is also an active member of the Empowering Petroleum Dealers Foundation (EPDF), said. The diesel price difference between Delhi and Mohali in Punjab is Rs 7.49 a litre.“This is not all. Inter-state smuggling of diesel is rampant as it is one of the essential commodities and pass the borders easily. This is happening under the garb of a new initiative of door-to-door fuel delivery. Diesel is being carried in barrels and tankers from Gurgaon [Gurugram] to Jaipur as the price difference is Rs 7.44 per litre,” Sirohi said.An oil ministry official said requesting anonymity that the government was yet to receive any formal complaint in this regard.“It is believed that OMCs (oil marketing companies) are keeping a watchful eye on these illegal developments and take appropriate action. The government may also seek an explanation from OMCs,” he said.The oil ministry spokesperson declined comments. State-run OMCs—Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)—did not respond to the queries.Government official and oil companies’ executives said the price distortion is due to variations in state-level tax rates as VAT in Delhi and Rajasthan are very high.The Delhi government had almost doubled VAT on diesel on May 5 from 16.75% to 30% that also attracts an additional Rs 250 per kilolitre air ambience charges. VAT on diesel in Rajasthan was raised to 28% from 22% in addition to Rs 1,750 kilolitre road development cess. One kilolitre is equal to 1,000 litres.Although other states have also raised VAT rates on auto fuels, they calibrated the levy in such a way that the consumer prices would remain competitive compared to neighbouring cities of border states.According to the latest date of the oil ministry, state-level tax on diesel in Haryana is 16.4% or Rs 9.20 per litre, whichever is higher, plus 5% additional tax on VAT. Punjab levies 15.15% VAT, plus 10% additional tax on VAT, Rs 1,050 per kilolitre cess and 10 paise per Litre urban transport fund. The VAT rate on diesel in Uttar Pradesh (UP) is 17.48% or Rs 10.41 per litre, whichever is higher.Effectively, on June 8, diesel was sold at Rs 71.54 per litre in Jaipur (Rajasthan), Rs 70.59 a litre in Delhi, Rs 64.89 a litre in Ghaziabad (UP), Rs 64.10 a litre in Gurugram (Haryana), and Rs 63.10 in Mohali (Punjab).Experts said the problem will continue unless states levy a uniform tax on the fuel, which is only possible if petrol and diesel are brought under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) net.“The rate arbitrage between the neighbouring states has always resulted in this problem for various goods like diesel/petrol and liquor (currently under VAT) and mobile phones, etc. (prior to GST),” Abhishek Jain, tax partner at consultancy firm EY India, said.“It is difficult to control/deter these prevalent practices unless a uniform rate is implemented for products still under VAT. For products under GST (since the rate is uniform across all states) this problem has been taken care of,” Jain added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diesel-sales-from-delhi-rajasthan-shift-to-neighbouring-states-due-to-price-advantage/story-ctTeBSCBS5P0TpMpEY0xwM.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Good thought to keep heart happy’: Rahul slams Shah’s remark on border protection||Congress MP and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Monday said that everyone knows the reality of the situation at India’s borders. Gandhi’s Twitter post came in a sharp reaction to Union home minister Amit Shah’s remark wherein he said that if there is any country, after the US and Israel, that is able to protect its borders, it is India. Gandhi slammed Shah’s for his comments made on Sunday and said that “the thought is good to keep the heart happy”.  Also read: At ‘non-election rally’, Amit Shah says NDA will win two-third majority in Bihar pollsसब को मालूम है ‘सीमा’ की हक़ीक़त लेकिन,दिल के ख़ुश रखने को, ‘शाह-यद’ ये ख़्याल अच्छा है।https://t.co/cxo9mgQx5KAlso Watch | ‘What did you do?’: Amit Shah questions opposition on migrant exodus The home minister on Sunday addressed the ‘Bihar Jansamvad’ virtual rally and lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership over the past six years. “India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance. The whole world agrees that after USA and Israel if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India,” Shah said during his address. Shah on Sunday addressed the ‘Bihar Jansamvad Rally’ through video conferencing saying that the event was to bring the people of the country together amid the coronavirus pandemic. The home minister said that the rally had nothing to do with the Assembly polls due in the state later this year.From lauding the indomitable spirit of nation’s ‘corona warriors’ in India’s fight against Covid-19 to underscoring the many milestones achieved under the PM Modi’s leadership, Shah’s Sunday address was wide-ranging. “There was a time when anybody used to enter our borders, beheaded our soldiers and Delhi’s darbar remained unaffected. Uri and Pulwama happened during our time, it was the Modi and BJP government, we did,” he said. The minister also said that the Citizenship Amendment Act provided citizenship and respect to refugees in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-thought-to-keep-heart-happy-says-rahul-after-shah-s-remark-on-border-protection/story-UdVcCcqHSI4GYNBe4u7V6O.html
08-06-2020||India||9 terrorists killed in J-K’s Shopian district in 24 hours, say police||Nine terrorists of the Hizbul Mujahideen have been killed by security forces in two operations since Sunday morning in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district, a senior police official said on Monday.In the latest gun battle, which took place in Pinjora area of Shopian, four terrorists were killed by security forces on Monday morning, police said.“9 #terrorists including two commanders neutralised in less than 24 hrs. Proud of #Team Kashmir which includes JKP and SFs. Vijay Kumar, IGP Kashmir,” Kashmir zone police tweeted.Two of the four terrorists killed in Monday’s encounter are top Hizbul terrorists, Umer Dhobi and Rayees Khan of Shopian. “Both of them are category-A terrorists,” a police officer said.Before picking up the gun in August 2018, Umer Dhobi was listed in police records as an overground worker of the Hizbul Mujahideen and a “chronic stone pelter”. He has been named in 10 terror related cases; many of them relate to carrying out attacks on security personnel.Rayees Khan was also involved in two attacks on the army camp and a patrol party besides abduction and killing of civilians.“In the last two weeks, nine big operations were carried out in which 22 terrorists have been eliminated including six top commanders,” Dilbag Singh, Jammu and Kashmir director general of police, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. According to ANI, the bodies of the four terrorists killed in Pinjora have been recovered along with arms and ammunition. The operation there has concluded.On Sunday, five terrorists were killed after 12-hour long encounter in Reban village of Shopian district, which is around 12km from Monday’s encounter site in Pinjora.Sources have said the terrorists belonged to the banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group and one among them is believed to be a top commander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-terrorists-killed-in-j-k-s-shopian-in-24-hours-say-police/story-D18wPM3DDZ7DmqPIfQrbvM.html
08-06-2020||India||Matang leader moves HC, seeks regulation of nomination to legislative council||Matang community leader Diliprao Agale has approached Bombay high court to regulate the governor’s power to nominate members to the legislative council.The Matang community is considered one of the most suppressed and neglected castes in Maharashtra.In his petition, filed through advocate SB Talekar, the 58-year-old social worker sought a declaration that clauses 3(e) and 5 of Article 171 of the Constitution violate Article 14 and the rule of law, which is a basic feature of the statute.Article 171(3)(e) empowers the governor to nominate members to the legislative council, and Article 171(5) requires that the persons to be appointed should have special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, arts, cooperative movement and social service.“No doubt enough guidance is provided as to the qualification or eligibility criteria of the nominated members,” the petition said. “However, there is nothing prescribing the mode and manner to nominate members on the State Legislative Council.”The petition will come up for hearing on June 16 before a division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and Surendra Tavade.Agale complained that there is nothing in the scheme of these appointments regarding the parameters and tests to select candidates.The Maharashtra legislative council has a total of 78 members, of whom 66 are elected and the remainder are nominated by the governor.Agale’s petition further said all proposals for nominating members to the legislative council, under the Maharashtra Government Rules of Business, are required to be submitted to the chief minister, while the governor nominates members on the basis of recommendations from the chief minister.He complained that no scrutiny is done to ascertain where the candidates fulfil essential requirements and if they have incurred disqualification, as contemplated by Article 191.Besides, the candidates nominated by the governor are not required to disclose their wealth and criminal past, if any, as is required in elections to the state and Central legislature.Therefore, according to Agale, the power to nominate becomes unfair, arbitrary and discriminatory, as it is open to the chief minister to choose people to be nominated according to whims and fancies.The power conferred on the governor is not only arbitrary but has no place in a polity governed by the rule of law. It also violates the mandate of equality enshrined in Article 14, the petition said.The actions of the chief minister, council of ministers or the governor have to be fair, impartial and based on a realistic assessment on whether the candidates have the required special knowledge or practical experience.Agale also complained that there are thousands who meet the requirements for such nomination, “but only those who are close to the centre of power or those who enjoy the confidence of those in power are considered for nomination”.He added, “The selection is done either on party lines or depending upon who is close to or in good books of the chief minister or the high command of the party in power…Barring a few exceptions, most of those nominated were either active politicians or person affiliated or associated with the party in power or individuals enjoying political patronage.”Besides, he also complained about the disparity within scheduled castes in Maharashtra in connection with their political representation, contending that the major benefit of reservation is taken by the predominant Magar community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/matang-leader-moves-hc-seeks-regulation-of-nomination-to-legislative-council/story-dAPsE2y6M6DCZZiAmHAzHN.html
08-06-2020||India||Millions of hatchlings of endangered Olive Ridley turtles make their way to the sea from Odisha beach||Over the course of the past month, around two crore hatchlings of the endangered Olive Ridley turtles have crawled their way to the sea after they hatched from their eggs at the Garhirmatha sanctuary in Odisha. This marks the completiong of the annual journey that the endangered species make to the island in Odisha.Arribada is the phenomenon when female turtle lay their eggs. Around 4.70 lakh female turtles had turned up to lay eggs at the Gahirmath beach, which is widely regarded as the world’s largest nesting ground for Olive Ridley turtles, according to Bikash Ranjan Dash, the divisional forest officer (DFO), Rajnagar Mangrove (wildlife) Forest Division. He said, “The hatchlings had mostly emerged during the first fortnight of May,” adding, “According to an estimate by officials, nearly two crore turtles have emerged and found their way to the Bay of Bengal. As there was barely any disturbance, the number of hatchlings this year was considerably higher.”Read all about it here.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/quickreads/millions-of-hatchlings-of-endangered-olive-ridley-turtles-make-their-way-to-the-sea-from-odisha-beach/story-bBqZS5Vl1BLn5Y4J6MdTqM.html
08-06-2020||India||Unlock 1: Religious places open but Kashi Vishwanath, Vaishno Devi and other famous temples still closed||Normalcy started returning across the country as the relaxations under Unlock 1 kicked in. Restaurants, mall and religious places opened in most parts of the country, but some famous temples remained closed.Among them is the famous Kashi Vishwanath temple, the Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir, Mathura’s Banke Bihar temple and Panchkula’s Mansa Devi temple, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan. One of the grandest mosque in Lucknow, the Asifi mosque, was also kept closed, Hindustan reported.While the Banke Bihari temple has been kept closed till June 30, the Kashmi Vishwanath and Mansa Devi temples will open from Tuesday, Hindustan further reported. These places attract huge crowds and there is fear of the spread of Covid-19.The curbs, however, are in place in containment zones and areas with high caseload (hostpots). In Maharashtra, the worst-affected state, the state government is yet to take a decision about opening of these places.Devotees showed up in a large number at various places of worship across the country which opened on Monday. But all the protocols are being followed at these places, including social distancing. Only those who wear masks are allowed inside the premises to offer their prayers. Offerings like prasad and garlands are not allowed.Among the places which opened today are Old Delhi’s Gurudwara Sisganj Sahib, the famous Gorakhnath Temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also offered prayers inside the temple.The Centre, in its guidelines issued last week, allowed opening of these places but said that they have to ensure social distancing in place, sanitisation and thermal screening of devotees at regular intervals. According to the guidelines issued by the Centre, no more than five people are allowed inside at a time, while footwear cannot be clustered together.The guidelines also specifically mention that only asymptomatic people will be allowed inside.The orders were issued as India prepares for a calibrated exit from the Covid-19 lockdown by easing more restrictions under Unlock 1. The country, meanwhile, reported close to 10,000 Covid-19 cases on Monday which pushed its tally to above 2.5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-religious-places-open-but-kashi-vishwanath-vaishno-devi-and-other-famous-temples-still-closed/story-vHKukxVs1yofYPyIdwuvBO.html
08-06-2020||India||Thane: Traffic snarls reported as restrictions ease||Long queues of vehicles could be seen at Mulund check naka, the entry point to Mumbai from neighbouring Thane, on Monday morning, amid the easing of restrictions in lockdown 5.0, which came into effect on June 1 and will be in place till June 30 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“The traffic flow has increased since last week. But, on Monday morning there were more office-goers, as compared to last week, which led to traffic congestion at Mulund check naka,” said a senior Thane Traffic Police officialThe traffic movement has also been disrupted because of the ongoing repair work of a grand arch at Anandnagar in Thane.“The traffic movement is restricted to only a single lane because of the ongoing repair work of one of the pillars of a grand arch at Anandnagar. The construction work has intensified traffic snarls because the grand arch is located at the main entry point to the Eastern Express Highway, a north-south artery of Mumbai that connects its eastern suburbs and Thane,” the official said.“Traffic congestion was also noticed at Kalyan during the rush hour, including Kalyan-Bhiwadi Road, Durgadi Junction and Kongaon toll plaza,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thane-traffic-snarls-reported-across-city-as-offices-open-partially/story-NKo6hRPejD9iPnbSdbABZP.html
08-06-2020||India||Health Ministry drafts rules to help severely ill Covid patients access new drugs||Seeking to facilitate availability of experimental drugs for severely-ill Covid-19 patients, the Union Health Ministry has issued a draft notification for “compassionate use” of any unapproved drug that is in the phase-III clinical trial globally.The draft New Drugs and Clinical Trials (Amendment) Rules stipulate manufacture and import of unapproved drugs based on a prescription by a hospital or medical institution. According to a gazette notification of the draft rules published on June 5, a hospital or medical institution may import new drug for “compassionate use for treatment of patients suffering from life threatening disease or disease causing serious permanent disability or disease requiring therapy for unmet medical need”, which has not been permitted in the country, but under Phase-III clinical trial (human trial) in the country or abroad, by making an application to the Central Drug Regulator.Also, if any hospital prescribes a new drug for the same purposes then they may be approved to be manufactured in a limited quantity subject to provisions of the rules.The manufacturer intending to manufacture a new drug will have to obtain the consent in writing from the patient to whom the medicine has been prescribed or his legal heirs and make an application to the Ethics Committee of the hospital or medical institution for obtaining its specific recommendation for manufacture of such new drug.  After obtaining the recommendation of the Ethics Committee, the manufacturer shall make an application to obtain the permission, to the Central Licensing Authority for manufacturing the new drug for the purpose of compassionate use, the draft rules stated.“The manufacturer to whom the permission is granted shall make use of the new drug only for the purposes specified in the permission and no part of it shall be sold in the market or supplied to any other person, agency, institution or place,” it stated.  The new draft rules will be applicable for 15 days during which people can send their objections and suggestions to be considered by the Central Government after which the final amended rules will be published in the gazette of India.  The set of new rules have been inserted under section 96 which deals with filing an application, granting the license to the importer or manufacturer, conditions and suspension of such licenses among others.For both manufacturing and importing, the licence shall remain valid for a period of one year from the date it has been issued.If an importer or the manufacturer to whom the license is granted fails to comply with any provision of the Act and these rules, the Central Licensing Authority, may, after giving an opportunity of being heard, suspend or cancel the license for such period as considered appropriate either wholly or in respect of some of the substances to which the violation relates.  The quantity of any new drug manufactured or imported on the basis of permission granted shall not exceed one hundred average dosages per patient, the draft rules stated.But in exceptional circumstances on the basis of the prescription of the medical officer and the recommendation of the Ethics Committee, the Central Licensing Authority may allow the manufacture of such new drug in larger quantity.   In both cases, for import or indigenous manufacturing, the application should have details including rationale for the use of the new drug as compassionate use over the available therapeutic options, the criteria for patient selection with description of the patient’s disease or condition and the method of administration of the drug, dose, and duration of therapy.It should also mention the description of the manufacturing facility and a description of clinical procedures, laboratory tests, or other monitoring necessary to evaluate the effects of the drug and minimize its risks among others.Several drugs across the country are in phase III clinical trials phase for Covid-19. Anti-viral drug Remdesivir, last week, was approved for “restricted emergency use” on severe Covid-19 patients.India’s drug regulator granted US pharma giant Gilead Sciences marketing authorisation for the drug for “restricted emergency use” on hospitalised Covid-19  in view of the crisis posed by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-drafts-rules-to-help-severely-ill-covid-patients-access-new-drugs/story-d0ly0QMQw0C8jpWI9Q7VJN.html
08-06-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases outnumber China’s, Mumbai has over 48,000 patients||Coronavirus cases in the country crossed 250,000 on Monday. According to the latest figures by the Ministry of Health, the country now has 256,611 Covid-19 cases of which 124,429 have recovered while 7,200 have lost their lives. Maharashtra, which leads the national tally with the highest number of coronavirus cases overtook China’s record by crossing the 85,000-mark on Sunday, the Ministry of Health confirmed the same by updating Maharashtra’s tally to 85,975 on Monday morning. According to the Johns Hopkins University’s Covid-19 tally, China has reported around 84,191 coronavirus cases till date. Covid-19 cases in Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi are also witnessing a rapid rise. Here’s taking a look at the statewise breakup of Covid-19 numbers. The big 5Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 85,975 on Monday. As many as 3,060 people have died of coronavirus in the state while 39,314 have recovered. Mumbai alone has reported over 48,000 coronavirus cases. In Tamil Nadu, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 31,667. Two hundred and sixty-nine people have died of Covid-19 in the state, nearly 17,000 people have recovered. In the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 28,936 on Monday, 10,999 patients have recovered here while 812 died due to Covid-19. Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally soars to over 2.56 lakh, death toll at 7,135Gujarat Covid-19 cases jumped to 20,070 on Monday. The state has seen 13,635 people recover from coronavirus while 1,249 people have died.Rajasthan has reported 10,599 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 7,641 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 240.Situation in other statesMadhya Pradesh has reported 9,401 Covid-19 patients while the number of Covid-19 positive cases jumped to 10,536 in Uttar Pradesh. In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 8,187 while 396 people have died from the deadly contagion, 3,303 have recovered. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 5,088; the death toll in the state has jumped to 30. More than 2,400 people have recovered from the deadly contagion in the state. Also read: Petrol, diesel prices hiked by 60 paise per litre for 2nd consecutive dayAndhra Pradesh has reported 4,708 Covid-19 cases till date. While 75 people have died in the state, 2,682 people have recovered from the deadly contagion. Karnataka has reported 5,452 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has over 3,600 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 4,000-mark. Haryana nears the 4,500-mark while coronavirus cases in Telangana crossed 3,600 on Monday. Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura and Assam are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. Chandigarh, Manipur, Goa, Nagaland, Himachal Pradesh have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Sikkim, Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands have recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-coronavirus-cases-outnumber-china-mumbai-alone-has-over-40-000-patients-covid-19-state-tally/story-gfJLahNeCUjW3zemumGQdL.html
08-06-2020||India||Rape victim’s say mandatory in deciding bail of accused, says Delhi High Court||Courts cannot ignore issuing notice to victims in sexual assault cases while deciding bail pleas of offenders, the Delhi High Court has held, noting that survivors were not being informed in a majority of matters.Hearing a case related to the bail granted to the accused in a minor’s rape case, the court said that during emergency situations such as the current lockdown, bail pleas are being heard by sessions judges who are not regular POCSO courts, so it is necessary to sensitise them about these mandatory provisions.The HC set aside the trial court’s order granting interim bail to the accused in the minor’s rape case without giving a hearing or notice to the girl.“It is deemed appropriate to direct that any non-compliance of the mandatory condition of issuance of notice and service of notice to the complainant/ victim/informant could entail consequential action, in accordance with law,” the court said. It also directed respective district judges to conduct sensitisation programmes through videoconferencing within a week and inform all presiding officers about the importance of compliance of this mandatory condition. Justice Prathiba M Singh said the petition challenging the interim bail granted to the accused without giving her notice has highlighted a “perennial and grave problem”: hearing not being accorded to victims in bail pleas filed by the accused facing trial for rape and gang-rape of minors under the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.In pursuance to court’s earlier direction, the registrar general of the high court collected data from the trial courts for the period between April 22 to May 23, which is the lockdown period. The data showed that out of 294 cases where bail was sought by the accused in sexual offences cases, notices were issued to the complainant in only 79 matters.“...in 215 cases constituting almost 70 per cent, no notice was issued. A perusal of the report of the registrar general, in fact, confirms the analysis which has been placed on record by the petitioner in respect of 122 cases, to the effect that complainants/ informants are not being heard prior to hearing in bail applications to accused under the provisions of the POCSO Act,” it said, adding that, issuance of notice is the mandate of law.The court added there was also no doubt that most sessions courts are not issuing notices to the complainant before entertaining or hearing bail applications of accused, including those for interim bail.In fact, even if compromise is the ground for seeking bail, there is a greater need that the same ought to be verified or confirmed from the complainant/victim, it said.The plea was filed by the girl’s mother, through advocate Tara Narula, challenging the interim bail granted to the accused on May 5 on the ground that the order was passed in routine manner and was not only bad in law but also suffered from procedural lapse on the part of the sessions court.The victim’s counsel submitted that with effect from April 21, 2018, there was an amendment in the law by which it has been mandated that the presence of the informant or any person authorised shall be obligatory at the time of hearing of the application for bail to the person accused of sexual offences.The period for which the interim bail was granted to the accused expired on June 5, the day the high court passed its verdict.As the accused has filed a fresh bail application before the sessions court, the high court said it be decided in accordance with law after hearing the complainant and the prosecution and also the grounds raised by the man in the plea.The court said non-issuance of notice to the complainants or victims is not merely a procedural lapse, but is clearly contrary to the unequivocal legislative mandate and settled law.It said the lockdown period has thrown up several challenges to the judicial system which courts are bracing for on an everyday basis and issuance of notice to the complainant is such a fundamental precondition, that the requirement of law cannot be bypassed, ignored or neglected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-victim-s-say-mandatory-in-deciding-bail-of-accused-says-delhi-high-court/story-xm1Klsjxj71WCz8RHHw2LN.html
08-06-2020||India||Many countries, including India, don’t know when Covid-19 peak will come: Top Chinese expert||Several countries, including India, have not yet seen the peak number of the coronavirus disease or Covid-19 cases, a leading Chinese infectious disease expert has said and warned that the second wave or a rebound of the outbreak could be stronger than the first.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageZhang Wenhong, head of Shanghai’s Huashan hospital’s infectious disease department, said in an interview to state media that India, Brazil and Russia, for example, haven’t seen the peak of the pandemic curve yet and don’t know when the cases will come down.India until now has reported more than 2.56 lakh cases and nearly 7,000 deaths.The increase in the number of cases is being aided by the easing of lockdown in many countries, Zhang was quoted as saying in thepaper.cn.Giving the example of the United State, where the epidemic is most severe, he said after production was resumed in the US the outbreak in many states has shown signs of a rebound or a surge in the number of cases.The outbreak is also rebounding in West Asia including in Iran, Zhang added.For China, it will be crucial to control the number of imported cases – or infected persons returning to China from abroad – to stop the rebound.According to real-time statistics from Johns Hopkins University, there have been more than 7 million confirmed cases of new coronary pneumonia in the world and the death toll stands at 402,709.Zhang had warned in April that the pandemic is unlikely to die out in summer and a second wave of the infection was expected. He said then while speaking at an online discussion that China’s experience with disease control means any resurgence in infections later this year will be manageable.It will not require a repeat of the dramatic measures taken to curb the virus’s initial spread as needed earlier in the year, he said.“China won’t implement any shutdowns, and imported cases will certainly still make up the bulk of the outbreak,” the Caixin magazine quoted Zhang as saying.“For a long time, epidemic prevention and control will go through periods of relaxation and tightening. It will be possible to live and work normally, but it probably won’t be possible to completely eradicate the outbreaks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-countries-including-india-don-t-know-when-covid-19-peak-will-come-top-chinese-expert/story-wPJlAD9TfnypRNsV6Po5tI.html
08-06-2020||India||Operation Samudra Setu: Navy ships to bring back Indian nationals from Iran||The ships of the Indian Navy will bring back Indian nationals stranded in Iran as part of the country’s Samudra Setu initiative. The repatriation of Indians from Iran’s Bandar Abbas to Porbandar in Gujarat will begin on Monday.The Indian embassy in Iran is preparing a list of citizens who will to be evacuated and will facilitate their embarkation after requisite medical screening, a state from the Navy said.The Indians will be brought back onboard INS Shardul.The Navy said that the ship has been specially provisioned for the evacuation operation and the staff onboard will follow social distancing norms. Additional medical staff, doctors, hygienists, nutritionists, medical stores, rations, personal protective equipment, face-masks and lifesaving gear is lso present on the ship, the Navy said.Some innovative products developed by the Indian Navy to help during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis is also being carried onboard, it further said.The evacuated Indian nationals will be handed over to the state authorities when they reach India, the Navy said.Indian Naval ships Jalashwa and Magar have already evacuated 2,874 personnel from Maldives and Sri Lanka to ports of Kochi and Tuticorin as part of “Operation Samudra Setu”.INS Jalashwa repatriated 700 Indian nationals stranded in Maldives and arrived in Tuticorin on Sunday.The bulk of the repatriated persons, 686, hailed from Tamil Nadu while the others belonged to Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry, Tuticorin port officials said.The ship left Port of Male on June 5 and came back to India on Sunday.Operation Samudra Setu is part of the Centre’s initiative to repatriate Indians stranded in foreign countries due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/operation-samudra-setu-navy-ships-to-bring-back-indian-nationals-from-iran/story-VuWDMkRE0oQZ5ik0QjJmhJ.html
08-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally soars to over 2.56 lakh, death toll at 7,135||With 9,983 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 206 deaths between Sunday and Monday morning, India’s infection tally has risen to 256,611, according to the Union health ministry data.This is the fifth day in a row that the country has reported more than 9,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day and as restaurants, shopping malls and places of worship were allowed to reopen across most part by strictly adhering to the guidelines laid down by the Centre.The number of active cases in India stands at 125,381 and the recovery rate at 48.35% with 124,094 people cured of the respiratory disease, according to the health ministry.Also read| Zero active cases: How New Zealand eliminated Covid-19Maharashtra has reported 85,975 Covid-19 cases and 3,060 deaths so far. India’s worst-hit state has now overtaken China in terms of the number of infections. China, where the virus first emerged late last year, has a total of 84,191 cases, according to data by America’s Johns Hopkins University.The number of Covid-19 cases has also surged in Tamil Nadu, where there are 31,667 patients and 269 death so far. Delhi has reported 27,654 infections and the number of fatalities in the national capital stands at 761. Gujarat has 20,070 Covid-19 cases and 1,249 people have succumbed in the western state.The Centre on Sunday defended the timing of imposition of the lockdown and rejected as “baseless” media reports expressing concerns that it did not take inputs from technical experts while drawing up its Covid-19 strategy.It asserted that coronavirus is a “new agent” about which not everything is known and also said it is “fine-tuning” its strategy based on emerging knowledge and experience on the ground.Also read| Delhi borders open: Entry allowed from Gurugram, commuters claim chaos at UP borderThe health ministry said in a statement that the decision on the lockdown was taken due to the rapid escalation of Covid-19 cases.“The doubling rate of cases had dropped to a low level, pointing toward a dangerous trajectory of high caseload and high mortality, as experienced by many western countries. The possibility that our health systems could soon be overwhelmed with Covid-19 patients seemed to be real,” it said.There was a unanimous consensus on the lockdown among all state governments, it said. The government has already shared information on the impact of the lockdown and other restrictions to avert lakhs of infections and thousands of deaths, the ministry said.Follow live updates on the Coronavirus outbreak here“These apprehensions and allegations are unfounded and baseless. The government is constantly in consultation with experts for technical and strategic inputs, scientific ideas and domain-specific guidance to address the Covid-19 pandemic,” it said about reports in a section of the media expressing concern about the government excluding the views of technical experts. Globally, there are more than 7 million Covid-19 cases and the number of people who have died due to the disease is 402,709, according to Johns Hopkins’ coronavirus tracker.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-soars-to-over-2-56-lakh-death-toll-at-7-135/story-Dhq8T6XxLjzmoPkenG5EPL.html
08-06-2020||India||Two killed as trainer aircraft crashes in Odisha’s Dhenkanal district||A pilot trainer and a woman trainee pilot were killed in Odisha’s Dhenkanal district on early Monday morning, when a Cessna FA-152 VT-ENF trainer aircraft crashed at Birasala airstrip shortly after it took off. Anupama James, superintendent of police (SP), Dhenkanal, said the accident occurred at Birasala airstrip under the Kankadahada police station area soon after the Government Aviation Training Institute (GATI)-run aircraft took off around 6.30am. “It seems the aircraft developed some snag after it took off. The trainer pilot, Sanjay Kumar Jha, and the trainee pilot, Anis Fathima, were killed in the accident. Kamakhyanagar sub-divisional hospital authorities declared them brought dead,” said James. Jha is said to be from Bihar, while Fathima is from south India.Birasala is among the 19 airstrips in Odisha, where aspiring commercial pilots undergo training. The total strength of the trainees at Birasala was 90, including 36 aspiring pilots, before Monday’s accident.The Birasala facility was opened last year, attracting trainee pilots from across the country. The airstrip was reopened on June 1 amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Cessna FA-152 VT-ENF, Cessna- 152 VT-EUW, Cessna-172 VT-AAY, and Cessna-172R VT-TED are used by GATI authorities for the training exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-killed-as-trainer-aircraft-crashes-in-odisha-s-dhenkanal-district/story-F0XqXPbE2kuTfPUCPBejiL.html
08-06-2020||India||Hustle bustle returns, long queues of devotees in masks as places of worship reopen across India||Long queues returned to religious sites and places of worships as temples, mosques, gurudwaras, churches, among others, opened gates to public after more than a couple of months of lockdown. While devotees showed up in a large number at various places of worship across the country, social distancing norms were seen in practice along with other preventive measures. Only those who wear masks are allowed inside the premises to offer their prayers. Offerings like prasad and garlands are not allowed.  #WATCH Punjab: Devotees visit Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple) in Amritsar to offer prayers as Government allows reopening of religious places from today. pic.twitter.com/QOUOmzOVGlDiljeet Kaur, a devotee who visited Old Delhi’s Gurudwara Sisganj Sahib today said, “We’re not allowed to enter without wearing masks and they’re checking the temperature of people at entry. Social distancing is being followed”.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also offered prayers at the famous Gorakhnath Temple today. Punjab: Devotees visit Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple), Amritsar to offer prayers as Govt allows reopening of religious places from today.A devotee says,"We all must follow social distancing norms&take precautionary measures like wearing masks&sanitizing our hands frequently". pic.twitter.com/7dfnAo1KFDThe administration of various places of worship have put elaborate measures in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “We have made adequate arrangements for sanitation. If somebody doesn’t have a mask, we will provide him at the gate. We will maintain social distancing. Offerings like “prasad” and garlands are not allowed,” Subhash Goyal, secretary at Delhi’s Gauri Shankar Temple said. Many sites have disinfectant tunnels in place to ensure that the devotees are completely disinfected before entering the premises. Delhi’s Bangla Sahib Gurudwara is one of them.  #WATCH दिल्ली: छत्तरपुर मंदिर में भक्त पूजा करते हुए दिखे।सरकार ने आज से धार्मिक स्थलों को फिर से खोलने की अनुमति दी है। pic.twitter.com/3NQhhcwqTHSome of the most famous places of worship across the country reopened today including Mata Vaishno Devi Mandir in Dehradun, Uttarakhand. The state government, however, has barred pilgrims from outside from visiting. Some cities like Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh has deferred opening of shines to June 10. Shrines in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal and Indore, two major Covid-19 hotspots in the state, will also not open their doors for devotees for now.  Delhi: Devotees offer prayers at Gurudwara Sisganj Sahib as Govt allows reopening of places of worship from today. Diljeet Kaur,a devotee says,"We're not allowed to enter without wearing masks&they're checking temperature of people at entry. Social distancing is being followed". pic.twitter.com/vszf0tgMrdThe Central government, in its guidelines issued last week on ‘Unlock 1’, stated that all places of worship that open up will have to ensure social distancing in place, sanitisation and thermal screening of devotees at regular intervals. No more than five people will be allowed inside at a time, while footwear cannot be clustered together. The guidelines also specifically mention that only asymptomatic people will be allowed inside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hustle-bustle-returns-long-queues-of-devotees-in-masks-as-places-of-worship-reopen-across-india/story-ctHUfeA5S2fHXsunanWmVO.html
08-06-2020||India||As country reopens under Unlock 1, some restrictions to continue in these places||Shopping malls, restaurants, places of worship will reopen in most parts of India from Monday as states gear up to implement Unlock 1, the first phase of easing of restrictions in place under the coronavirus lockdown since March 25.The Union health ministry issued detailed guidelines in this regard, which will be in place till June 30. At the same time, the Centre has allowed states to decide what will open and place their own rules.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe reopening comes as India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19 ) has risen and it is now the fifth most-affected country in the world. India’s count rose to 246,628 on Sunday after 9,971 cases were reported in 24 hours, the highest single-day rise yet. The country’s death toll rose to 6,929.Most economic activities are set to reopen on Monday outside containment zones in the country’s big urban centres, including Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad.However, Chennai, Mumbai and Gurugram will continue to see restrictions in view of mounting cases of Covid-19. Malls will remain shut until June 30 in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Odisha, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Manipur, Meghalaya, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman & Diu and Haryana’s Gurugram and Faridabad.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said restaurants, malls, and places of worship will reopen from Monday but hotels and banquet halls will remain shut. In neighbouring Haryana, restrictions will continue on hotels, restaurants, and places of worship in Faridabad, apart from Gurugram, because of the high number of cases.In Mumbai, BEST’s public bus service and offices with 10% staff limit will resume. Around 300 buses will operate but only 29 passengers, including five standing, will be allowed in its 54-seater buses. BEST was operating its buses only for essential services employees so far.West Bengal has allowed buses and cabs to ply but Metro and suburban train services will remain shut. Religious bodies in the eastern state have decided to keep important religious places shut till June 15.In Goa, churches and mosques have decided to remain shut. Similarly, the Jammu & Kashmir administration has ordered places of worship to remain shut for the time being. According to the new guidelines, all religious places across the Union territory, which were closed nearly a week ahead of the nationwide lockdown, would continue to remain shut till further orders. The Uttarakhand government said places of worship will be allowed to open from 7am to 7pm but those in containment zones will remain closed till further orders. The state government said that the pilgrims from places outside the state are not allowed to visit until further orders. The Badrinath temple will open its gates on Monday but has asked the state to keep the yatra suspended till June 30.Odisha has allowed hotels to reopen but malls and places of worship will remain shut till June 30. It has declared a lockdown on weekends in 11 out of 30 districts. Hoteliers in the state have been asked to keep occupancy at 30%.In Tamil Nadu, economic activities would start on Monday except in Chennai and its three neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, and Chengalpattu. However, religious places will remain shut until the end of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-country-reopens-under-unlock-1-some-restrictions-to-continue-in-these-places/story-mA2oB7ZrKFvGRdxcMOg8cL.html
08-06-2020||India||Ahead of 2021 polls, Assam ‘regularises’ services of 46,000 teachers||Assam’s Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has ‘regularised’ services of more than 46,000 teachers in the state’s government schools, ahead of the assembly elections next year.Though the decision in this regard was taken at a cabinet meeting on May 26, the announcement was made on Sunday by education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma at a press conference in Guwahati.The government move would benefit 29,701 teachers who were employed after clearing the teacher eligibility test (TET) as part of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), 11,206 state pool teachers working in lower primary and middle English schools and 5,283 teachers working on contractual basis in high schools.“All these teachers will get benefits and perks like other government teachers and will retire on completion of 60 years of age. Due to Supreme Court order on TET teachers, we can’t use the term ‘regularise’ for them, but they will get all benefits of a regular government job,” Sarma said.“Our party, the BJP, had given a promise of ‘regularising’ services TET teachers when we went to polls in 2016. We have been able to fulfil that promise now. It will give the teachers dignity as well as remove uncertainty about the status of their jobs,” he added.Assamese mandatory in all schoolsSarma said Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi has approved a move making Assamese a mandatory subject from Class 1 to Class 10 in all schools, government and private including central schools, in the state.However, the rule won’t be applicable to the three districts of Barak Valley, where Bengali is the dominant language, and the four districts of Bodoland Territory Area Districts (BTAD), where Bodo is spoken prominently.“The act in this regard passed by the state assembly has been approved by the Governor and we have notified it. From now on all schools will have to teach Assamese as a subject, except those in Barak Valley and BTAD,” Sarma said.Free admissions for all students of colleges, universitiesIn view of the Covid-19 pandemic and economic hardships faced by families, Assam government has decided to admit all students free of cost in government colleges, universities across the state including medical, engineering, agriculture, veterinary colleges etc.Earlier, only those students with a family income of less than Rs 2 lakh annually were eligible for that benefit.“As an attempt to provide relief to families affected by Covid-19, we have decided to give free admissions to all students this year irrespective of the income of their families from higher secondary to postgraduate level. Colleges can’t take any fees in lieu of prospectus, excursions etc,” Sarma said. The government also decided to reimburse Rs 1,000 per month as mess dues to students staying in hostels of government colleges. Students pursuing graduation will also get Rs 1,000 for textbooks.SoP for classes in schools twice a weekAssam government is mulling reopening of schools in a staggered manner, starting with regular classes for Class 10 and Class 12 followed by classes twice a week for other grades.“Our government has prepared a set of standard operating procedure (SOP) on beginning with classes for Class 10 and Class 12. Others classes may resume twice a week in order to ensure social distancing and also to ensure that their learning is not affecting,” Sarma said.“Only online class is not an option and might not be feasible for students in remote areas or villages. We have prepared our SOP, but will follow whatever guidelines central government formulates in this regard,” he added.Sarma said the Assam government has decided to shut down 17 schools which recorded zero pass percentage in this years’ high school leaving certificate (HSLC) exams, results of which were announced on Saturday.The teachers of these schools will be transferred to other schools all over the state and students allowed to take admissions in the nearest government school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-2021-polls-assam-regularises-services-of-46-000-teaches/story-W2rvVaLq9kFdmtbCGEcIPJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Case against Rajasthan hospital staff for WhatsApp posts against Muslims||The police in Rajasthan’s Churu district launched an investigation into the messages exchange between the staff members of a private hospital on a WhatsApp group. The members were discussing not attending to the patients of minority community suffering from Covid-19, the police said.The owner of the hospital had apologised for the WhatsApp conversation and also said that the messages are of the month of April when cases of Tablighis were high in number.The screenshots of the message exchange between two women working at Srichand Baradiya Rog Nidan Kendra in Sardarshahar town of the district were widely circulated after which the police took notice and a complaint was lodged on Friday. A formal FIR was lodged against the accused on Sunday under Section 153A (attack upon any religion) and 505 (Statements conducing to public mischief) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of violation of Disaster Management Act.“FIR was registered today against three persons which includes a doctor, a lab technician and a comp under after preliminary investigation the conversation was found biased against a particular region,” Mahendra Dutt Sharma, station house officer of Sardarshahar police station, said on Sunday.Dr Sunil Choudhary, who runs the Srichand Baradiya Rog Nidan Kendra in Sardarshahar apologised through a post on social media.“I apologise for the chats which are getting viral on social media. Me and my staff members don’t want to hurt sentiments of any religion. In future my staff would not give you any chance of complaint,” Choudhary said.One of the messages exchanged between the staff of hospital read, “I take oath that from tomorrow we will not do X-ray of Muslim patients.”Another message reads, “We should stop attending to Muslim patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-against-rajasthan-hospital-staff-for-whatsapp-posts-against-muslims/story-zZ64BiDQZguAC5HA0JMSXK.html
08-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi reopens restaurants, malls and interstate travel and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi reopens restaurants, malls and interstate travelRestaurants, shopping malls and places of worship are allowed to open in Delhi from Monday but they will have to strictly adhere to the guidelines laid down by the Centre, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday, allowing the resumption of these activities in the national capital after a gap of over 70 days. Read moreNew Zealand eliminates Covid-19 with zero active cases reportedNew Zealand reported zero active cases of Covid-19 for the first time since the pandemic reached its shores, indicating it has achieved its aim of eliminating the virus. Read more‘Amazing to bowl with Kuldeep in tandem, hoping to do it again soon’: Yuzvendra ChahalFrom the time they answered the Indian team management’s call for wrist spin as the way ahead in limited-overs cricket in 2017, Yuzvendra Chahal and Kuldeep Yadav have established themselves as a formidable bowling pair. Read moreHappy birthday Shilpa Shetty: Her 10 pics with husband Raj Kundra, son Viaan and daughter Samisha that are just perfectActor Shilpa Shetty turns 45 years old on Monday, we are bringing you her best pictures from the family album. Shilpa is the wife of businessman Raj Kundra and mommy to son Viaan and daughter Samisha. Read moreiPhone SE review: It’s a solid winFor a long time, there has been no non-foldable, small, compact device in the market that makes a very good case for itself. Then came Apple with the iPhone SE 2nd Gen or the iPhone SE 2020. Read moreWorld Brain Tumour Day 2020: Recovery after brain surgeryThere has been an increase in the incidence of brain tumour in India. About 50,000 new cases are reported, out of which 20% are in children with medulloblastoma being the most commonly occurring type. Read moreActor Chiranjeevi Sarja passes away at age of 39 due to cardiac arrestKannada actor Chiranjeevi Sarja passed away on June 7. The 39-year-old actor died due to cardiac arrest. Fans gathered outside the hospital where he had been admitted. He was nephew of Tamil actor Arjun & grandson of veteran actor Shakti Prasad. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-reopens-restaurants-malls-and-interstate-travel-and-all-the-latest-news/story-C0FWNfj1FHpD16yeEwKEdJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Odisha accords state anthem status to Bande Utkala Janani||Almost two decades after the then speaker of the assembly ruled that the patriotic song Bande Utkala Janani should be adopted as the state anthem, the Odisha cabinet on Sunday accorded the status to it.The state cabinet, which met on Sunday through video-conferencing, adopted Bande Utklala Janani or Glory to mother Utkala as the anthem of Odisha.“The song has been inspiring the people of Odisha since ages. It was a long-standing demand of people of the state to accord state anthem status to Bande Utkala Janani, which has been passed by the state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik,” Bikram Keshari Arukh, the parliamentary affairs minister, said.Arukh added the information and public relations department will prepare and release uniform lyrics, style of singing and it’s recording. The song will be sung at all government programs, assembly sessions, college and university cultural functions.The anthem will be played or sung in schools, colleges, meetings, cultural events. Whenever the anthem is sung or played, everyone will have to stand in attention except senior citizens, patients, infants, disabled and pregnant women.Lakhs of Odia people across the country had sung Bande Utkala Janani on May 30 to honour frontline workers or Covid-19 warriors. Several others had posted their videos singing the song on social media sites. Bande Utkala Janani was written by poet Lakshmikanata Mohapatra. The poem envisages Utkala, one of the former names of present-day Odisha, who maintains her self-respect and dignity from a position of confidence and strength rather than insecurity and fear. The poem inspires every Odia to move ahead in life. The song was first sung at the Utkal Sammilani’s conference at Balasore in 1912, a few months after Rabindra Nath Tagore’s Jana Gana Mana, now the national anthem, was sung. It is sung during various conferences of the Utkal Sammilani, the organisation that spearheaded the movement of a separate province of Odisha since 1912.In 2000, the assembly speaker Sarat Kar had ruled that the song should be adopted as the state song and advised the Odisha government to initiate action in this regard.Biju Patnaik, who was the chief minister, had proposed in 1994 that the song should be played at the end of the assembly session. In 2006, the then assembly speaker Maheswar Mohanty had constituted a committee for adopting the song as the state song.As many as 11 states, including Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Assam, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Gujarat, have their own state anthem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-accords-state-anthem-status-to-bande-utkala-janani/story-Cu4l5MH56EsbEJEm7TwUwK.html
08-06-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s tally increased from 2 lakh to 2.5 lakh in five days||India’s Covid-19 tally has been increasing at a rapid rate. It took just five days for the total number of infections to reach from two lakh to 2.5 lakh.The Union health ministry dashboard showed on Monday morning that India recorded another spike of almost 10,000 cases, taking its tally to 2,56,611.On June 3, the total number of cases had reached 2,01,997.India as been recording increasing number of daily cases. From nearly 8,000 infections a day, the nationwide tally is now increasing by almost 10,000 daily.India on Sunday reported 9,971 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 287 deaths, another highest spike, in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed.With a tally of 246,628 infections, India is now the fifth worst-hit country in the world after the United States, Brazil, Russia and the United Kingdom, according to America’s Johns Hopkins University.The surge in numbers came as places of worship, shopping malls and restaurants, are scheduled to open on Monday. It is the first of the three-phase plan for reopening of prohibited activities in non-containment zones with a stringent set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) which will be in place till June 30.The number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 1,20,406 while a total of 1,19,292 people had recovered and one patient has migrated, the ministry added. Around 48.37 per cent of the patients have recovered so far, a senior ministry official said.Maharashtra, which reported 3,007 new cases on Sunday on its own, surpassed China which accounted for 83,036 Covid-19 infections to be in the 18th position in the global country tally. It has 85,975 cases of Covid-19.However, there was some good news from Mumbai’s Dharavi, believed to be Asia’s largest slum and also a hotspot.In signs that could point to the flattening of the coronavirus curve in Dharavi, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said the slum cluster has not reported a single Covid-19 death in the last six days while 939 of the total 1,899 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-s-tally-increased-from-2-lakh-to-2-5-lakh-in-five-days/story-NEDxlzmCl0Hr91h7duuXHP.html
08-06-2020||India||Wildlife smuggler caught with flapshell turtle in Uttarakhand, booked||The Uttarakhand forest department has arrested a 36-year-old man on charges of smuggling Indian flapshell turtle in US Nagar district, said forest officials.Himanshu Bagri, divisional forest officer (DFO) Terai West forest division, said, “We had received a tip-off that one wildlife smuggler was planning to sell a flapshell turtle.”“So we decided to arrest him. We were waiting for the smuggler for a week but he was not coming. Finally, when we came to know that the smuggler had come to Kashipur on Saturday evening, we constituted a team under the leadership of AK Saxena, Kashipur Ranger officer to catch him,” he said.The Indian flapshell turtle, also called Lissemys punctata, is a freshwater species of turtle found commonly in lakes and rivers across the Indian subcontinent.Bagri said the forest team finally arrested the smuggler from Kundeshwari road in Kashipur in US Nagar on Saturday evening.“He has been identified as Sanjit Kumar, resident of Kashipur in US Nagar. We have booked him under Section 9 (prohibition hunting, no person shall hunt any wildlife listed in schedule 1,2,3,4) of Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972.”Bagri said that Indian flap shell turtle is found in freshwater ponds, rivers and drains and its meat is considered a delicacy.This is not the first time when turtles and tortoises have been recovered in the state. Turtles are killed for their meat and are in good demand in some areas of US Nagar like Dineshpur, Transit camp and Shaktifarm.In May last year, forest officials arrested 40-year-old Abdul Rauf in Jhirna range of Corbett tiger reserve and recovered a dead turtle from his possession. In August last year, three people were arrested by the city patrolling unit of police at Rudrapur in Udham Singh Nagar district and 14 tortoises were recovered from their possession. In December last year, police had recovered 40 turtles from a man in Dineshpur area of US Nagar. The accused had kept the turtles hidden in a polybag in his kitchen.Earlier in March last year, 25 turtles were recovered from the same village hidden in the bathroom of a house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wildlife-smuggler-caught-with-flapshell-turtle-in-uttarakhand-booked/story-jHrJAQfAJSZ3U9sHIGKw8K.html
08-06-2020||India||With a drop in Covid-19 cases and deaths, Dharavi shows signs of flattening the curve||Dharavi, a hotspot in Mumbai, has not recorded a single death related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last six days and 939 of the 1,899 patients have recovered so far, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials have said.Officials said on Sunday that 34 people had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 1 and that the number has now come down to 10 in Dharavi, which is Asia’s largest slum.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Dharavi has not reported a single death in the last six days, which is the first major indicator that we are on the right track. The number of people getting discharged is also increasing,” Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G north ward of BMC, said on Sunday, according to news agency PTI.Dighavkar said 939 of the 1,899 Covid-19 patients have recovered.“Dharavi area has reported 71 deaths so far. But the real change is (reflected) in the daily testing of samples. A total of 34 people had tested positive for coronavirus on June 1 which has now come down to 10,” he added.Mumbai had recorded 1,420 new Covid-19 cases and 61 deaths taking the case count and toll to 48,774 and 1,638 respectivelyMaharashtra saw 3,007 cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 85,975. It also reported 91 fatalities taking the state’s death toll to 3,060.Dighavkar said Dharavi has reported lower number of cases because of aggressive screening and testing of suspected cases in the area as well as the activation of fever clinics.“With the help of fever clinics, we could identify the people showing symptoms similar to that of coronavirus infection. We isolated them immediately which helped in either containing further transmission of the virus or spreading any kind of infection from those who are feeling unwell,” he said.Dharavi, which home to at least a million people, had reported the first Covid-19 case on April 1, a week after the national lockdown came into force on March 25. The slum in central Mumbai has become a focal point since then as it is home to many small-scale industries and also a major supplier of informal labour.According to BMC officials, the large scale exodus of people during the lockdown could have also contributed to the lower number of Covid-19 cases.“Dharavi offers jobs to hundreds of thousands of people. With continued extensions to the lockdown, a sizeable number of people have left the slum for their homes. This helped us in ensuring physical distancing to some extent,” an official was quoted as saying by PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-a-drop-in-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-dharavi-shows-signs-of-flattening-the-curve/story-EV5e2Q7YxwG5SCxBfQdGgO.html
08-06-2020||India||4 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J-K’s Shopian, 9 in 24 hrs||Four terrorists were killed in an encounter with the security forces in Pinjora area of Shopian district of Jammu-Kashmir on Monday morning, police said. Security forces had launched a cordon-and-search operation after receiving specific information about the presence of militants in the area, news agency PTI reported quoting a police official.He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated.After the operation ended, the bodies of the terrorists were later recovered and arms and ammunition were also recovered. Pinjora is around 12kms from Reban village where five terrorists were killed  on Sunday. Two houses were also damaged.A joint operation of army, CRPF and police was launched early in the morning after a tip off about the presence of terrorists at Reban village. The militants were killed after a 12 hour encounter. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-militants-in-j-k-s-shopian/story-h0AmFf2nD7VGjReusYMiaO.html
08-06-2020||India||Boosting demand key for economic revival||What will be the Covid-19 pandemic’s impact on India? The Reserve Bank of India expects the Indian economy to contract in the current fiscal year. But given the recent release of GDP numbers for the quarter ending March 2020, a big-picture analysis may be needed. In a three-part data journalism series, HT attempts to do exactly that. The first part, which appeared in the edition dated June 6, looked at the economic situation before the pandemic. The second part, which appeared yesterday, looked at the immediate effects of the crisis and their macroeconomic consequences. The third part will argue that the existing policy response might not be enough.On 12 May, in an address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an economic package worth 10% of India’s GDP. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the details of the package in press conferences over the next five days. The package does amount to over ₹20 lakh crore. But the actual fiscal spending involved is much lower. In fact, two-thirds of the package is focused on credit infusion programmes. These include guarantees by the government and provision of additional liquidity by the Reserve Bank of India. The package also announced major steps to deregulate agriculture markets.The lack of fiscal push surprised not just commentators but even markets. A research note by Pranjul Bhandari, Chief India economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets says that “while markets were expecting a more demand-side stimulus...a large part of the attention has been towards medium-term supply side measures”.What should be the objective of an economic package during this pandemic? It depends on the economic situation before the pandemic. If the economy was in good shape, it should focus on restoring the status quo. However this is not the case with India. As pointed out in the first part of this series, the Indian economy was caught in one of its worst ever deceleration phases before the pandemic. So, just getting the economy to where it was immediately before the pandemic, difficult as it is, is not going to be enough.Part I of this series argued that India was facing a demand driven slowdown before the pandemic. Part II argued how loss of incomes due to reverse migration could squeeze rural incomes and demand. So, supply side measures such as easing credit supply are unlikely to help boost the economy, although some businesses may benefit from it.As for the emphasis on reforms, a key component of the package that was announced, not all of these will increase demand. Reforms generally improve the ease of doing business, and thus make an economy more attractive for investment.The failure of corporate taxes reforms announced last year to boost investment activity is a classic example of how something aimed at improving the business environment may not result in sustained demand.Where does demand come from? In a modern economy, it comes from three sources: domestic consumption, exports and investment. Imports represent negative demand, as local purchasing power is diverted towards foreign goods. India enjoyed a good export growth phase until the 2008 financial crisis. The performance has been disappointing post-2008. With the multilateral trading regime in jeopardy, rise of protectionism and trade wars and shock of the pandemic, exports are unlikely to revive anytime soon. Another factor which will prevent an export surge is India’s inability to join any major mega regional trade treaty. The inability of exports to boost growth like they did in the pre-2008 period is a structural shock to the Indian economy.This leaves domestic consumption. Private Final Consumption Expenditure has had a share of almost 60% of India’s GDP in the recent period. India’s private spending is very unequal in nature. An analysis of 2011-12 NSSO data (latest available figures) shows that almost half of it came from the top 20% of the population.The NSSO numbers probably underestimate India’s income inequality. An analysis of income tax data shows that 90% of income taxes in India came from the top 5% of the 50 million who even file income tax returns. India’s workforce is more than 400 million strong.So, what can be done to boost consumption demand? The consumption of the rich could actually go down rather than increase. A Mint column by Niranjan Rajadyaksha explained why this could happen due to the pandemic’s economic pain. “Precautionary savings tend to rise under conditions of income uncertainty. People who have lived through a storm understand the importance of setting some money aside for rainy days”, the column said. “There is thus a strong likelihood that the income uncertainty people are experiencing right now will nudge Indian households to increase precautionary savings at least for the next few years. And this psychological switch may persist even after the Indian economy recovers momentum” it adds. Given the fact that India’s private consumption is skewed towards the rich, any cutback in consumption demand will make economic revival even more difficult. As the column argues, easier credit provisioning might not help in this case.This leaves investment as a driver of growth. Demand for capital goods is a derived demand. Unless businesses see future growth in domestic demand or exports, they will not invest. This is exactly what has been happening in India.What does this entail for Indian economy’s prospects? The concept of paradox of thrift developed by John Maynard Keynes, is important here. It says that if everybody were to start saving more in an economy, aggregate demand would go down. This will lead to lower incomes. Because savings are a fraction of income, collective savings will go down as well.So what should be done? A democratically elected government cannot force individuals to make consumption or saving decisions. However, there is merit in focusing on the bottom 80% of the population. A large part of this struggles to make ends meet. It can hardly save if even if it wants to. NSSO data shows that at least half of India’s population spent half of its budget on food. This is in keeping with the 40% weight of food in India’s retail inflation basket. The primacy of food in household budgets is also the biggest political economy fault line in India. A rise in food prices hurts the poor. A squeeze hurts farmers. Governments juggle this balance.However, this need not be a zero sum game. An expansion of the current food security programme could benefit both farmers and consumers. One such way could be allowing employment of MGNREGS workers in private agricultural activity. This can be rolled out almost immediately. The paddy cultivation season will start in weeks.Another area where things can be changed in the medium to long term is health and education services. In India, even the poor spend beyond their means on private education and healthcare. An improvement and expansion in public services could change this trend.Investment in food security, health, education etc. is generally seen as a resource diversion from physical infrastructure which directly promotes growth. There might have been some merit in this argument in India as long as the consuming classes consume. In the absence of any incentive to – the package announced by the government has little by way of putting more money in the hands of people – this is a perverse argument. State spending in the food economy and social sector, even with stagnant or slightly lower wages, could free up a greater amount for spending by the poor in the non-farm economy. It could just be an extra pair of slippers or a bicycle.This series draws from the author’s work at the Centre for Advanced Studies of India at University of Pennsylvania as a visiting fellow. It is in the process of being developed as a working paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boosting-demand-key-for-economic-revival/story-HVPcub0YRt5drpDDuQWGQN.html
08-06-2020||India||Human-animal conflict should be addressed as an emergency||A pregnant elephant consumes a pineapple with firecrackers and dies. The fruit bomb was not for her, but wild boar who ruin the local crops. What do we make of this and the many cases of unbelievable cruelty against animals in India?Human-animal conflict should be addressed as an emergency. In the first instance, habitat conservation, even commons, is the most essential means of reducing torment to wildlife. Animals seek food or walkways because their own habitats are destroyed. Some believe selective culling by the forest department is a solution. It’s short term-other individuals will follow the food. Some state governments have been allowed to cull, yet what is the basis of this culling? Should you kill every single wild boar and then later term it endangered? Where is the ground research? And if it is done, will we see Tigress Avni like opaque, cruel shooting? Investment in smarter, preventive measures on farm-based conflict is needed. What tactics have worked? How to scale them? Finally, vermin is an outdated category, before the ecosystem approach. Such animals should not be fair game for torture. People will continue to kill them, but science must help find other ways to prevent their presence, or worse case, work with farmers to cull them for a specific period. At least let culling be scientific, transparent, short-term and replaced by conservation.Preventing such violence to wildlife needs both modern and traditional knowledge systems. They must be speedily harvested, before both the animals and custodians of such knowledge pass on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-animal-conflict-should-be-addressed-as-an-emergency/story-6G25IP5GM06NYvqGsgW91M.html
08-06-2020||India||Tripura doctor involved in screening turns Covid-19 positive||A Tripura doctor tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday and a senior state health official said she was likely to be the first doctor in the state to be diagnosed with the virus.The doctor, a homeopathy practitioner, was posted at Akhaura Integrated Check Post in Agartala and tasked with screening stranded Indians returning from Bangladesh earlier this month. “She was with the screening team at Akhaura check post. We decided to test the doctor as she had screened stranded Indians returning from Bangladesh. The test result found her positive for the virus. She is currently admitted at Covid care centre set up at Bhagat Singh Youth hostel,” said the official mentioned above.The state has registered a total of 750 Covid-19 cases so far. 173 of these have recovered, three have migrated and one met with an unnatural death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-doctor-involved-in-screening-turns-covid-19-positive/story-2mpWciR7ftzmuxM5xCUWRM.html
08-06-2020||India||Shrines will open in Ujjain, but places of worship to remain shut in Bhopal, Indore||Shrines in Bhopal and Indore, two major Covid-19 hotspots in Madhya Pradesh, will not open their doors for devotees on Monday according to decisions taken by the administration in both districts on Sunday.However, the famous Mahakal Temple and four other shrines in Ujjain city, another Covid-19 hotspot in the state, will see entry of devotees on Monday after closure of these shrines for more than two months now, according to the district administration. Another famous temple in the state- Ma Peetambara Peeth at Datia will also allow entry of devotees on Monday. However, the facility of darshan will be limited to local devotees only. No more than 450 devotees will be allowed in a day, as per the district administration in Datia. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had on June 1 announced opening of the shrines across the state from June 8. However, he had made it clear earlier that decisions on commercial activities and other establishments will be taken by the district crisis management group in every district in view of the Covid-19 situation over there.The decisions on shrines in Bhopal and Indore were taken by the respective district administrations on Sunday. There is no let-up in the Covid-19 situation in both the cities. In Bhopal, the district administration in a meeting held under the chairmanship of collector Tarun Pithode in which various religious leaders also took part, decided not to allow opening of shrines for at least one week.“The district administration decided not to allow opening of shrines till June 15. The next decision for will be taken on June 12,” said an official spokesperson.After the district administration’s decision in Bhopal, Mushtaq Ali Nadvi made an appeal to committees of all the mosques in Bhopal to continue to follow the administration’s guidelines till further orders and ensure cleanliness and hygiene in mosques during the period. Dr RR Patel, information officer in Indore, said, “The district administration has decided not to allow opening of shrines on Monday. The administration will assess the situation later to take a decision in this regard.”Besides, the Mahakal Temple the shrines that will see people’s entry in Ujjain from Monday include Kal Bhairav Temple, Catholics Church, Jama Masjid and a Gurdwara, as per an administrative authority.Ujjain district administration decided on opening of selected shrines in the city on Friday.The administrator of Mahakal Temple management committee Sujan Singh Rawat said, “The first slot for devotees’ entry to the temple is 8 am to 10 am. The timing of darshan is till 6 pm. This makes it clear that no one will be allowed to watch Bhasm Aarti which is held early in the morning.”As per decisions taken no shops selling prasad items and flowers will be allowed around Mahakal Temple. Only such devotees would be allowed to enter the temple premises who have got themselves registered one day in advance. No one will be allowed to attend four other aartis in the temple. Devotees will have to wear face masks and undergo a thermal screening. They will not be allowed to ring the bell and take prasad.The temple premises will be sanitised every two hours. No more than 300-350 devotees will be allowed to remain present on the campus at a time and a maximum of 1000 devotees will be allowed to enter the temple premises in a day.(With inputs from Anand Nigam in Ujjain).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shrines-will-open-in-ujjain-but-places-of-worship-to-remain-shut-in-bhopal-indore/story-KgFQePVCxQbsVSvaTImY3O.html
08-06-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan damages habitat of living fossil horseshoe crabs in Bengal||Two consecutive cyclones – Amphan and Bulbul - that hit the Bengal coast within a gap of six months have severely damaged the habitat of horseshoe crabs - a living fossil that has remained unchanged for millions of years.Forest officials and researchers are now trying to restore this habitat and also relocate some of the animals to three new islands in the Sunderbans to save them. Plans are also afoot to tag some of the animals so that they could be tracked with the help of satellites.“The horseshoe crab habitat on Sagar Island has suffered extensive damage because of two consecutive cyclones - Amphan and Bulbul. We have identified three beaches at Kalash, Haliday and Bakkhali where a section of the population of the horseshoe crab will be released,” said S Kulandivel, joint director of the Sunderban Biosphere Reserve.Cyclone Amphan hit Bengal on May 20 with winds up to 185 km per hour, Bulbul had hit the Bengal coast close to Sagar Island in November 2019. “Satellite pictures clearly show that its mangrove habitat on the Sagar Island has been damaged. Ground reports say that it is littered with debris including plastic that was brought in by the storm. Also the water has a lot of ‘ghost nets’ which are basically fishing nets that got ripped in the storm and has now been abandoned,” said Punyasloke Bhadury, who heads the Centre for Climate and Environmental Studies at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER).Forest officials and researchers from IISER and Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) will soon start restoring the habitat, first removing the debris and nets. The local fishermen will be involved as Cyclone Amphan has also affected their livelihood. A threshold population will be allowed to stay on the Sagar Island. Talks are also on to tag the habitat as an ecologically sensitive zone in future.Out of the four species of horseshoe crabs in the world, two are found in India. Their habitats in India are confined to the beaches of West Bengal and Odisha in areas such as Sagar Island and Bhitarkanika. The total length of the habitat in Odisha and West Bengal is around 150 km.“While hundreds of Indian horseshoe crab (Tachypleus gigas) comes ashore particularly during the monsoon to breed, the mangrove horseshoe crab (Carcinoscorpius rotundicauda) usually stays in the mangrove areas to feed,” Bhadury said. The researchers will intercept some of the injured horseshoe crabs and treat them before releasing them again in the wild.As of now we want to give them some kind of tag which will help us to identify them in the future. In the next stage we will go for satellite tagging so that they can be monitored.“We first need to assess the damage. More than the cyclone it was the storm surge and the heavy rain that could have inflicted the damage on the habitat which comprises mangrove and mudflats. Some may have got washed further inland and their tail may have been broken,” said BC Choudhury, executive trustee of WTI.The pharmaceutical industry depends on this animal’s blood to test for bacteria in vaccines. The creature has copper-rich blood clots in the presence of bacterial endotoxins and hence has long been used to detect contamination in shots and infusions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-damages-habitat-of-living-fossil-horseshoe-crabs-in-bengal/story-yU1I0mOOahvkq4vDNjUY1M.html
08-06-2020||India||Telangana reports 14 deaths, 154 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, state tally now at 3,650||Telangana on Sunday reported 14 deaths due to Covid-19, the highest-ever number of fatalities in a single day in the state, taking the overall death toll due to the deadly virus to 137.According to an official bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday night, as many as 154 new Covid-19 cases have been detected, taking the total number of coronavirus positive cases to 3,650.What is more alarming is that there has been a steep rise in the number of deaths over the last 20 days after the lifting of lockdown restrictions on May 17.The number of deaths due to Covid-19, which were just 34 on May 18, has now reached 137 – a massive increase by 104 deaths in a span of 20 days. In the last five days alone, as many as 45 deaths were reported in the state.Similarly, the number of Covid-19 positive cases which were just 1,661 on May 18 has now gone up by more than double to reach 3,650 – a massive jump of nearly 1,989 cases.Of the 154 coronavirus positive cases reported today, 132 were from areas under GHMC, 12 from Rangareddy, three from Medchal, two from Yadadri and one each from Siddipet, Mahabubabad, Sangareddy, Nagarkurnool and Karimnagar.Meanwhile, 32 patients were discharged on Sunday which has taken the number of recovered patients to 1,742. As such, there are 1,771 active patients undergoing treatment in hospitals, the bulletin said.Director of medical and health department, G Srinivasa Rao, attributed the steep rise in the number of deaths and positive cases to increased movement of people from all walks of life and of all age groups from one place to another, after the relaxations in lockdown 4.0“People are travelling across the state and some of them are not following basic preventive measures like wearing a mask, maintaining safe physical distance and overcrowding. This has resulted in a surge in the cases since relaxation of lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-14-deaths-154-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-state-tally-now-at-3-650/story-KuIaYT8cZZZht63EfiMFzK.html
08-06-2020||India||Prices soar as Dehradun’s biggest vegetables market remains shut over Covid-19 cases||Prices of vegetables and fruits in Dehradun have gone up following the closure of the biggest vegetable and fruit market in the city after several cases of Covid-19 emerged from it.The Niranjanpur Mandi located on Saharanpur road was closed down a few days ago by the district administration after five cases of Covid-19 were reported from there. The mandi is the biggest wholesale one in the city where the majority of the vegetables and fruits is received from different parts of the state and country. The closure of the market for over a week has gradually resulted in the increase in retail prices of vegetables and fruits.Gajendra Singh, a retail seller of fruits and vegetables near the mandi said, “The closure of the mandi has posed a challenge for us to arrange a supply for the shop. Earlier we used to buy from the whole sellers in the Mandi, but now we have to arrange it from elsewhere.”Singh said, “The action has resulted in an increase in retail prices of vegetables and fruits in the market especially fruits.”“A few days ago, the price of 1.5 kg mangoes was Rs 100 but now it’s Rs 80 for a kg. Similarly the price of bananas which was Rs 40 a dozen is now about Rs 50-60 a dozen,” he said. Amid the closure of the Niranjanpur Mandi, the district administration has established a temporary mandi in Maldevta area of the city from where the vegetables and fruits are being supplied at present. But the supply has fallen short of the city’s requirement.A mandi official on condition of anonymity said, “The total requirement of the city is about 4,000 kg of vegetables per day. However, due to the closure of the Niranjanpur mandi, the supply is now about little more than half per day. We hope soon it will be resolved.”Meanwhile on Sunday, the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) continued its sanitisation programme for the second day of complete closure of the city amid a rising number of Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, the city was closed as per the decision of the Uttarakhand government to carry extensive sanitisation in all the public places including markets, streets, colonies and shops. No shops, liquor shops, were allowed to open apart from the complete prohibition of movement of vehicles. Only the shops of essential items were allowed to open. The vehicles involved in essential services were the only ones allowed to ply on the roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prices-soar-as-dehradun-s-biggest-vegetables-market-remains-shut-over-covid-19-cases/story-WJeA8vupwhi1JAMQC5zOSN.html
08-06-2020||India||India, China will continue talks on border stand-off||India and China will continue military and diplomatic contacts to resolve a weeks-old stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the external affairs ministry said on Sunday amid indications that the two sides were hunkering down for the long haul on the issue.An hours-long meeting on Saturday between a delegation led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and a Chinese delegation headed by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC ended without a breakthrough.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry on Sunday morning said that “the two sides will continue the military and diplomatic engagements to resolve the situation and to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas”.Saturday’s meeting between the Indian and Chinese commanders – the first meeting of top military officials since the stand-off began in early May – “took place in a cordial and positive atmosphere”, the statement said. It added that both sides agreed to work towards peacefully resolving the situation.“Both sides agreed to peacefully resolve the situation in the border areas in accordance with various bilateral agreements and keeping in view the agreement between the leaders that peace and tranquillity in the India-China border regions is essential for the overall development of bilateral relations,” the statement said.“Both sides also noted that this year marked the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries and agreed that an early resolution would contribute to the further development of the relationship,” it added.The statement noted that, in recent weeks, India and China have “maintained communications through established diplomatic and military channels to address the situation” along the LAC.People familiar with developments and who spoke on condition of anonymity said both sides appeared to be preparing for the long haul, including protracted discussions to defuse tensions, end the stand-off and ensure a return to the status quo that existed in April.Saturday’s meeting, slated to begin early in the morning, was delayed by several hours. It began at about 11.30am and continued for almost seven hours, with a break for lunch. The people cited above said that the talks ended inconclusively.“The two sides discussed the need to adhere to existing border protocols to maintain peace and tranquillity on the frontier. They also talked about the need to avoid any aggressive activities that could lead to a flare-up,” said one of the people cited above.A second person, who too didn’t want to be named, said: “This has the makings of being a long-drawn affair. That’s why the official statement talks about the need for more military and diplomatic contacts.”The people said India is sticking to its position that the status quo existing in April, before intrusions by Chinese troops in the Ladakh sector of LAC, would have to be restored, and that all bunkers and positions constructed by the Chinese side would have to be removed.They also acknowledged that the discussions could take several months before any sort of resolution is reached.A day ahead of the crucial talks between the army commanders, India and China agreed on Friday on not allowing their differences to escalate into disputes while respecting each other’s concerns.Joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry held talks with Wu Jianghao, director general in China’s foreign ministry, through video conference on Friday and reviewed bilateral relations, including “current developments”. This was the first formal diplomatic meeting between the two sides since tensions flared along the LAC.The army commanders met almost a month after tensions between India and China rose along the disputed border and took bilateral ties to a new low.India has dismissed China’s contention that its troops were hindering the activities of Chinese troops along the LAC, and accused Chinese forces of hampering patrols on the Indian side. The Indian government has made it clear it won’t allow any change in the status quo along the LAC, and that it will tackle the prevailing situation with “strength and restraint”.Lt Gen (retired) Vinod Bhatia, a former director general of military operations, said it would be difficult to set a time frame for resolving the dispute.“We have to be patient. It is important that the situation along the LAC remains stable and status quo ante (as of early April) is restored. And as long as military and diplomatic level talks are on, there is a high possibility the dispute could be resolved,” he said.Jayadeva Ranade, president of the Centre for China Analysis and Strategy, said India would have to be ready for prolonged negotiations to resolve the situation. “Clearly, the military and diplomats [on the Indian side] are coordinating on what they do,” he said.“However, the Chinese have already come with manpower, firepower and reinforcements and they’re not going back. They’re also blowing hot and blowing cold, and seem to have adopted a maximalist position,” he said.“Besides, President Xi Jinping, who would have cleared any action of this sort, has faced domestic criticism for the disengagement after the Doklam stand-off in 2017. We have to be ready for protracted discussions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-will-continue-talks-on-border-stand-off/story-SzEedczOwlQkTy01eqSC4N.html
08-06-2020||India||In one village, rising tide waters bring back nightmare of cyclone||When the gale died down and the squall ended in the early hours of May 21, Chandan Patra thought the worst was behind him. Cyclone Amphan tore the roof off his modest two-room house in Harinhula village in the North 24 Parganas district of West Bengal and smashed most of the belongings, but everyone in his family was safe and the hutment was still standing. Their biggest worry was the water swishing around on the floor – the cyclone smashed at least 22 river embankments in the area, allowing waters from the Bidyadhari river to gush through – but Patra estimated that in another week, the water level would plummet as relief reached the village. He was wrong. Roughly three weeks after the fiercest cyclone hit the region in a century, water levels are rising once again, courtesy the full-moon tide that threatens to maroon the entire village and overwhelm the recently repaired embankments. Patra, who works at a leather factory near Kolkata, was forced on June 4 to shift his ailing mother and sister to a relative’s house on the other side of the river. “In our house, the water is nearing waist-level. We fear if it rises again, it will destroy whatever we have left. The current sometimes is so strong that we feel we will be swept away,” said Patra. The road approaching his house has almost been washed away, making it difficult for relief workers to access his family. The male members of the family take turns perching themselves on a bed atop a small pile of trunks and belongings while another one goes to get dry food and ration from the local government office. “We are regularly getting relief material and food, but we are not sure how long our house will stand the gush of water. It is our home after all; we built it after much hardship. How do we abandon it?” asked Patra. The village of roughly 1,200 people stands in an under-developed part of the state that is dependent on agriculture and manual labour. Patra’s father is an agricultural labourer, his brother is unemployed and his sister is studying in a local college. Their nemesis, the Bidyadhari river, is one of the scores of waterways that form a unique interconnected network of channels, marshes, and salt lakes in the Sunderban delta. It once cradled a glorious ancient civilisation that now survives only in the form of a ruins and fort at nearby Chandraketugarh. A lifeline for the local population – dominated by marginalised castes, for who the local assembly constituency is also reserved – are the decades-old embankments that protect the area against storm surges. Local residents allege these structures were slowly weakening because of insufficient maintenance – hastening soil erosion in the area. “Over the years, we have lost chunks of land to the river,” said Shyamal Mondal, a local school teacher. Amphan crushed 22 of them, but within weeks, local residents and the administration were able to rebuild about 20. “About 500 labourers worked day and night to repair the embankments. But in two big ones, the water pressure was so high that it was dangerous to work there. These have not been repaired,” said Mondal. As a result, columns of water are gushing towards the low-lying Harinhula that falls right in the direction of the current. Two additional factors are complicating relief. The area is without power because Amphan uprooted all electricity poles in the vicinity and the lingering threat of Covid-19, which has infected at least 1,000 people in the district. The administration has provided generators and local residents have pooled in money to buy portable batteries to be installed in the main chowk of the village. Their biggest concern: keeping mobile phones charged. The administration is aware of the challenge in a block where roughly 60% of the houses were severely damaged. “The damage is extensive. We are trying our best and giving relief and food to the locals,” said Usha Rani Mondal, the local legislator. She said the water surge was too much for the workers to bring it under control. “It may take up to one month for the water to completely go down,” she added. The state government admitted that some areas were still inundated. “While most people have returned home and have started rebuilding and repairing their huts, there are some areas which are still inundated and people have not been able to return to their house. They have been kept in makeshift camps. More than 16 lakh tarpauline sheets have been distributed. Disaster kits with stoves, utensils for cooking, and water containers have been distributed. They need to stay in camps till the water recedes,” said Javed Khan, state disaster management minister.But for Patra and his family, the threat is more immediate. “We don’t know if our house will remain standing when the water surges again. Where will we go?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-one-village-rising-tide-waters-bring-back-nightmare-of-cyclone/story-OrPtJS8I1qq03R9emTRq0I.html
08-06-2020||India||11k Jharkhand workers to build roads near China boundary||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has allowed the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to induct 11,815 workers from his state to build critical roads in areas close to the China border after being assured that their welfare and rights will be safeguarded, people familiar with the development said on Sunday.The state government conveyed its consent to BRO in a letter dated June 6. It gave the permission after getting assurances on concerns flagged by it about the welfare of workers and wages not being paid in time, the officials said.In a letter to the Jharkhand government on the movement of migrant labour dated June 5, BRO clarified several aspects related to the fixing and payment of wages, medical facilities, injury benefits, ration, clothing, free conveyance and work hours.On safeguarding the interest of the workers, the letter said, “The BRO is committed to safeguard the interest of the labour who are the backbone of the organisation. It has been the constant endeavour of the BRO to ensure that the aspirations of the labourers are met and their legitimate wages are paid in time.” The officials said BRO has communicated to the state the revised wages that will be paid to all categories of workers --- unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled --- who will get 15% to 20% extra from June 10, the officials said. The workers will be transported on 11 trains to Jammu and Chandigarh, and then be ferried to border areas in Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, where BRO is constructing important roads, as reported by HT on May 31.The move comes even as Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball to eyeball at four locations along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. The roads on which works are being carried out include the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldie (DS-DBO) road.The Chinese troop build-up in the Galwan area threatens the critical DS-DBO road and if the project is blocked, the Indian army will be forced to use aerial supply lines and prepare for an arduous alternative route.HT on April 28 reported BRO’s plans to induct up to 40,000 workers to carry out the construction of key roads and tunnels in far-flung areas in the forward areas along the China border despite the Covid-19 pandemic.BRO employs a labour force of around 100,000 workers for its various construction projects. Of this, around 60,000 workers are employed locally and the rest of the requirement is met through hiring migrant labour.BRO’s peak working season extends from May to November. Migrant workers are a key part of the organisation’s workforce involved in building strategic roads in Ladakh, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. It plans to complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the China border by December 2022 to allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11k-j-khand-workers-to-build-roads-near-china-boundary/story-IrNvnEkzVQWSBabVoRhMtN.html
08-06-2020||India||Massive 84% dip in textile sales, finds study||The apparel sales have plummeted to a historic low of 84% because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed in late March to check its spread, a Clothes Manufacturing Association of India (CMAI) survey of around 1,000 factories has found. Only 22% of the factories were functioning by the May end while 40% of them manufactured personal protection equipment (PPE). Over 83% of the factories surveyed with global marketing research firm’s AC Nielson’s help reported sales of under 5% sales in May compared to the same month last year. Rahul Mehta, the chief mentor of CMAI, cited the survey and said the apparel market was worth Rs 6.5 lakh crore in 2019 and they estimate it to shrink by 15% this year to around 5.85 lakh crores. He added in the April-June quarter, most brands and retailers would be unable to achieve over 15- 20% of their 2019 first-quarter sales.Mehta said the industry, which contributes 4 to 5% to India’s GDP, employs close to 12 million people. “It is our estimate that approximately 50% of the labour force is migratory,” Mehta said. Union textile ministry officials said the demand was at an all-time low with even the government was unable to sell its own stock. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageA textile ministry official said there is no demand right now. “Only 10% of the stock has been sold in the last 15 days. The export market is dwindling as well. Luxury products are not selling.”The official said the ministry has not conducted any assessment of the losses but added stocks were piling up at mills even as the Centre on May 30 released details of the first of a three-phase plan--Unlock 1.0--to lift stringent restrictions imposed to stop the Covid-19 spread. The official said National Textile Corporation Limited, under the ministry, has a stock worth Rs 130 crore but no takers. “Rs 70 crore worth raw material is also lying unused.”The official said mills are unable to dispense with the stocks because the “market is at a stalemate”. “This may change by July. There are sectors that are worst hit like construction... Right now people are not spending money, but that will change.”Indian Technical Textile Association chairman Dr Sundaram said the Centre’s order for 20.2 million PPE kits has helped some offset huge loses. “At Rs 635 for a [PPE] suit, the order for 2.2 core [20.2 million], has pumped [Rs] 1,400 crore into the sector over the last three months.” He added this is nothing compared to the overall losses.South India Mills Association secretary-general K Selvaraju said the industry lost about 5,500 crore daily during the lockdown and the road ahead does not look easy.That nearly 70% of the workers employed in the industry are migrants has added to its woes as the lockdown led to their massive exodus from cities. Selvaraju said there will be at least 30 to 50% fall in consumption. “Most migrants have returned home and will only be back after the monsoon. It is likely that a semblance of normalcy will return to the industry in September...”Former Confederation of Indian Textile Industry (CITI) secretary-general D K Nair said there will at least 50% revenue loss and restarting the industry will be especially tough. He said the business would only get tougher if the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi do not reduce. “They are the main trading centres and right now, they are [Covid-19] hotspots. Nothing is moving there,” said Selvaraju. “Production across the industry, whether it is in spinning, garments, yarn, has come to standstill.” Selvaraju said exports make up for 30% of the revenue and most orders have been cancelled or deferredNair said the export demand is likely to fall further as the largest exporter, the US, is also facing anti-racism protests along with the pandemic. He added the US and Europe account for 60% of exports from India. CITI has written to Indian Banks Association and sought a series of measures, including an extension to the moratorium on repayment of term loans until March 31, 2021, to help the industry. Nair said many would be unable to tide over the revenue dip as medium or small scale enterprises account for 80% of the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-84-dip-in-textile-sales-finds-study/story-QtuWcVSecymJc55eduKzhI.html
08-06-2020||India||Social innovation hub on anvil||The Union social justice and empowerment ministry is planning to organise a “social innovation hub” in Delhi to facilitate business ventures and start-ups by weaker sections of society, a person with knowledge of developments said on Sunday. The event, likely to be held at the Dr Ambedkar International Centre in central Delhi, is aimed at building a world-class social innovation hub that works for the promotion of grassroots innovators, the person added. It comes at a time the government has unveiled a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to boost the economy hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. “The innovation hub aims at developing business leaders among weaker sections especially the scheduled castes by facilitating them to establish and scale up business ventures with support from government schemes. The aim is to catalyse economic growth and boost the socio-economic fabric of the country. The social justice ministry is presently drawing the contours of the plan,” said the person, who wished not to be identified.According to details accessed by HT, the ministry intends to support at least one aspiring entrepreneur from the weaker sections in every district . The idea is to mentor and scale up indigenous innovative solutions for the benefit of these communities.The innovation hub might provide business coaching and other support to promising entrepreneurs, and guide them on issues like market access and fund-raising, according to the person cited above. The hub could also help these entrepreneurs gain access to new technologies and best practices. The hub could also explore tie—ups with corporate players to boost the new entrepreneurs.“The most important aspect is that such a hub is relevant to the socio-economic scenario. Therefore the ministry is brainstorming to make it an effective platform,” said the person cited above. The hub could hold leadership programmes for NGOs, social enterprises and even have entrepreneur-in—residence programmes, according to the person cited above.Another key idea is to provide business skills to persons from the weaker and underrepresented sections, which could be former convicts or those recovered from alcohol or drug addiction. “One of the Modi government’s focus areas has been ensuring employment and entrepreneurship opportunities to all sections. There is a view in the ministry that promotion of entrepreneurial skills and opportunities could mean actual empowerment of a significant strata. The hub could play a key role in this direction,” said the person cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-innovation-hub-on-anvil/story-anO1gO7FUt7cX3ACcuYN9N.html
08-06-2020||India||Reopening depends on Covid-19 situation: M Jagadesh Kumar||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) is awaiting the government’s directions on reopening educational institutes that were closed in March when the measures to curb the Covid-19 spread were introduced. JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar spoke to Amandeep Shukla about his plans for reopening the university, and issues like the post-Covid-19 life, the pandemic, online learning, digital divide, etc. Edited excerpts:How has JNU coped with the Covid-19 pandemic?The [Covid-19] lockdown was enforced strictly by sealing gates and restricting movement. JNU has been able to not only shield itself from any outside social contact but made the most of social distancing by getting digitally closer to the world. Academically, JNU showed its responsibility by holding online classes, organising over 100 webinars, and discussions. To help the nation’s fight against Covid-19, JNU made a substantial contribution to the PM CARES [the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations] Fund by voluntary deductions from salaries...How would you respond to criticism of online education given the digital divide?While a majority of our students are participating in online academic activities, we are aware that some may not have good connectivity to access lectures and participate in the online evaluation. For all such students, the university has decided to conduct lectures and evaluations when they return.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageWhen do you plan to reopen the university for regular teaching?Our initial plan was to open the university from July 1. We planned to conduct special lectures and evaluations from July 1 to July 31 for all students, who could not be part of the online academic activities... However, the actual date of reopening will depend on how the Covid-19 situation evolves and if we are going to get any new guidelines.Do you plan tie-ups with hospitals to tackle any emergency situations?We have formed a Covid-19 task force, which issues guidelines from time to time. The campus community has been very cooperative. We have a good health centre and two ambulances are available 24/7.What will change for JNU, which has a very lively campus?Life is going to be different for all of us primarily to protect ourselves and also to ensure that a second wave of infections should not affect us. Particularly in common areas, we will be taking precautions to maintain safety and health. Our sanitary section, too, is actively involved in maintaining the hostels and other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reopening-depends-on-covid-19-situation-m-jagadesh-kumar/story-wOY725J4kRUOUpvE3Cg9PN.html
08-06-2020||India||Woman held for links with IS tests positive in NIA custody||A woman arrested for her alleged links with the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) and charged with instigating violent protests in Delhi in February has been hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19 in the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) custody, people familiar with the matter said. It wasn’t immediately clear how Hina Bashir Beigh, 39, contracted the disease.The people cited above said the interrogators have been asked to undergo Covid-19 tests and follow the quarantine process. A person aware of the developments said that around 7-8 officials, including a police superintendent, questioned Beigh last week.Beigh and her husband, Jahanzaib Sami, who are from Srinagar, were arrested from Delhi in March for their alleged links with ISKP and for allegedly instigating protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.NIA, which is probing cases pertaining to IS in India, took the custody of Beigh, Sami and another suspect, Mohammad Abdullah Basith, from Delhi’s Tihar jail on May 29. Basith, who is from Hyderabad, was arrested in August 2018 for allegedly trying to carry out attacks in India and inspiring people to join the group.The three tested Covid-19-negative when NIA took their custody, the people said. NIA questioned the three at the agency’s headquarters for nine days. Beigh developed Covid-19 symptoms during the interrogation and was tested again. NIA informed the duty magistrate at New Delhi’s Patiala House Courts Complex on Sunday that Beigh has been found positive for the infectious disease.Her lawyer, MS Khan, said: “I urged the court that Beigh should be immediately referred to a hospital and permission be granted for her to talk to me regularly, which was not allowed earlier.”Sami and Basith have not shown any signs of the disease yet, the people said.An NIA spokesperson did not respond to HT’s calls for a comment.NIA on May 29 said the agency needs the custody of the three to “unearth a larger criminal conspiracy” as they were in touch with several unknown people in India and abroad. “Beigh, Sami and Basith were motivated by ISIS ideology and working for banned terror organisation ISKP in India for which they had created a lot of email IDs and secured social media chat platform IDs to interact with the like-minded persons for sharing the contents propagating the ideology of ISKP and ISIS in general,” according to the NIA remand paper accessed by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-held-for-links-with-is-tests-positive-in-nia-custody/story-ohsrcvdk2qrFXiGsFuAVsK.html
08-06-2020||India||Rise in younger people seeking NREGS work||More younger people are seeking jobs under the government’s flagship rural job guarantee scheme -- indicating the impact of the return of migrant labour from cities back home to the hinterland because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread that stopped work at construction sites and factories around the country and also forced restaurants and retail stores to down shutters. The month of April saw a tepid start of the world’s largest job programme, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), with 12.8 million households asking for work. Officials point out that a hard lockdown, lack of preparation at the state level and scarcity of workers led to low demand even as millions were stranded jobless as the Covid pandemic swept across India.But as more Shramik special trains brought migrant workers back to their states, the demand for work jumped by 181% in May with 36.1 million households wanting work, according to official data. The railway ministry said it ran 4,286 Shramik special trains to bring back over 5.8 million migrant workers to their state of domicile from cities such as Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Delhi.In the first week of June, the MGNREGS dashboard shows that 19.6 million families have asked for work, signalling further rise in the demand as the harvest season is over and hardly anyone is returning to their workplace. With younger workers having returned to their villages, their participation in MGNREGS has increased. Among the people employed in the flagship job programme this year, 31.1% are in the 31-40 years age group. And another 30% in the 41-50 age bracket. For last year, the corresponding figures were 29.5% and 29.6%.As the participation of younger workers—mostly those who returned from cities—increases, the proportion of workers in the age group 51-60 years has reduced to 19.3% as against 20.2% of the last year.The drop in percentage terms is small, but across tens of millions of households, the change in absolute terms is significant. For instance, across 10 million people, a 1% point difference will mean 100,000 people. “The established pattern in MGNREGS was that while young men would leave for cities in search of more lucrative jobs, the women or the elder people in the family would opt for the government’s job scheme to earn additional money. This year, we are witnessing some changes in this pattern,” said an official.The flagship job scheme, once criticized by a section of the politicians for rampant corruption, has emerged as the main source of income for the rural poor in this distress. The government too, has pumped in an unprecedented Rs 1.01 lakh crore in the programme and aims to generate 3 billion person days of work to help jobless migrant labourers in their villages.Among the states, Bihar, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Odisha Punjab, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh have witnessed massive demand for work. Officials pointed out that while large parts of Maharashtra and Rajasthan have now been reopened from lockdown allowing MGNREGS work, the other states have seen large-scale return of migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rise-in-younger-people-seeking-nregs-work/story-jb9mqc9MrErQzORsvDQ1WJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Bundelkhand stares at acute water crisis||The average water consumption has more than doubled in urban and semi-urban areas of the arid Bundelkhand region in Uttar Pradesh because of a focus on maintaining hygiene to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, a study by Jal Jan Jodo Abhiyan and Parmarth, a voluntary group, has found. Sanjay Singh, the group’s national convenor, said the rise in water use could be attributed to repeated hand washing, home cleaning, and washing of clothes. “We have analysed the water being supplied from two biggest dams Mata Teela and Pahuj and found that the water consumption has jumped one-and-a-half-times,” he said. Mata Teela supplies 110 MLD and 40 MLD through two waterworks plant and Pahuj provides 5.5 MLD to Jhansi and other areas. “Earlier 80% of the water was being used but after the [Covid-19] lockdown was announced, the consumption became cent percent. More so, the water is [also] made available to people through a network of tankers,” said Singh, who is known as ‘the waterman’ in Bundelkhand, where he has been working on water conservation for 20 years.The demand for water further increased with the return of the migrant workers left jobless by the lockdown. A looming water crisis is weighing heavily on the women, who traditionally have shouldered the responsibility to collect and conserve water. “The women are troubled because of the heightened demand for water which is available through pipelines and handpumps in 10% of total households in Bundelkhand,” Singh said. “At present, on average, a person is washing hands six to seven times a day. People are cleaning their homes multiple times. They are using more water to clean vegetables and other commodities leading to a rise in water consumption.”Officials said at least 24% of handpumps were not working in the region and their repair has been hampered because of the pandemic.Bundelkhand faces water shortage because of its unique granite topography, which does not allow rainwater to seep in and recharge the groundwater table. The region has 20 dams and seven rivers, which are its main water sources of water along with reservoirs and ponds.Singh said 70% of water is used for agriculture, and about 12 to 15% for industrial and personal consumption in Bundelkhand, which has faced two major droughts in recent years. “The government should at war footing initiate measures to repair and desilt reservoirs, wells and ponds as the water crisis in Covid times is bound to become serious.”Uttar Pradesh Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh admitted the water consumption has gone up but said the government has ensured availability to all. “We have set control rooms at the block level to state level and I am personally monitoring the situation every day; the policies and work on the ground of state government is such that there has been no complaint of water shortage in the last three years in Bundelkhand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bundelkhand-stares-at-acute-water-crisis/story-6YdaJzthwqHhetonpXCrkL.html
08-06-2020||India||Nod to reopening 820 protected monuments||The culture ministry on Sunday approved the reopening of 820 Archeological Survey of India (ASI)-protected monuments that have remained closed since the Centre clamped a national lockdown to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, Union minister Prahlad Patel said.The list of monuments includes temples, mosques and churches, with 114 monuments in the north region, 155 in central, 170 in the west, 279 in the south and 103 in the eastern circle.“Today, the culture ministry has approved the opening of 820 of its active monuments under the ASI from June 8. All protocols issued by the home ministry and the health ministry should be followed,” Patel tweeted.While the list of monuments approved for reopening included the Taj Mahal, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said the 17th-century will not open for public from Monday. The district administration decided not to open the monument as the area is classified as a Covid-19 hotspot.People aware of the developments said that monuments located in Maharashtra were also unlikely to be opened in view of the surging Covid-19 infections in the state.A statement issued by the Centre said: “Culture Ministry said that ASI shall ensure that preventive measures as stipulated in the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of India, on 4.6.2020 to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the religious places/places of worship are effectively put in place and scrupulously followed while opening and managing these Centrally Protected Monuments.”The culture ministry decided to open only ASI-maintained monuments where religious events are held.About 3,700 centrally protected monuments and heritage sites were closed in March after the nationwide lockdown was announced. Once allowed by local administrations, the highest number of monuments is set to reopen in Karnataka (153), followed by Uttar Pradesh (111), Tamil Nadu (77) and Andhra Pradesh (75).The monuments allowed to open include the Afsah-wala-ki-Masjid situated outside the west gate of Humayun’s Tomb, the Qutub Minar and Nizamuddin Dargah in Delhi. According to the document, the Nizamuddin Dargah sees nearly 5,000-6,000 worshippers every day. The Govind Dev Temple in Mathura (1,500-2,000 worshippers daily) has also been allowed to open. The famous Basilica of Bom Jesus, Old Goa (700-2,500 visitors per day, depending on the time of the year) has also been approved to reopen. The Ambernath Temple, which sees a footfall of 800,000 a year, has also been allowed to reopen.The Union culture and tourism minister told Hindustan Times that the move will allow the ministry to observe and gauge the way forward as the central government eases restrictions in a phased manner. “Hotels and restaurants have also been allowed to function starting tomorrow (Monday),” Patel said. “The standard operating procedures issued by the health and home ministry will be followed at the places of worship that have been allowed to be opened,” he added. “The states can further issue orders for the monuments that fall under them,” Patel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nod-to-reopening-820-protected-monuments/story-4iSYa6p4F61m7UJV629X7I.html
08-06-2020||India||Centre relaxes norms for import of certain drugs||The Union health ministry has issued a draft notification to allow import and manufacturing of certain unapproved drugs on compassionate grounds in small volumes based on a prescription from a medical institution. The move is aimed at making experimental drugs for treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) accessible for severely-ill patients in India.In the draft gazette notification issued on June 5, the health ministry amended the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, in consultation with the Drugs Technical Advisory Board, which advises the government on all drug-related matters.“…Application for import of unapproved new drug for Compassionate use for treatment of patients by hospitals or and medical institution… a medical officer of a hospital or medical institution may import new drug for compassionate use for treatment of patients suffering from life threatening disease or disease causing serious permanent disability or disease requiring therapy for unmet medical need, which has not been permitted in the country…” says the notification.The rules will also be applicable to the manufacturing of such drugs in the country.However, only those drugs will be allowed to be imported or manufactured that are under phase-III clinical trial either in India or in any other country. The medical superintendent of a hospital or head of a medical institution will have to certify an application before sending it to the central licensing authority for approval.“This rule already existed and was applied on a case to case basis... keeping the Covid situation in mind... the rules now have been amended to allow import or manufacture of an unproved drug to treat seriously-ill patients based on a prescription by the authority concerned,” said an official in the drugs controller’s office. “The prescription will be given to manufacturer or importer who will attach it with the application for approval to the central drugs controller. Many drugs are being approved for trials and there may be a need to get these drugs to our patients.”The official said the condition related to phase-III the clinical trial is to have the safety and efficacy data in place, which is important to know when you are giving an experimental drug to a patient.The rules will be applicable 15 days after the final draft is published in the gazette of India. “As per protocol, we have to wait for a particular time for responses on the proposed amendment. If there is no objection, then the draft is finally gazette notified and implemented,” the official said.Drugs controller general of India, VG Somani, last week approved “emergency use” of Gilead Sciences Inc’s anti-viral drug remdesivir to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-relaxes-norms-for-import-of-certain-drugs/story-S0XXffd4ggGcVCec9OkipM.html
08-06-2020||India||Odisha cops exhume body parts of youth killed over suspicion of witchcraft||An 18-year-old young man was allegedly killed by a group of people in Odisha’s Malkangiri district over suspicion that he practised black magic that led to the death of 17 tribals over the last 3 months, police said Sunday.The alleged killers also chopped his body into pieces and buried them in a pit.Police officials in Malkangiri district exhumed the pieces of Samaru Madkami’s body, three days after he was murdered by villagers, said the inspector of Malkangiri police station Ramprasad Nag. Nag led a police team to Kenduguda village on Sunday and arrested four people who had allegedly killed Samaru.Many of the 17 men who died in the last three months, had complained of swollen legs and swollen stomach. Most of them reportedly did not have the strength even to walk or stand properly and suffered acute respiratory problems. A medical team has been camping at the village for over a week to find out the reason behind the deaths.Police said four tribals - Deba Madkami, Budra Muchaki, Aaita Kabasi and Ram Madi - had called Samaru and two other boys from their houses on the night of June 4 on the pretext of a meeting. They took the three to the outskirts of the village and tried to kill the three. While two boys managed to escape, Samaru was battered to death by the four who accused him of practising witchcraft.After killing Samaru, they chopped his body into pieces and later buried the body parts before fleeing from the spot.The village is situated in a remote area and is difficult to access. Though a primary health centre is located 5 km away, local villagers did not go there for treatment of their ailments.Killing over witchcraft is not new in Odisha. In February this year, a tribal in Malkangiri district was killed by his neighbour over suspicion that he practised black magic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cops-exhume-body-parts-of-youth-killed-over-suspicion-of-witchcraft/story-QaKfXpRdxEzdyq7QTzqGuI.html
08-06-2020||India||At ‘non-election rally’, Amit Shah says NDA will win two-third majority in Bihar polls||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that the virtual rallies being organised by the BJP were to bring the country together in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“This is not an election rally. This is a virtual rally to boost the morale of the public against the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said during the Bihar Jansamvad rally. “I want to salute the crores of corona warriors who are fighting against the virus by risking their lives. Health workers, police personnel and others, I want to acknowledge their contribution.”But it was clear that the former BJP national president had sounded the bugle for assembly election later this year in Bihar where the JD (U), BJP and the LJP run an alliance government.Shah went on to list the achievements of both the central and Bihar government, attacked the opposition in the state and touched upon the touchy issue of the return of migrants.“The elections are there. I have full faith that the people of the state will vote Nitish Kumar to power with a two-third majority and help form the government again,” said Shah, after he had spelt out statistics of work done in the state.Shah defended Centre’s handling of the migrant crisis during the lockdown. “I appeal to all people who returned from their workplace that keep yourself aloof from those elements who are out to misguide you,” he said and saluted their contribution in nation building.“The country respects you. Everybody knows that developed states and development in the country would not have been possible without your sweat. Yours have been an important contribution in the development of the nation. However, those misguiding you, don’t know your value,” he said in an obvious reference to appease close to 21 lakh migrants who returned to Bihar during the lockdown.“There were certain disturbing pictures during the course of their return that gave us pain, but the Centre gave Rs 1,100 crore for their food, we transported 1.25 crore people to their respective state, besides providing Rs 11,020 crore package for the poor by way of different schemes and foodgrains worth Rs 6,000 crore. What did you do? Where were you, Delhi or Bihar,?” he asked taking a swipe at leader of opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who early in the morning beat utensils in protest against the virtual rally.“Some people welcomed our today’s virtual rally by clanging ‘thalis’. I am glad they finally heard PM Modi’s appeal to show gratitude towards those fighting Covid-19,” he said.Bihar’s Covid-19 tally rose to 4,972 on Sunday with 141 new cases. There have been 30 casualties in the state so far.Shah praised the duo of Bihar CM Nitish Kumar and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi “for leaving no stone unturned” to extend relief to the migrants.“Bihar government didn’t hesitate in providing relief. The state government had so far spent Rs 8,538 crore during in providing relief during the current corona crisis. Most of the people who returned by special trains were quarantined for 14 days. The government spent Rs 5,300 per person at a quarantine centre,” the former BJP president said and explained how the Centre spent its Rs 1.25 lakh crore package to the state announced by PM Narendra Modi before 2105 assembly polls.PM Modi had announced that the development of the country cannot be complete without progress in eastern states and it is his commitment that several projects in different sectors are underway in Bihar as well.“Bihar has moved forward under Nitish-Sushil Modi at a growth rate of 11.30 %, from a budget outlay of Rs 2,300 crore during RJD to a budget outlay of Rs 2.11 lakh crore under Nitish-Modi, from a reach of power to only 22% households to 100%, from 34% roads to 96% roads and from a negative industrial growth rate to a 17% industrial growth rate and from strong arm to a politics of development. We have moved away from lantern age to LED age,” he said. Shah also said that several crucial issues which no earlier government had dared to touch in 70 years were resolved in the first year of the Modi government’s second term as he referred to the controversial citizenship amendment law, the abolition of triple talaaq and the scrapping of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-non-election-rally-amit-shah-says-nda-will-win-2-3rd-majority-in-bihar/story-4aieaVMjb9wm31ZwMLlbtO.html
08-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand teenager listening to music on her headphone, killed by leopard||A teenage girl who was listening to music on her headphones was attacked and mauled to death by a leopard in Ramnagar area of Nainital district, said forest officials Sunday. Mamta, a class 8 student from Chunakhan area under Bailparao forest range in Ramnagar was sitting on the bank of a canal that flows parallel to her thatched house on Saturday evening. She was listening to music on her headphone when a leopard suddenly attacked her and dragged her towards the forest area. Her body was later recovered from the nearby bushes, said a forest official.“When we rushed to the spot on getting information from the villagers about the incident, a headphone and a comb were found from the spot. The victim was wearing headphones so she probably couldn’t hear the leopard,” said Santosh Pant, range officer, Bailparao forest range in Ramnagar.With the latest incident, eight people have been killed in Kumaon by leopards in the last one month.Forest officials have set up two cages and seven camera traps near the place where the incident took place to catch the leopard. The big cat returned to the incident place but it could not be trapped as villagers raised alarm on seeing it due to which it escaped to the forests, said Pant.“The leopard has been caught on camera trap. He returned to the place where the teen was killed. It was heading towards the cage but it fled when villagers raised an alarm on seeing it,” said Pant.Pant said, “Two cages and seven camera traps have been set up near the place where the incident took place. We will change the place and position of the cage in the evening to catch the big cat. If the villagers had not raised the alarm on Saturday evening, the leopard would have been trapped in the cage”.Pant said the body of the girl was handed over to her relatives on Sunday after post-mortem.“The victim’s family will be sanctioned Rs three lakh as ex-gratia from the state forest department. So far a cheque of Rs 90,000 has been provided to her family,” said Parag Madhukar Dhakate, conservator of forest, western circle in Kumaon.On Friday, a 65-year-old man was attacked by a leopard in Tanakpur area of Champawat district when he had gone to fetch firewood. He was severely injured and rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-teenager-listening-to-music-on-her-headphone-killed-by-leopard/story-MGvGDp43TljmGAcsV1S6IM.html
08-06-2020||India||Rally to boost public’s morale against Covid-19 pandemic, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said his virtual rally for the people of Bihar was to bring the country together in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“This is not an election rally. This is a virtual rally to boost the morale of the public against the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said during the Bihar Jansamvad rally. Assembly elections in Bihar, where the BJP runs the alliance government with Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), are due later this year. “I want to salute the crores of corona warriors who are fighting against the virus by risking their lives. Health workers, police personnel and others, I want to acknowledge their contribution,” he said.Shah listed the achievements of the Centre and cited Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme, power connections for the poor, toilets, the airstrikes in retaliation to the Pulwama terror attack, triple talaq, Ram Janambhumi, Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the establishment of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and teh scrapping of Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir.Watch: ‘Virtual rally will connect people to ‘self-reliant’ India’: Amit Shah “There was a time when anybody used to enter our borders, beheaded our soldiers and Delhi’s darbar remained unaffected. Uri and Pulwama happened during our time, it was the Modi and BJP govt, we did surgical strikes and airstrike,” he said.Shah said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tried to bring changes in the lives of millions of poor people“Many people had said Indira Gandhi had also promised to remove poverty. But Narendra Modi does what he promises.”He took a swipe at the RJD which had opposed his virtual rally.“Some people welcomed our today’s virtual rally by clanging ‘thalis’. I am glad they finally heard PM Modi’s appeal to show gratitude towards those fighting Covid-19,” he said.Shah defended the Centre’s handling of the migrant crisis during the lockdown and cited the Shramik Special trains that were operated to transport stranded people.He also said PM Modi had regularly been in touch with chief ministers and changed the strategies accordingly during the lockdown.Shah hailed Modi’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Opposition leaders dismissed the Prime Minister’s efforts to unite country in fight against Covid-19 as political propaganda but nation followed his appeals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-addresses-bihar-jansamvad-rally-salutes-crores-of-corona-warriors/story-qHaT5nlmuIPgdSqYcYF0dJ.html
