09-06-2020||India||‘Unlock 1.0 had to happen to bring life back on track’||Actor Gajraj Rao breathes cinema! He loves his work and enjoys every bit of it. “See, if you will not love and enjoy your work means you are in a wrong field. I have been in advertising for long and enjoyed every bit of it. Then, in 90s, when I took up acting, it took me to another level and gave the recognition that we all want in our lives,” he said over the phone.Approving Unlock 1.0, Gajraj wants people to still be cautious. “In all these months I evolved as a person, now I have become more enduring and don’t hurry on issues. Unlock 1.0 had to happen to bring back life back on track but as responsible citizen we should not rush and let’s take things slowly as ultimately markets, places of worship, restaurants are not going to go anywhere. So, as and when things get better one can socialise like before.” Talking about his last release and his conventional yet modern character, Gajraj said, “Though the central issue of ‘Shubh Mangal Zyada Savdhan’ was homophobia yet it was out-and-out a family entertainer. Playing conservative Shankar Tripathi was completely a different experience. I have been a bit sceptical with both my projects be ‘Badhaai Ho’ or ‘SMZS’ but the makers conviction made me so very confident. And see, how both the characters were an instant hit and lauded by the audience and at the same time contented me as an actor,” he said.His next ‘Maidaan’ with actor Ajay Devgn and co-produced by Boney Kapoor was being partially shot in UP, Mumbai and Kolkata. “This film of mine was supposed be extensively shot in April but lockdown happened. After months of hard work, the makers have got a huge set made in Madh Island, Mumbai but heavy rains due to cyclone Nisarga damaged much of it. To cope with all the damages, work may start soon and if the makers ask me to join in 15 days, I will sure join because they are much more knowledgeable than me and they have already suffered so much. So, with all proper guidelines we can start the shoot.”Gajraj is also busy reading scripts for digital as well as films. “I have a number of scripts to read and give a nod but I am taking my time. The digital platform is booming so I too wish to a part of it. However, I have already become a part of it as my film ‘Lootcase’ is getting an OTT release. It’s a comedy drama and we hope it will be liked by all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/unlock-1-0-had-to-happen-to-bring-life-back-on-track/story-8XgwoRSvvzv4VUF2mMAU8N.html
09-06-2020||India||Former left leader Jyotirmoyee Sikdar joins BJP hours after Amit Shah addressed Bengal||Asian games gold medal winning athlete-turned former Communist Party of India (Marxist) Lok Sabha MP Jyotirmoyee Sikdar joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Kolkata on Tuesday hours after union home minister Amit Shah addressed the people of the state in a virtual rally. Sikdar won from Krishnanagar Lok Sabha, defeating BJP’s former union minister Satyabrata Mukherjee, in 2004. However, she lost in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections. Sikdar, a middle-distance runner, had won India many laurels in international championships. The 50-year-old sportswoman-turned-politician joined the party in the presence of BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday. Also Read: Amit Shah takes on Mamata Banerjee on virtual turf, seeks change in West BengalShe had contested the 2016 Assembly elections on a CPI (M) ticket but lost. Since then, she has hardly kept touch with the party, according to a state unit leader of CPI (M). A number of former Left leaders-- including three-time sitting MLA Khagen Murmu, now a BJP MP, and former CPI(M) MLA Mahfuza Khatun, now a vice-president of Bengal BJP-- have joined the saffron party over the past couple of years. For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-left-leader-jyotirmoyee-sikdar-joins-bjp-hours-after-amit-shah-addressed-bengal/story-dOkD0ysMGWj873PSQetHiM.html
09-06-2020||India||Hizbul terrorists killed Congress sarpanch, says J-K Police chief||Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh said that Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists were involved in the killing of Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita alias Bharti in South Kashmir’ Anantnag district on Monday.Bharti was killed by unidentified gunmen in South Kashmir. No outfit has claimed responsibility for the murder.“Yes Hizbul Mujahideen was involved in his killing,” Jammu and Kashmir’s Director General of Police Dilbag Singh saidPolice had said Bharti was attacked inside his orchard in the afternoon. He was cremated in Jammu on Tuesday.Bharti, 40, was the sarpanch of village Lukbawan, Larkipora. He was associated with the Congress party. Locals said Bharti’s family had migrated from south Kashmir in the early ’90s but he returned a couple of years ago and contested the panchayat polls.Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said that sarpanch did not have any security. lThe BJP has demanded security for sarpanchs and panchs in Kashmir.State spokesperson of Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) Altaf Thakur asked the administration to provide security to all sarpanchs and panchs.“We have been demanding security cover to our people for a long time. So far ,nothing has happened .We urge police to provide security to all sarpanchs and panchs,” he said.Thakur said that militants are not happy with development, adding that culprits involved in Pandita’s killing will be brought to book soon.“They don’t want development.Ajay Pandita was active on the ground for a long time.He always stood for his people. They want to create a rift between communities. They will not succeed in their nefarious designs. The militants are under tremendous pressure as they have suffered huge losses in the recent past,” Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizbul-terrorists-killed-congress-sarpanch-says-j-k-police-chief/story-iwT8wYu3KFqXFtBGKTGjlL.html
09-06-2020||India||Char Dham yatra from July 1 for pilgrims from outside Uttarakhand, till then locals can visit||Uttarakhand government has made the famous Char Dham Yatra out of bounds for pilgrims from outside the state till June 30, while putting a cap on the number of devotees allowed per day at the constituent shrines of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath as per the guidelines and standard operating procedure (SOP) released by the state on Tuesday.The state was under pressure to give the nod to restarting the famous pilgrimage after the central government allowed the reopening of religious places of worship as part of the first phase of gradual easing of restrictions— also known as Unlock 1—following over two months of varying degrees of national lockdown imposed to battle the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic.According to the guidelines released on Tuesday, only locals from Uttarakhand districts where the temples are located, will be allowed to visit the shrines in a limited way in the month of June. A maximum of 1,200 local pilgrims per day would be allowed to Badrinath, 800 to Kedarnath, 600 to Gangotri and 400 to Yamunotri shrine. An order released by Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board states that after discussions between district magistrates of the districts housing the Char Dham Shrines and bodies of priests and locals, “It has been decided that the Yatra will remain suspended for pilgrims from outside the state till June 30. However, the priests and locals have agreed to allow pilgrims from within the district and nearby areas to visit the shrines following all norms.”The state government had already begun work to ensure social distancing norms are observed at these shrines once they are allowed to reopen.Also Read: 77 fresh Covid-19 cases take Uttarakhand tally to 1,488Raman specified who all will be allowed to visit the shrines in the month of June.“Till June 30, the yatra has only been allowed for those who live in the same district where the shrines are located. Along with them, those who have their hotels, guest houses, shops or government officials who want to continue their work there will be allowed to go,” he said.Pilgrims will be allowed to visit the shrines between 7 am to 7 pm after taking a mandatory free of cost token from counters set up at the shrines. Pilgrims will get the tokens only before darshan at the shrines. The SOP states that it will be mandatory for pilgrims to wear masks and maintain physical distance at the counters while taking the tokens. A fixed time and date will be mentioned on the token when pilgrims can go for the darshan after waiting in a designated queue for entering the shrines. The token will be checked at the entrance. A queue of maximum 120 meters in length with minimum two meters of distance between each pilgrim will be allowed for Kedarnath shrine, while for Badrinath shrine, a queue of maximum 240 meters length will be allowed.As per the norms, a maximum of 80 pilgrims will be allowed in an hour inside Kedarnath shrine, while 120 pilgrims will be allowed at the Badrinath shrine. At Kedarnath, the pilgrims will be given a maximum of one minute for darshan while the time limit has been capped to 30 seconds for Badrinath shrine. Those who wish to offer special prayers will have to maintain proper social distance while offering prayers.For Coronavirus Live Updates Meanwhile, one person will not be given more than three tokens at a particular time for entering the shrine. As part of preparations to start the yatra, local district administration officials at Badrinath shrine have already made circles outside the shrine for pilgrims to maintain physical distance.The four Himalayan pilgrimage sites- Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath- collectively called Char Dham, are one of the most revered pilgrimages in the Hindu tradition and attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. Traditionally, Char Dham pilgrimage begins in the west from Yamunotri to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. Last year, a record 29 lakh pilgrims visited Char Dham compared to over 27 lakh pilgrims the previous year, including 9.2 lakh to Kedarnath, 10.2 lakh to Badrinath, 4.4 lakh to Yamunotri, and 5.03 lakh to Gangotri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-yatra-from-july-1-for-pilgrims-from-outside-uttarakhand-till-then-locals-can-visit/story-1OKb71skNYEAxBq11hAP9N.html
09-06-2020||India||Odisha Congress to move CVC, Lokayukta over ‘PPE scam’ amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Odisha unit of the Congress has said that it will move the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and the Lokayukta for a probe into alleged irregularities in the procurement of PPE kits to fight the Covid-19 pandemic in the state.Demanding strong action against the officials involved in the “irregularities”, Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee president Niranjan Patnaik said while several other states procured N95 masks at prices between Rs 1.34 and Rs 8.47 per piece, Odisha procured 30 lakh masks from a Tamil Nadu-based company at Rs 16 per piece.“While other states procured masks at Rs 8 per piece, the Biju Janata Dal government bought 30 lakh masks at a double price. Instead of Rs 2.40 crore, they paid Rs 4.80 crore. It is a scam by the BJD in the purchase of life saving medical supplies. An independent probe must be carried out to find out where the money has gone,” Patnaik said at a press conference.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“Apart from launching a massive protest and hitting the streets, our party will move the Central Vigilance Commission and the Lokayukta in connection with the scam and submit a collective memorandum from all districts to Odisha Governor on June 11,” he said.The state Congress chief also alleged that the Odisha State Medical Corporation Limited had purchased an RT-PCR machine at three times the market price. RT-PCR machine which costs around Rs 4-5 lakh has been bought at Rs 12.84 lakh by the state government, he said.“We are not demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on the matter as the BJD enjoys a majority in the state. But we want him to clarify whether there have been irregularities in the procurement or not. We demand the resignation of the ministers and all those involved in the corruption,” said Patnaik.In a separate move, Odisha Pradesh Youth Congress Committee leaders met Governor Ganeshi Lal demanding CBI probe against health and family welfare minister Naba Kishore Das and MSME Secretary Hemant Sharma alleging their involvement in ‘PPE kit procurement scam’. Odisha Suchana Adhikar Abhiyan, a forum of RTI activists, too lodged an FIR in a police station of Bhubaneswar against the MSME secretary alleging his involvement in the PPE kit procurement ‘scam’.On Monday, a public interest litigation (PIL) was filed in Orissa High Court in connection with the gross irregularities in the purchase of personal protective equipment by the state government.Last week Sharma was removed from the Covid-19 procurement committee following a controversy that erupted after over 20 truckloads of PPEs, sanitiser, masks and ventilators remained stranded in Bhubaneswar for weeks. The government accepted the consignments from three trucks while the others were turned away.In April, Sharma had claimed that the chief minister allowed his officers to travel with blank cheques for purchase of PPEs and testing kits.However, health and family welfare minister Naba Das said there were no irregularities and the state bought the PPEs as per central guidelines.“The masks were purchased after the direction from the Centre on March 24. The state is proud of the selfless service of health workers and such insinuations would demoralize them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-congress-to-move-cvc-lokayukta-over-ppe-scam-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-4TjM9D95rq58QHzYeIwT2M.html
09-06-2020||India||With 126 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand’s tally reaches to 1,537||With 126 fresh Covid-19 cases reported from Uttarakhand on Tuesday, the tally of total cases in the state increased to 1,537. So far, 41 Covid-19 patients have recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state.A bulletin released by the state health department mentioned that 62 Covid-19 cases were reported late on Monday night while 64 cases were reported on Tuesday. The cases were reported from districts like Almora (1), Bageshwar (5), Dehradun (21), Haridwar (7), Nainital (4), Pauri Garhwal (4), Rudraprayag (4), Uttarkashi (1), Tehri Garhwal (72) and Pithoragarh (7).Out of the 126 cases, 25 patients reported on Tuesday had no travel history or were local citizens. A police staff from Dehradun also tested positive along with a vegetable vendor who was a close contact of an earlier positive patient. Other patients had travel history from places like Delhi-NCR, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.On Tuesday, 41 patients were also discharged from hospitals in different districts like Dehradun (27), Chamoli (7), Pauri Garhwal (6) and Uttarkashi (1).The districts of Dehradun (396), Nainital (328), Tehri Garhwal (221) and Haridwar (151) have reported the highest number of positive cases in the state so far. The rate of infection stands at 4.45% in the state now, with a recovery rate of 50.33%. The rate of doubling in the state based on the last seven days stands at 15.82 days.Uttarakhand has so far tested over 40,000 samples of which results of over 5,800 are awaited.The state now has a total of 60 containment zones across five districts of which the maximum containment zones at 25 are in Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-126-fresh-covid-19-cases-uttarakhand-s-tally-reaches-to-1-537/story-iNK4QdjypUicH6AlgfF1XO.html
09-06-2020||India||In unlock 1, Covid cases surge in Gujarat; on average 419 cases and deaths everyday in June||After slowing down, the Covid cases and related deaths in Gujarat is on the upward swing again, shows government data. Since June 1, Gujarat has seen on average an increase of 419 Covid-19 cases and 27 deaths everyday, which in the last week of May, was about 341 new cases and 22 deaths per day. According to the Gujarat government data, on May 25, the number of Covid cases in Gujarat was 14,063 which increased to 16,794 on May 31. Similarly, during the same period, the number of Covid deaths in the state increased from 858 to 1038. Between June 1 and June 8, the number of cases increased from 17,217 to 20,574 and the deaths increased from 1063 to 1280 which means 419 cases and 27 deaths on daily basis.As a result, the number of Covid cases in Gujarat doubled from 10,000 to over 20,574 on June 8, in 25 days. The state had taken 52 days to record first 10,000 cases.Gujarat is behind only Maharashtra (88529), Tamil Nadu (33229), Delhi (29943) in total number of Covid cases and second after Maharashtra (3169) in terms of mortality. Gujarat has recorded 1038 deaths till June 8.Ahmedabad still continues to be one of the most affected cities in the state with 14,631 Covid cases and 1,039 deaths followed by Surat- 2146, Vadodra-1328 and Gandhinagar 424. What is troubling for officials is that cases have been reported from new localities and also from rural parts of Ahmedabad. “Around 410 cases are from villages around Ahmedabad city,” said a city municipal corporation official.Ahmedabad has similar population profile as Jaipur, Rajasthan’s capital city, but the two cities have witnessed different trajectory when it came to increase in Covid cases. On May 1, Jaipur had 1,488 positive cases, which reached to 2260 by June 8. Ahmedabad had 3,293 positive cases on May 1, which has now reached 14,631 cases.For Gujarat, Gandhinagar, the capital city, has witnessed a spike of 336% in one month, primarily because of the low base. The number of Covid cases in Gandhinagar on May 9 was 97, which has increased to 424 on June 8. “The maximum cases have been reported from sector 24 which shows we have been able to control the spread in Gandhinagar,” said a state government official, who was not willing to be named.Experts attributed the rise in cases to the non-compliance of the guidelines issued by the state and central government. “People’s irresponsible attitude and non compliance to guidelines is responsible for high number of cases in the state. For example, triple layered and N-95 masks are used and reused for days in community and disposed off without disinfection resulting in spread of the infection,” said Dr Parthiv Mehta, senior Ahmedabad based pulmonologist.Vidyut Desai, chairman of Academy of Medical Sciences, a body of health care professionals of the state, expected a huge spike in number of Covid cases in the next 10 days. “The numbers of cases are increasing in last few days as the norms have been relaxed and public vigilance towards diseases has also been diluted. Many have been found roaming in markets with masks down on the neck and not following social distancing. I expect the cases to rise further,” he said.Mona Shah, the president of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA), blamed the unlock guidelines for increase in cases. “The number of Covid super-spreaders has increased after the unlock-1. Previously, only the vegetable vendors and staff working at grocery shops were the super-spreaders. Now, the markets, industries and offices have opened and people’s contact have also increased so the threat of spread of virus has also increased,” she said.Gujarat government officials, however, said they have increased surveillance to improve the condition. “In Ahmedabad, intensive health campaigns-checkups are been carried out at 200 locations in city by through 40 mobile medical vans. The medical teams are regularly visiting the containment zones so that people with common ailments also get treatment and care at home as well as rapid testing-health check of Covid-19 suspects is done,” said an official of the state government who didn’t wished to be named.Dr Tejas Patel, member of expert committee formed by Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said that we are scientifically trying to find out the reasons behind the high death rate. “The perspective of the committee is that this virus is new for the entire world and no expert in this world has full knowledge of the virus. In Gujarat, the death rate is high and the state government is very much concerned about it. The state government is scientifically trying to reduce the death rate. To be honest, there is no permanent treatment for the virus as of now and we have no definite answer behind the high mortality rate. We are focusing on the patients with serious complications,” said Patel.Another member of the committee, Dr VN Shah, said the city has densely populated and high number of cases is because of the prevalence of the cases in crowded places. “Most of the cases are from congested localities and a reason for increase in cases. Another reason is people are not reporting symptoms on time and are becoming super spreaders,” Shah said.Of the total cases in Gujarat, 25.9% patients are active and 13,964 patients have discharged. A total of 2.1 lakh persons are under quarantine in state out of which 2.03 lakh are under home quarantine. According to officials, Gujarat began recording a spike after mid-April as the government ramped up testing facilities. Between March 19 and April 15, Gujarat tested just 29,104 samples. But between then and June 8, the number of tests significantly increased to 2,56,289 tests, said health secretary Jayanthi Ravi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-unlock-1-covid-cases-surge-in-gujarat-on-average-419-cases-and-deaths-everyday-in-june/story-keorOw3vb9sbaGBlMlYH5N.html
09-06-2020||India||Assam gas well fire could take 4 weeks to extinguish, says OIL||Oil India Limited said on Tuesday that it could take at least four more weeks to control the fire and plug the blowout at a natural gas well that ignited earlier in the day in Baghjan in Assam’s Tinsukia district.The gas well had been spewing gas and condensate since the blowout began on May 27.The fire broke out at the well a day after three experts from Singapore had reached the area to attempt plugging the well.“Emergency meetings are underway with the expert team. They have expressed it is now a safe environment for working and are confident that the situation can be controlled and the well capped safely,” OIL said in a statement.“The situation demands arrangement of large quantities of water, installation of high discharge pumps and removal of debris. All the operations as per the experts will take about four weeks. Efforts will be made to reduce this time frame as much as possible,” it added. Meanwhile, Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal directed industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary to rush to the site and take stock of the situation. He also suggested use of IAF aircraft to douse the fire.“Instructions have been issued to district officials to ensure safety of local residents. Police, military, para-military forces and NDRF are present at the spot,” Sonowal told journalists.“I have apprised Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan about the incident and asked him to take steps to contain the fire and the blowout. Indian Air Force (IAF) can also play a role in controlling the fire and I have asked defence minister Rajnath Singh about it,” he added.Sonowal asked residents of the area and Tinsukia town, which is 9 km away from the site not to panic and assured all help from the state government.Smoke could be seen billowing from the well several kilometers away from the site close to Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the eco-sensitive Maguri Mottapung wetland.“The fire broke out at 1:40 pm at the site. The reason for the outbreak is not ascertained yet. Apart from a fireman of Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) who sustained minor injury, no one else has been injured,” said Jayant Bormudoi, senior manager (corporate communication) of OIL.“The experts were not present at the site when the fire broke out. They were at meetings in OIL office in Duliajan. There is no immediate threat to residents of the area who have already been shifted beyond a radius of 1.5 km from the well,” Bormudoi added.Following the blowout nearly 2,000 people residing near the well had been shifted to four relief camps.Meanwhile, local residents have started protesting close to the blowout site blaming OIL for failing to control the disaster for two weeks. OIL has asked the state government to control the situation so that experts and officials can reach the site to control the fire and blowout.The Baghjan well suffered the blowout on May 27 while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gas-well-fire-could-take-4-weeks-to-extinguish-says-oil/story-8KgN3R74OlH2MSMgZDiTfN.html
09-06-2020||India||Congress request for DK Shivakumar’s swearing in rejected by Karnataka govt||The Congress’ request to hold an event for the swearing-in ceremony for its new Karnataka president, DK Shivakumar, was rejected for the second time by the state government citing lockdown rules.The rules, as stated by the ministry of home affairs, do not allow the assembly of people for political purposes. The Congress had sought permission to hold the event on June 14.After the defeat of a number of Congress nominees in the bypolls to 15 seats in December last year, the then Karnataka Pradesh Congress president Dinesh Gundu Rao had resigned taking moral responsibility. On March 11, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had announced that DK Shivakumar, the party’s main troubleshooter in the state, will be the next state president. A grand swearing-in ceremony was also planned at the end of March, but with a nationwide lockdown announced on March 24 the event had to be postponed.Since then, DK Shivakumar has written twice to the state government seeking permission to hold an event for him to formally take over the office, but his plea has been rejected on both occasions.Only weddings with not more than 50 guests or funerals with not more than 20 people are allowed to take place.A miffed Shivakumar claimed that it was vendetta politics by the BJP government. The KPCC also in a tweet said that the party had sought permission for June 14 to hold a ‘Prathijn Dina’ (oath day) across 7,800 locations in Karnataka with 10 lakh plus Congress Karyakartas attending it, observing safety precautions for Covid-19 and maintaining social distancing. “By denying permission again, the BJP government is indulging in vendetta politics,” it claimed.The BJP refused to comment on the matter, with a spokesperson saying it is a government decision keeping the law of the land in mind and that the party had nothing to do with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-request-for-dk-shivakumar-s-swearing-in-rejected-by-karnataka-govt/story-2kiRQMV7wBJp2Sbm8gjubL.html
09-06-2020||India||Goa govt defends change in Covid-19 testing strategy after backlash||The Goa government on Tuesday defended its decision to relax the mandatory Covid-19 test for people entering the state despite public pressure to continue the practice, saying it would ensure that the state did not lose focus on cases within its boundaries.Goa’s health secretary Nila Mohanan said that owing to the mandatory 14-day home quarantine, the state was adequately on guard against the disease. “This is a sustainable and strategic move that we are making because we need to have a very focused approach towards testing. The more samples we keep taking from everyone who comes across the borders we are losing focus on the areas within Goa where we have to look at very specifically,” Mohanan said at a press conference. “There are other focal points where we need to strategize and ensure that there is no outbreak. We need to see that the cases which are suspected are being tested on time, the results are available on time, so I think a very focused approach is required from now on and the more we load our labs with samples drawn from each and everyone who is entering the state the less we will be able to do a focused mitigation of coronavirus within our state,” Mohanan said. The government’s decision to make testing only optional for people entering the state was met with derision on social media and by opposition legislators who claimed the government had surrendered in its fights against the virus and was choosing the option of ‘herd immunity’ that would come at a huge cost especially to the vulnerable sections of the society. “The State government has thrown its hands in the air and is going for herd immunity. Herd immunity can either be achieved by injection (vaccination) or infection. This will come at a huge cost to Goa. The vulnerable people will be very badly affected,” leader of the Goa Forward Party Vijai Sardesai said.The state government has also changed its earlier strategy of testing everyone in the state’s lone containment zone and is now only focusing on high risk groups within the population even as the fear.In the first three days since Mangor Hill, a locality in the Port town of Vasco da Gama was declared a containment zone, the state government conducted nearly 500 tests per day and was on course to complete the testing within a week. Since the weekend, the health department is only conducting 50 tests a day in the containment zone, that have now been restricted to patients with symptoms and those in high risk categories including senior citizens, pregnant women, children under five and those with pre-existing conditions. Goa has among the highest testing rates in the country with 19,830 tests per million as of June 8, as per data released by the Directorate of Information and Publicity and second only to the Union Territories of Daman, Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.On Tuesday Goa reported 29 new cases of Covid-19 among persons connected to the containment zone as well as people entering the state.Goa’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 359 of which 292 cases are active. On June 1, the state had 44 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-defends-change-in-covid-19-testing-strategy-after-backlash/story-qnjJpdOT3C44b9fS2ZKnyO.html
09-06-2020||India||Four doctors of AIIMS Bhubaneswar test positive for Covid-19||Four doctors of All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Bhubaneswar tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, putting further strain on Covid management of the hospitals amid mounting cases. Till Tuesday, Odisha had reported 3140 cases with 146 new cases.AIIMS Bhubaneswar director B Gitanjali said three senior resident doctors from surgery, pathology and pharmacology and a junior doctor from dermatology today tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of infected doctors to 5. Last week, a junior resident doctor of the hospital too had tested positive for Covid-19. The doctors who tested positive today were not engaged in treatment of corona patients in AIIMS, but stayed in a containment zone near the hospital.Sources said the swab samples of 3 more doctors in the institute have been sent for test as they are showing Covid-19 symptoms.Yesterday, four anesthesiologists in MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur town had tested positive for Covid 8 days after they helped in the surgery of a patient. Last week, two doctors in Rourkela General Hospital too had tested positive while one each in Cuttack, Nayagarh and Angul district have tested positive in last fortnight.So far 14 doctors in Odisha have tested positive for Covid-19.Apart from these 14 doctors, 13 nurses across the state have also tested positive. On Monday, 8 nurses in MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur town had too tested positive.It is not just those working in Covid-19 wards who are getting infected, but also community health workers, police and other officials who are involved in contact tracing and screening suspected patients by going door-to-door in virus hotspots.On Monday, a jawan of the Odisha Special Striking Force engaged in COVID-19 duty in patrolling duty at a quarantine centre of Ganjam district tested positive for the virus. Earlier, two homeguards engaged in patrolling duty at a quarantine centre of Ganjam too had tested positive. Similarly, six Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA), Anganwadi workers, sanitary staff and volunteers who were engaged in two quarantine centres of Kendrapara district tested positive for Covid-19 on May 31.Besides the doctors, nurses and health workers, 61 NDRF and fire service personnel from Odisha who had gone to Kolkata for Cyclone Amphan restoration work, have tested positive for Covid-19 in last 4 days, said fire service DG Satyajit Mohanty. Two jawans working in military wing of Proof and Experimental Establishment under DRDO in Chandipur area of Balasore district on Monday had tested positive.A senior official of health department said the state government is taking adequate precautions in preventing infection of doctors, nurses and other frontline health workers. “All of them have been given PPEs, but due to some negligence they may be getting infected,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-doctors-of-aiims-bhubaneswar-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-YKry7izGObt9pB6rphTPfL.html
09-06-2020||India||LG says Kejriwal’s decision to reserve hospitals was unconstitutional||Lieutenant Governor of Delhi Anil Baijal has responded to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s criticism of Raj Niwas overturning Delhi government’s decision to reserve Delhi administration-owned hospitals and other general private hospitals in the capital for treatment of the residents of the city-state and said the decision had to be overturned since it was unconstitutional.A statement issued by the LG’s office clarified its decision in view of the disagreement expressed publicly by Delhi CM. The statement said that the official position on the matter was articulated during the Tuesday meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) headed by the LG in Delhi.“In the meeting today, it was clarified by Hon’ble Lt. Governor that he had reversed the order of Delhi Government as it violated the constitutional rights of Equality and Right to Life which include Right to Health. A similar directive earlier issued by GNCTD to discriminate in providing healthcare facilities to patients based on their residence was struck down by the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi,” the statement said.Kejriwal had on Monday said that barring hospitals that are under centre’s control, all Delhi government run hospitals and private hospitals will provide service to residents of Delhi as the pressure on city’s health infrastructure was huge due to the rising number of coronavirus cases.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesBaijal, however, scrapped the Delhi government’s order reserving a chunk of the hospital beds in the city for residents of the national capital alleging it was not only unconstitutional but also against a Delhi High Court order that had nixed a similar proposal in 2018. Kejriwal responded to LG’s move claiming it would disadvantage residents of the capital.“The L-G’s order has created a very big problem and challenge for the people of Delhi. Providing treatment for people coming from all over the country during the coronavirus epidemic is a big challenge. Probably it is God’s will that we serve the people of the entire country. We will try to provide treatment for all,” Kejriwal had said in a tweet after LG’s decision to overturn the decision.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19His Deputy Manish Sisodia had attacked the BJP alleging it had a hand in LG’s decision to overturn Delhi Government’s order.“What if all beds in Delhi get occupied within 2-3 days by patients from other states and that leads to the death of a Delhi resident who fails to get a hospital bed? Who will take the responsibility,” he had said at a press conference on Monday.Delhi has around 90,000 beds as per some estimates and half of these are currently empty.The statement released by Baijal’s office on Tuesday added that it was the responsibility of the State to provide universal healthcare to all patients coming to hospitals in accordance with constitutional provisions. He said this point was explained to Delhi CM Kejriwal in the meeting.“This was explained to the Hon’ble Dy. Chief Minister in today’s SDMA meeting. It is unfortunate that any responsible government should attempt to discriminate amongst patients on grounds of residence. Rather than discriminating between the patients the goal of the government should be to plan and prepare for adequate infrastructure. We are all Indians and Delhi belongs to all,” the statement said.The statement further adds that the Lt. Governor is fully aware of the need to ramp up medical infrastructure to meet the rising requirement and claims that Tuesday’s SDMA meeting discussed ideas like using spaces like Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, Tyagraj Stadium, JLN Stadium and Pragati Maidan to make large makeshift medical facilities. “It was also decided to utilize banquet halls, marriage places, etc. to ramp up the facilities,” the statement adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lg-says-kejriwal-s-decision-to-reserve-hospitals-was-unconstitutional/story-3X0w0bwIWRQsR57vpriffK.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Systematic and targeted’: India to Pak over demolition of Hindu minority homes in Punjab||India on Tuesday registered a strong protest with Pakistan over what it said was the “systematic and targeted” demolition of homes of the Hindu minority in Punjab province, people familiar with developments said.A strong demarche or formal diplomatic representation was made to the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi on the demolition of houses belonging to Hindu minority at Chak 52/DB in Bahawalpur district of Pakistan’s Punjab, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.“Members of civil society in India had expressed serious concerns and anguish at the targeted and continued persecution of religious and ethnic minorities in Pakistan,” one of the people said.“They have also strongly condemned the incident wherein state authorities targeted the Hindu minority despite the occupants of the houses producing valid documents of ownership and legal relief granted against demolition,” the person added.The Indian side conveyed its concerns and asked the Pakistan high commission to inform the relevant authorities in the Pakistan government to take “urgent remedial action”, the people said.The Indian side also called on the Pakistan government to discharge its responsibilities by looking after the safety, security and well-being of minority communities and by protecting their rights and freedoms, the people said.The NGO Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP) recently concluded after an independent fact-finding mission that local authorities in Bahawalpur district were responsible for demolishing the homes of members of the Hindu minority.“The demolition occurred despite the fact that the Hindu community – fearing this might come to pass after being threatened…on several occasions – had filed a case petitioning a senior civil judge of the Bahawalpur bench to issue an order forbidding any such action,” HRCP said in a statement issued last week.“Even though the restraining order was issued on 20 May 2020, 25 houses were levelled and another 10 partly demolished, leaving their occupants – including young children – without any access to shelter,” the statement said.“HRCP notes with serious concern that the Hindu community, already vulnerable as a religious minority, was targeted on grounds of faith to advance the interests of the local land mafia,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/systematic-and-targeted-india-to-pak-over-demolition-of-hindu-minority-homes-in-punjab/story-EkjrcNv0U7GpbgpGyPVXbK.html
09-06-2020||India||After adivasis protest Supreme Court order on reservation, KCR steps in||Adivasis in the tribal areas of the two Telugu states - Andhra Pradesh and Telangana - observed a complete shutdown on Tuesday in protest against a recent judgment of the Supreme Court, scrapping a government order providing 100 per cent reservation to tribals in the recruitment of teachers in the scheduled areas.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced that his government would file a review petition in Supreme Court, seeking 100 per cent reservations for STs in tribal area for teacher’s recruitment.The bandh was observed following a call given by Adivasi Employees and Teachers’ Associations, Adivasi Hakkula Sangham (Adivasi Rights Group), Girijana Sankshema Sangham (Tribal Welfare Group) and Tudum Debba. Even the outlawed CPI (Maoist) extended support to the bandh call.Shops and business establishments in as many as 11 blocks in the tribal areas of Visakhapatnam downed their shutters. In Seethampeta tribal area, tribals squatted on the roads raising slogans against the Supreme Court orders, bringing the vehicular traffic to a halt. They demanded that the state government file a review petition.Similar protests were held by adivasis at Buttaigudem, Polavaram and other mandals of the West Godavari district seeking reservation as per the government order. Polavaram MLA Tellam Raju promised to bring the issue to the notice of Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and tribal welfare minister Pushpa Sri Vani and do justice to the tribals.On April 22, a five-judge constitution bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, struck down a government order (GO No. 3 of 2000) issued by the Andhra Pradesh government which had provided absolute reservation for members of the STs for teaching jobs in the scheduled areas. The apex court ruled that the reservations should not exceed the 50% limit.The bench also interpreted its judgment prospectively, not “retrospectively”, and held that the existing appointments made in excess of 50% reservation shall survive but shall cease to be effective in the future, providing relief to the tribal teachers who have already been appointed.The tribals have been agitating in protest against this judgment, stating that it would severely affect their rights.In Telangana, a complete bandh was also observed in Utnoor, Indravelli, Narnoor, Gandiguda, Jainur, Sirpur agency areas of Adilabad district. Buses were confined to their respective depots in Utnoor. Police teams were deployed in the area to prevent any untoward incidents during the shutdown time.In Venkatapuram area of Mulug district of Telangana, there was a clash between the tribals and security forces, as the latter tried to foil the enforcement of bandh. The shopkeepers voluntarily closed down their operations in support of the bandh call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-adivasis-protest-supreme-court-order-on-reservation-kcr-steps-in/story-8lXYOMWHokKPtgBbD5kuSJ.html
09-06-2020||India||SC directs NHRC to examine allegations of bonded labour in brick kilns in UP, Bihar||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to examine complaints regarding alleged bonded labour in three brick kilns in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (UP).The direction was issued by a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Krishna Murari while hearing a plea by social worker Zahid Hussain who had claimed that 187 people have been forced into bonded labour in three brick kilns and are being made to do hard physical labour in inhuman conditions.The apex court also asked the human rights body to issue guidelines for protection and rehabilitation of bonded labourers in the light of their increased vulnerability due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The NHRC had earlier considered the complaints and issued directions on May 11 to the district administrations of Rohtas in Bihar and Sambhal in UP, where the three brick kilns are situated, to conduct inquiry and submit reports but no action was taken by the district authorities prompting Hussain to approach the apex court on May 25.When the matter first came up for hearing before the Supreme Court on June 3, the top court had issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh and Bihar governments and also asked the District Magistrates of Rohtas and Sambhal to submit their reports regarding the allegations.The court after considering the action taken reports by the two states on Tuesday sent the matter back to the NHRC while granting petitioner the liberty to move the Supreme Court again in case of delay by NHRC in dealing with the matter.Two of the three brick kilns are in Rohtas district in Bihar (in Bharkol and Dhaudarh villages) and one is in Sambhal district in UP. According to the petition, the Bharkol brick kiln has 41 bonded labourers including 14 children while the Dhaudarh kiln has 84 such workers including 27 dependent children. The one at Sambhal has 62 bonded labourers. All the 187 people are from scheduled caste communities.Hussain had alleged that the labourers at the brick kiln are prevented from leaving the facility on their own, denied their statutory minimum wage, physically and verbally abused, and even the women and children are often made to work long shifts of over 12 hours.“One of the labourers (at the Dhaudarh brick kiln) was beaten on his head with a stick and left bleeding merely for asking for his statutory wages. Three victims who are pregnant, are among such labourers, who are not being provided any medical assistance,” the petitioner alleged. The petition filed through advocate Srishti Agnihotri said that after the NHRC passed orders directing inquiry, the district administration of Sambhal through the labour enforcement officer, conducted a very perfunctory enquiry of all the 17 families. Despite the spot enquiry, the administration of Sambhal District asked the laborers to continue to remain at the brick kiln at the mercy of the brick kiln owners/traffickers.“The district administration has not made sufficient arrangements to move the labourers to an alternate safe location, arrange for their release certificates, ensure the payment of wages and access to healthcare and ration for the labourers”, senior counsel Anitha Shenoy said.As regards the two brick kilns in Rohtas district, the petitioner alleged that the district administration did not take any steps towards conducting spot enquiry and the laborers including pregnant women, are forced to work long hours under terrible conditions and without statutory wages.Hussain also sought specific guidelines to protect, rehabilitate and repatriate bonded labourers during the Covid-19 pandemic. He claimed that the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant nation-wide lockdown has intensified the vulnerability that bonded labourers are ordinarily subjected to.“From increased isolation to restriction of movement, lack of food supplies, lack of healthcare, non-payment of wages and restricted access to law enforcement authorities, the Covid-19 pandemic has severely exacerbated the abusive conditions that bonded labourers are trapped in. It has also pushed persons who were not originally working in a state of bondage, into a state of bonded labour,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-directs-nhrc-to-examine-allegations-of-bonded-labour-in-brick-kilns-in-up-bihar/story-Mllb72QDz0pZwMcHlME6sL.html
09-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: ‘We won’t leave Kashmir’, says family of slain Pandit sarpanch and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.To legally support new map, Nepal’s lawmakers discuss amendmentNepal’s Parliament on Tuesday discussed a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a new political map that shows Kalapani and Lipulekh as part of Nepalese territory amid widespread backing for the move from lawmakers.Read more. ‘We won’t leave Kashmir’, says family of slain Pandit sarpanchThe mortal remains of sarpanch Ajay Pandita alias Bharti who was shot dead by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag on Monday, were cremated at Jammu’s Shakti Nagar crematorium on Tuesday.Read more. ‘Hungry only for votes’: TMC attacks BJP after Amit Shah’s virtual rallyHours after union home minister Amit Shah’s call on Tuesday to end the Mamata Banerjee regime in the Bengal Assembly elections next year, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of focusing on politics instead of Covid-19, the border stand-off with China and, for Bengal in particular, dealing with the post-cyclone relief and reconstruction.Read more. Covid-19 latest: Andhra joins the list of states with more than 5,000 positive patientsAndhra Pradesh joined the list of Indian states to have registered more than 5,000 positive coronavirus cases on Tuesday with the addition of 216 new Covid-19 patients taking the tally to 5,029 infections in the state, according to news agency PTI.Read more. India has largest, most experienced mountain army in the world, says Chinese military expertIndia has the world’s largest and most experienced troops trained for high-altitude battles, a military expert affiliated to China’s leading maker of equipment for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has said, adding that mountaineering is an “essential skill” for each Indian soldier deployed in the mountains.Read more. Varun Sharma mourns death of ex-manager Disha Salian, says he’s ‘speechless, numb’Actor Varun Sharma has condoled the death of his former manager, who died of a suspected suicide on Monday. The Chhicchore actor wrote that he is ‘at a loss for words’.Read more. The Ramon Magsaysay awards, Asia’s version of Nobel Prize awards cancelledThe Ramon Magsaysay awards, regarded as Asia’s version of the Nobel Prize, have been cancelled this year due to the global pandemic, the only third time the annual awards were disrupted in six decades.Read more. ‘Fear mongering’: BJP slams Manish Sisodia’s 5.5 lakh cases by July remarkDelhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta slammed the AAP government over 5.5 lakh cases remark. Gupta called Delhi government’s remark ‘fear-mongering’. “Delhi government is trying to instill fear in public as they have not done the groundwork,” Gupta said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had said 5.5 lakh cases are expecting in Delhi by July end.Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-we-won-t-leave-kashmir-says-family-of-slain-pandit-sarpanch-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mlFWPRCM1vEzYc0sN2hriJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Odisha warns of disciplinary action against employees not wearing masks in office||With Covid-19 cases going up steadily in Odisha, the state government said any of its employees found not wearing mask during officer hours would face charges of official indiscipline.As the number of Covid-19 cases touched 3,140 on Tuesday, the General Administration & Public Grievance department in an advisory for the government employees said ‘Social Distancing’ has to be meticulously enforced in all the government departments to restrain the spread of Covid-19. Not more than 4 persons would not be allowed in the lift and inside the lift, the persons have to stand facing the walls of the lift and not face each other, the government said.“All the employees inside the office premises are required to wear mask compulsorily, for the entire period of their stay in office. Wilful deviation from the instructions shall be construed to be an official indiscipline. 2. The principle of Social Distancing of two metres between two persons is required to be strictly maintained at all times in the office, such as discussing, standing, waiting etc. inside the premises,” the order said.The order also said employees need to ensure frequent hand washing (for minimum 20 seconds) during the office hours, especially after the use of washrooms. “Proper sanitisation of the Office buildings common space should be done at regular intervals. Adequate cleaning and sanitation materials are to be procured by the respective office establishment. All the rooms of the offices, stairs, washrooms etc. are to be cleaned /sanitized regularly. Cleaning and regular disinfection (using 1% sodium hypochlorite) of frequently touched surfaces (doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, benches, washroom fixtures, etc.) would be done in office premises and in common areas. The interiors of the vehicles including steering handles would also be disinfected using 1% sodium hypochlorite solution/ spray,” said the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-warns-of-disciplinary-action-against-employees-not-wearing-masks-in-office/story-Mm2N8BUfwphiZG55lnZgvK.html
09-06-2020||India||Central, state minister spar over Kerala opening places of worship||A central minister questioned the Kerala government’s decision to open places of worship, eliciting a sharp response from the state minister, who then advised the former to check with the home ministry guidelines. V Muraleedharan, minister of state for external affairs, termed the Kerala government’s move to open shrines “hasty”, adding the move will endanger lives of devotees. Hitting back, Kadakampally Surendran, state temple affairs minister, asked Muraleedharan to seek answers from home minister Amit Shah, whose ministry gave directions to this effect.“It is sad the minister has no idea about decisions being taken by his government in Delhi. It is good for him to do some homework before attacking the state government. He is using all opportunities to portray the state in a bad light,” said Surendran, adding the state opened all shrines as per the directive of the Central government.Unveiling the graded exit plan under Unlock 1, the central government had allowed reopening of places of worship for devotees, malls and restaurants from June 8 across the country. They have been shut since March 25, when the lockdown was first imposed to stem the spread of the disease.Earlier, the union minister tweeted against the move, saying it will invite more trouble for the devotees.“Its [Kerala’s] decision to open temples despite opposition from devotees seems suspicious - neither devotees nor temple committees demanded the opening of shrines,” he tweeted, adding, “What is the haste? Is this a deliberate attempt by the atheist government to denigrate devotees?”. This is not the first time that the Union minister has attacked the state government, earlier he had locked horns with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the evacuation of expatriates from the middle-eastern countries.Amid the verbal sparring, malls and restaurants opened in the state. Various temples under the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) opened on Tuesday along with some churches and mosques in parts of the state. While the famous Lord Krishna temple at Guruvayoor opened its doors by following the stipulated norms laid down by the government, the Sree Padmanabha Swamy and Attukkal temples in the state capital were among those which remained shut.The Viswa Hindu Parishad, Hindu Aikya Vedi and many outfits have asked devotees to wait for some more time.Meanwhile, the state has reported 91 fresh cases taking the total to 2,096. Out of these, 53 are expatriates, 27 came from other states and 10 infected from primary contacts. The state has reported 17 deaths so far, said state health minister KK Shailaja’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-state-minister-spar-over-kerala-opening-places-of-worship/story-A5eV7ZCv3sITTq04sYyw0L.html
09-06-2020||India||PM Modi discusses Covid-19 pandemic with Philippines president||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday discussed the Covid-19 pandemic with Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte and assured that India’s well-established capacity for manufacturing affordable pharmaceutical products would continue to be deployed for the benefit of the entire humanity. The leaders also discussed the steps being taken by the two governments to address the challenges arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official statement said.The Philippines President appreciated the steps taken by India to maintain supply of essential pharmaceutical products to his country, it said.The prime minister assured President Duterte of India’s commitment to support the Philippines in its fight against the pandemic. “He stressed that India’s well-established capacity for manufacturing affordable pharmaceutical products, including for an eventual vaccine once it is found, would continue to be deployed for the benefit of entire humanity,” the statement said. Both leaders expressed appreciation for the cooperation extended to ensure the welfare of their citizens in each other’s territory, as also for their repatriation home, during the ongoing health crisis. The leaders shared their satisfaction at the progress seen in recent years in all aspects of the bilateral relationship, including defence cooperation, it said.Taking to Twitter, Modi later said, “India and the Philippines will cooperate to reduce the health and economic impact of the pandemic, and to give shape to our common vision for the Indo-Pacific region.” Modi emphasised that India sees the Philippines as a vital partner in the Indo-Pacific Region.  The prime minister also conveyed his best wishes to President Duterte and the people of the Philippines for the forthcoming National Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-discusses-covid-19-pandemic-with-philippines-president/story-23U9iiwYZa2jlWNb1Js75K.html
09-06-2020||India||Darjeeling hotels retract call to shutdown from July 1, tour operators see hope||Darjeeling hotel owners association has reversed its decision to suspend operations during the off season beginning July 1, triggering hope that it may encourage gradual restoration of tourism to the Darjeeling-Kalimpong and the Dooars tourism circuits that support around 50,000 jobs.Stakeholders in tourism business in the Darjeeling region of West Bengal were relieved with the retraction of the decision rooted in fears that the flow of guests to the region, choked by the coronavirus induced lockdown, was unlikely to pick up despite easing of restrictions in the off season beginning July. The association also felt paying salaries to staff may not be possible after June.The Darjeeling Hotel Owners Association (DHOA) had earlier termed it was pointless keeping the hotels open and declared that staff would not be paid after July 1 and will receive only 35 per cent salary for April, May and June. It predicted that the tourism industry would be among the last to recover from the effects of the nationwide lockdown.Anit Thapa, chairman of the board of administrators of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), said, “Differences over payment of salary to hotel staff will be sorted out within a week. A committee has been constituted to find a solution.” The employees’ trade unions are opposed to the proposed salary cut.Travel Agents Association of Bengal (TAAB) has welcomed the decision saying it will send a positive message to tourists, some of whom have started enquiring about trips to Darjeeling.No end to commuters’ woes in Bengal as limited number of buses hit streets“A section of tourists will not be deterred by the pandemic. They know we will have to live with the virus for some time. The Darjeeling-Kalimpong and the Dooars tourism circuits provide employment to more than 50,000 people. There are 380 hotels in Darjeeling and its outskirts. They accommodate nearly 4.5 lakh tourists every year,” Nilanjan Basu, secretary, TAAB, said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe decision was also welcomed by the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF). Ajoy Edwards, the spokesperson for the outfit, had earlier threatened to move the Calcutta High Court if hotels went ahead with the shut down call.Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network requested the government to look at the financial issues faced by the hotel owners in the region.“There is not going to be an influx of tourists right now. The government should look into the problems faced by hotel owners and their employees,” said Sanyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-in-darjeeling-bengal-s-top-tourism-destination-to-shut-indefinitely-from-july-1/story-HHg2xvZ2KM0pVHrnP8ylVP.html
09-06-2020||India||Targets for Covid-19 vaccine identified by scientists||Scientists have identified regions of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 to target with a vaccine, by harnessing tools used for the development of cancer immunotherapies. The researchers at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) in the US employed the same approach used to elicit an immune response against cancer cells to stimulate an immune response against the novel coronavirus. Using this strategy, the researchers believe a resulting vaccine would provide protection across the human population and drive a long-term immune response. “In many ways, cancer behaves like a virus, so our team decided to use the tools we developed to identify unique aspects of childhood cancers that can be targeted with immunotherapies and apply those same tools to identify the right protein sequences to target in SARS-CoV-2,” said John M Maris, a pediatric oncologist at CHOP, and a professor at the University of Pennsylvania. “We think our approach provides a roadmap for a vaccine that would be both safe and effective and could be produced at scale,” said Maris, senior author of the research published in the journal Cell Reports Medicine. The Covid-19 pandemic has led to an urgent need for the development of a safe and effective vaccine against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the Covid-19 disease, the researchers said. An optimally designed vaccine maximises a long-lasting immune response, while minimising adverse reactions, autoimmunity, or disease exacerbation, they said. To increase the likelihood that a vaccine is both safe and effective, the research team prioritised parameters in identifying regions of the virus to target. The researchers looked for regions that would stimulate a memory T-cell response that, when paired with the right B cells, would drive memory B cell formation and provide lasting immunity and do so across the majority of human genomes. They targeted regions of SARS-CoV-2 that are present across multiple related coronaviruses, as well as new mutations that increase infectivity, while also ensuring that those regions were as dissimilar as possible from sequences naturally occurring in humans to maximize safety. The researchers propose a list of 65 peptide sequences that, when targeted, offer the greatest probability of providing population-scale immunity. The team will now test various combinations of a dozen or so of these sequences in mouse models to assess their safety and effectiveness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/targets-for-covid-19-vaccine-identified-by-scientists/story-U8RQtVJe3Dxn2rXc8vnsEN.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Hungry only for votes’: TMC attacks BJP after Amit Shah’s virtual rally||Hours after union home minister Amit Shah’s call on Tuesday to end the Mamata Banerjee regime in the Bengal Assembly elections next year, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of focusing on politics instead of Covid-19, the border stand-off with China and, for Bengal in particular, dealing with the post-cyclone relief and reconstruction.TMC accused Shah of presenting false data on funds spent by the Centre on various schemes and targeted him for reviving the issue of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which had triggered a major political controversy in Bengal and many other parts of the country in 2019. “Covid-19 and cyclone Amphan are our focus. But since Shah raised the issue of CAA, we need to answer. The rules for the CAA had to be notified within six months and the duration ends this week. Now they will seek another six months’ extension and revive the issue in December, which will be barely three months before the elections. They care for nothing other than votes,” TMC national spokesperson Derek O’Brien said while addressing a press meet held over videoconferencing.Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra and TMC Rajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi were also present at the press meet.Responding to Shah’s allegations that Bengal was the only state marred by political violence and even communal riots amidst the lockdown, and that the TMC government failed to create jobs, O’Brien said that Bengal fared better than BJP-ruled state both in terms of combating communal violence and job creation.“Incidence of communal violence is 28 times more in Bihar, 16 times more in Maharashtra, 8 times more in Haryana, 7 times more in Gujarat and 4 times more in Madhya Pradesh, according to NCRB’s data for 2018 which comes from the Union home ministry,” said O’Brien, TMC’s leader in Rajya Sabha. “According the report of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the national unemployment rate is 23.5%, while in Haryana its 35%, in Madhya Pradesh 27%, in Uttar Pradesh 21%, and in Karnataka 20.4%, whereas Bengal has it at 17.4%,” O’Brien added.Mitra slammed the Centre for not giving cash in the hands of the people amidst the economic crisis over the pandemic. “The whole world is aiding people with cash to create demand in the market so that investments resume. What are you doing? Banks are putting money back to the Reserve Bank of India. The fiscal stimulation is only 1% of the GDP. Migrant workers have not been given any cash assistance. The only cash in-flow has been for the MGNREGA,” Mitra asked.Mitra alleged that the Centre was not paying Bengal Rs 53,000 crore of due, which excludes the losses due to cyclone Amphan. TMC also upped the ante on the issue of the border standoff with China. After Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and TMC youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee took to Twitter to ask Shah if China were occupying Indian territories, O’Brien asked in the evening, “Since Shah has been living in virtual reality, let us bring him back to reality by asking: Has China made any incursions to Indian territory?”TMC leaders said that the party would stand by the government on any question of external aggression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hungry-only-for-votes-tmc-attacks-bjp-after-amit-shah-s-virtual-rally/story-exbncbrbN6ZSgAtabuLRFN.html
09-06-2020||India||Telangana says impossible to test all hospital casualties for Covid-19||The Telangana government on Tuesday described as impossible and impractical the recent order of the state high court that tests for Covid-19 should be conducted on all those who die in government hospitals.“It is totally unscientific to call for conduct of tests on dead bodies for Covid-19 and there is no rationale behind the order. Nowhere did the World Health Organisation (WHO), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) or the Central government ask for conducting tests on the dead. The high court directions in this regard are impossible to implement,” health minister Eatala Rajender told reporters.He pointed out that on an average, nearly 1,000 people die in hospitals for various reasons and in the country, at least 30,000 people die. “How is it possible to conduct Covid-19 tests on all of them?” he said.The minister said all the Covid-19 positive patients admitted in Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad were being given the best possible treatment so that nobody would die of the disease. “The doctors are doing their best, even risking their own lives,” he said.The medical and health department officials told chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at a review meeting late on Monday night that the high court orders of May 27 for conducting Covid-19 tests could not be implemented.They sought his approval for moving the Supreme Court challenging the high court’s order. “Every day someone will die in some part of the state or the other. It is not possible to conduct tests on them. If the medical staff in the hospitals is deputed for this duty, they will not get any time to treat the patients,” a statement from the chief minister’s office, quoting the department officials said.They further pointed out that several patients come to the hospitals for other diseases and some for deliveries. There are now some who come for the treatment of Covid-19. “It is not possible to conduct tests on the dead for coronavirus leaving these patients. The state government should go for an appeal in the Supreme Court in this regard,” they suggested.The officials also told the chief minister that all those deaths accounted for as Covid-19 deaths were not actually connected to the virus. “About 95 per cent of the Covid-19 patients died due to other reasons like kidney, liver and heart failure, respiratory diseases, cancer, high blood pressures, diabetics and other diseases.“Since they have tested positive for coronavirus, they were accounted for as deaths due to Corona. This is the most unscientific way of awareness. Due to this false propaganda, there is fear among the people,” the department officials said.Meanwhile, the state high court on Tuesday struck down a petition filed by prominent social activist and Padma Shri awardee Sunitha Krishnan seeking a direction to the state government to enforce complete lockdown in the state till July 15.The petitioner said the intensity of Covid-19 in the state had gone up due to relaxation of lockdown restrictions, resulting in an increasing number of positive cases and deaths due to the virus. “The intensity will increase due to reopening of places of worship,” she said.The high court, however, said lockdown was a policy decision of the government and the courts wouldn’t interfere in the decisions. It reminded that all the states in the country had relaxed lockdown restrictions.With regard to reopening of places of worship, the court said it was for the people to decide whether or not to go to these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-says-impossible-to-test-all-hospital-casualties-for-covid-19/story-5A2tVe9NWwf0bhMBccvx4O.html
09-06-2020||India||Congress to open transgender cell in Kerala, 50 to be given membership||Around 50 transgenders will be given primary membership of the Congress in Kerala as the party inaugurates a special cell for the marginalised community on Wednesday.The party leaders said the initiative is the first of its kind in any political outfit and has the blessings of the high command.The memberships to those 50 people will be handed out by state Congress chief Mullapally Ramachandran in a function at party state headquarters in Thiruvananthapuram, PCC vice-president KP Anil Kumar said.The initiative came from the transgender community, said the Congress leader, adding that the party chose to honour their long-pending demand.“There are historic judgments but most remain only on papers. They are still marginalised and no party is around to air their problems and grievances. We hope the upcoming association will help alleviate their woes,” he said, adding former state chief minister Oommen Chandy and the present opposition leader in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala will also attend the function.“Most of our community members are often identified with Communist parties. At times people who believe in the Congress ideology are also forced to move in that camp. We have been telling Congress leaders about this for quite some time. We are quite happy finally the party has given us a chance,” said P Ranjini, a community member. She said after forming the association, they will get a strong foothold to help address some of the pressing problems of the community.Kerala was the first state to formulate a transgender policy in 2015 aimed at ending discrimination against the community members and bring them into the mainstream. In 2017, it also set up a transgender justice board to deal with their complaints and a separate column called “third sex” was introduced in birth and death registration forms in the state.The state, touted as one of the most literate ones in country, also made mandatory for all government buildings to have separate washrooms for those who identify themselves as the third sex.According to the transgender board, there are at least 35,000 third sex and trans-sexual persons in the state. Three years back the Kochi Metro had given jobs to 23 transgenders, though some of them had to leave, others are still in service. Despite some initial moves, activists working in the area say more is required to bring them into the mainstream. But they do agree that the situation in Kerala is far better compared to other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-open-transgender-cell-in-kerala-50-to-be-given-membership/story-6ys3SeW4wIYH0wkmVEH7qK.html
09-06-2020||India||Police personnel will be suspended if found beating people: DGP Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh director-general of police (DGP) DM Awasthi on Tuesday issued an order and warned the state’s police personnel that if anyone is found misbehaving or beating the public, the errant policeman would be suspended and also face punitive action.The DGP’s order, which is addressed to all inspector-generals (IG) and superintendents of police (SPs) in the state, comes in the wake of recent incidents of police excesses in Chhattisgarh.He directed the IGs and SPs to ensure a strong command-and-control structure over their subordinates, said a state information and public relations department official.The DGP’s order came two days after a Station House Officer (SHO) in Birgaon area of Raipur was caught on close circuit TV (CCTV) cameras flogging the public for violating containment zone guidelines, which were issued to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.The SHO was attached to the police line and a probe has been initiated against him after chief minister Bhupesh Baghel took note of his violent outburst.“Several recent incidents have come to light, where police officials and personnel were found misbehaving with the public and also hitting them. Such incidents tarnish the image of the police, which has been built by a disciplined force. These incidents create a negative image of police in the minds of the public. Such unruly behaviour will attract immediate suspension and a case will be lodged against the personnel concerned,” the DGP’s order stated.He has also asked IGs and SPs to conduct departmental inquiries in such incidents and take action against the police personnel, who are found guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-personnel-will-be-suspended-if-found-beating-people-dgp-chhattisgarh/story-Z6HZS9WLgtztyXYeHLE1oK.html
09-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand religious bodies want pilgrims from outside state given access to religious places||With very few pilgrims coming to temples and for the holy dip at Ganga ghats, Haridwar saints and religious bodies have sought relaxation for pilgrims from other states to visit religious places in Uttarakhand.With a major chunk of the local economy depending on religious tourism including the fabled Char Dham yatra, Hemkund Sahib pilgrimage, Rishikesh and Haridwar circuit, various religious organizations and temple committees in the state want pilgrims from across the country to be given permission to renew visits to these places.Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the apex body of all the Akhadas, reasons that with the opening up of establishments and religious-commercial activities in unlock 1.0, pilgrim movement from other states should also be allowed.National general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj said that shrines in the state should be allowed to welcome all devotees after more than two months long closure.The demand follows Uttarakhand government’s decision to bar visitors from other states from accessing religious places and tourist hotspots in the state.77 fresh Covid-19 cases take Uttarakhand tally to 1,488Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj cited the 48 % plus national recovery rate of Covid-19 patients to say the rule was not helpful and added that the religious institutions should be trusted to ensure social distancing norms but it was not apt to only let local pilgrims visit religious places of worship in Uttarakhand.Ganga Sabha, the sole body managing the affairs of world famous sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri citing less arrival of pilgrims since Monday at Har-Ki-Pauri has demanded relaxation for other state pilgrims too.Pradeep Jha, president of Ganga Sabha pointed “When the union government has given relaxation in Unlock 1.0 guidelines state government and local administration should further provide the benefit to pilgrims not only of Uttarakhand but of the whole country.“Religious sentiments are the same for devotees whether they are from our state or other parts of the country. Everyone wishes to take a sacred Ganga dip at Har-Ki-Pauri, view enchanting Ganga Aarti but for the past 70 odd days this isn’t possible. Pilgrims should be given permission to pay obeisance for religious-spiritual purposes, this will also boost local economy and livelihood of priests, teerth purohits who are majorly dependent on pilgrims influx “Pradeep Jha, Ganga Sabha president stated.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDistrict magistrate C Ravi Shankar said that as per the standard operating procedures laid by union and state government opening of religious worship places and Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghats has been done and so far only local people are allowed entry rest depends on future guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-religious-bodies-want-pilgrims-from-outside-state-given-access-to-religious-places/story-kGqGIcn8HmZ5butn95IabP.html
09-06-2020||India||Rajasthan to get Rs 50,000 crore investment, 7,500 people to receive employment||Rajasthan government has approved 10,000 Megawatt (Mw) solar power parks project with an investment of Rs 50,000 crore - the biggest ever investment in solar energy in the state. The state government has given nod to the proposal by Adani Green Energy Limited to set up solar power parks at five locations and also install a solar panel manufacturing unit. As a result, around 7,500 people will get direct and indirect employment from the project. Currently, Rajasthan’s solar generation capacity is 4,883 Mw.Principal secretary, energy, Ajitabh Sharma said, “The plan is to set up 10,000 Mw of solar parks in a phased manner by the Adani Group in Rajasthan. Not only will it bring a huge investment in the state but also provide employment to many.”Also read: Rajasthan industries offer better wages, conditions to lure migrants backSharma said the firm will also be setting up units to manufacture solar equipment at some places which will happen for the first time in Rajasthan at such a mega scale. “In a meeting chaired by the energy minister on June 6, it was also decided to propose customized packages through the Bureau of Investment Promotion to this investment.“The proposal received is the largest investment committed in state in renewable generation to the tune of Rs 50,000 crores over the next 5-6 years progressively. Five solar power parks will be set up in Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Jalore and Barmer. For the first time, besides solar power generation, a solar equipment manufacturing unit at mega-scale would be installed in the state,” Sharma added. As per the proposal received, the Rajasthan government would generate revenue of Rs 2,000 crore through Goods and Services Tax (GST) during the construction phase; a sum of around Rs 100 crore annually through GST during the operations phase; and a one-time payment for the land of around Rs 650 crore, he said. The goal of 10,000 Mw generation will be achieved in phases – in phase-I, 1700 Mw hybrid power plant (solar and wind) in Jaisalmer will be established by 2021 after which 2,000 Mw plants every year in next four-five years at Jaisalmer, Jalore and Bikaner.“The Rajasthan Renewal Energy Corporation (RREC) is working in a very professional manner. The MoU sign with NTPC to set up a solar power park has been started to materialise. The RREC has received Rs 201 crore from the NTPC for setting up a 925 Mw solar power park at Nokh in Jaisalmer – an MoU was inked in February 2020. The state has started land levelling civil works. There will be an investment of Rs 3,500 crores in Nokh,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-rs-50-000-crore-investment-7-500-people-to-receive-employment/story-8y83Eok6EnQzIN2SWcKNII.html
09-06-2020||India||‘We won’t leave Kashmir’, says family of slain Pandit sarpanch||The mortal remains of sarpanch Ajay Pandita alias Bharti who was shot dead by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag on Monday, were cremated at Jammu’s Shakti Nagar crematorium on Tuesday.Pandita (40) was the sarpanch of Lukbawan village in the Larkipora area. He was a member of the Congress party.“We won’t leave Kashmir but I have a demand that the government should first create a regiment of Kashmiri Pandits in the valley,” said Vijay Pandita, brother of the deceased, who lit the pyre.“He was helpful to all. He loved his roots and always extended a helping hand to the needy. After becoming sarpanch he had decided to work for the welfare of Muslim villagers”, he added.Ajay’s father Dwarika Nath Pandita described his son as a lion and patriot.“My son was a lion. He was a true patriot. In 1996 we returned to Kashmir and re-started our lives. At that time Ajay was around 21 years old. He took bank loans and reconstructed our orchards and house,” he said.Pandita recalled that Ajay always rejected his suggestions that they should leave Kashmir because the situation was not normal.“He used to say that it is our home. He used Bharti in his name to show his love for the country. Some anti-nationals are behind his killing. They shot him in his back. He was a lion. My son has sacrificed his life for the country,” said Pandita.“There are forces, who don’t want Pandits to return and my son fell to the bullets of such ideology. We are not afraid, but will return and fulfill my son’s mission”, he added.Last December, Pandita had spoken about threats to his life and had demanded security.Dr Mahesh Kaul, a prominent writer on Kashmir and a community leader said Ajay’s murder was “part of a jihad to eliminate Kashmiri Pandits at different levels”.All Parties Migrant Coordination Committee (APMCC) leader Vinod Pandit accused the government of playing with the lives of minorities and demanded a probe into the killing.“We strongly condemn the killing of Ajay Pandita (Bharti) by terrorists. He was always under threat for being a sarpanch, and especially because he was a Kashmiri Pandit. Why did the government withdraw his security? Why play with minority lives in Kashmir? A probe is needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-won-t-leave-kashmir-says-family-of-slain-pandit-sarpanch/story-0kDX1akVDdIXo61JrAiUoO.html
09-06-2020||India||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tests negative for coronavirus||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has tested negative for the coronavirus disease, reported news agency Press Trust of India on Tuesday evening. The fever, said PTI quoting officials, has subsided and he is now feeling well. The Covid-19 test was conducted this morning.The Delhi CM has not been meeting people since Sunday afternoon after he felt feverish. Subsequently, he decided to self-isolate, then followed it up with a Covid-19 test. In another development, the Centre’s officials ruled out community transmission in the national capital.However, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said the number of Covid-19 cases in the city-state will balloon to 5.5 lakh by the end of July, presenting a grim assessment.The national capital recorded 1,007 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the Covid-19 tally in the city to over 29,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 874, authorities said.The highest spike of 1,513 fresh cases was recorded on June 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-tests-negative-for-coronavirus/story-wzFULWh8EwpZRwL8qAr98I.html
09-06-2020||India||Source of infection not known in nearly half of new cases reported in Delhi: Satyendra Jain||As coronavirus cases continue to mount in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said the source of infection is “not known” in nearly half of the fresh cases being reported.Interacting with reporters, he also said that the Kejriwal government is making all the preparations to handle the huge rush of patients estimated by June end.When asked if Delhi has reached community transmission level as far as coronavirus infection is concerned, he said declaration on this is made by the Centre.“Epidemiologically, community transmission is the third stage of the infection...In Delhi, of the new cases being reported, in nearly half of these cases, the source of infection is not known,” he said.Later, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told media persons that officials from the Centre have said that there is no community transmission of coronavirus in Delhi.The national capital recorded 1,007 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to over 29,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 874, authorities said.The highest spike of 1,513 fresh cases was recorded on June 3.Asked about Lt Governor Anil Baijal overturning the Delhi government’s order to reserve hospitals only for residents of Delhi, he said, “Cases are growing so fast every day, and existing hospital beds will soon get swamped, where will people of Delhi go then.” Jain alleged that the orders were overturned by the LG “under pressure from the BJP”.He also claimed that the Delhi government had told the Centre to halt flight services much earlier, when coronavirus cases were beginning to be recorded in the country, “but those services were stopped 15 days later”.Asked what measures are taken if the infection reaches community transmission level, the heath minister said, “Stress is then laid more on treatment, currently we are doing more rigours contact tracing to stop infection from spreading.” On private hospitals situation, he said most of the facilities are already full to capacity but a large number of beds will be required in Delhi in coming weeks.An order has been issued for constituting a District Core Team for containing the spread of COVID-19 infection in the four districts North West Delhi, Central Delhi, West Delhi and North Delhi, where high active cases and high surge of cases are being reported, the authorities said on Monday.Jain said on Monday had told reporters, the current doubling rate of coronavirus infection transmission here is 14 days and so the national capital as per that estimation will see over 56,000 cases by the end of next two weeks. PTI KND KJ KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/source-of-infection-not-known-in-nearly-half-of-new-cases-reported-in-delhi-satyendra-jain/story-xuBoW8sgNNkEKlMqOhUMiK.html
09-06-2020||India||India better positioned in fight against Covid-19 but no space for complacency: Harsh Vardhan||India is better positioned in the fight against Covid-19 compared to other countries but there is no space for complacency, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday as the death toll due to coronavirus infection rose to 7,466 and the cases mounted to 2,66,598 in the country. Vardhan chaired the 16th meeting of the high-level group of ministers on Covid-19 which reviewed the containment strategies pertaining to the pandemic via video-conferencing here, the heath ministry said.The GOM was briefed about the latest status, response and management of Covid-19 in the country.  A brief snapshot was presented to the GOM highlighting the comparative position of India vis-a-vis other countries in similar stage of easing lockdown, underscoring the benefits that have accrued from the lockdown and how this can be leveraged in management of disease, the ministry said.As the country entered the “Unlock 1.0 phase” when restrictions have been eased and curbs lifted, Vardhan stressed that people need to be more disciplined and adopt appropriate behaviour to ensure norms of physical distancing, use of face covers, hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette are followed.  India is better positioned in fight against Covid-19 compared to other nations, “but there is no space for complacency,” Vardhan strongly reiterated.He also reminded everybody to download Aarogya Setu app which will help in self risk assessment and in protection against Covid-19.  More than 12.55 crore people in the country have downloaded the app, as on date, the ministry said in its statement.In the wake of all government offices opening now, Vardhan appealed to the heads of departments, “Let us also not forget the ‘social vaccine’ against Covid-19 through strict adherence of norms of physical distancing, hand hygiene and mask/face covers.”  The GoM was informed that as on June 9, Covid-related health infrastructure in the country has been strengthened with the availability of 958 dedicated Covid hospitals with 1,67,883 isolation beds, 21,614 ICU and 73,469 oxygen supported beds.  Also, 2,313 dedicated Covid health centres with 1,33,037 isolation beds, 10,748 ICU beds and 46,635 oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised.  Moreover, 7,525 Covid care centres with 7,10,642 beds are now available to combat COVID-19 in the country. The ventilators available for Covid beds are 21,494, the ministry said.The Centre has further placed an order of 60,848 ventilators, it added.   The Centre has also provided 128.48 lakh N95 masks and 104.74 lakh personal protective equipment (PPEs) to the states, union territories and central institutions.  ICMR’s testing capacity has increased through 553 government and 231 private laboratories (total of 784 labs).  More than 49 lakh cumulative tests have been conducted in the country so far with 1,41,682 samples been tested in the last 24 hours till 9 AM.Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityananda Rai, Minister of State for Shipping and Chemical and Fertilizers Mansukh Lal Mandaviya and Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey along with other senior officials took part in the meeting which was held following norms of physical distancing, the ministry said.Parameswaran Iyer, Chairman of Empowered Group-5, presented the critical strategies adopted by the EG to ease the burden of lockdown while enabling supply of critical items for the country to fight the pandemic.Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar presented details on the status of testing labs, augmented capacities for testing across the country, and also enlightened the GoM on various issues related to hydroxychloroquine, remdesivir, and sero-surveillance studies.The number of active novel coronavirus cases stands at 1,29,917 till Tuesday 8 AM.So far, a total of 1,29,214 people have recovered with 4,785 patients having been cured in the last 24 hours.  “This takes the total recovery rate to 48.47 per cent,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-better-positioned-in-fight-against-covid-19-but-no-space-for-complacency-harsh-vardhan/story-JyJKudlHLqiuBfuW7JIA7M.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Will continue to provide Shramik trains for migrants as demanded by states’: Railways||Indian Railways in a statement on Tuesday announced that it will continue to provide ‘Shramik Special Trains’ to various states as demanded to ferry stranded migrant labourers to their native places. “The railway ministry has requested state governments to indicate their requirements about Shramik Special Trains and see that projected demand for movement of residual persons by rail mode is well chalked out and determined,” the ministry stated. Also read: SC directs states, union territories to facilitate return of migrant workers within 15 daysThe statement added that the chairman of the Railway Board, Vinod Kumar Yadav, had written to various states governments on May 29 and June 3 on the matter, emphasising the “Indian Railways will provide the desired number of Shramik Special trains immediately within 24 hours of the request”. Today also, a letter was been sent to chief secretaries of the states emphasizing the same, the statement added. ALSO WATCH | Train services resume partially amid social distancing at stationsThis comes after the Supreme Court, earlier in the day, stated that, so far, 171 ‘Shramik’ trains have been demanded by various states from the Centre and directed the railways to meet any additional demand for trains within “a period of 24 hours”.In its order, a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, said “All the States/Union Territories shall take all necessary steps regarding identification of stranded migrant workers in their state which are willing to return to their native places and take steps for their return journey by train/bus which process may be completed within a period of 15 days from today.” The apex court also directed the central government and states to identify and send migrant workers to their native places within 15 days. The top court called for their counselling and help find avenues of employment for them amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“All States and Union territories shall also give details of all schemes which are currently in the state, benefit of which can be taken by the migrant labourers including different schemes for providing employment,” it said.Indian Railways has informed the State governments that it will continue to provide Shramik Special Train within 24 hours after the demand is received from the States: Ministry of RailwaysThe Ministry of Railways has operated around 4,347 Shramik special trains till date, transporting around 60 migrant workers to their native states amid the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-to-provide-shramik-trains-for-migrants-as-demanded-by-states-indian-railways/story-YcKzUJRsXM9OjY9fvdNUAK.html
09-06-2020||India||Validity of expiring motor licence, permits extended till September 30||The government has further extended the validity of documents related to motor vehicles such as license, registration or fitness certificate to end of September this year in view of the difficulties in renewal and extension of official documents during the lockdown phase creating a likely pendency. An official communication to this effect was made by the union road transport and highways ministry on Tuesday. Following minister Nitin Gadkari’s announcement to this effect, an advisory has been issued to all states and Union Territories over the grant of extension to the validity date of motor vehicle documents till September this year, said an official release from the ministry.The extension follows a similar order released on March 30 that extended the validity of fitness, permit, driving license, registration or any other concerned motor vehicle related document otherwise set to expire on or after February 1, 2020 to May 31 and the enforcement authorities were advised to treat such documents valid till June 30.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe order was released after the government shut down most government offices and non-essential services on March 25 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak and ordered people to stay at home. While the lockdown provisions have been eased considerably, the government is granting people more time to get renewals done.“Considering the situation for prevention of Covid 19 still continues, and as per the requests received, Shri Gadkari directed his Ministry to issue advice for extension of this period till 30th Sept for treating the documents valid for enforcement purposes,” the official statement says.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Additionally, the ministry on 21st May this year had relaxed the fees validity and additional fee under Rule 32 or Rule 81 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 till 31st July 2020.The official release says that states and UTs have also been requested to consider provisions available under the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 or other such provisions available under other acts for relaxation in requirement of permit, or fees or taxes for renewal or penalty so that people could be provided relief during these difficult period of pandemic outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transport-ministry-extends-validity-date-of-motor-vehicle-documents-till-september-2020/story-KTn6mwEujNMYpqSSVChPBK.html
09-06-2020||India||Has China occupied Indian territory in Ladakh? Rahul asks Rajnath Singh||The war of words between the Congress and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the alleged Chinese intrusion in Ladakh escalated on Tuesday, with Rahul Gandhi asking defence minister Rajnath Singh whether China has occupied Indian territory.“Once RM (Raksha Mantri – defence minister) is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh,” the former Congress chief asked on Twitter.Singh had on Monday hit out at the Congress party with a couplet of the famous Urdu poet Mirza Ghalib, saying, “Haath me dard ho to dawa kije, haath hi jab dard ho to kya kije (when there is pain in the hand, one takes medicine, but what does one do when the hand itself is a pain).”“Hand” is the election symbol of the Congress party.Singh’s attack was in response to Gandhi’s swipe at home minister Amit Shah over the alleged Chinese intrusion in Ladakh. Gandhi had said “everyone knows the reality” of the situation at the borders.Gandhi had tweaked a couplet by Ghalib to attack Shah. “Everyone knows the reality of the borders, but ‘Shah-yad’ (maybe) it’s a good idea to keep oneself happy,” he tweeted in Hindi.“The media is muzzled and terrified. The truth seems dormant. But it flows in the blood of every single Indian army officer and soldier. They know exactly what is happening in Ladakh,” Gandhi said in another tweet.His remarks came against the backdrop of the Congress stepping up its criticism of the government on the border standoff between India and China, asking it to come clean on the presence of Chinese forces in Ladakh.Beijing said on Monday the two sides had reached consensus on preventing differences from escalating into disputes during weekend talks between top army commanders.Addressing a virtual rally in Bihar on Sunday, Shah said India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance and the world agrees that after the US and Israel, if there is any other country able to protect its borders, it is India.The Congress had earlier questioned the government’s silence on the “brazen Chinese transgression” into the Indian territory, and asked it to take all political parties and the country into confidence over restoring the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-china-occupied-indian-territory-in-ladakh-rahul-asks-rajnath-singh/story-9O6SsuShkItNDKSaCyXNzL.html
09-06-2020||India||I will continue to praise old songs but I don’t have a problem with new music: Sukhwinder Singh||The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown in India for more than two months served as a big bummer for everyone. But as we slowly move towards Unlock 1.0, people are excited about getting back to work and doing what they love. Singer Sukhwinder Singh says he is really enthusiastic and pumped to restart work with full gusto. “I will be releasing 12 music videos by July next year, apart from my film songs, and I am really excited,” he says, adding, “Pain and suffering will never be our well-wisher or friend so we should not spend too much time with it. We should always try and move on from bad things,” says the singer as he talks about everyone recovering from the pandemic.“My relationship with film music will always stay but my team and I have decided to release independent singles to entertain everyone to the fullest with different genres of songs. If you constantly keep talking about sad and depressing thing, it is very difficult. We have to move on,” says the 48-year-old singer.  ???????A post shared by  Sukhwinder Singh (@sukhwindersinghofficial) on May 28, 2020 at 4:12am PDTAs far as the business of music industry is concerned, Singh says that if someone is making something with their heart, people will even pay the last remaining penny in their pocket to enjoy it. “There are very few special people in every industry. Making music videos is not a big deal but aap kitni shiddat ke saath usko banate hai, uska content kitna rich hai aur kis hadh tak who logon ke dilon ko choota hai is important. To give a hit film or a hit song, you have to be very passionate about your work. Agar aap kaam ke saath dillagi karoge, toh who kaam logon ke dil ko nahi chu payega. Quality is always more important than quantity. If people are not attracted or don’t get connected to your work, no matter how many things you make, it doesn’t matter,” he says.  When your friend surprises you in the middle of your concert. Absolutely loved our impromptu collaboration @vishaldadlaniA post shared by  Sukhwinder Singh (@sukhwindersinghofficial) on Mar 27, 2020 at 3:30am PDTAbout the changing dynamics of the music industry, Singh says that he will always be appreciative of old music, but he will never diss new trends or music. “I will continue to praise old songs but that doesn’t mean that I have a problem with new songs or new music. I cannot call new songs bad, how can I do that? Even I have sung songs that were new for that generation like Chak De and Jai Ho. One must experience the past to perform better in the present. We cannot live in the past, but we have to learn from it,” says the kar Har Maidan Fateh (Sanju; 2018) singer.Singh says that nothing much changed for him during the lockdown. “I used to do the same things before that I did during this time,” he signs off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-will-continue-to-praise-old-songs-but-i-don-t-have-a-problem-with-new-music-sukhwinder-singh/story-khpHk5OYY2tcZv2ul7m7yO.html
09-06-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, newborn makes 380-km journey for heart surgery||Rohit Chavan is only two and a half months old, but he has already survived a ten-hour journey by road from Sangli in western Maharashtra to Mumbai amid lockdown, and then an open heart surgery.Now he is back in his village. It became possible because of coordinated efforts of doctors in the two cities and the Sangli district administration.Rohit was born on March 16, barely a week before lockdown to contain coronavirus was announced.“He had transposition of great arteries, which meant the two main arteries were reversely connected with the heart chambers, resulting into the body getting low oxygenated blood,” said Dr Laxmikant Magdum, medical officer of the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Mission for Sangli district.“The complication was further escalated when the body scan revealed the lungs supplying purified blood were getting drained through the liver. It was the first such case in my entire professional life,” he said. “The baby was in dire need of oxygenated blood as well as corrective surgeries, so we contacted hospitals in Mumbai,” he said.Rohit’s parents had taken him to the Sangli civil hospital after he became seriously ill, but the surgery which he needed could not be performed there.“The only option we had was to shift the baby to Mumbai in the midst of coronavirus pandemic,” said Dr Magdum.The officials in the Sangli district collector’s office arranged ambulance transport for the baby patient.When asked how the family raised the funds for the treatment, Magdum said, “Most of the cost was covered under the Union government’s Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram.”“As we had no facility here for conducting open heart surgery, we recommended that the baby be taken to NH SRCC Children’s hospital in Mumbai,” he said.The hospital in Mumbai, which is run by a charitable trust, agreed to bear some of the cost of the surgery.Before leaving for Mumbai, 380 km away, Rohit had to undergo a coronavirus test and get ascertained that he was not carrying the infection.During the journey, the doctors had to ensure that he was supplied with oxygen all the time. “We equipped six ambulances with oxygen supply equipment, and they transported the patient from Sangli to Mumbai (in relay) which took over ten hours,” Dr Magdum said.After undergoing the surgery in the third week of May, the baby and his parents stayed at the hospital for a few days before returning to their village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-pandemic-new-born-makes-380-km-journey-for-heart-surgery/story-8oh4aY0xp3DwIUb7fqEa3J.html
09-06-2020||India||Dehradun boarding schools to be probed after sexual assault on a 9-year-old boy in hostel||The Uttarakhand State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) has sought an investigation of all the boarding schools in Dehradun after an incident of sexual assault and harassment of a nine-year old boy by the hostel warden of a city-based boarding school came to light on Saturday last. The hostel warden was arrested for allegedly assaulting and sexually harassing a 9-year-old class 3 student inside the hostel, where the boy was stuck alone due to the lockdown. He narrated his ordeal to his parents who had come to take him home on Saturday after the lockdown was relaxed.Also Read: Unlock 1: HRD ministry begins consultations on reopening schools, safety of studentThe incident is one among several reported from Dehradun’s boarding schools in the last few years, including gang-rape of a class-10 girl by fellow students and the murder of a 7-year-old class-3 student by his seniors. Usha Negi, chairperson of SCPCR said the incident warrants a probe to establish if the boarding schools in the city are following the safety norms.“It is a very serious incident. In the backdrop of this and previous incidents in boarding schools, we have asked the district education department to probe all the boarding schools to check whether they are following the norms and regulations regarding children’s safety or not,” Negi said.Negi added that she was concerned about such incidents coming up at regular intervals despite the tightening of the rules for the boarding schools.“The school managements should understand that they are not just responsible for giving education but have to ensure the safety of the children studying in the schools. They are the future of our country and we won’t let these incidents happen again and again,” she said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAsha Painuli, chief education officer, Dehradun said the department hadn’t received any communication from the child rights body so far.“We are yet to receive any kind of communication from SCPCR on the same. But we have already issued notice to the school management in the recent case,” said Painuli.Painuli added that the department will take proper action in this case once the police probe is over.“Whenever such an incident is reported from any school, the district education department takes proper action the police investigation confirms the incident. In this incident too, we will take proper action after the police probe concludes. We are keeping an eye on the boarding schools to ensure that children are safe,” Painuli said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dehradun-boarding-schools-to-be-probed-after-sexual-assault-on-a-9-year-old-boy-in-hostel/story-Ywwr5xrb7WeqgzthZXmwSK.html
09-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt under fire for exempting VIPs from Covid-19 quarantine||The Uttarakhand government in its fresh guidelines on inter-state and intra-state travel has exempted VIPs from mandatory quarantine.The guidelines have drawn flak from the opposition Congress which described the guidelines as “foolish” since Covid-19 cases continued to soar every day in the state. On Tuesday, 77 new cases took Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally to 1488.The BJP-led Uttarakhand government on Monday evening had issued guidelines on inter-state and intra-state travel under which all the inbound people have to go under quarantine. Those coming from high-load Covid-19 cities by any mode of transport will have to be in institutional quarantine for a period of seven days followed by 14 days of home quarantine.People coming from non-high-load Covid-19 cities will have to go under home quarantine of 14 days. Some exceptional cases including pregnant women, serious illness, death, senior citizen sabove 65 years of age could go under home quarantine of 14 days without seven days of institutional quarantine with proper directions and screening by the government. Also read: Uttarakhand hotels to remain shut, hoteliers say govt guidelines impracticalThe guidelines exempted central ministers and Uttarakhand ministers, chief justice and judges of the High Court, judges and judicial officers of district and sub-ordinate judiciary of the state, Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assembly of Uttarakhand, all officers of Centre, state government, PSUs, Central and State government organisations, from any sort of quarantine in case of inter-state or intra-state travel for official purposes. However, they will have to adhere to the Centre’s norms of safety and social distancing.The Congress has reacted strongly on the exemption and termed the government’s decision as foolish citing the recent case of state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj who tested positive for Covid-19 along with his family members and staffers. Suryakant Dhasamana, vice president of the Uttarakhand Congress unit said, “When the cases in the state are increasing every day, how could the government take such a foolish decision? It is beyond one’s understanding.”“First this government termed coronavirus as Jamaati and now with the latest exemption, they have divided it between VIPs and the common man. It’s simply ridiculous. They should understand that the virus doesn’t discriminate about religion, class, caste, creed or race. It can infect anyone,” said Dhasmana. Pointing towards Satpal Maharaj’s case, he said “what better example for the same than him.”“Is there any bigger VIP than Maharaj in the state. He is a minister in the present government, former minister in Centre, and also a Maharaj. Even he has tested positive for the virus, so what is the meaning of this exemption? Instead of taking more stringent decisions to contain the spread, the government is coming up with these decisions,” said Dhasmana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-under-fire-for-exempting-vips-from-covid-19-quarantine/story-utlF1u3eYupL5bZgeaQ0UP.html
09-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Opposition urges home minister to spare a minute to answer China question and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Dragon in the room’: Opposition’s swipe at Centre over Ladakh standoffThe Opposition parties are attacking the government over the border standoff with China. Leading the charge is Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who has accused the government of hiding the truth. Read moreDelhi expected to have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July 31: Manish SisodiaDelhi is likely to have over five lakh Covid-19 cases by the end of July and 80,000 beds would be needed to accommodate the infected patients, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday, a day after L-G Anil Baijal revoked the AAP government’s order to reserve beds in Delhi government hospitals for its residents. Read moreAmit Shah counters Bengal CM over ‘Corona Express’ jibe. Then a predictionThe coinage “Corona Express” by Mamata Banerjee to trains ferrying migrant workers will turn into an “exit express” for the Trinamool, home minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday, sharpening the attack on the Bengal chief minister at a virtual rally. Read moreCoronavirus may have been spreading in China since August 2019: Harvard researchThe coronavirus might have been spreading in China as early as August last year, according to Harvard Medical School research based on satellite images of hospital travel patterns and search engine data, but China dismissed the report as “ridiculous”. Read moreI’ve never disclosed this but here is how Dhoni was picked: Syed Kirmani narrates MSD’s selection storyIt sounds only fitting to know that India’s first finest wicket-keeper was responsible for giving Indian cricket its best ‘keeper batsman. Years ago, when Syed Kirmani – India’s first World Cup winning wicket-keeper – was the chairman of selectors with the Indian cricket team, his eyes spotted a talent who would not only go on to become India’s answer behind the stumps for years to come, but also emerge as the country’s most successful captain of all time. Read more20-minute-old baby elephant ‘dances’ while taking first steps. Video is beyond adorableThis baby elephant may just be 20-minute-old, but it is already making people go gaga. A video shows the little one taking its first awkward and clumsy steps, under the supervision of an adult elephant. What’s even more heartening is the way the baby takes its steps which almost make it seem like it is dancing. Read moreHappy 35 Birthday Sonam Kapoor: Best looks of Bollywood’s OG style divaBorn to the actor and producer Anil Kapoor on June 9th 1985, Sonam Kapoor Ahuja has made a name for herself through her acting abilities and her impeccable fashion sense. Her introduction to Bollywood was as an assistant director in Sanjay Lela Bhansali’s 2005 film Black. He subsequently cast her in his 2007 romantic drama Sawarriya. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-opposition-urges-home-minister-to-spare-a-minute-to-answer-china-question-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CnJts3JrjQ1vLVk86oXZdK.html
09-06-2020||India||India has largest, most experienced mountain army in the world, says Chinese military expert||India has the world’s largest and most experienced troops trained for high-altitude battles, a military expert affiliated to China’s leading maker of equipment for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has said, adding that mountaineering is an “essential skill” for each Indian soldier deployed in the mountains.“At present, the world’s largest and experienced country with plateau and mountain troops is neither the US, Russia, nor any European powerhouse, but India,” wrote Huang Guozhi, senior editor of Modern Weaponry magazine.The magazine, considered a comprehensive military and defence journal, is affiliated to the state-owned China North Industries Group Corporation Limited (NORINCO), which describes itself as “the main platform responsible for developing mechanised, digitised and intellectualised equipment for PLA”.It’s one of the world’s largest defence contractors and is also closely involved in President Xi Jinping’s legacy project, the Belt and Road Initiative.ALSO WATCH | ‘Shouldn’t let differences escalate into disputes’: China on Ladakh standoff The write-up comes in the backdrop of a stand-off between Indian and Chinese border troops along the line of actual control (LAC) in the mountainous Ladakh region. It began last month and was the topic of talks between military commanders last weekend.Huang’s article published in thepaper.cn is a rare critique of an Indian army wing in Chinese media, which usually takes the more nationalistic tone of brandishing its own capabilities along the border with India.Huang’s take was nuanced.“Mountaineering is an essential skill for almost every member of the Indian mountain army. To this end, India even recruited a large number of professional mountaineers and amateur mountaineers from the private sector,” Huang wrote.“With more than 200000 troops in 12 divisions, the Indian mountain force is the largest mountain fighting force in the world,” Huang wrote.Huang said that since the 1970s, the Indian military has established and expanded the size and personnel of the mountain army on a large-scale, and also plans to create a mountain strike force of more than 50,000 troops.Giving the example of the Siachen Glacier, Huang wrote: “The Indian army has set up hundreds of outposts in the Siachen Glacier area with an altitude of more than 5,000 metres, with 6,000 to 7,000 fighters stationed. The highest post has reached 6,749 metres.”Huang didn’t mention the source of the information but went on to give a list of weaponry that the Indian army has deployed in the mountains suitable to high-altitude battles.“In terms of equipment, the Indian military, through procurement from abroad and domestic research and development, has equipped a large number of main battle weapons adapted to the combat environment of the plateau and mountains.”“The Indian military has also spent heavily on advanced heavy equipment from the US including the M777, the world’s lightest 155mm-towed howitzer, and the Chinook heavy transport helicopter that lifts the gun, to boost its fire support and anti-armour capabilities”.Huang also mentioned the high-calibre sniper rifles that Indian soldiers deployed at high-altitudes are now equipped with.The author also listed shortcomings of the Indian army mountain troops including lack of self-sufficiency in weaponry and ammunition especially needed for western weaponry.“In addition, there are many conflicts and differences between the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force. This has also led the Indian Army to decide to equip its own US-made AH-64E Longbow Apache attack helicopters instead of relying entirely on airfield support from the air force,” Huang wrote.Incidentally, India and the US signed an estimated $800 million contract in February this year in New Delhi for the delivery of six Boeing AH-64E Apache Guardian attack helicopters to the Indian Army’s Aviation Corps (AAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-largest-most-experienced-mountain-army-in-the-world-says-chinese-military-expert/story-4eR8hDrrshV7j59OHvfIYO.html
09-06-2020||India||As Covid-19 reaches rural Goa, villagers impose their own lockdowns||As the number of coronavirus cases rise in Goa, villagers have begun to lock themselves at home and ensure a complete shutdown of activity in their villages in the hope that they will tide over the pandemic. It began on June 6, when a health worker from Guleli in Sattari, a village located deep in the Western Ghats that line Goa’s eastern fringe with Karnataka, tested positive for the virus, people from the village quickly shut down the few shops that make up the village and quarantined themselves in their homes. The practice soon spread to neighbouring villages after cases were found there too and culminated in Keri, a village that lies along the border with Karnataka declaring a four day shutdown to “break the chain” of the virus. “Yesterday the Keri youth and villagers got together and decided that since the coronavirus has reached close to home they would voluntarily shut shop. The youth have come forward and called the each panch and explained the plan. This is for our own good and our own decision,” Laxman Gauns, a panch member from the Keri village, saidClick here for full Covid-19 coverage.“We have to break the chain of the virus. So we will remain shut for four days. This is not a government directive or anything, but it is our own choice and decision. Those who work outside the village, they should take their own precautions. We cannot take the law into our own hands and they should make their own choice,” he said. “It’s not as if the virus will disappear within four days but we want to do what we can and also spread awareness,” he added. Covid-19 cases emerged in rural Goa after health workers -- mainly those associated with the Vasco Urban Health Centre began testing positive. So far, 15 health workers have tested positive and five family members related to the health workers also tested positive. Seven hail from the Morlem village neighbouring Keri and one from Guleli. A large number of people from the villages of Sattari taluka are employed in the health department.On Tuesday, the state government tried to dispel rising fear about the pandemic after the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases. Goa now has more than 300 cases. The director of health told reporters Covid19 is “just like any other respiratory disease.”“There is a lot of fear that has spread and people are scared and they are scaring others too. It is just like any other respiratory disease and if we can take precautions, there will be nothing to worry. Also, as per our numbers, only 5% of patients show symptoms the rest 95% are asymptomatic. We also have a zero mortality rate and a 100% cure rate,” Dr José de Sa, director of Health Services, said. “There are other communicable diseases in the community, we don’t have to fear. But we have to take all precautions and for high-risk persons those who are above 65, children less than five and those who have comorbid conditions and pregnant women, have to be extra careful. Wear a mask, wash hands frequently and routinely follow all precautions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-reaches-rural-goa-villagers-impose-their-own-lockdowns/story-i79krhoYCxpsT6ZodrjWDI.html
09-06-2020||India||Rajasthan industries offer better wages, conditions to lure migrants back||The coronavirus induced lockdown and the resulting reverse migration of labourers has left several industries in Rajasthan facing a severe manpower crunch, forcing them to lure workers back with a promise of higher wages and better working conditions.The state government has also offered to help in bringing workers back from their home states, provided the industry bears the transportation cost. Labour secretary Niraj K Pawan said, “If the industry provides us details of districts from which they want labourers back, we will coordinate with those states and facilitate their transport,” he said.Despite the permission to resume operations from May 3, most industries in the state including construction, autos, real estate, MSMEs, textiles and garments are struggling due to the shortage of labourers, who had left for their hometowns in absence of work, income and shelter during the lockdown while gripped by Covid scare.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19NK Jain, FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry), Rajasthan chairman on the subcommittee on MSMEs said there is a 40 per cent shortage of labourers.“Only about 70 per cent of industry is functioning and they are completing old orders as there is no new demand. Those industries that have demand are getting labourers back but others are making do with what they have,” he said.Sunil Jain president, CREDAI, Rajasthan said the real estate and the construction sector is facing up to 40 per cent shortage of workers.“Most of the labourers in the construction industry in Rajasthan come mainly from the five states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and Bengal. But now, most have returned, so we have to either get them back or employ new labour.”Also Read: Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan rises to 251; cases cross 11,000-markJain said some firms are making efforts to bring back workers from their home states. “I know of some real estate firms that are trying to get workers back through contractors. Contractors are in touch with the labourers and are convincing them to return by offering assurance of full work and wages. A few have even sent vehicles to ferry labourers back,” he said.Aseem Kumar, general secretary of Rajasthan’s garment exporters association says the industry is facing up to 70 per cent labour shortage.“Factories are offering higher wages, accommodation and even promising work for the whole year, but the workers are not ready to return,” said Kumar.A majority of garment exports from Rajasthan go to Japan but also to the US, Europe and South America.Kumar said the export season for the northern hemisphere is ending but was starting for the southern hemisphere where summer will be setting in. “Those firms who have orders for South America need more labour force at this time and are making efforts to bring them back,” he said.Kumar said the crunch has led to labour wages rising by 15-20 per cent.The labour in the garment industry is paid per piece rate. A worker can earn 500-600 per day, depending on the style of the garment and the skill required, he said.Jain, too, acknowledged that wages have increased by 20-25 per cent. The daily wage rate ranges from Rs 400 to Rs 1000 depending on the skill set required for the job.Kumar said the garment industry needs a skilled work force and therefore can’t be replaced with anyone. “Our workers have been with us since a long time and are trained as per our needs. New labour will have to be trained from the start and that will take time.”Jain said the construction sector hopes to train the available migrants to overcome the shortage. “We have sought permission from the government to let us open skill training centres on project sites to train labour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-industries-offer-better-wages-conditions-to-lure-migrants-back/story-QIkqjBkj5guXogDvwNX0RJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Amit Shah highlights Modi government’s direct benefit to people||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday highlighted how the Narendra Modi government has successfully sent direct benefits to the people, especially the poorest of the poor, over the past six years.While listing the government’s successes in this period, Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sent gas cylinders to eight crore mothers and 2.5 crore households got free electricity. Ten crore toilets were built and 2.5 crore houses were constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, he said.Rs 72,000 crore was sent to bank accounts of 9.5 crore farmers through the PM Kisan Samman programme, Shah said.The government had made certain changes of historical importance in India and these include implementation of GST, direct benefits to poor through bank accounts, abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution, passage of the triple talaq bill and imminent realisation of the people’s dreams of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, he said.“Disasters have hit India before too. But this time, Modiji not only planned to tackle the pandemic but foresaw how it could affect the poor in the worst way and therefore declared a package well in advance,” Shah said.Talking about measures put in place amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the announcement of a nationwide lockdown, Shah said 8.7 crore people got Rs 16,000 crore through Kisan Samman Nidhi, while Rs 30,000 crore was sent to Jan Dhan accounts of 20 crore women.He said social security pension of Rs 3,000 crore was given to three crore people, while 2.3 crore construction workers got Rs 4,300 crore. Gas cylinders worth Rs 13,000 crore were given for free to 8.19 crore beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna, Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-amit-shah-highlights-modi-government-s-direct-benefit-to-people/story-nLAxZtjgmnzSg60Z3vFEYO.html
09-06-2020||India||Low pressure area forms over Bay of Bengal, likely to cross Odisha coast on Friday||A low pressure area that formed over east-central Bay of Bengal on Tuesday is likely to move west-northwest and become a well-marked low-pressure area and cross near the Odisha coast on June 12, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.“We are not expecting a cyclone. Low pressure systems do not intensify into cyclones during the monsoon. At the most, this will be a depression which will cross the Odisha coast in 48 hours. Such monsoon depressions bring a lot of rain,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD.“There are about 10 to 12 feeble low-pressure systems in the June to September period. In June and September, there is usually formation of one depression in each month. These depressions affect the flow pattern of monsoon also.”DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD Pune, said: “As of now it’s a low pressure area which has not strengthened. But it will intensify in the next 48 hours. We have to see how that happens. This will cause widespread rains in Odisha, central India, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Konkan region. As of now, there is no cause for worry. It may in fact help the monsoon progress into central Arabian Sea, Goa and Maharashtra.”IMD said in its Tuesday bulletin that conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of the monsoon into some more parts of the central Arabian Sea, Goa, some parts of Maharashtra, some more parts of Karnataka and Rayalaseema, remaining parts of Tamil Nadu, some parts of Telangana and coastal Andhra Pradesh over the next 48 hours.Conditions are also likely to become favourable subsequently for further advance of the monsoon into parts of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana, remaining parts of Rayalaseema and coastal Andhra Pradesh, remaining parts of the Bay of Bengal and northeastern states, Sikkim, parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal later this week.From June 1 to June 8, India received 56% excess rains. There is an orange warning for central India, including Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, on June 13, when very heavy rains are expected.There is also an orange warning for the western coast on June 12. An orange warning implies that government agencies will have to remain alert for rain-related emergencies.For northwest India, there is a lightning and thunderstorm warning during June 11-13 for Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, west and east Uttar Pradesh and west and east Rajasthan.Cyclones normally don’t develop during the monsoon season. The southwest monsoon is characterised by strong westerly winds in the lower troposphere (below five kilometres) and very strong easterly winds in the upper troposphere (above nine kilometres).This results in large vertical wind shear. Strong vertical wind shear inhibits cyclone development, according to the Regional Specialised Meteorological Centre for Tropical Cyclones.During the monsoons, low pressure systems up to the intensity of depressions form along the monsoon trough, which extends from northwest India to northern Bay of Bengal. These systems have a shorter oceanic stay, which is also one of the reasons why they don’t develop into intense cyclones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-area-forms-over-bay-of-bengal-likely-to-cross-odisha-coast-on-friday/story-X7aK6XVv8ACBJRLO8cQ7IJ.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Total lockdown best medicine against Covid-19’: Mizoram CM Zoramthanga||A complete lockdown is the best antidote to stem the spread of coronavirus, said Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga, with his government enforcing a total shutdown for two weeks from today. The move follows rise in Covid-19 cases in the state and other parts of northeast following return of migrants. In an exclusive interview with Utpal Parashar, Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga informs what necessitated the move.Here are the edited excerpts from the interview:Q: While the entire country is unlocking, Mizoram has imposed total lockdown. What prompted the government to take that decision?A: It’s a government decision to impose total lockdown. Previously, we had become ‘Covid-19 free’ with the state’s lone patient recovering. But when returnees started coming from all over, the positive cases started going up daily. In order to contain it, we decided to apply the best medicine, which is total lockdown. The people also want it. For now total lockdown will be for two weeks till June 22.Q: What’s the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Mizoram and how many people have returned to the state since the ban on inter-state movement was lifted on May 4?A: We have a little over 40 Covid-19 positive cases at present. But we think the figure will go further up when more tests are done. Around 10,000 persons have returned to the state till now and we expect few more thousand.Q: What are the guidelines of the new shutdown? Will the state’s only airport be shut and international and inter-state borders sealed?A: Mizoram’s international borders with Myanmar and Bangladesh as well as borders with other states have been shut for the past two months and will continue to remain so. The shutdown will be more stringent in towns but a bit relaxed in villages, allowing people to work in their fields. Attendance in offices will be less than 50%. The economy will be taken care of. Curfew will be in place from 7:30 pm to 4:30 am. The airport will remain open and all stranded people will have to return by air. We have decided to extend the limit of quarantine from 14 days to 21 days.Q: Once two weeks gets over on June 22, will the total shutdown be relaxed in a staggered manner or will the guidelines of Unlock 1 come into effect?A: It will depend upon the circumstances after completion of the two week period. We will make a decision depending on what the Covid-19 situation is at that time.Q: What about the testing facilities in Mizoram? Has the state government been able to get additional testing facilities?A: We got a new RT-PCR machine and consumables last week and very soon we will be able to test more than 1,000 samples daily. Right now we are testing just 200-300 samples every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-lockdown-best-medicine-against-covid-19-mizoram-cm-zoramthanga/story-sfYQuq6dG2r26c3QuuudbN.html
09-06-2020||India||Kolkata launches biggest operation to refix trees uprooted by cyclone Amphan||In a race against time, Kolkata has embarked on its biggest ever exercise to save trees that were uprooted by cyclone Amphan. Some of these trees, like the Baobab tree and the ‘Mad’ tree, are more than a century old.The storm hit Kolkata with wind speed of up to 130 km per hour on May 20, uprooting around 15,000 trees in one evening. Out of the 500 trees identified for re-fixing, more than 50 have been re-fixed.“This is the biggest ever replantation drive in Kolkata. We have identified at least 500 trees that can be replanted. More are being identified and would be fixed. This is over and above the 50,000 saplings that are being planted,” said Debasis Kumar, former member mayor-in-council (parks and gardens) of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC).The authorities had set up a committee comprising experts from the state pollution control board, state biodiversity board, Botanical Survey of India and an NGO to identify the trees that can be replanted and help in the drive.Three weeks after the cyclone, time is now a vital factor to save the trees. “But it’s now a race against time, as the uprooted trees would not survive long and need to be fixed at the earliest. Meanwhile they need to be taken care of – the trunk has to be kept wet with water so that the tree doesn’t dry and there should not be any water-logging near the roots as this could lead to fungus attack,” said Arjan Basu Roy, founder of a NGO named Nature Mates, who has fixed more than 500 trees in the past few years after they got uprooted every time a cyclone or a storm hit the city.It’s a very laborious process, experts said. The tree has to be straightened up with cranes, a huge ditch has to be dug, the branches have to be trimmed before the tree can be re-fixed. Fungicide needs to be applied. The tree then needs to be tied to adjacent trees or bamboo poles to hold it straight“The task doesn’t end here. The tree needs to be covered with jute cloth to prevent loss of water through transpiration. If new shoots start sprouting manure has to be applied and it needs regular watering,” said SS Hamid, curator of the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden.The garden authorities will replant a 150-year-old Baobab tree, which stores several thousand litres of water and a century old ‘Mad’ tree on Wednesday. The Pterygota alata tree is called a ‘mad’ tree because no two leaves are identical.What has buoyed the efforts is that new twigs have already started spouting in some of the trees that were fixed near Rabindra Sarobar – a National lake in south Kolkata - a week after the cyclone. More than 50 trees have been fixed near the lake and another 60 - 70 would be replanted in the next few days. “Replanting each tree would cost Rs 15,000 – Rs 20,000. Experts said that around 70% of the trees survive after replantation if the root condition is good and the replanted tree is taken care off,” said S Nandi, superintending engineer of Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority, custodian of two large lakes in Kolkata including Rabindra Sarobar Lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-launches-biggest-operation-to-refix-trees-uprooted-by-cyclone-amphan/story-pytKdYuOWbQsqSQIG2XyuJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Central teams deployed in over 50 districts, municipalities with high Covid-19 cases: Health minister||High-level central teams have been deployed in 15 states and UTs with more than 50 districts or municipal bodies that are witnessing a spurt in cases to assist the local administrations in containment and management of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.These multi-disciplinary teams are helping the states and UTs address challenges like testing bottlenecks, low tests per million population, high confirmation rates, risk of capacity shortfall over the next two months, potential bed shortage, growing case fatality rate, high doubling rate and sudden spike in active cases, etc, it said.These states and UTs are Maharashtra (seven districts/municipalities), Telangana (four), Tamil Nadu (seven), Rajasthan (five), Assam (six), Haryana (four), Gujarat (three), Karnataka (four), Uttarakhand (three), Madhya Pradesh (five), West Bengal (three), Delhi (three), Bihar (four), Uttar Pradesh (four), and Odisha (five).“The aim is to assist the state governments by providing technical support for containment and (to) facilitate management of Covid-19 outbreak,” the ministry said in a statement.With 9,987 fresh infections, India saw a record daily rise in Covid-19 cases for the seventh consecutive day on Tuesday. The country’s tally stands at 2,66,598. The death toll due to the disease mounted to 7,466 as 266 more people died.The three-member central teams comprise of two public health experts/epidemiologist/clinicians and a senior joint secretary level nodal officer for administrative handholding and improving governance, the ministry said.These teams are working in the field and visiting healthcare facilities to support the state health department in implementation of containment measures and efficient treatment and clinical management of cases within the districts and cities, it said.The ministry said, “In order to ensure better coordination, quick action on the ground, adoption of a more granular strategy, it is proposed that these districts and municipalities should regularly remain in touch with central teams which are already coordinating with the states.” Such frequent interaction would further strengthen the surveillance, containment, testing and treatment-related action on the ground.Many districts and municipalities have already formalised a dedicated core team at the district level comprising of medical and administrative officials to coordinate on a regular basis with the central team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-teams-deployed-in-over-50-districts-municipalities-with-high-covid-19-cases-health-minister/story-4Ua56MUU0Y9wJx5hF7gVtL.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Over 1,800 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 till date’: Mumbai Police||Mumbai Police on Tuesday said that nearly 1,871 personnel have been infected with Covid-19 so far, news agency ANI reported. As many as 853 police officials have recovered from coronavirus till date while 21 have lost their lives. According to reports, eighty-two positive cases of coronavirus were also reported among the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel deployed in the city. No new coronavirus cases were reported in Maharashtra Police personnel over the last 24 hours. Total Covid-19 cases in the force stand at 2,562 while death toll is at 34, ANI reported.  Also read: Delhi expected to have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July 31 - Manish Sisodia1871 Mumbai police personnel have been infected with #COVID19 so far, including 853 recovered & 21 deaths. 82 positive cases also reported among State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel deployed in the city: Mumbai Police #Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/WMhaVPkzIAMeanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena on Tuesday, in its editorial mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, said that Covid-19 lockdown restrictions have been eased when the cases are not showing any sign of abating.“After unlock, the challenges will increase. The government can be very strict, but people should not allow this situation to arise,” it said.“The need of the hour is to have self-discipline to ensure the lockdown easing does not boomerang,” the editorial read.Maharashtra is the worst-affected stated in the country with more coronavirus cases than the original epicentre - China. The Covid-19 tally in the state has jumped to 88,528 while more than 40,975 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the virus across the state. Covid-19 death toll in the state stands at 7,466. Mumbai, the worst-hit city in the country, has registered 50,085 Covid-19 cases while 1,702 patients have succumbed to death in the city due to coronavirus. Worldwide, coronavirus cases have crossed the 7 million mark. More than 4 lakh people have lost their lives to the virus across the globe. India stands at the fifth spot with the most number of Covid-19 cases after countries like the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-800-police-personnel-tested-positive-for-covid-19-till-date-mumbai-police/story-ifdjBcTtaRpHoQv8TxeDWO.html
09-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh awaits results of over 4,000 Covid-19 test samples||Around 4,000 test results of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are still pending with the Chhattisgarh health department amid the state’s tally reaching 1,197 positive cases till Monday.State health department officials said over 600 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the past 10 days due to the influx of migrant workers because of the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.Niharika Barik Singh, health secretary, Chhattisgarh, attributed the pending test results to the limited strength of the four bio-safety laboratories (BSLs) in the state, including two in Raipur alone, as they are struggling to keep pace with the swab samples being collected daily.“We’re receiving more swab samples than these laboratories can handle. However, many results are also pending due to a delay in data entry in the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) portal. We’ve also increased the headcount of data entry operators and laboratory technicians to clear the backlog. For instance, we’ve provided five data entry operators and an equal number of technicians to the Raipur-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS),” Singh said,“Besides AIIMS, Raipur, three other BSLs in Ambikapur, Bilaspur and Rajnandgaon will become functional from July,” Singh added.State health minister Tribhuvaneshwar Saran Singh Deo echoed the state health secretary.“The AIIMS authorities in Raipur have requested us not to send any new swab samples for the next four days. Testing is on in full swing, and the backlog will be cleared soon. We’re conducting tests in the other three state-run hospitals as well,” the minister said“The testing is a manual process, and it takes about eight hours to process a single swab sample. The technicians are already working on three shifts. We need to scale up the process for quicker turnaround time for the availability of test results. However, we need additional funds for the exercise and the state government is working towards it,” said a health department official, who didn’t wish to be named.“Earlier till May 14, the test results were available in two-three days, by May 25 the time lag increased to five-seven days and now, in some cases, it is taking up to 10-12 days,” said a state health department official, requesting anonymity.The state authorities have collected 85,346 swab samples till Monday, of which 80,447 test results are available and another and 3,948 are still pending, the officials said.Chhattisgarh has reported 1,197 Covid-19 positive cases until Monday, including 104 new cases. Of the new Covid-19 positive cases, two Chhattisgarh police personnel, and an Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawan have been found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease.So far, 52 Covid-19 patients from the state have recovered from the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-awaits-results-of-over-4-000-covid-19-test-samples/story-rtoDOEE6oetPzNaR9yt4dO.html
09-06-2020||India||Massive fire at Assam’s Baghjan oil well that has been spewing gas for two weeks||The natural gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district that has been spewing gas and condensate, caught fire on Tuesday — 13 days after it had a blowout.Large plumes of smoke are emanating from the well, located at Baghjan, and can be seen several kilometers away from the site close to Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the eco-sensitive Maguri Mottapung wetland.“The fire broke out at 1:40 pm at the site. The reason for the outbreak is not ascertained yet. Apart from a fireman of Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC), who sustained a minor injury, no one else has been injured,” said Jayant Bormudoi, senior manager (corporate communication), OIL.Watch: Massive fire at oil well in Assam, CM Sonowal seeks help from IAF The fire broke out at the well a day after three experts from a Singapore-based firm Alert Disaster Control had reached the site to attempt plugging the well.“The experts were not present at the site when the fire broke out. They were attending meetings at OIL’s office in Duliajan. There’s no immediate threat to residents of the area, who have already been shifted beyond a radius of 1.5 kilometres from the well,” Bormudoi added.The Baghjan well had reported the blowout on May 27 while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas-bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 metres.A blow out is an uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well, when pressure control systems fail.Around 2,000 people living near the well have been shifted to four relief camps after the May 27 incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-assam-s-baghjan-oil-well-that-has-been-spewing-gas-for-two-weeks/story-9wpNcTQ5K5j1omd257H2vL.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Dragon in the room’: Opposition’s swipe at Centre over Ladakh standoff||The Opposition parties are attacking the government over the border standoff with China. Leading the charge is Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who has accused the government of hiding the truth.“Everyone knows the reality of the borders, but the thought is good to keep one’s heart happy,” he said in a tweet in Hindi, improvising on Ghalib’s couplet to attack home minister Amit Shah on Monday.On Tuesday, he responded to defence minister Rajnath Singh, who had earlier attacked Gandhi and the Congress party.“Once RM is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh?” Gandhi tweeted. Once RM is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh?Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also asked the defence minister to answer the question, saying denigrating party symbols of opposition is not defending India.“Denigrating Party Symbols of Opposition isn’t same as ‘Defending India’. Will Rajnath Singh ji answer the simple question posed by Sh Rahul Gandhi,” Surjewala asked on Twitter. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) too joined the Congress in attacking the Centre on the issue. “Respected @AmitShah Ji, Bengal has not heard you speak during these times of crisis, but we hope today you would take a minute to answer this: Are the Chinese occupying our territory or not?” the TMC’s youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee said ahead of home minister Amit Shah’s virtual rally for the people of West Bengal. Respected @AmitShah Ji, Bengal has not heard you speak during these times of crisis, but we hope today you would take a minute to answer this: "Are the Chinese occupying our territory or not?""চীন আমাদের ভূমির অংশ দখল করছে কি না?"In the rally, Shah accused the TMC government of indulging in violence and sought a change in the state.The latest to join the Opposition chorus is PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti. Iltija handles her mother’s Twitter account where she tweeted: “When Pulwama happened, GOI retaliated with ‘surgical air strikes’. Here China is on the cusp of altering territorial status quo & oddly enough its become the ‘elephant’(read dragon)in the room. Obsequious surrender?” When Pulwama happened, GOI retaliated with ‘surgical air strikes’. Here China is on the cusp of altering territorial status quo & oddly enough its become the ‘elephant’(read dragon)in the room. Obsequious surrender?The standoff has been continuing in the Ladakh area for more than a month. A meeting between top military officers of both India and China was held on Saturday. Though the meeting ended without a breakthrough, China’s foreign ministry later said that there was consensus that the differences should not turn into disputes.India has boosted its troop presence in the northern area, matching China in numbers and resources. Home minister Amit Shah, while addressing a virtual rally for the people of Bihar, said that India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance. He said that the whole world agrees that after USA and Israel if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dragon-in-the-room-opposition-s-swipe-at-centre-over-ladakh-standoff/story-ahuceUGOGw5n2spi0FdkgL.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Covid-19 found its way to India via frequently travelled countries in Europe, Middle East’: Study||A group of experts at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) have found that Covid-19 virus found its way to India via frequently visited countries in Europe, South Asia, Middle East and Oceania. “There is a close connection between the source of the virus and the countries that are most travelled by Indians,” the study stated. The study, with lead authors Mainak Mondal, Ankita Lawarde and Kumaravel Somasundaram from the Department of Microbiology and Cell Biology, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, was published in the scientific journal Current Science. Also read: Delhi expected to have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July 31 - Manish SisodiaThe research noted the potential origin of Covid-19 virus in Indians to be in countries “mainly from Europe, Middle East Oceania and South Asia regions, which strongly imply the spread of the virus through most travelled countries”.The analysis revealed that most Indian SARS-CoV-2 viruses (129 out of 137) show more similarity to that of specific countries. “In cluster A, Indian samples show more similarity to the viruses found in Oceania, Kuwait and South Asian samples, while in the cluster B, Indian samples show more similarity to mainly European and few numbers of Middle East/South Asian samples,” the study read. Also read: No community transmission of Covid-19, say Centre’s officials - Delhi govtThe findings indicated that majority of Indian SARS-CoV-2 viruses have originated from Europe, Middle East, South Asia and Oceania regions. “A large majority of Indian viral isolates (n = 129), which were collected during March/April 2020, show more similarity with samples from Europe, Middle East, South Asia and Oceania regions,” the experts noted. The remaining Indian isolates (n = 8) have grouped with other clusters which contained most samples from China and East Asia. Thus, the study concluded the probable source of origin of Indian SARS-CoV-2 viruses to be in countries from Europe and Oceania regions besides the Middle East and South Asian regions. In another study, experts at the Harvard Medical School believe that coronavirus might have been spreading in China as early as August 2019, news agency Reuters reported. The research used satellite imagery of hospital parking lots in Wuhan - where the disease was first identified in late 2019 - and data for symptom-related queries around “cough” and “diarrhoea” on various search engines.“In August, we identify a unique increase in searches for diarrhoea which was neither seen in previous flu seasons or mirrored in the cough search data,” the research stated.Worldwide, the number of coronavirus cases have crossed the 7 million-mark with over 4 lakh people killed by the deadly contagion. In India, the Covid-19 tally has jumped to 266,598 - fifth highest in the world after the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-found-its-way-to-india-via-frequently-travelled-countries-in-europe-middle-east-study/story-uriAXqKAS4mDw20YoNPHdJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Sharad Pawar visits cyclone-hit Maharashtra’s Raigad||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday visited Raigad district in Maharashtra to take stock of the damage caused by cyclone ‘Nisarga’ last week.Pawar interacted with locals at a market in Mangaon where district guardian minister Aditi Tatkare and Raigad Lok Sabha MP Sunil Tatkare were also present.The cyclone had caused huge devastation in parts of the coastal district, about 115 kms away from Mumbai, on June 3 after making landfall near Shrivardhan.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced an immediate relief of Rs 100 crore for Raigad.Pawar’s party is a key constituent in the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government headed by the Shiv Sena.Pawar tweeted that he had begun his tour of coastal Konkan region to review the cyclone damage.A close aide of Pawar said that the NCP chief would visit areas affected by the cyclone in Ratnagiri district on Wednesday.Six persons were killed and 16 others injured in different districts of the state in cyclone-related incidents like falling of electricity poles.The state government had announced Rs 4 lakh aid to the kin of the dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-visits-cyclone-hit-raigad/story-seU8BfDSizaDYUXFvtvV0J.html
09-06-2020||India||Lufthansa offers to fly empty planes to India, carry fliers to Europe||Lufthansa group has offered to fly empty planes to India and carry passengers only on its outbound flights to destinations in Europe, senior government officials said on Tuesday.Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Therefore, there is a pent up demand for outbound international travel, especially among non-resident Indians (NRIs) who are in a hurry to go back either for personal or professional reasons. “Lufthansa group (which operates airline brands like Lufthansa, SWISS, etc) have offered to fly ferry (empty) flights to India and carry passengers only on its outbound flights to destinations in Europe. A decision is yet to be taken on this matter,” said the senior government official. The Civil Aviation Ministry started Vande Bharat Mission on May 7 to bring back stranded Indians from abroad on flights operated by Air India group amid the coronavirus lockdown. Air India group has been taking bookings on its outbound flights too, and for some destinations the demand has been huge.Since March 23, foreign airlines have operated non-scheduled repatriation flights to take their stranded citizens back home. Lufthansa did not respond to the request for a statement from PTI.The offer from the German airlines group Lufthansa has come at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases continue to rise in India, especially in metro cities that have the country’s largest airports like Delhi and Mumbai. State governments in the past have expressed reluctance to deal with large numbers of incoming flyers as their health infrastructure has been swamped with a huge number of Covid-19 cases. For example, when scheduled domestic passenger flights started operating on May 25, Mumbai airport was permitted to handle only 50 flights per day as per the request of Maharashtra government. Similarly, Kolkata airport was permitted to handle just 20 flights per day from May 28 onwards, as per the request of the West Bengal government. More than 2.46 lakh people have been infected and around 7,400 people have died due to Covid-19 in India till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lufthansa-offers-to-fly-empty-planes-to-india-carry-fliers-to-europe/story-OZ94GJtkjnmkeNZyeA6BkJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Amit Shah takes on Mamata Banerjee on virtual turf, seeks change in West Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday called the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal a failure and sought a chance for Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to fix the problems faced by the state. Addressing a virtual rally, Shah called for a change in the state government, kicking off the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) campaign for 2021 Assembly election.Shah accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government of indulging in violence, corruption, extortion, infiltration, terror, politics of appeasement and dynasty politics. He also stung Banerjee for opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and said that this move of her would turn her into a “political refugee”.Also Read: Key Highlights of Amit Shah’s Virtual Rally“Change is needed to take Bengal ahead. People who changed the communist rule expecting development are now saying that even the communists were better than TMC. You gave communists 34 years and 10 years to Didi. Now give a chance to Modiji and you will see. Bihar, from being a Beemaru state, is on the path of development since an NDA government took charge. Uttar Pradesh is moving ahead in just three years,” Shah said.The home minister said that West Bengal was the only state which witnessed violence amid the Covid-19 lockdown. He also took swipes at the state government for being apathetic towards the migrant workers. This was Shah’s third virtual rally in as many days. He had earlier addressed the people of Bihar and Odisha. The BJP’s West Bengal unit and central office in New Delhi coordinated for the rally which was aired live on social media.“Only BJP can change Bengal. I appeal to crores of people to give Modiji a chance for corruption and violence free Bengal,” said Shah, adding, “In those five years, you will see an end to violence, corruption, scam, extortion, terror, infiltration, and dynasty politics. If you want these, give Modi-ji the rights to take the steps.” Alleging that the state government was indulging in appeasement politics, Shah said that “priority was being given to one particular community”.He also attacked the state government on the issue of bringing the migrant workers back. “Bengal has so far accepted only 236 trains carrying three lakh people, whereas Uttar Pradesh has taken 1,700 trains for migrant workers. Bengal not only took less trains but Mamata Banerjee even called the Shramik Special trains as ‘Corona Express’. This is an outright insult to the migrant workers. They will surely avenge it,” the home minister said.Political analysts found Shah’s revival of the CAA issue intriguing. The CAA that offers citizenship to non-Muslim refugees from six neighbouring countries had turned into a subject of intense political tussle in West Bengal in the second half of 2019. The TMC, the Left and the Congress had targeted the BJP for dividing people and paving the path for harassment of millions. The BJP had then launched a high-voltage campaign supporting the CAA, arguing that millions of Hindu refugees from Bangladesh settled in West Bengal are to benefit from this new legislation.“You are opposing CAA. You are opposing citizenship to the refugees from Bangladesh. When the ballot boxes open, you will find yourself in the position of a political refugee,” Shah said attacking Mamata Banerjee.A few hours before Shah’s rally, TMC took a jibe at the Centre.“Respected @AmitShah Ji, Bengal has not heard you speak during these times of crisis, but we hope today you would take a minute to answer this: Are the Chinese occupying our territory or not?” Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC’s youth wing chief, wrote on Twitter on Tuesday morning.After the speech, Banerjee tweeted, “As usual the speech of @AmitShah Ji was all rhetoric and no substance. Nonetheless since he has talked about his dream of seeing ‘EXIT’ of TMC, I would like to ask him one more time - “When are the Chinese EXITING our territory” #BengalRejectsAmitShah.” As usual the speech of @AmitShah Ji was all rhetoric and no substance. Nonetheless since he has talked about his dream of seeing ‘EXIT’ of TMC, I would like to ask him one more time - "When are the Chinese EXITING our territory"#BengalRejectsAmitShahTMC secretary-general and state education minister Partha Chatterjee wrote on Twitter, “.@AmitShah’s priorities are crystal clear even when the state is battling with a pandemic and a natural disaster. Bengal, remember the face of this man who is just hungry for your votes and nothing else.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-takes-on-mamata-banerjee-on-virtual-turf-seeks-change-in-west-bengal/story-kNflXrw1Ds9pu9GrqNPg5M.html
09-06-2020||India||In Amit Shah’s West Bengal virtual rally, a scathing attack on CM Banerjee: Key points||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday addressed the ‘West Bengal Jan Samvad’ rally - the third virtual address in a series of rallies that he started on Sunday. While Shah lauded the spirit of the people of West Bengal amid trying times marred by the Covid-19 pandemic and cyclone Amphan, he accused chief minister Mamata Banerjee for playing political games over the rights of the poor. Shah said West Bengal is the only state where “political violence is propagated”. The home minister paid tribute to the BJP workers who lost their lives in the political fight in West Bengal since 2014. He underscored the significance of the state and described it as the land of great leaders and intellectuals. Also read: ‘West Bengal only state where political violence is propagated’ - Amit ShahHere are the top highlights from Amit Shah’s virtual West Bengal rally:• “While democracy has strengthened its roots and has been consolidated in the entire country, West Bengal remains the only state where political violence is propagated,” Shah said. • “Give Modi-ji a chance for corruption and violence-free Bengal,” the minister stated. • He accused the chief minister of insulting migrant workers. “You’ve rubbed salt into their wounds and they will not forget it,” Shah stated. • The minister added, “Mamata ji, you referred to Shramik Special Trains as ‘Corona Express’. The name that you have given, ‘Corona Express’ will become an exit express for the TMC in the state”. • Shah said Banerjee is not allowing the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Yojana in the state which has benefitted so many people across the country. “I and the people of Bengal want to ask you this, why are you not letting it get implemented?” Shah questioned.• “Mamata ji, do poor people of Bengal have no right to receive free and quality medical aid? Why is Ayushman Bharat scheme not allowed here? Mamata Ji, political games should not be played with the rights of poor people,” Shah further added.• “Since 2014, over 100 BJP workers lost their lives in political battle here in West Bengal. I pay my respect to their families as they’ve contributed to the development of Sonar Bangla (golden Bengal),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-amit-shah-s-west-bengal-virtual-rally-a-scathing-attack-on-chief-minister-mamata-banerjee-key-highlights/story-yHlzr6AlG7reW8tQgpIv5N.html
09-06-2020||India||70-year-old widow tortured by daughter, Bombay High Court comes to rescue||Bombay High Court has come to the rescue of a 70-year-old widow, who was being mentally and physically tortured by her daughter. The daughter allegedly kept the elderly woman under house arrest for months with a fractured shoulder and broken nerves without any support or proper medical care.“If children cannot take care of their parents and allow them to live in peace, they at least ought not to make their life a living hell,” said the bench of Justice SJ Kathawalla and Justice Surendra Tavade while issuing a stern warning to the daughter.The bench stopped short of evicting the daughter, a divorcee, and her son, from the petitioner woman’s flat at Mumbai’s Lokhandwala Complex in view of the Covid-19 lockdown. The bench, however, warned the daughter and her son that they will be evicted forthwith if either of them caused any harassment to the elderly woman or tried to stop any of her relatives contacting her or from entering the flat.Also read: Mumbai Police’s order for action against fake news is legal - Maharashtra govtThe judges said that after talking to the petitioner, they had gathered an impression that the petitioner apprehended serious physical and mental harassment and consequently threat to her life at the hands of her daughter if she went to reside at her own flat with the daughter. “However, in view of the pandemic and the consequent problems that individuals are facing, we are today not passing an order directing the daughter to make alternate arrangements,” said the bench.The elderly woman moved the High Court seeking eviction of her abusive daughter and her son after the tribunal constituted under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 could not take up her plea for urgent reliefs due to the coronavirus pandemic.She said her abusive daughter had been in a wrong company all along. In 1998, she eloped with her boyfriend, a person having a criminal background. They spent two years in constant fights and in July 2000, he abandoned her and their toddler son, With an intervention of relatives, the daughter temporarily returned to her parents’ place at Lokhandwala but started living there forcibly.She added that a few months after returning to the parents’ place the daughter started harassing the petitioner and her husband. Both of them had become helpless as the daughter had threatened to level false accusations of molestation against her father, she added.The elderly woman’s petition stated that she was mentally and physically tortured by her daughter, especially after her husband died in January 2011, and her finances were taken over by her. She was forced to remain naked so as to compel her not to step out of the house and was served food only once a day. On August 3, 2018, she got an opportunity to step out of the flat but was hit by an auto-rickshaw while crossing a road. She had to be hospitalised. Thereafter, the 70-year-old could not move and was almost bedridden for a long time. During that time, her daughter did not allow any of her relatives to enter the flat and also broke the woman’s cell phone to ensure that she could not contact anybody else.In February 2020, her other daughter came from the US and took her to Bombay Hospital where a series of tests revealed that she had a shoulder fracture and several of her nerves around the neck had been severely damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-year-old-widow-tortured-by-daughter-bombay-high-court-comes-to-rescue/story-uDAdHX1GZdMzSocjeT6zxO.html
09-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi L-G calls meeting of political parties to discuss Covid-19 situation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi L-G calls meeting of political parties to discuss Covid-19 situationDelhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has called on Tuesday afternoon a meeting with all political parties over the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the national capital. Read moreDelhi’s ‘no test for asymptomatic patients’ rule a self-goal in Covid fight?The Delhi government’s order to not test asymptomatic patients has been criticised by many. Hindustan Times’ senior editor Aditi Prasad discusses the issue with AAP leader Akshay Marathe and senior consultant neurosurgeon from Ganga Ram hospital Dr. Ajit K Sinha. Watch to know moreOreo Bhajiya is the latest fusion food on the block. Would you like a bite?Those who love Oreos will agree that there are many delicious ways of consuming this sandwich cookie. Besides the usual way of dunking it into milk, one can also make milkshakes or cakes using Oreo cookies. Read moreMannat: A look inside Shah Rukh Khan’s Rs 200 crore Mumbai mansionShahrukh Khan, better known as King Khan in Bollywood, and the brilliant actor and eloquent orator needs no introduction with 80 Bollywood films and 14 Filmfare awards to his name so far. Read moreBihar 94000 Primary Teachers Recruitment: Apply from June 15, revised schedule for DElEd candidates outFollowing the validity granted to the D.El.Ed (open distance learning) programme through the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) in keeping with the Patna High Court order, Bihar government has issued directive to give such candidates a chance to apply for the post of primary teachers. Read moreI’ve never disclosed this but here is how Dhoni was picked: Syed Kirmani narrates MSD’s selection storyIt sounds only fitting to know that India’s first finest wicket-keeper was responsible for giving Indian cricket its best ‘keeper batsman. Read moreConfirmed: Janhvi Kapoor’s Gunjan Saxena The Kargil Girl to release on Netflix, watch her real story in new teaserBollywood actor Janhvi Kapoor is all set to bring the story of air force pilot Gunjan Saxena to the screen with her latest project, Gunjan Saxena The Kargil Girl. Directed by Sharan Sharma, the film stars Janhvi in the titular role and also stars Pankaj Tripathi, Angad Bedi, Viineet Kumar, Manav Vij and Ayesha Raza. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-l-g-calls-meeting-of-political-parties-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4VKTJ4LQ5NdJSTvMRRnyeP.html
09-06-2020||India||Amit Shah counters Bengal CM over ‘Corona Express’ jibe. Then a prediction||The coinage “Corona Express” by Mamata Banerjee to trains ferrying migrant workers will turn into an “exit express” for the Trinamool, home minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday, sharpening the attack on the Bengal chief minister at a virtual rally.“The name ‘Corona Express’ that you have given, Mamata didi, will become your exit route. You’ve added salt to the wounds of the migrant workers and they will not forget this,” said Shah during an online address to workers at ‘West Bengal Jan Samvad’ rally.The BJP has been holding these virtual rallies to spread the message of the party and the government and also give a push to political activity.The home minister was drawing attention to Bengal CM’s criticism of running migrant trains, accusing the railways of packing in most migrants in one train instead of running several of them.Watch: ‘Corona express will ensure your exit from West Bengal’: Amit Shah “In the name of Shramik Special trains, the railways is running ‘Corona Express’ trains...The Railways is sending migrants in jam-packed compartments...The number of COVID-19 cases is increasing because of this. The Railways has some social obligation, they cannot just operate on the basis of profit and loss,” she said.Banerjee had claimed at the time that the state was able to control the spike in the coronavirus cases, but the influx of people through Shramik Specials pushed the numbers up again.The Shramik Specials were being run by the Centre to help migrants, stuck in various states due to the nationwide lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus pandemic, reach home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-counters-bengal-cm-over-corona-express-jibe-then-a-prediction/story-GcoIKrL8gSry5gWmR5HKFO.html
09-06-2020||India||As Unlock 1 kicks in, govt lists ‘Covid-19 appropriate behaviours’||A day after allowing services to resume under relaxations provided during Covid-19 lockdown, the government offered a list of dos and dont’s.Titled ‘COVID Appropriate Behaviours’, the list was posted on Union health ministry’s Twitter feed.From following social distancing to avoding spitting in public places, it gives a long list of things to follow:• Greet without physical contact• Maintain a distance of six feet in public places• Wear reusable handmade masks/face cover all the time• Avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth• Cover nose and mouth while coughing and sneezing• Wash hands frequently and thoroughly with soap and water or use an alcohol-based hand sanitiser• Do not chew tobacco, khaini etc or spit in public places• Regularly clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces• Avoid unnecessary travel• Do not discriminate against people affected by Covid-19, their caregivers or anyone supporting the fight against Covid-19• Keep the number of guests to the minimum if social event cannot be postponed• Do not visit crowded places and avoid mass gatherings #IndiaFightsCorona:Practise these COVID Appropriate Behaviours to protect yourself and others from #COVID19. #BadalkarApnaVyavaharKareinCoronaParVaar #SwasthaBharat #HealthForAll @PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_India @CovidIndiaSeva @COVIDNewsByMIB pic.twitter.com/1VtOdRoH1AIndia on Tuesday reported another surge in the number coronavirus disease cases. The country recorded 9,987 cases in the last 24 hours, which took the overall tally to 2,66,598, according to the Union health ministry.The number of active cases in the country is 1,29,917, while 1,29,214 have been cured or discharged, the health ministry update at 8 am showed.The number of those killed by the disease reached 7,466 on Tuesday after 266 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-unlock-1-kicks-in-govt-lists-covid-19-appropriate-behaviours/story-uQStEuZvgj4N7w8THdVotO.html
09-06-2020||India||‘West Bengal remains the only state where political violence is propagated’: Amit Shah||While democracy has strengthened its roots and has been consolidated in the entire country, West Bengal remains the only state where political violence is propagated, Union home minister Amit Shah made a sharp remark during his ‘West Bengal Jan Samvad’ virtual rally on Tuesday.Shah remembered the many party workers who lost their lives amid the political battle in the state since 2014. “I pay my respect to their families as they’ve contributed to the development of Sonar Bangla (golden Bengal),” he said.  While democracy has strengthened its roots and has been consolidated in the entire country, West Bengal remains the only state where political violence is propagated: Union Home Minister Amit Shah at ‘West Bengal Jan-Samvad Rally’ via video conference pic.twitter.com/KiRt45rDjQHe started his address by saluting the ‘corona warriors’ for risking their lives to save others amid the coronavirus pandemic and also prayed for the souls of those who lost their lives due to Covid-19 and cyclone Amphan in West Bengal. Also Watch | ‘Over 100 BJP workers killed in Bengal since 2014’: Amit ShahThe minister launched a sharp attack on chief minister Mamata Banerjee saying that she is not allowing the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Yojana which has benefitted so many people across the country.“I and the people of Bengal want to ask you this, why are you not letting it get implemented?” Shah questioned. “Mamata ji, do poor people of Bengal have no right to receive free and quality medical aid? Why is Ayushman Bharat scheme not allowed here? Mamata Ji, political games should not be played with the rights of poor people,” Shah further added. This was Shah’s third virtual event in a series of online rallies that began on Sunday. The minister first addressed the Bihar virtual rally on Sunday followed by the Odisha virual rally on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-remains-the-only-state-where-political-violence-is-propagated-amit-shah-at-west-bengal-jan-samvad-virtual-rally/story-Mq26nfIgQm2x4OSzaA1m5J.html
09-06-2020||India||‘I salute corona warriors for risking their lives to save others’: Amit Shah at West Bengal Jan Samvad Rally||Union home minister Amit Shah addressed the ‘West Bengal Jan Samvad Rally’ via video conferencing on Tuesday and lauded the selfless, tireless fight put up by ‘corona warriors’ against India’s battle against the Covid-19 pandemic. Shah started his virtual address by emphasising the significance of West Bengal, describing it as a land of great leaders and intellectuals like Rabindranath Tagore, Subhas Chandra Bose, among many others. Shah said he prays for the souls of all those who have lost their lives in the fight against Covid-19 and the destruction brought by cyclone Amphan in the state. He also remembered the many party workers who lost their lives amid the political battle in the state since 2014. Since 2014, over 100 BJP workers lost their lives in political battle here in West Bengal. I pay my respect to their families as they've contributed to development of Sonar Bangla: Union Home Minister & BJP leader Amit Shah at ‘West Bengal Jan-Samvad Rally’ via video conference pic.twitter.com/KYqtfjh08P“I pay my respect to their families as they’ve contributed to the development of Sonar Bangla (golden Bengal),” he said. Shah’s Tuesday’s address comes a day after he addressed the ‘Odisha Jansamvad’ virtual rally on Monday in a series of online events that started with him addressing the ‘Bihar Jansamvad’ event on Sunday. In his Odisha virual rally on Monday, Shah said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “go gaz ki doori (a distance of two yards) mantra to fight against the coronavirus pandemic does not mean to distance the party and its people.“Do gaz ki doori’ cannot create a distance between BJP and its people,” said Shah at Odisha Jansamvad virtual rally. Shah’s Sunday address during the Bihar virtual rally was wide-ranging which he said had nothing to do with the Assembly polls due in the state later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-salute-corona-warriors-for-risking-their-lives-to-save-others-amid-the-covid-19-pandemic-amit-shah-at-west-bengal-jan-samvad-rally/story-S7lcIgrhojzVtTBprvTmeN.html
09-06-2020||India||Supreme Court directs states, union territories to facilitate return of migrant workers within 15 days||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed states and union territories to identify and take steps to return stranded migrant workers within 15 days. It also directed the Indian Railways to provide special Shramik trains within 24 hours of request by states.The court also asked state governments and Centre to list all schemes of employment for workers who have returned and open counseling centres at block/district level to ensure they are informed of their benefits under various schemes. The government has also been asked to provide information to migrant workers about employment opportunities and facilitate those who wish to return to their place of original employment. The apex court ordered all the complaints and FIRs filed against migrant workers for violating rules to be withdrawn.The matter will now be heard on July 8.The court has taken suo motu cognisance of the issue. During the last hearing on June 5, 15 days is enough for states to send migrant workers - stranded in cities across the country since the imposition of nationwide lockdown - home.Migrant workers, many left jobless and homeless after their workplaces or work sites shut during the ongoing lockdown imposed on March 25 to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease, have struggled to get home.Many of them have walked hundreds of kilometres to reach their native places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-directs-states-union-territories-to-facilitate-return-of-migrant-workers-within-15-days/story-GGhwhlLnlJggM56p63cmWJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Administrative reforms department limits staff number, bars face-to-face meeting||The central government has issued fresh guidelines for officials and staffers working in the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) after increasing number of Covid-19 cases in its various ministries and departments.In a circular, the department has asked only asymptomatic staff to come to office. All those with mild cold, cough of fever should stay home, it has said.The circular further said that the staff members living in containment zones must mandatorily work from home.Otherwise too, the June 5 circular said, not more than 20 officers and staff members of DARPG should attend office in a day. It has asked the administrative departments to make duty chart accordingly.Those sharing cabin should come on alternate says, the circular further said. The windows should be kept open as far as possible.Among the other norms prescribed for the DARPG employees in the circular are:• Face masks and face shields should be worn at all times inside the office. Disciplinary action will be taken if this is not followed.• Used face masks and gloves should be discarded in bio-medical waste bin only. Strict action will be taken on throwing gloves and masks in the open.• Face-to-face meetings/discussions/interactions to be avoided as far as possible. The staff should use intercom, phone or video-conferencing for these purposes.• Hand washing in every half an hour is a must to prevent spread of the infection. Hand sanitisers must be installed at prominent places in corridors.• Frequently touched places like switches, door knobs, elevator buttons, hand rails etc should be cleaned every hour.• The staff members have also been asked to clean personal equipment like keyboards, mouse, phone, AC remotes etc by themselves using ethanol based disinfectant frequently.• A distance of 1 metre should be maintained while sitting or walking. Visitors’ chairs in the cabins of the offices shall accordingly be placed keeping the norms of social distancing.All officers and staff members are requested to follow these instructions without fail.Two staffers of Parliament had tested positive for Covid-19 late last month. At least two persons working at the headquarters of the Union Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in the national capital had also tested positive last month.Several cases have also been reported from other central ministries and departments that have their offices in the same part of New Delhi as the MEA.The country has reported 2,66,598 Covid-19 positive cases and 7,466 deaths till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-face-to-face-meetings-20-staff-members-at-a-time-govt-issues-new-covid-19-guidelines-for-its-offices/story-4dY6OOpmPTSmVeYcHgtIOO.html
09-06-2020||India||Man killed by tigress in Uttar Pradesh, enraged locals attack forest staff||A 35-year-old man was mauled to death by a tigress near Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) located in Pilibhit district of West Uttar Pradesh on Monday night. The incident enraged locals who attacked a team of forest guards and set ablaze a picket.The same tigress is also believed to have injured two brothers in another attack on Sunday.Confirming the incident, PTR’s deputy director Naveen Khandelwal said, “A young tigress of PTR strayed out of the forest area and attacked one Subendu Vishwas, a resident of Goyal Colony located near Mala range of PTR. The man died on the spot. The tigress is believed to be behind another attack on two brothers in the same area. Our teams are trying to track the tigress.” The injured brothers are still in the hospital recovering from their injuries.Also read: Pak journalist praises UP’s handling of Covid-19 crisisMinutes before the tigress attacked him, Subendu was sitting with his friends beside a road which lead to Goyal Colony. The tigress injured his face, neck and abdomen in the attack. Subendu’s relatives and other residents of the colony got enraged by the incident and attacked a team of forest department that reached the spot. The mob later set ablaze a picket of forest department demanding monetary compensation for the kin of the deceased.The forest department had to call the local police to contain the situation.“Some locals got very angry by the incident. We are trying to speak with them about the issues and resolve the matter amicably,” said the officer. The forest and local district administration has also assured to provide financial support to Subendu’s family.According to experts, PTR has a very thin buffer zone that allows both animals and humans to cross over into each other’s territories. This leads to man-animal conflict. Over 25 people have been killed because of this conflict since 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-killed-by-tigress-in-uttar-pradesh-enraged-locals-attack-forest-staff/story-Chu9wsuGYuk5TpkyY2eh1O.html
09-06-2020||India||Asymptomatic spread of coronavirus is ‘very rare’, says WHO||A World Health Organization (WHO) official said late on Monday that people with the Sars-Cov-2 may not be infectious if they are ‘asymptomatic’, a significant new claim about the understanding of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that experts around the world said could be premature.WHO official epidemiologist Maria Van Kerkhove made the statement at a briefing in Geneva, where officials from the global health agency said that new coronavirus cases had their biggest daily increase ever and countries must continue with efforts to contain the virus.“From the data we have, it still seems to be rare that an asymptomatic person actually transmits onward to a secondary individual,” said Van Kerkhove, head of WHO’s emerging diseases and zoonosis unit, said at a news briefing from the United Nations agency’s Geneva headquarters. “It’s very rare.”These asymptomatic cases, she said, were identified through contact tracing of known patients and the lack of onward transmission by asymptomatic individuals was based on data from countries carrying out detailed contact tracing. “Much of that has been published in the literature yet,” she said, adding that the agency was reviewing such data to be sure. Also Watch | Covid ‘situation worsening’, says WHO as global cases cross 70 lakh-markAlso Read: Covid-19: Maharashtra inches closer to 90,000 cases, total tally touches 88,528Van Kerkhove said such findings were published in a paper from Singapore, where contacts from long-term care facilities and households supported the theory.Last week, China announced results from its population-wide testing of residents in Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, where they found 300 asymptomatic patients among the city’s 9.98 million residents.Personal belongings of these asymptomatic carriers such as toothbrushes, mugs, masks and towels have shown negative for the virus in samples collected from the surfaces, Chinese news agency Xinhua reported on Tuesday. A total of 1,174 close contacts of the 300 cases have also been tested negative for coronavirus, the report added.Experts have sought to ask the WHO to make a distinction between whether the lack of transmission was true only in asymptomatic cases – people with an infection that is so mild that they never have any symptoms – compared to pre-symptomatic cases where people go on to later develop symptoms.In a study published in the journal Nature in mid-April, researchers from China’s Guangzhou studied 94 patients and estimated that 44% of secondary cases were infected during the index patient’s presymptomatic stage, particularly in settings such as households.“Disease control measures should be adjusted to account for probable substantial presymptomatic transmission,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asymptomatic-spread-of-coronavirus-is-very-rare-who-says/story-FacDXRatyOZMwRmBdt392N.html
09-06-2020||India||Manipur high court restrains 7 Congress MLAs from entering Assembly||Seven lawmakers in Manipur have been accused of supporting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government despite being elected on a Congress ticket.A petition has been filed seeking disqualification of these MLAs. Till a decision on the petition is taken by the Speaker’s tribunal, these lawmakers have been restrained by the Manipur High Court from entering the state legislative assembly.The single bench of Justice Kh Nobin of High Court of Manipur passed an order on Monday.“...unless and until the petitions are decided and disposed of finally by the Hon’ble Speaker, Manipur Legislative Assembly, the private respondents namely Sanasam Bira Singh, MLA, Ginsuanhau, MLA, Oinam Lukhoi Singh, MLA, Ngamthang Haokip, MLA, Yengkhom Surchandra Singh, MLA, Kshetrimayum Bira Singh, MLA and Paonam Brojen Singh, MLA are restrained from entering the Manipur Legislative Assembly, Imphal,” the order said.The petitions have been filed by MLA K Meghachandra against Ngamthang Haokip from Saitu, MLA O Henry against Ksh Biren from Lamlai, MLA K Govindas against Paonam Brojen from Wangjing Tentha, MLA DD Thaisi against Y Surchandra from Kakching, MLA Kh Joykisan against Sanasam Bira from Kumbi, MLA O Surjakumar against O Lukhoi from Wangoi and MLA K Ranjit against Ginsuanhau from Singhat.The bench said that the petitions for the disqualification of the MLAs were filed before the Speaker on November 8, 2018, and were not decided by him within a reasonable time as mandated in Article 14 of the Constitution of India, sources said.The ruling was passed on Monday after it was kept reserved on June 5. On the hearing that day, the Congress MLAs had prayed before the high court to restrain the seven MLAs from entering the premises of Manipur Legislative Assembly.One of the petitioners has hailed the judgement. Speaking to mediapersons, Congress MLA K Meghachandra called it a “landmark verdict”. “The order passed by the high court has proved that democracy has failed in Manipur,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-high-court-restrains-7-congress-mlas-from-entering-assembly/story-mkEGPACAn8551j9H8FniVM.html
09-06-2020||India||Hundreds sign petition to remove ‘Clive of India’ statue in UK||Hundreds of people signed an online petition on Monday demanding the removal of a statue of Robert Clive, who played a key role in establishing Britain’s colonial domination over India, in Shrewsbury, western England. The petition on Change.Org is addressed to the local Shropshire County Council and came within hours of dramatic scenes of a former slave trader Edward Colston’s sculpture being pulled down and dragged into a river in Bristol on Sunday, during a weekend of fiery “Black Lives Matter” anti-racism protests. “Robert Clive was one of the early figures of the British imperial domination of India, Bengal and much of South-East Asia,” reads the petition, which has already attracted over 1,700 people of its 2,500 target within hours. “Clive as a symbol of British colonialism is significantly offensive to Indian, Bengali and south-east Asian descent and to attempt to justify it as a celebration of British pride and nationalism is only justifiable if one revels in the persecution and murder of millions of innocent people,” it reads.Clive served as the first Governor of Bengal Presidency under the East India Company in the 18th century, earning the title ‘Clive of India’. The petition highlights his role in the “looting” of Bengal in the early years of the British Empire, with many of the region’s riches finding their way back with him to Britain. “To have a statue commemorating the man that ruined a nation and held innocent people to his barbaric orders is both offensive and embarrassing. Just because a figure is historical, that doesn’t make him good. He is nothing more than a figure of oppression and white supremacy that has, whether consciously or not, been celebrated and commemorated in Shrewsbury town centre for hundreds of years,” it notes. Local Shrewsbury MP, Conservative Party’s Daniel Kawczynski, called for a peaceful discussion on the statue and pledged to conduct a “blow by blow” research on the life of locally-born Clive. “We are doing a research paper and while I won’t comment on his life until after it’s written, the British Empire was a tremendous source for good during its time,” said Kawczynski, who said he would be using the House of Commons library for the research. “We honour and celebrate those who helped establish this empire. They are part of our history and should be treated with respect and dignity. I know some people will want to eradicate all traces of the British Empire, but I’ve seen huge pluses of things it did around the world,” he said. The MP also paid tribute to Britain’s war-time Prime Minister Winston Churchill, whose statue on Parliament Square in London was among those targeted by protesters over the weekend with graffiti reading “was a racist”. The steps below Mahatma Gandhi’s statue nearby were also left marked with the word “racist”. Peter Nutting, the leader of Shropshire Council, said that in line with the council’s constitution, all petitions that gain 1,000 signatures are debated to determine any action required. “In the meantime, while we recognise the strength of feeling around the Black Lives Matter campaign, and acknowledge people’s right to protest, we ask them to do so peacefully and safely, abiding by the social distancing guidelines,” he said. There is a similar life-size statue of Clive near the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) building on King Charles Street, Whitehall, in central London. The plinth records his two major career spurts in India, including the Battle of Plassey in 1757 and the Treaty of Allahabad in 1765. Clive, born in Market Drayton in Shropshire before his schooling in London, travelled to India for the East India Company in 1743 before returning to his London home later in life where he died in 1774 -- believed to have committed suicide. The Black Lives Matter protests over the weekend took place across different parts of the UK in solidarity with similar protests in the US and around the world against the killing of George Floyd, a 46-year-old African American man who was a victim of police brutality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-sign-petition-to-remove-clive-of-india-statue-in-uk/story-k3u2DEkGvLl0j2xGZ1sbbI.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19: After deadliest day, another big spike of nearly 10,000 cases in 24 hours||India on Tuesday reported another surge in the number coronavirus disease cases. The country recorded 9,987 cases in the last 24 hours, which took the overall tally to 2,66,598, according to the Union health ministry.The number of active cases in the country is 1,29,917, while 1,29,214 have been cured or discharged, the health ministry update at 8 am showed.The number of those killed by the disease reached 7,466 on Tuesday after 266 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours. Also Watch | Covid ‘situation worsening’, says WHO as global cases cross 70 lakh-markIndia recorded the deadliest day due to the Covid-19 outbreak, a compilation of data released by states showed on Monday when the fatality count rose by 342, taking the total number of deaths due to the illness to 7,476.Monday’s jump in fatalities is only the second time the number has been in the 300s. On Friday, this number was exactly 300, the data released by officials across the country showed.The first of the major relaxations as part of India’s three-phase ‘unlocking’ plan came into force in several parts of the country on Monday. Across the country, restaurants, malls and religious places such as temples, mosques and churches opened for the first time after the imposition of the nationwide lockdown on March 25, albeit with far fewer footfalls then before.Signs marking where people will stand, new screens between diners and separate entry and exit routes were commonly seen in these places, along with thermal screening and hand sanitisers that visitors were being required to apply before entry.In metropolitan cities such as Delhi and Mumbai, traffic jams were reported during rush hours and a large number of people was seen at bus stops, particularly since in both these cities, the metro and local rail transit are yet to resume.Meanwhile, the World Bank said on Monday that the coronavirus pandemic will plunge the world into a severe recession, the deepest since World War II, shredding per capita incomes and pushing millions into poverty.The global economy is expected to shrink 5.2% in 2020, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-after-deadliest-day-another-big-spike-of-nearly-10-000-cases-in-24-hours/story-4TR3bjaQq5FpL8HC8vGjdM.html
09-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Tablighi Jamaat chief yet to submit his Covid-19 test report to police and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tablighi Jamaat chief yet to submit his Covid-19 test report to policeTablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad, who has been booked for holding a weeks-long gathering in March, ignoring guidelines prohibiting meetings of more than a certain number of people, resulting in a jump in coronavirus infections, is yet to submit his Covid-19 test report from a government lab despite being asked to, the Delhi police on Monday. Read moreCanadian PM Trudeau defends decision to attend protest amid Covid-19 curbsAmid criticism from opposition leaders, Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau has defended his presence at a ‘Black Lives Matter’ protest despite warning Canadians to avoid large gatherings and supporting restrictions on mass events across the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreGoogle Maps update now shows how crowded is public transport, medical checkpoints and more on Android, iOSGoogle is taking some major steps in improving its Maps app with more Covid-19 information, letting travelers know about checkpoints, how crowded public transportation will be, testing center alerts and more. These features are available on both Android and iOS versions of Google Maps but for select countries around the world. Read moreHappy birthday Sonam Kapoor: See her 10 best family pics with Anand Ahuja, Anil Kapoor and othersActor Sonam Kapoor turns 35 years old on Tuesday and to get the celebrations started, we bring you the 10 best pictures from her family album. After spending almost two months away from her parents in Delhi due to the coronavirus lockdown, Sonam returned to Mumbai on Sunday and is ready to ring in her birthday with her family. Read moreDry fasting: Health benefits, how to do it and why its better than ‘wet’ fastingAs more and more people are becoming health conscious, fasting has become a common method of keeping the body’s fitness up. Fasting has been in practice for centuries and it is only recently that the health benefits of it are being discussed. Read moreOn The Record: Delhi doctor calls govt’s moves ‘Kafkaesque’ In the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury talks to Dr Ambarish Satwik, a surgeon at Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram hospital, about the infrastructure of hospitals ito combat covid-19. Satwik also calls Delhi government’s decision to station senior nursing officer in hospitals a ‘Kafkaesque’move. Watch to know moreLong road to regaining training peakWith the Windies Cricket Board announcing the squad for a three-Test series in England starting July 8, the wheels have been set in motion. Halted since March 13 due to the pandemic, international cricket will resume with the series, subject to UK government approval. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tablighi-jamaat-chief-yet-to-submit-his-covid-19-test-report-to-police-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AhWHHZTwIp87RmorMrrSyI.html
09-06-2020||India||In latest salvo, Rahul Gandhi asks Rajnath Singh a question on border standoff with China||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi once again targeted the government over the weeks-long standoff with China in the Ladakh region. In a tweet directed at Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Gandhi asked a question.“Once RM is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh?” he said on Twitter. Once RM is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh?The tweet was in response of Singh’s jibe at Gandhi, who had earlier raised questions over the issue of border dispute with China.Also Read: India-China troops disengage at 4 standoff points in eastern LadakhGandhi had used Mirza Ghalib’s verse to attack Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday morning. “Everyone knows the reality of the borders, but the thought is good to keep one’s heart happy,” he said in a tweet in Hindi, improvising on Ghalib’s couplet. सब को मालूम है ‘सीमा’ की हक़ीक़त लेकिन,दिल के ख़ुश रखने को, ‘शाह-यद’ ये ख़्याल अच्छा है।https://t.co/cxo9mgQx5KSingh hit back in the evening with another tweaked version of Ghalib’s couplet in Hindi: “You apply medicine to the hand when it pains, but what to when the hand itself is the cause of pain.” मिर्ज़ा ग़ालिब का ही शेर थोड़ा अलग अन्दाज़ में है। ‘‘हाथ’ में दर्द हो तो दवा कीजै,‘हाथ’ ही जब दर्द हो तो क्या कीजै.. https://t.co/k1fhnI6K4N“Hand” is the Congress party’s election symbol.Shah had on Sunday said that India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance and the world agrees that after the US and Israel, if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India.Gandhi has been attacking the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the border standoff with China and has been asking the government to come clean on the situation.The standoff has been going on for more than a month now. A meeting was held on Saturday between the top military officials of both the countries which ended without a breakthrough. But China said after the meeting that a “consensus” was reached. The Chinese foreign ministry also said that differences should not be allowed to turn into disputes.The external affairs ministry had also said that India and China will continue military and diplomatic contacts to resolve the border standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-latest-salvo-rahul-gandhi-asks-rajnath-singh-a-question-on-border-standoff-with-china/story-stlx3hTWqqqIbcIPS2KZ0J.html
09-06-2020||India||Police recover huge quantity of ammunition near LoC in north Kashmir’s Keran||The Jammu and Kashmir Police claimed to have recovered large quantity of arms and ammunition near the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Keran sector.The police said that based on a reliable input a joint search operation was launched by Kupwara Police and the Army’s 6 Rashtriya Rifles in Keran village and forest areas along the LoC.Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar confirmed that during the combing operation large quantity of arms and ammunition were recovered from a weapons dump.The recoveries included five AK-47 rifles, 15 AK magazines, 443 rounds, two under barrel grenade launcher or UBGL, 57 UBGL grenades, six 9mm pistols, 12 9mm pistol magazine, 77 9mm pistol rounds, 15 hand grenades and two AK slings.“With this joint operation security forces deployed in Kupwara have successfully foiled the nefarious designs of Pakistan based terror operatives to smuggle illegal weapons into the Valley and spread terrorism,” Kumar said.The police have registered a case and launched further investigation.Meanwhile, an Over Ground Worker of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), identified as Irfan Ahmad Wani of Shatlu Rafiabad in Baramulla, was arrested by joint party of SOG Baramulla, 52 RR and 53 CRPF at Kralhar. A Chinese pistol, one magazine, four rounds and a mobile phone were recovered from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-recover-huge-quantity-of-ammunition-near-loc-in-north-kashmir-s-keran/story-IPJw8J5oJUePqsMxKnP2bI.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Number of cured patients nearly equal to active cases||India is on track to achieve an important milestone in fight against the deadly coronavirus disease. The number of cured or discharged patients in the country is now nearly equal to the number of active cases.According to the Union health ministry, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country is 1,24,981 and the number of cured patient is 1,24,429.The further narrowing of this gap will show that the spread of the disease is slowing down.The rate of the spread of the disease has came down to 3.8 per cent in the last 24 hours, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. It was 15 per cent before the lockdown was implemented, it further reported. It came down to 4.8 per cent two weeks ago, and now stands at 3.8 per cent.India recorded the deadliest day due to the Covid-19 outbreak, a compilation of data released by states showed on Monday when the fatality count rose by 342, taking the total number of deaths due to the illness to 7,476.Monday’s jump in fatalities is only the second time the number has been in the 300s. On Friday, this number was exactly 300, the data released by officials across the country showed.Maharashtra, which has the highest number of cases at 88,528, added the most number of new infections at 2,553. Mumbai, the country’s financial capital, alone saw its tally of confirmed cases crossing 50,000 and its death count reached 1,702.Tamil Nadu, which has the second-highest number of infections, added 1,542.Gujarat remained as the state with the highest fatality ratio, with 6.22 per cent of known infections having succumbed to the disease. The case fatality ratio in the national capital remained just below three per cent.Globally, over 4 lakh people have died and more than 70 lakh have tested positive for the virus ever since its emergence in China last December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-number-of-cured-patients-nearly-equal-to-active-cases/story-G2Hvhz5pWXCWLsOxjwGByK.html
09-06-2020||India||Manipur high court bars 7 Congress ex-MLAs from House||The Manipur high court on Monday ordered that 7 former Congress MLAs, who had defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the 2017 Manipur assembly elections, cannot enter the state legislative assembly till the disqualification petitions filed against them are decided by the Speaker of the House, Y Khemchand Singh.This comes close on the heels of expulsion of BJP minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar from the state assembly in March after the Supreme Court in a strongly worded order restrained Shyamkumar from entering the assembly and also stripped him of his ministerial post while asking the Speaker to decide a similar disqualification petition against him for defecting to BJP.The order passed by justice KH Nobin Singh on Monday would mean that unless the Supreme Court stays the order, the 7 MLAs will not be able to cast their votes in the Rajya Sabha elections which is slated to take place on June 19 for filling the lone seat from the state to the Upper House of the Parliament.The seven MLAs who were disqualified are Sanasam Bira Singh, Ginsuanhau, Oinam Lukhoi Singh, Ngamthang Haokip, Yengkhom Surchandra Singh, Kshetrimayum Bira Singh and Paonam Brojen Singh.Senior counsel Kapil Sibal, SG Hasnain and N Ibotombi represented the Congress leaders who had filed the petition. Senior counsel HS Paonam appeared for the 7 defected MLAs.The Congress party had emerged as the single-largest party in the 2017 Manipur assembly elections, securing 28 seats, three seats short of the majority mark in the 60-seat assembly. However, the BJP, with 21 seats, moved in to stake its claim in an alliance with the Naga People’s Front, Nationalist People’s Party and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP).Shyamkumar and seven MLAs had contested and won on Congress ticket before extending their support to BJP leader Biren Singh to form a coalition government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-high-court-bars-7-congress-ex-mlas-from-house/story-GcMOa0cXyvNRrxXobSDWyL.html
09-06-2020||India||India has highest number of serious Covid-19 cases after United States: Report||India may be the fifth worst-affected country by the coronavirus disease, it has the highest the number of serious Covid-19 patients after United States.According to data analysis by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan, the US has 16,923 patients in serious condition and India has 8,944.Brazil is now the new global hotspot of the country, but even there, the number of patients with serious conditions is less than India. Brazil has thrice the number of Covid-19 patients that India, but the number of serious patients is 8,318, Hindustan reported.In Russia, the number of Covid-19 patients in serious condition is one-fourth of India. In Spain, Britain, Germany and Italy, their number is less than 1,000.The Union health ministry had earlier said that less than five per cent of the Covid-19 patients in the country need intensive care. Out of these, 2.25 per cent were admitted to the ICU and 1.91 peer cent needed oxygen support.The ministry also said that only few people needed ventilator support. Most of these patients belonged to Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh.India recorded nearly 10,000 cases on Monday which took its Covid-19 tally to 2.6 lakh. Mumbai, the country’s financial capital and the worst hit city by the dreaded virus outbreak, alone saw its tally of confirmed cases crossing 50,000.India also recorded the deadliest day due to Covid-19 outbreak, a compilation of data released by states showed on Monday when the fatality count rose by 342, taking the total number of deaths due to the illness to 7,476.Monday’s jump in fatalities is only the second time the number has been in the 300s. On Friday, this number was exactly 300, the data released by officials across the country showed.Tamil Nadu, which has the second-highest number of infections, added 1,542.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-has-highest-serious-number-of-cases-after-united-states-report/story-AXtfa6WKZV9upbmT7KO9fP.html
09-06-2020||India||Reality of ‘borders’ known to all: Rahul Gandhi||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday the government will not compromise on the country’s pride and self-respect even as Congress president Rahul Gandhi stepped up his criticism of the Centre’s handling of the ongoing India-China border row. Addressing a BJP event online, Singh acknowledged that Gandhi and some opposition leaders have sought the government’s clarification on the developments at the border. “As the defence minister of the country, I want to say that...I will say it inside Parliament; I will not mislead the people,” he said. Earlier in the day, Gandhi stressed that “everyone knows the reality”, less than 24 hours after home minister Amit Shah pointed out that India has shown decisiveness in protecting its borders. “The media is muzzled and terrified. The truth seems dormant. But it flows in the blood of every single Indian Army officer and soldier. They know exactly what is happening in Ladakh,” Gandhi said in a tweet. “Everyone knows the reality of the ‘borders’, but the thought is good to keep one’s heart happy,” he said in another tweet in Hindi, tweaking a couplet by Urdu poet Mirza Ghalib.Addressing a virtual rally in Bihar on Sunday, Shah had said India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance and the world agrees that after the US and Israel, if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India.Reacting to Gandhi’s tweets, BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said: “Sabko maloom hai Doklam ke samay kiske sath chai peene ke bad aap chupana chahte the (Everyone knows with who you had tea at the time of Doklam and later tried to hide it).” During the Doklam stand-off in 2017, Gandhi’s meeting with Chinese envoy Luo Zhaohui triggered a war of words. Gandhi then clarified that as an opposition leader, he held regular meetings with diplomats on critical issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reality-of-borders-known-to-all-rahul-gandhi/story-opqiMW8xTfjrhEBWbVCafM.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Is India the country with the fifth highest number of cases, or the sixth?Does it really matter?I’ve previously written about how there’s a tendency to view dashboards providing statistics of the coronavirus disease as some sort of report card of a government’s performance. The governments of many Indian states seem to think so; as do the governments of many countries.So, some reports of India overtaking Spain and becoming the fifth in the listing in terms of number of cases (not in Hindustan Times) immediately provoked reactions about the relative populations of the two countries.It’s time to recognise two truths about the coronavirus disease. One, in the absence of widespread testing, caseload numbers are useless. They help nobody. In fact, they probably hurt by presenting a picture that’s far removed from reality.Two, the coronavirus has gotten the better of most governments. Health systems around the world – first world and third – have been overwhelmed by it. Governments may find it embarrassing to admit this, but everyone is probably better off if they do.The only number that matters is the number of deaths – and there, India continues to do better than other countries. The country’s current case fatality rate of around 2.8% is less than half the global rate.For those who want to know why some listings have Spain above India and some, below, it’s because the country has acquired the reputation for having the dodgiest data around. Some of this is because of inconsistencies between how cases were initially reported by the provinces, but some is also because of the variety of testing techniques used. Still, as I have said, the number is irrelevant.The only thing that matters is that John Hopkins’s coronavirus dashboard puts the number of deaths in Spain at 27,136; Worldometers.info at also 27,136; and the New York Times, 27,136.India, according to the HT dashboard (which cross-checks death numbers with states), had 7,134 deaths as of Sunday night.It isn’t clear why India should see fewer deaths – unless some deaths are not being reported, but this doesn’t seem to be the case – but every country needs and deserves all the breaks it gets.The other two numbers that matter are testing capacity and hospital beds. Everyone who wants to get tested should be able to; and anyone who needs a hospital bed should be able to find one (the use of the word want in the first case and need in the second is deliberate).There’s nothing as harrowing as not being able to get a test done or not being able to find a hospital bed. Both Mumbai and Delhi are going through that phase right now. The two cities – the country’s most important ones – together accounted for 25% of the cases reported on Sunday, continuing a trend that’s been evident and consistent for weeks. (Add Chennai, and the proportion rises to 35%, and sure enough, there are signs that even that city’s health infrastructure, among the country’s best, is beginning to show signs of wear).The number of recovered patients doesn’t really matter in my opinion – because it’s just a question of math; India’s death rate is 2.8%, which means that if 1,000 people are infected in a certain 24-hour period, then, between 10 and 20 days after, 972 of them are bound to recover. Consequently, a peaking of daily caseloads in a period will correspond with a peaking of recovered patients in the following two to three weeks.Governments would do well to remember this as the numbers continue to rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-2iVj8C480yHttvDGLaSVQM.html
09-06-2020||India||BJP, JD(U) hit out at Lalu Prasad for calling CM a ‘coward’||A tweet by the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) national president Lalu Prasad Monday morning, calling Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar a “coward” for not exiting his residence for 83 days, drew angry responses from the National Democratic Alliance.Leaders of the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party hit out at the RJD leader for spreading false information among the people. “From where did you learn the art of doing scams and acquiring illegal properties?” retorted deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi.JD (U)’s spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan asked Lalu Prasad to first set his house in order before questioning Nitish Kumar. The Congress, however, said that the Bihar assembly elections will mark the evaluation of work done by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-jd-u-hit-out-at-lalu-prasad-for-calling-cm-a-coward/story-a0BbxKSM1FVolcSLISZnDP.html
09-06-2020||India||Mizoram extends restrictions as Bengal revises some of its rules||The Mizoram government decided to impose a complete lockdown in the state on Monday, the day shopping malls, restaurants and places of worship reopened in many parts of country after over two months.The decision was taken at a consultative meeting held in Aizawl that was attended by legislators, senior government officials, NGOs, church bodies, hospital associations and village council members. “Total lockdown for two weeks starting midnight tonight (Monday). Quarantine period will be for 21 days. Home quarantine option to be limited to only extremely unavoidable cases,” chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted.Other details of the lockdown guidelines are being formulated, he said.The chief minister told the meeting that a complete lockdown with “area-wise moderation” was essential to contain the virus as there were instances of violation of present lockdown rules in many areas.Mizoram has recorded 42 Covid-19 positive cases till date. The first patient, a 50-year-old pastor, was found positive for the disease on March 24, after his return from the Netherlands.Meanwhile, the West Bengal government extended lockdown restrictions in containment zones till June 30 in line with the Union home ministry’s guidelines. The restrictions were in force till June 15.In an order issued by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, the government also offered certain relaxations outside the containment zones, where only essential services are allowed. It said 25 people can attend marriages, funerals and places of worship at a time. The number was previously fixed at 10.“Norms of physical distancing and health hygiene protocol must be strictly followed. Any violation in compliance of norms of physical distancing, health hygiene protocol and wearing of masks shall attract penal action as per law,” the Bengal government order said.“It is reiterated that movement of individuals shall remain prohibited between 9 pm to 5am, except for essential activities. District administration and local authorities shall issue appropriate orders in this regard and ensure strict compliance,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-extends-restrictions-as-bengal-revises-some-of-its-rules/story-y6MWtBpxzILfurzC7bLMdK.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19 deaths in India up by 342 in biggest jump||India has recorded the deadliest day due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, a compilation of data released by states showed on Monday when the fatality count rose by 342, taking the total number of deaths due to the illness to 7,476.The spike comes at a time when the country has been averaging close to 10,000 cases a day, although Monday’s figures showed a decline in new infections -- 8,582 – compared to the 10,856 seen on Sunday. Monday’s jump in fatalities is only the second time the number has been in the 300s. On Friday, this number was exactly 300, the data released by officials across the country showed. Maharashtra, which has the highest number of cases at 88,528, added the most number of new infections at 2,553. Tamil Nadu, which has the second-highest number of infections, added 1,542.Gujarat remained as the state with the highest fatality ratio, with 6.22% of known infections having succumbed to the disease. The case fatality ratio in the national capital remained just below 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-in-india-up-by-342-in-biggest-jump/story-wB2nAFLMUkIG3anEG7FQ6I.html
09-06-2020||India||India working on two roads in Ladakh amid border row||India is working on two key roads near the China border in eastern Ladakh — the site of a tense weeks-long border stand-off with its northern neighbour — to provide connectivity to an important forward area that the military calls Sub-Sector North (SSN), two senior officers familiar with the developments said on Monday.While the first is the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi (DS-DBO) road that provides connectivity to the country’s northern-most outpost, Daulat Beg Oldi, the second road being built from Sasoma to Saser La could eventually provide an alternative route to DBO near the Karakoram pass, said one of the two officers. The Sasoma-Saser La road axis is south-west of DBO.Both projects are being executed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), which is ferrying 11,815 workers to areas near the China border in Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand for building strategic roads, as first reported by Hindustan Times on May 31.India is not allowing the border confrontation with China to hinder strategic road projects in forward areas, including the Ladakh sector, where soldiers of the two nations are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said the second officer cited above.The current Chinese troop build-up in the Galwan valley threatens the critical 255-km DS-DBO road (also known as the SSN road), and top experts and China watchers have argued that India should build an alternative road to DBO.The road from Sasoma to Saser La, at a height of almost 17,800 feet, is a tough project that falls under “Hardness Index-III”, the BRO’s top-most classification for hard projects, the second official added. Experts believe that the road can be extended to Brang Sa, Murgo and eventually DBO in the long term. BRO officials weren’t available for a comment.“There’s a 200% need to have an alternative road to DBO in Sub-Sector North. The DS-DBO road can be interdicted at several choke points by Chinese forces during hostilities. While the road from Sasoma to Saser La can connect with DBO, it will be an engineering challenge due to the terrain. It may require construction of a tunnel too,” said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd), a former Northern Army commander.HT reported on May 27 that if the DS-DBO project is blocked, the Indian Army will be forced to use aerial supply lines and also build an arduous alternative route linking Sasoma to Murgo to DBO through the glaciated Saser La. Two years ago, the BRO said the Sasoma-Saser La road would be the world’s first motorable glaciated road.Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), also a former Northern Army commander, said the construction of Sasoma-Saser La road in the glaciated terrain posed a huge challenge, especially in the final patches near Saser La.“If we can build this road and further connect it to DBO, it could provide an alternative route during summer months. However, the all-weather DS-DBO road will remain very important for the army,” Hooda said. The defence ministry told Parliament’s standing committee on defence last year that the Sasoma-Saser La road was a challenging project because of its peculiarities. “Due to peculiarity of formation and shifting of moraines, the road suffers continuous shifting resulting in various gradients… The Central Road Research Institute has been approached for providing solution and the proposal based on CRRI recommendation is being prepared,” the ministry told the panel.Amid the border stand-off, top officials said the BRO would complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the China border by December 2022 for swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.A day after the external affairs ministry said that India and China will continue military and diplomatic contacts to resolve the border stand-off, defence minister Rajnath Singh met the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs and reviewed the situation along the disputed border in the Ladakh sector.An hours-long meeting on Saturday between a delegation led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and a Chinese delegation headed by Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC ended without a breakthrough.The external affairs ministry said the meeting “took place in a cordial and positive atmosphere” and both sides agreed to work towards peacefully resolving the situation.In the first official acknowledgement of a troop build-up along the disputed border with China. Singh last week said a significant number of Chinese troops were present along the LAC and the Indian Army had matched the neighbour’s military moves.China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector, where India has also sent military reinforcements, as reported by HT on May 26.The situation of the ground remains unchanged in the midst of efforts to break the stalemate, said officials. They added that increased Chinese air activity had been observed on the other side of the LAC during the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-working-on-two-roads-in-ladakh-amid-border-row/story-lAh4LPrp20Z1wxX4AU9EON.html
09-06-2020||India||L-G overrules Kejriwal move to close hospitals to outsiders||Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal scrapped the Delhi government’s order reserving a chunk of the hospital beds in the city for residents of the national capital and restored federal guidelines on who can be tested for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), overturning a set of recent decisions by the administration that had become a political flashpoint and led to public anger. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who issued an order on Sunday reserving beds for people living in Delhi, said Baijal’s decision against it will lead to problems for the people of Delhi but added that the government will try to make adequate arrangements. “The L-G’s order has created a very big problem and challenge for the people of Delhi. Providing treatment for people coming from all over the country during the coronavirus epidemic is a big challenge. Probably it is God’s will that we serve the people of the entire country. We will try to provide treatment for all,” he said in a tweet shortly after the orders were issued on Monday evening. Baijal, as the administrative head of the government, reports to the President and is the topmost authority of the Delhi disaster management agency, which is coordinating all matters related to the Covid-19 outbreak. In the order, he acknowledged that Covid-19 has spread in Delhi “in threatening proportion”, but stated that ‘right to health’ has been held as an integral part of ‘right to life’ under the Constitution by the Supreme Court. Kejriwal’s deputy Manish Sisodia attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party in power at the centre and said that the Union government must involve states in decision-making processes. “Delhi government had drafted a well-planned strategy but the BJP pressurised the L-G into overturning it. What if all beds in Delhi get occupied within 2-3 days by patients from other states and that leads to the death of a Delhi resident who fails to get a hospital bed? Who will take the responsibility,” he said at a press conference. Concerns over Delhi’s hospital capacity have abounded since last week after an increasing number of people said they were being turned away from hospitals, with some accounts on social media saying that the problems led to deaths among their friends and families. According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin on Monday, the city has roughly 9,000 hospital beds, of which nearly half are vacant.The capital added 1,007 new infections, taking its total tally to 29,943 on Monday. The bulletin added 62 fatalities, of which 17 were in the 24 hours between Saturday and Sunday. In all, 874 people have now succumbed to the illness in the national capital. The number of tests carried out in this period was 3,700, sharply down from the 6,000-6,500 tests a day seen at the beginning of the month.Baijal issued a second order in which he reinstated the testing rules for suspected Covid-19 patients in Delhi. The rules had been changed by Kejriwal’s government on June 2 to allow only close contacts of a Covid-19 patient who had symptoms to be eligible for a test, a move that the government said was meant to discourage people with mild or asymptomatic disease from using up testing and hospital resources. The changed guidelines also said asymptomatic direct contacts who were not senior citizens or suffered co-morbidities would not be tested. “...in order to contain the spread of Covid-19, it is essential to conduct a thorough contact tracing of affected persons, especially in containment zones and as such, the ICMR strategy for Covid-19 testing should be followed without any deviation,” according to the order. “This deviation from the ICMR guidelines can result in inadequate contact tracing of affected individuals and can result in further spread of Covid-19 in the NCT of Delhi,” the order added. The Delhi government has also asked 8 of the 40 testing centres in the state to stop testing for alleged irregularities. Delhi remains the state that tests the most people per million in the country. As of Monday evening, it had conducted 12,909 tests per million population. In the first order, Baijal also cited a 2018 ruling by the Delhi high court that quashed a circular of the Delhi government giving preferential treatment to the capital’s citizens by reserving 80% of the beds in the GTB hospital to declare the government’s Sunday order as “impermissible”. “All government and private hospitals and nursing homes/clinics situated in NCT of Delhi have to extend medical facilities to all Covid-19 patients coming for monitoring/treatment without any discrimination of being resident or non-resident of Delhi,” Baijal’s order added. “This was a misstep by the Delhi government and was probably done for political reasons. It should have been avoided — throughout the year all hospitals in Delhi get about 45% of their patients from outside the city. In the crisis, with people complaining of not getting beds, the government must have just reacted. A better way to go about it is to have strict criteria for admission to the hospitals or to intensive care units and ensure that it is followed across hospitals,” said Dr MC Misra, former director of AIIMS, Delhi. Lalit Kant, scientist and former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said Delhi is at a stage where testing should be scaled up rather than being restricted. “What the Delhi government had ordered was in violation of the ICMR guidelines. At a time when it looks like Delhi has hit the community transmission stage, more and more testing is required for proper contact tracing. If we test more, there will be more positive cases and containment of the infection will be easier,” he said. “The government’s decision was insensitive. The L-G has done the right thing by overruling it. In this hour of crisis, AAP should refrain from indulging in politics and focus on improving facilities for people. Their decision to stop testing of asymptomatic contacts of Covid-19 positive patients was against ICMR and Centre’s guidelines. As for treatment, we shouldn’t deny treatment to anyone,” said Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/l-g-overrules-kejriwal-move-to-close-hospitals-to-outsiders/story-N8jZyAqkJ9kNgxBdEzoMfK.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Focus must lie on slowing spread of coronavirus’: VK Paul||VK Paul, chairman, Empowered Group I ( medical equipment and management plan to tackle the coronavirus outbreak), and also member (health), Niti Ayog, talked to Rhythma Kaul about the next phase of the pandemic in IndiaIs India dealing with large-scale community transmission?The evidence that we have with us currently says that the situation is grim only in a limited geographical location, especially urban areas that are densely populated. There still are huge geographical areas that are not affected much, so we cannot generalize and say the whole country is badly affected. The data shows that of all states, there is high prevalence in the form of large clusters in just about 10 states that too because they have hyper dense population. Health ministry and ICMR are also conducting sero-surveys (blood test to detect antibodies) that will give us a sense of how widespread the disease is. However, the scene is not as bad as it is made out to be. India saw cases rise even during the lockdown; now that the lockdown is being lifted isn’t there a risk of disease spreading further?The country entered into lockdown at a very early stage, and in a measured way. What we have gained is for all to see, but we are aware that as a large country with huge population our people continue to be susceptible. What we can do, however, is to not let the virus have the speed of growth it wants to have. Our efforts now will be aimed at retarding its speed of growth.What is India’s strategy now going to be to contain the disease spread?The containment measures will now be devised and implemented keeping in mind local conditions. Like I said before, we entered lockdown at a very early stage, and we gained in many ways including successfully changing the trajectory of the spread of the virus. At a certain level we improved also and that is for everyone to see in terms of improved case doubling rate before and during lockdown and other parametres. We are at a position now where the pandemic is moving in a different stage. People are traveling, especially migrant workers, and the virus will also be traveling in a way. In Bihar, for example, we found many people under quarantine were Covid positive. It will be a variable situation that we will be grappling with and our focus should be on keeping it local. The strategy that we need for Mumbai will be different from what we need for say Benaras. The real challenge is to know where we are lacking at the local level and address those gaps. Another challenge is to ensure we don’t overshoot our testing capacity, and keep increasing it to meet the demand. Then we must also focus on keeping our mortality rate low. That is crucial in our fight against Covid. When will India see the peak of the infection?There will be no single peak; rather different peaks in different geographies as things look like at the moment. The national curve is being driven largely by Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad. Earlier, modelers had predicted a free run for the virus but we managed to push the peak and also lowered it. When we are fighting the war we will have many more people getting infected; the game is to test, treat and track. We don’t know when the peak is going to be but we can works towards keeping as low as possible. How do you see life changing once the lockdown is lifted?What we expect now is that the fight against Covid-19 becomes a people’s movement. It’s our test to see how best life can be normalized, and yet the infection is contained, for which we need community participation. We are fighting without any weapon as there is no drug or vaccine against the disease currently, so behavior change is the key along with surveillance and medical infrastructure upgrade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-must-now-be-on-slowing-spread-of-virus-vk-paul/story-2JNVgzJCRQbeekg5UHYH2K.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Doorstep checks start in Ganjam hotspot in Odisha||Odisha started doorstep screening of 350,000 families in Ganjam district on Monday as part of government efforts to identify and treat Covid-19 patients in the hot spot where cases have soared in recent weeks after the return of thousands of migrant workers. Ganjam district collector Vijay Amrita Kulange said as the maximum numbers of migrants returned to Ganjam district, the district administration started the screening drive in view of the monsoon, which is likely to hit the state next week. So far, at least 150,000 migrant workers have returned to the district that has 631 cases, roughly a fifth of all cases in the state“While some migrant workers are staying in official quarantine centres, others are under home quarantine. To know the extent of spread of the virus, our teams will visit houses wherein they will screen people for corona symptoms using infrared thermometers to record body temperatures. They will also screen people having fever, cold, diarrhoea,” Kulange said, appealing to local people to not hide the disease. The programme will end on Saturday.Most of the migrant workers who returned to Ganjam were working in Surat and other industrial cities of Gujarat, which has more than 20,000 cases of coronavirus infection. Till Monday, 1,993 persons were discharged across the state, making up around 66% of the total number of patients. However, state health officials admitted that the steady rise of cases in Ganjam and 10 other districts – such as Bolangir and Kendrapara -- was a matter of worry. The Naveen Patnaik government has now enforced complete shutdown on weekends during June. “This month is most important in our fight against Covid-19. Ten hours night curfew from 7 PM to 5 AM will restrict the people for 300 hours in a month. Both weekend shutdown and night curfew will keep people indoors for 17 days in a month, which will help in checking spread of Covid-19 to a great extent,” Patnaik said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doorstep-checks-start-in-ganjam-hot-spot/story-4rv2UAFqj5AKZniPA9Rx8J.html
09-06-2020||India||Optional attendance, staggered shifts new normal for schools amid Covid-19 pandemic?||Waiving off mandatory attendance for students, holding staggered classes, and providing breaks to different classes at different time were among the suggestions that officials of the human resource development ministry and state education departments mulled as they discussed the reopening of schools against the backdrop of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Senior officials of the ministry maintained that no date has or month has been decided for the opening of schools . To be sure, many have warned against the opening of schools; countries that have done so have waited till the infections started declining; in India, the number of daily new cases, and daily deaths continues to rise. Hundreds of schools across the country including nearly 200 Kendriya Vidyalayas and Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas and those run by state governments are functioning as quarantine centres, including for migrants.“There are many aspects and the HRD ministry is working on protocols keeping all these factors in mind,” said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be identified. The HRD ministry is preparing standard protocols on safety, social distancing and hygiene on school campuses as well as for online education. In the meeting chaired by School Education Secretary Anita Karwal the contours of these were shared with states and their responses sought within a week.Among the measures that the HRD ministry has considered are: holding classes in different shifts, removing attendance requirements, encouraging students who can log in to classes online to stay at home, doing away with morning assemblies, ensuring the transport facilities follow social distancing norms,opening for only only senior classes not having lunch break for all classes at the same time, usage of masks and sanitisers and avoiding sports or cultural activities .The ministry will also come up with detailed norms for residential schools as well as for online education. To be sure, education is on the concurrent list which mans both the Centre and the states can pass legislations on it. “There are so many aspects and all need to be looked into. What should be the response if a student or teacher reports unwell. These are real life concerns and the ministry has to factor in a range of possibilities. However, the ministry will bring the norms only after consultation with states. These norms will be of advisory nature and states will be allowed to come up with their own plans,” said a second official who asked not to be named.Asked about reports on a final date on opening of schools, ministry officials emphasized that a final decision can only be taken after consultation with the Union Home and Health ministries as well as state and union territories.Officials said that the ministry is aware that online education can’t be a substitute to the conventional mode of teaching with many students not having personal devices or network connectivity. However, a road-map is being prepared to address this issue, they added. “Overall, there is a view that daily online classes should not go beyond a couple of hours. The ministry has asked NCERT and CBSE to look into various areas. The SOPs when they come out are likely to reflect these issues,” said the second official.Following the meeting, HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank tweeted that valuable suggestions were received and will be shared with the Health ministry and the Home Affairs ministry. Our priority has always been the safety and security of students, he said.In its guidelines, the Ministry of Home Affairs said that the decision on opening of education institutions would be taken in July after consultation with teachers and parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/students-safety-top-of-school-opening-agenda/story-SWiyNat6df6uRCAx6pE4nL.html
09-06-2020||India||2 policemen held for ‘supplying’ ammunition to Maoists in Bastar||Raipur: An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and a head constable in Sukma district were arrested on Monday over their alleged involvement in selling and supplying ammunition to Maoists in the Bastar region, the Chhattisgarh Police said. “We have been watching this gang for long time, and a few more people are under the scanner,” DM Awasthi, Chhattisgarh’s director general of police (DGP), said. Sukma police have arrested ASI Anand Jatav and head constable Subhash Singh based on the ongoing investigation, Bastar inspector general Sunderaj P said.“We are not disclosing more details and modus operandi because we are questioning them and more arrests could be made,” he added.Officials said the two personnel allegedly forged records of cartridge stocks, fudged numbers, and sold the stock not shown in records to the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). Four middlemen have already been arrested in connection with the racket. “On basis of information we got on June 4, two of middlemen were arrested; they told us that two persons from Kanker district were supplying them ammunition. We have arrested them on Sunday,” a police officer posted in Sukma, who did not want to be named, said.Darshan Padda, the secretary of Pratapur Area Committee of the CPI(Maoist) group in Kanker district, was in touch with the middlemen, who received commission on every consignment, this official said.Sukma superintendent of police (SP) Shalabh Sinha said officials are working on all angles. “...we are expecting something big will come out...,” he said.An Indian Police Service officer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said police personnel are not told to bring back cartridges after encounters against Maoists in deep jungles.“...this helps them to hide some cartridges… Earlier too, there were complaints that policemen were supplying cartridges to Maoists...Now, after every anti-Maoist operation, each and every personnel is thoroughly checked...But this is different case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-policemen-held-for-supplying-ammunition-to-maoists-in-bastar/story-SH5XohOYcLxHgPwY1GfgUP.html
09-06-2020||India||Bibliophiles help sellers at Kolkata’s iconic book market by buying damaged books||Kolkata’s iconic book market in College Street is getting some unique support from booklovers, as people have started buying books damaged by the heavy rain during Cyclone Amphan as ‘mementos’ of their love for books.A group of booklovers, who call themselves the Book Scavengers, have appealed on social media so that people buy books completely damaged by the rain. They have so far raised more than Rs 1.5 lakh from about 170 people for the 250-odd books that they collected.Another small publisher tied up with an e-commerce site for Bengali books for the online sale of damaged books along with a special bookmark. Their first list of 75 books was sold within hours on June 6 and the next lot of 100 will be up on June 9, for which they are already receiving queries.In yet another crowd-funding project to support the booksellers, nearly 1,000 supporters had helped raise more than Rs 16 lakh as of June 8.The College Street area in north Kolkata, popularly known as Boi-para or the book locality, is home to some of the most prestigious educational institutes and happens to be a storehouse of books, both academic and non-academic, with nearly 1,000 small to large publishers and booksellers operating in the locality.Cyclone Amphan which lashed Bengal on May 20, accompanied by heavy rain and water logging damaged thousands of books, with the street vendors and those with wooden shops the worst affected. In the immediate aftermath of the cyclone, a heart-wrenching photo went viral on social media showing booksellers on college streets looking in despair at books floating in the dirty water.“Out of my love for books, the idea came to me that something should be done about the damaged books and I soon found many supporting my idea,” said Debanjan Sen, an eye surgeon based in south Kolkata.“We collected about 250 non-academic books from small book vendors. These are heavily damaged and can at the most be used as mementos for supporting booksellers during their struggle. We have dried the books and have done some small repairs. After we dispatch the books to the donors, the rest of the proceeds will be divided between the booksellers we got the books from,” Sen said. Susnato Chowdhury, editor of the Bengali literary ‘little magazine’ Bodh-Shabdo, had given a similar call on social media, and finding many supporters, tied up with Boighar.in, an ecommerce site for Bengali books.Tuhin Mallick of Boighar.in, which is hosting the damaged books in a special section on their website titled Boi Morey Na, literally meaning books don’t die, said that the response has been very optimistic.“It’s mostly an emotional call. But the first day’s collection of 75 books got sold on a day and people kept inquiring about more books. Most of these books are damaged but still readable, at least to a large extent. A special bookmark has been designed for these books,” said Mallick.There have been some other initiatives, too. A crowd-funding project spearheaded by Indrani Roy, joint managing director of Bengali publishing major Mitra & Ghosh, has been titled ‘Contribute to Save the Famous Literary Corner of the City of Joy’. Supporting this initiative writer and Congress leader Shashi Tharoor wrote on social media on May 29, “Kolkata’s CollegeStreet (BoiPara) is as legendary as the smell of ideas wafting out of CoffeeHouse, but #Cyclone Amphan ravaged it, leaving battered books, flooded stores & devastated booksellers already reeling from the #Covid-19 #lockdown. Let’s help them.” As of June 8, the campaign has raised more than Rs 16 lakh and assistance of Rs 10,000 each was given to 63 book traders.It is this love for books that College Street’s publishers and booksellers are banking on.“The book market has largely opened on Monday though there has been some shortage of staff, as those living in distant areas could not turn up. However, the good sign is, buyers are back,” said Sudhangshu Sekhar Dey, honourary general secretary of Publishers’ and Booksellers’ Guild. He also owns Dey’s Publishing, one of the largest Bengali publishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bibliophiles-help-sellers-at-kolkata-s-iconic-book-market-by-buying-damaged-books/story-KCYPYA7xcLUv798o1ROuyI.html
09-06-2020||India||Malaysia ups rice, sugar import from India||New DelhiRelations between India and Malaysia are back on the upswing after taking a hit under former premier Mahathir Mohamad, with Kuala Lumpur increasing its purchases of rice and sugar from New Delhi in recent months.India quietly initiated steps to reset the relationship after Mahathir, who irked New Delhi with his repeated criticism of the situation in Kashmir and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act , or CAA, resigned in March, people familiar with developments said on Monday.India’s ambassador to Malaysia, Mridul Kumar, was the first foreign envoy to meet new Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin and foreign minister Hishammuddin Hussein within a week of the formation of the new cabinet in March, and the two sides have worked behind the scenes to put ties back on an even keel.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said India is buying 200,000 tonnes of palm oil for the June-July period from Malaysia, the world’s second-biggest producer and exporter of the commodity after Indonesia.Earlier this year, India, the world’s largest buyer of edible oils, had changed its rules to effectively bar imports of refined palm oil from Malaysia, largely because of the position taken by Mahathir.“This is the largest order for palm oil by India in the past few months,” said one of the people cited above.Indian importers will also benefit from Malaysia’s decision of June 5 to fully exempt palm oil from export duty for the rest of this year as part of efforts to help industries hit by the Covid-19 crisis.“This move will benefit India’s refining industries, which had been hit hard by the imposition of this duty earlier in the year. This duty has been a focus of India’s commerce ministry,” the person quoted above said.On the other hand, Malaysia has placed an order with India for 100,000 tonnes of rice for May-June, whereas its total import of rice from India last year was around 85,000 tonnes, the people said.MSM Malaysia Holdings, the country’s leading refined sugar producer, bought around 88,000 metric tonnes of raw sugar from India last year, whereas it procured 130,000 metric tonnes of raw sugar worth $50 million for the January-March quarter this year, the people said.Following the Covid-19 outbreak, the Indian government also approved the supply of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol for Malaysia, the people said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Malaysian counterpart, Hishammuddin Hussein, also spoke in mid-April about the response to the pandemic and efforts to assist citizens stranded in each other’s country.Malaysia is one of India’s key trading partners in Southeast Asia, and bilateral trade was worth $17.25 billion in 2018-19, up from $14.71 billion in 2017-18However, bilateral ties were hit after Mahathir repeatedly criticised CAA and the situation in Kashmir after the Indian government scrapped the region’s special status last August.Despite pushback from India, Mahathir continued his criticism and the diplomatic spat led to India imposing curbs on palm oil imports that hit Malaysia for some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malaysia-ups-rice-sugar-import-from-india/story-681ZEzOWCflU8NzCHDPkaJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi has done nothing to fight Covid-19, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday said India was comparatively in a better position due to the steps it has taken to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic even as he criticised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for questioning the government management of the situation. He said Gandhi has done nothing to fight Covid-19 except conducting interviews.“Some opposition leaders are questioning us as to how we handled the Covid-19 pandemic. We may have faulted somewhere and maybe short of expectations, but there was never a lack of sincerity. People are discussing in English about India’s fight against coronavirus in Sweden and America. Please give an account of what you have done except giving interviews,” said Shah in his address from New Delhi to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and supporters in Odisha. He was referring to a series of video conversations Gandhi has held with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the country’s economy. In the latest such interaction, Bajaj Auto managing director Rajiv Bajaj told Gandhi that the lockdown to flatten the Covid-19 curve ended up flattening the “wrong curve” of the economic growth. Bajaj said India’s lockdown strategy was influenced by the West despite being an Asian country.Shah said the government has fought the pandemic along with 1.3 billion Indians and that is why India is among those countries, which have fared better in dealing with coronavirus. “At the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, 130 crore [1.3 billion] people stayed indoors and co-operated with his vision to fight the pandemic. When the history of epidemics is written, the one on janta curfew will be written in golden letters no matter who writes it. I have never seen that kind of response to a public curfew,” Shah said at the virtual rally.He said the government announced Rs 1.7 lakh crore package for 600 million people when the Covid-19 crisis emerged in March. “When the disease reached India, Modi fought the pandemic in a strange way. After independence, many epidemics and natural disasters came. It was generally seen that governments used to take responsibility. However, our government took people along in such a way that the government fought the health crisis while simultaneously 130 crore people came forward to fight it,” he said.Shah said when Modi came to power, 70 million families had no bank accounts. “Under the Jan Dhan Yojana, 310 million bank accounts were opened. During the lockdown, the Modi government sent Rs 53,000 crore to crores of Indians to help them during these times. Many disasters came. The Congress did nothing except holding interviews,” he said. Shah added BJP workers fed over 110 million people during the pandemic.Shah conceded that migrant workers, including those from Odisha, faced difficulties while returning home but the government ensured that they eventually reached home. “Migrant workers initially faced problems but the government was more concerned about their safety from Covid-19. Modi started running Shramik Special trains from May 1 to take migrants home,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-has-done-nothing-to-fight-covid-says-shah/story-UvaAtAMZcg7u1aM5w6VETI.html
09-06-2020||India||Use MGNREGS to help people, Sonia asks central govt||New Delhi: Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Monday reminded Prime Minister Narendra Modi that in 2014, (soon after becoming PM) he derided the rural job guarantee scheme launched by the Congress-led UPA that governed India from 2004 to 2014 as “a living monument of your failure” -- and that the Modi government has come “full circle”, falling back “on the UPA’s flagship rural-relief programme” against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic and its fallout. Her comments, made in a news article, came against the backdrop of reports that in May, 21.9 million households demanded work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, the most in eight years. The demand comes even as both the urban and local economy has been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread. The lockdown forced factories, construction sites, restaurants and retail stores to stop work, forcing millions of migrant labourers out of jobs and making them undertake often arduous journeys back home. Urging the government “not to play politics”, Gandhi said this was not a “Bharatiya Janata Party versus Congress issue”. “You have a powerful mechanism at hand (MGNREGS), please use it to help the people of India in their time of need.” “Covid-19 has demonstrated the unmatched value of a people-centric scheme like MGNREGA with a humbled Modi government being constrained to commit an additional Rs 40,000 crore to it,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said in a video conference on Monday. MGNREGS was the focus of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s fifth and last tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to boost the economy hit by the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown.Last month, she announced that the government will allocate an additional Rs 40,000 crore to MGNREGS to help generate nearly 300 crore person-days in a bid to boost employment.The earlier budget estimate for the scheme was Rs 61,000 crore.BJP spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal said, “MGNREGA has seen three important changes over the years, first is asset creation with the work is now compulsory, (remember earlier dig holes and fill policy), secondly DBT has plugged all leakages, eliminating large scale corruption. And thirdly increased fund allocation.”Gandhi also asked the government to “put money directly in the hands of the people in this time of crisis by clearing arrears, ensuring unemployment allowance, and being flexible about modes of payment”. She added that the Modi government “has not paid heed to demands to increase th number of workdays to 200.” The job guarantee scheme offers 100 days of employment to one member from every eligible household. “Please forget that your current reliance on MGNREGS is the scheme’s biggest victory and therefore, indirectly the victory of some of your political opponents,” Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-mgnregs-to-help-people-sonia-asks-central-govt/story-UuGcGkoxSxndoumil05IoO.html
09-06-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 peak likely in July, drop in tests: Data||Covid-19 infections in Madhya Pradesh are expected to peak around July, an analysis of the state health department has warned while highlighting a decrease in testing, widened geographical spread of the disease, and an increase in active cases as well as the positivity rate. “Virus is still around. There is no vaccine in the near future. The peak is expected around July,” said analysis based on data and trends available until May 27.The analysis noted there was a surge in daily cases in the second half of May. “Geographical spread of the virus widened and active cases started increasing again. Besides, the positivity rate increased in the past 3 weeks... 12 districts with above 5% overall positivity rate,” it said. “The fatality rate was decreasing but the growth rate of deaths started to increase in the past 10 days [from 2.1% on May 15 to 2.4% on May 27]. There was a fatality rate of more than 5% in 9 districts...”It said the number of cases continued to increase in May even as the rate of testing decreased. As many as 2,461 tests were conducted on May 1. They rose to 5,648 on May 16 but declined to 3,595 on May 27. After the analysis, 4,840 tests were conducted on May 28 and 6,126 tests on June 7, officials said.With 2,872 tests per million population, Madhya Pradesh lags behind Maharashtra (4,909), Gujarat (4,168), and Rajasthan (7,385) as of Sunday. As of May 27, the national testing average was 2,345 per million population. In the positivity rate, Madhya Pradesh (4.9% ) was the third-worst after Maharashtra and Gujarat. The state had the second-highest fatality rate in the country (4.3%) after Gujarat (6.2%).“Active cases started growing again after May 10,” the analysis said. It said the infection has spread from 30 districts in early May to 51 districts as of May 27.Health minister Narottam Mishra said the state has the highest recovery rate in the country--over 65%. “Only 2,735 Covid-19 patients are under treatment while our preparedness is for 80,000 beds...”Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said Madhya Pradesh still needs a substantial increase in testing. “Instead, the number of tests, of late, was decreasing which is a matter of serious concern. ...the situation will worsen if the government does not strengthen its health facilities... If there is a marked improvement in the situation, as the government claims... why 21 more districts were affected since May 1 and why the number of Covid patients continues to increase.”As per the health department bulletin on Monday night, the state registered 237 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 9,638. The mortality rate in Madhya Pradesh - 4.29% - is more than 1.5 times that of the national rate of 2.80%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-s-peak-likely-in-july-drop-in-tests-data/story-qTtTz2eYp0o6dcmjRcOCuI.html
09-06-2020||India||World Bank warns of drop in Indian GDP due to Covid-19 pandemic||The coronavirus pandemic will plunge the world into a severe recession, the deepest since World War II, shredding per capita incomes and pushing millions into poverty, the World Bank said on Monday. The global economy is expected to shrink 5.2% in 2020, it said. Declines in economic growth across region will be driven by severe disruptions to “domestic demand and supply, trade and finance”, the bank said in a report, Global Economic Prospects, which contains an assessment of economic shocks from pandemic shutdowns.In India, the bank forecast that Gross Domestic Product (GDP) will shrink 3.2% in the fiscal year 2020-21, when the “impact of the pandemic will largely hit”. GDP, or the value of all goods and services produced, is the broadest measure of incomes generated in an economy. The International Monetary Fund has slashed its 2010-21 growth projection for India to 1.9% from 5.8% estimated in January. Barclays said it saw 0% growth, while the World Bank cut India’s growth forecast to 1.5-2.8% from 6.1% earlier.The World Bank in its note on India said: “Stringent measures to control the spread of the virus will heavily curtail activity, despite some support from fiscal and monetary stimulus. Spill-overs from weaker global growth and balance-sheet stress in the financial sector will also weigh on activity.” While advanced economies will see growth falling 7% in 2020, emerging economies as a group, which includes India, will see a growth decline of 2.5% this year. “Per capita incomes are expected to decline by 3.6%, which will tip millions of people into extreme poverty this year,” the bank said. Measures to control the pandemic has already caused a “severe contraction”, or negative economic growth in many economies. The bank forecast the most widespread declines in per capital incomes since 1870.“This is a deeply sobering outlook, with the crisis likely to leave long-lasting scars and pose major global challenges,” said World Bank Group vice-president Ceyla Pazarbasioglu in the report.Downside risks, or threat to growth, are predominant, the bank said, including the possibility of a more protracted pandemic, financial upheaval and retreat from global trade and supply linkages. “A downside scenario could lead the global economy to shrink by as much as 8% this year, followed by a sluggish recovery in 2021,” it said.To spur growth, Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled a Rs 20-lakh-crore rescue package on May 12. The government has attempted to set the country on a new pro-business economic course, pulling down the last vestiges of state control in most sectors to jumpstart a stalling economy. India’s GDP growth slumped to 3.1% in the March quarter, the slowest pace in 11 years, dragging the country’s full-year expansion to 4.2%, compared with 6.1% in the previous year, data released on May 30 showed.In a series of announcements last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman opened up more of the economy for private investment. The government will limit state-run companies to just four in many sectors, for instance, to boost private investment. The World Bank report said “deteriorating economic conditions” in advanced economies and major emerging market economies are “impacting export-related industries” in South Asian countries, including India. “The only way to go is to revise the fiscal policy (i.e. driving up government spending) so that growth can sprint back,” said NR Bhanumurthy of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-warns-of-drop-in-indian-gdp-due-to-pandemic/story-qdidKf1eZJg83WjtbSdeCO.html
09-06-2020||India||Social distancing, no prasad as religious places reopen||Religious places reopened on Monday for the first time in over 70 days, welcoming devotees after the easing of curbs that were imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), while others preferred to stay closed despite the central government’s approval. At Gorakhnath Temple in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who also is the head priest of the shrine, offered prayers before its gates opened at 5am, a day after he reviewed the safety arrangements at the site. In Ayodhya, just five devotees at one time were allowed at the iconic Hanuman Garhi, Ram Janmabhoomi and Badi Devkali. “Devotees have been asked to leave the temple premises as soon as possible after paying respect to the deity,” said Raju Das, a priest at Hanuman Garhi. At Lucknow’s historic Mankameshwar temple, devotees stood in queues since early morning even though they were not allowed to touch idols. No prasad was offered either. “I came here at 4.30am. Before me, there were just two more devotees who performed darshan. I was not able to offer milk or prasad, but I understand all this has been done to protect us,” said Vivek Tewari, a devotee.A limited number of people was allowed entry for namaz at Lucknow’s Aishbagh Eidgah. “After so many days, I offered namaz inside the mosque...but with social distancing,” Mohammad Mushtaq, a resident of Aishbagh, said.However, Varanasi, Agra and Meerut administrations decided not to open religious places immediately. In Vrindavan, the Bankey Behari temple was closed.In Assam, the famous Kamakhya Temple remained shut. “We closed the doors of the temple on March 20 following government directives. As of now, we have decided to keep the temple off limits for devotees till June 30,” said Kabindra Prasad Sarma, the chief priest (junior) of Kamakhya Temple. The famous Mahakal temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain opened doors to long queue of devotees, who underwent thermal screening, sanitised their hands and maintained social distancing. “The registration was done through an app and a toll free number,” said temple administrator Sujan Singh Rawat said.In West Bengal, most of the religious places remained closed, including the famous Dakshineswar Kali temple near Kolkata. “In a day or two, we will start letting in 10 people at a time as prescribed by the state government, but managing the crowd that will wait outside the main gates will pose a problem,” said Prasun Hazra, one of the trustees of the temple.In Bihar, most of the places of worship, including temples, mosques, gurdwaras and churches, opened their doors across the capital city of Patna.The 300-year-old Mahavir Mandir installed an automatic sanitizer dispenser and infrared thermometer at the entrance. “This was the first time I didn’t visit Mahavir temple for so long. I am glad as today is my son’s birthday and we have come to seek blessing,” Geeta Tiwari, a devotee, said. Golden Temple in Amritsar, which was open during the lockdown, did not witness a rush of pilgrims. “During complete lockdown, there used to be two or three rows of devotees having langar (free food) in the community kitchen. On Monday, it increased to four or five rows,” said Sukhbir Singh, who runs the kitchen committee at the temple. In Uttarakhand, the prayer at Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar began, and the twin shrines of Mata Mansa Devi and Mata Chandi Devi allowed pilgrims to visit with certain restrictions. The Char Dham pilgrimage, however, will take some time to resume with priests apprehensive about the coronavirus situation, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-no-prasad-as-religious-places-reopen/story-opCikNkzOKanQvNgeFLkWO.html
09-06-2020||India||On first day of Unlock 1, few people return to shopping malls, restaurants||It was a slow start for restaurants and hotels that opened across the country after a gap of two and a half months on Monday.Restaurants owners and hospitality industry leaders said though their establishments have resumed operations as part of the central government’s three-phase unlock plan, they do not expect big footfall immediately with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases rising across the country.“We have been focusing on home delivery and takeaway services in these past few days, but received virtually no dine-in customers on Monday. People are still scared about stepping out of their houses,” Amit Pal Singh, the owner of Chandigarh’s famous Pal Dhaba, said. Park Street in Kolkata, home to several famous restaurants, too, witnessed a tepid response.At Mocambo, one of the landmark eateries in the city, around 20 customers walked in during the day. “We used only half of the seating area. There were no big groups and no customer asked for liquor...people know that bars have not been allowed to operate. Most people ordered our signature dishes chicken a la kiev and chicken tetrazzini,” one of the mangers told HT. Koushik Chowdhury, a businessman who came looking for some Chinese food, said: “During lockdown, I had ordered pizzas at home. A visit to Park Street was a refreshing change.”Famous for Mughlai dishes since its inception in 1929, the main branch of Aminia near New Market in central Kolkata, too, was back in business. “Around 70 customers turned up during lunch hour,” said Aftab Akhtar, one of the managers. “Most people ordered biryani, the Aminia special, chap and roti...,” he added. Bengaluru’s iconic hotels such as Vidyarthi Bhavan, Brahmin’s Cafe and Udupi Sri Krishna Bhavan reopened, replacing traditional steel plates with disposable utensils. Then there were places that did not open despite the central government’s approval. Lucknow’s Tunde Kababi and Idris Biryani were among them.“We are famous for serving meat galouti kebab and non-vegetarian dishes, but our suppliers say they are not getting meat as slaughterhouses all across the state are closed,” said Mohammad Usman of Tunday Kababi.In Jaipur, most hotels and restaurants remained closed. “We are not prepared to start operations of hotels and restaurants, and will take another two-three weeks,” Kuldeep Singh, the president of Rajasthan Hotel and Restaurant Association, said, citing shortage of workers.About 25% restaurants reopened Goa and they are relying on home delivery and takeaways, according to Gaurish Dhond, the president of the Goa Hotel and Restaurant Association. “It is not profitable for others to reopen...without tourists, customers,” he said. In tourism destination Uttarakhand, hotels remained closed, calling guidelines issued by the state government “impractical”. On Sunday, the government said hotels cannot take bookings from guests coming from cities with high Covid-19 caseload, including Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Jaipur, and Noida. It also prohibited guests from visiting tourist spots and public places.“Though the government has allowed us to resume operations, it has put conditions, which, if followed, will be difficult for our business,” said Dinesh Shah, the president of Nainital Hotel Association, a body of about 120 hotels.The hotel association of popular hill stations Mussoorie that oversees 200 hotels, too, said it is not favour of resumption of business with conditions. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the guidelines will be revised in a few days.Vikas Katoch, the general manager of Fun Republic Mall in Lucknow, said on the first day just 200 people came to the shopping complex, but he expects the rush to return during the weekend.Vaibhav Nigam, a college student, was one of the visitors there. “I just came to have a feel of the mall as it’s been more than 70 days since we last visited one,” he said.One of the mangers at South City Mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road in south Kolkata said getting people used to the safety drills took some time.Rahul Saraf, managing director, The Forum Group, said: “More than 1,000 people walked into our mall in Howrah till 6.30 pm although it rained. Though the turnout was more than what we expected, we would like to be cautiously optimistic. The real picture will emerge after at least a week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-day-1-few-people-return-to-shopping-malls-restaurants/story-ofD3hRXvX93eYERSqc1nBK.html
09-06-2020||India||Kerala expat whose pregnant wife was evacuated in May, dies in Sharjah||A young man from Kerala working in the UAE, whose pregnant wife took the first Vande Bharat flight out of Dubai for the delivery of their first child, died in his sleep on Sunday, a month after she left, his friends said.Doctors in Dubai said he died of cardiac arrest but his sample will be tested for Covid-19. His friends said if he tests negative for Covid-19, his body will be flown home in a couple of days.Nithin Chandran (29) and his wife Athira Geeetha Sreedharan (26), hit the headlines after the latter filed a petition in the Supreme Court for evacuation saying her delivery was due in July and aviation laws do not permit her to fly after seven months of pregnancy. The court later disposed of her plea after the Centre informed it about its decision to evacuate stranded people abroad through the Vande Bharat mission.Nithin was also offered a ticket to travel along with his wife on the first flight by Congress legislator from Palakkad Shafi Parambil through a collective of NRIs but he gave away the open ticket to another needy person and sponsored two other tickets, his friends said. His wife also shared this information with the Hindustan Times on her arrival on May 8 in Kozhikode in north Kerala.“We are really shocked. He was a Good Samaritan and was in the forefront of the NRI collective in the UAE. He was also offered a ticket by the legislator through the Indian Cultural and Arts Society (INCAS) but he gave it to another person who was really ailing. Later he sponsored two other tickets also,” said one of his friends P Praveen.He also said Nithin was suffering from high blood pressure for some time.He was found dead in his flat in Sharjah when his friends went looking for him after he did not answer calls.A mechanical engineer, Nithin was working with a private construction firm in Dubai. Athira, an electronics engineer, was working with an IT firm in Sharjah.Hailing from Kozhikkode they got married in 2018. Their friends said both were active in social service and members of the Blood Donors Club in UAE, affiliated to INCAS, an organisation owing allegiance to the Congress Party. “I am really shocked. Last month I talked to him several times. Service was in his blood,” said Shafi Parambhil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-expat-whose-pregnant-wife-was-evacuated-in-may-dies-in-sharjah/story-SR8CQ2iA4Qk7iKrgyHG2bK.html
09-06-2020||India||Sarpanch gunned down in Kashmir’s Anantnag; no group claims responsibility||Srinagar: A village sarpanch was gunned down by terrorists in south Kashmir’s Anantnag on Monday.So far, no group has claimed responsibility for the killing. Police said unidentified gunmen attacked Ajay Pandita Bharti inside his orchard in the afternoon. Bharti, 40, was the sarpanch of village Lukbawan, Larkipora. Police said he was associated with the Congress. Locals said Bharti’s family had migrated from south Kashmir in the early ’90s but he returned a couple of years ago.Soon after Bharti’s killing, police and army began a search operation to track down his killers. Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said Bharti did not have any security. “He was not provided security despite feeling insecure,” he claimed.“Very sorry to hear about the killing of sarpanch Ajay Pandita in Anantnag earlier this afternoon. I unequivocally condemn this terror attack on a grassroots political worker & pray that his soul rests in peace,” tweeted former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah. PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, whose Twitter handle is being operated by her daughter Iltija Mufti, said, “Terrible news.Condolences to the family.Shrinking political space in Kashmir has made political party workers all the more vulnerable.They are stuck between punitive actions of a vindictive government & militants on the other end.” Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party chief Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari also condemned the killing. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also tweeted his condolences. “My condolences to the family and friends of Ajay Pandita, who sacrificed his life for the democratic process in Kashmir. We stand with you in this time of grief. Violence will never win,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sarpanch-gunned-down-in-kashmir-s-anantnag-no-group-claims-responsibility/story-iLHZPCSz2RdeUXwy51ybzN.html
09-06-2020||India||Opposition likely to unite in House against draft electricity bill||The proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill that several states say undermines India’s federal structure and attempts to privatise distribution could be the next flashpoint between the government and the Opposition. Parties such as the Congress, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) as well as Left parties have opposed the bill with critics also alleging that it is not in the interest of farmers and the poor.On April 17, the Centre issued a draft proposal for the amendment of Electricity Act, 2003, in the form of draft Electricity Act (Amendment) Bill, 2020 , inviting comments from stakeholders within 21 days. The deadline was later extended till June 2. The draft bill aims to establish an Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority (ECEA) that will have the power of a civil court to settle disputes between power generation companies (gencos) and distribution companies (discoms).According to the draft, ECEA will have sole authority to adjudicate matters related to specific performance of contracts related to purchase or sale of powerSeveral states, including Telangana, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, have alleged that the amendments will take away the autonomy of state-owned discoms and state electricity regulators. The draft bill also has a provision for direct benefit transfer (DBT) of subsidy provided to consumers, particularly to the agriculture and domestic sectors. Opposition leaders say this will work against the interest of farmers and poor domestic consumers, and insisted that the mode of payment should be left to state governments to decide.The bill also aims to ensure a mandatory minimum purchase of power from renewable sources of energy and enforce stringent penal measures for non-compliance with the provisions in the act.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel joined the chorus against the bill on Monday, writing a letter to RK Singh, the Union minister of state for power. He urged the government to abandon the move in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and demanded that states be consulted before making it a law.“The implementation of the bill will adversely affect the lower sections of society as the provision of cross subsidy in it is impractical and not in the interest of farmers and the poor,” he wrote. “The farmers will face a crisis if the subsidy on electricity given to them for irrigation is not continued and thereby, it will affect the production of food grains.”Opposition parties are likely to form a united front on the issue to stall the bill in Parliament whenever it is convened in the aftermath of the pandemic, a Congress leader said on the condition of anonymity.Last week, Maharashtra energy minister and Congress leader Nitin Raut said the Centre intends to “override and dominate the State Government’s responsibility in the administration of power Generation, Transmission and Distribution of Electricity”.He said the Constitution of India, under the Seventh Schedule, provides powers to both the Centre and states to make appropriate laws on matters related to electricity. But the proposed amendments will “centralise power” and make “states weaker in the matters related to power sector”, he said in a statement on June 3.Raut added that the Centre was trying to privatise distribution, transmission and generation “as it was now taking various measures and policy decisions to privatise the Public Sector Units under various pretexts”. Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah has echoed Raut’s views while DMK president MK Stalin has said the bill should be withdrawn. Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the bill was against the spirit of federal polity. He urged non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief ministers to strongly oppose the move and launch joint efforts to protect the rights of the states.“We have invited comments from all stakeholders and states, which is why the draft bill was put in public domain. The ministry will go through all the inputs and comments before finalising the bill,” a spokesperson for the ministry of power said. Earlier amendments to the Electricity Act proposed by the Centre in 2014 and 2018 failed to become a law.“The most crucial problem of the power sector is the financial condition of discoms which is the consequence of inadequate and infrequent tariff revisions which is the principal responsibility of state regulatory commissions. The willingness of the SERCs (state electricity regulatory commission) to maintain their independence from the State which appoints can be seen as the main reason for lack of tariff revisions,” said former power secretary P. Umashankar.“The proposed amendment by taking away the authority of the State to select the regulators seeks to establish the independence of the regulators,” he said.“States may oppose the amendment but they are responsible to have brought things to this pass because of their reluctance to tariff revisions and their unwillingness to allow the regulators to function independently,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-likely-to-unite-in-house-against-draft-electricity-bill/story-sQnn0J9UPz7X91BahyjRDK.html
09-06-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat chief yet to submit his Covid-19 test report to police||Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad, who has been booked for holding a weeks-long gathering in March, ignoring guidelines prohibiting meetings of more than a certain number of people, resulting in a jump in coronavirus infections, is yet to submit his Covid-19 test report from a government lab despite being asked to, the Delhi police on Monday. A fresh notice was likely to be issued to him to get tested and join the investigation, te police added. Six other office bearers of Jamaat, a Muslim missionary organisation who were booked along with Saad have been questioned in the case, a crime branch officer said requesting anonymity. Saad is yet to appear before the investigators. “We have not received Maulana Saad’s Covid-19 test report from a government hospital. A notice in this regard was served to him a few weeks ago, but no response has come so far,” the officer said. Saad had earlier tested negative for Covid-19 at a private lab and submitted his report to the crime branch team probing the case. The team has insisted on a government lab’s test report.Jamaat spokesman Shahid Ali said they have cooperated with the investigation in compliance with directions issued without any default. “Maulana Saad was found negative on being tested for Covid-19 and it was duly informed to the investigation agency. We are committed to appear before the investigating officer (IO) as and when directed either by the IO or by the honourable court,” he said.The officer cited above said a second round of the questioning of the six office bearers has also been planned and notices seeking their presence before the investigators would be served soon. Thousands of people, including over 900 foreigners from at least 34 countries, attended the congregation at the Jamaat’s headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Over 2,300 people, including foreigners, were evacuated from the headquarters in late March and lodged in various quarantine facilities. The congregation was the source of early clusters of infection in both Delhi and Tamil Nadu. The crime branch on March 31 filed a criminal case against Saad and the six others for defying government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, to contain the spread of Covid-19. Charges related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder and criminal conspiracy were added to the case after some of the attendees died of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-chief-yet-to-submit-his-covid-19-test-report-to-police/story-s01rBiJ5sgVCqKZaikx5iI.html
09-06-2020||India||Private hospitals offer remote monitoring, care at home for Covid-19 patients||A number of private hospitals in the national capital region (NCR) have begun care packages for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients who are in home isolation, offering remote monitoring by nurses and doctors and medical care kits that will help detect if their condition deteriorates. The Delhi government has said that Covid-19 positive persons are eligible for home treatment as long as they can isolate themselves and not infect other members of the household, a decision meant to reduce the burden on hospitals as cases rise.Among the providers of such services are Max Healthcare, Medanta and Fortis. Max’s Max@Home services includes a medical kit (with a thermometer and an oxygen saturation metre), daily monitoring of the vitals by a trained nurse twice a day, a tele-review with a doctor every third day as well as home delivery of medicines.Medanta’s Covid-19 home care services are split into basic packages for monitoring or more thorough ‘complete covid care’ offering that includes a Covid-19 test; N-95 and other masks, gloves, sanitisers, a pulse oximeter, a digital thermometer, a blood pressure machine, a PPE kit, as well as vitals monitoring tools with built-in critical alert system. Max has at least 100 patients while Medanta has around 90 patients using their home care services.Experts welcomed such offerings. “If the patient is suspected clinically but doesn’t have any breathing difficulty or pneumonia or any other life-threatening symptoms, the patient should stay home. In fact the patient will get more infections if he or she is in a hospital. These patients should register with a medical facility. A nurse or doctor should be in touch over the phone every day,” said Dr Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore. “Majority of people with Covid-19 will require a pulse oximeter (oxygen saturation metre) and a CT scan of the chest or a good quality chest X ray to see if there is pneumonia. The patient can check pulse oxygen levels at home. Doctor or nurse on call will have to watch for symptoms every day. If fever settles then there is no need for admission, if not a bed can be readied for the patient in hospital. This is needed to un-clutter the system right now,” he added.According to Medanta’s standard protocol for home isolation, warning signs that a patient must report are persistent fever of over 101°F for 72 hours, breathlessness or fast breathing, blood in sputum, confusion, loss of consciousness and altered behaviour or severe abdominal pain with diarrhoea. A pulse rate of more than 110 per min or oxygen saturation of less than 94% is also a cause for concern. “We decide if the patient needs hospitalisation based on these standard parameters,” said Dr Sushila Kataria, senior director, internal medicine at Medanta in Gurugram.A second expert said that it is now crucial to treat mild infections at home. “Complacency is likely to be more when at home but in Delhi cases are touching 1,000 to 1,500, so where do you have so many beds? Home isolation of those without risk factors and those who are comfortable, eating well, do not have breathlessness should stay home and isolate themselves in a room and use a separate bathroom,” said Dr GC Khilnani, PSRI institute of critical and pulmonary and critical and former and head of pulmonary medicine at AIIMS.In a paper in Lancet led by Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, Singapore University in April said institution-based isolation was better suited to reduce household and community transmission citing example of isolation shelters in Wuhan that provided triage, basic medical care, frequent monitoring, rapid referrals.Delhi at present has a tie-up with private medical services provider Portea to monitor home isolation cases. If their condition deteriorates, Portea schedules an appointment with a doctor or a Delhi hospital immediately.In the past month, there have been 7,300 Coovid-19 patients who have been monitored by Portea remotely and around 2,000 of them have been discharged, and 200 needed hospitalisation. “Delhi government doctors choose which patients are asymptomatic or have mild illness and who have the space to be isolated at home. Medication, PPE, diet chart, brochures etc are given by Delhi government. We are in touch with the patients on a daily basis. There is an option for the patient to also call in if his or she is feeling very unwell. So far compliance has been good and patients have responded to calls,” said Meena Ganesh, MD and CEO, Portea Medical.Who is eligible for home isolation?• Patient should be clinically assigned as a very mild case or pre-symptomatic case by the treating medical officer• Such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts• A care giver should be available to provide care on 24 x7 basis• A communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation.• The care giver and all close contacts of such cases should take Hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as per protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer• Download Arogya Setu App on mobile (available at: https://www.mygov.in/aarogya-setuapp/) and it should remain active at all times (through Bluetooth and Wi-Fi)• The patient shall agree to monitor his health and regularly inform his health status to the District Surveillance Officer for further follow up by the surveillance teams• The patient will fill in an undertaking on self-isolation (Annexure I) and shall follow home quarantine guidelinesWhen do you seek emergency care/hospital care?• Difficulty in breathing• Persistent pain/pressure in the chest• Mental confusion• Developing bluish discolorations of lips/face• As advised by treating medical officerWhen can you discontinue home isolation?• after 17 days of onset of symptoms (or date of sampling, for pre-symptomatic cases) and no fever for 10 days.• There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is overSource: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-hospitals-offer-remote-monitoring-care-at-home/story-qhMF60aUn9wnQDSKJjklZI.html
09-06-2020||India||Lt Guv scraps 2 orders by Kejriwal on Covid-19 in 1 day, sets off a BJP vs AAP||Shortly after Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal overruled the AAP government and directed authorities that no one should be denied treatment for not being a Delhi resident, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal termed the governor’s order as a “huge problem and challenge” for the city-state. The CM, however, added that his government will honour the directive. “LG Sahib’s order has created a huge problem and challenge for the people of Delhi. Providing treatment for people coming from all over the country during the coronavirus epidemic is a big challenge. May God bless us to serve the people of the whole country. We will try to provide treatment to all,” tweeted the Delhi CM in Hindi this evening.Baijal, drawing from various Supreme Court judgments, impressed upon the state government that the right to health is an integral part of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution.“...Directs all departments and authorities concerned of NCT of Delhi, to ensure that monitoring/treatment is not denied to any patient on the ground of not being a resident of NCT of Delhi,” theL-G said in his order.In another order, the L-G overruled the city government’s order for coronavirus testing only for symptomatic patients.Baijal said all nine categories people, including asymptomatic, as prescribed by the ICMR should be examined in the national capital.As complaints about the quality of treatment at Delhi’s hospitals snowballed on social media, CM Kejriwal declared on Sunday that all government and private hospitals in the city would only treat Delhi residents while the Central government hospitals will remain open to all.Watch l In Focus: Kejriwal’s ‘state govt hospitals only for Delhiites’ order divisive? Deputy CM Manish Sisodia accused the BJP of forcing the decision upon the government through L-G Baijal.“The BJP put pressure on the L-G and made him overrule our decision, now priority will not be given to people of Delhi in Delhi hospitals. Why is the BJP doing politics over Covid-19 and trying to fail the policies of state government”?,” Sisodia was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The deputy CM, who also doubles up as state education minister, underlined that the decision was taken after careful thinking for the benefit of the people of Delhi. “The Delhi government had taken the decision after thorough deliberations so that people of Delhi could get beds and treatment if cases increase in future. The CM had planned how many beds were needed for how many cases and how they will be arranged,” the ANI quoted Sisodia as saying. Earlier today, defending the government’s decision to reserve hospital beds exclusively for Delhi residents, state health minister Satyendar Jain reasoned that over the past week more than 1,000 cases have been reported each day and batted for more space in hospitals for the city residents.“Delhi and Mumbai are big metros which are facing a heavy brunt of the virus. A lot of foreigners come here, and had flights been closed earlier, the infection would not have spread that much. But given the situation now, when for the past several days, over 1000 cases are being reported every day, the situation is that Delhi people would need more space in hospitals,” said Jain.The minister claimed that cases weren’t much in neighbouring cities.The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital crossed the 28,000-mark with 1,282 fresh infections, while the death toll climbed to 812 on Sunday. Barring June 1, when Delhi saw a spike of 990 cases, it has been recording over 1,000 fresh cases every day from May 28 to June 7, the highest being 1,513 on June 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-problem-delhi-cm-kejriwal-after-l-g-overrules-hospitals-for-residents-move/story-0KAsLj7TNbyOuzKhXv1GhL.html
