10-06-2020||India||Kerala govt faces criticism for nod to hydel project||Thiruvananthapuram: Environment activists have criticised the Kerala government’s decision to renew the no-objection certificate for a proposed hydroelectric project near the picturesque Athirapally waterfall in Thrissur district.Even the Communist Party of India (CPI), a junior partner in Kerala’s Left Front government, has opposed the move even though the state administration says all stakeholders will be consulted in taking the project forward.Supporters of the project say it will not cause any harm to the waterfall and the ecology in the area, but critics suspect damage to environment, inundation of large tracts of land and displacement of tribal families residing in the area.The project, on the 145-km Chalakudy River, was conceived in the 1980s when the state was hit by power shortage, but was shelved due to stiff opposition. It was revived when the Pinarayi Vijayan government came to power in 2016. If set up, the project near Athirapally, a favourite movie shooting destination, will have an installed capacity of 163 megawatts and spread across 6.7km. The dam for water storage, particularly, has emerged as a cause for concern.“Chalakudi river already has many big and small dams. It can’t withstand more. Preventing natural course and storing water led to many disasters in the past. In Chalakudy, we don’t want pristine forests to be submerged and many tribals evacuated,” said VS Vijayan, an environmental scientist.He was in the team of Madhav Gadgil, who has prepared a report to save the fragile ecology of the Western Ghats in 2011 on the instruction of former Union environment minister Jairam Ramesh.“It seems the state has failed to learn a lesson from two consecutive floods (in 2018 and 2019) that claimed many lives...Votaries of the new dam should think about the future generation also,” Vijayan said.The previous no-objection certificate to the project was issued in 2016 by the state power ministry. It was set to expire in July. Tribal families living in the forests, too, are apprehensive. “They will have to kill us before building the dam. It is a ploy to plunder green cover and destroy the serene waterfall,” said Kadar tribe leader P Kaliappan.State power minister MM Mani clarified that renewing the non-objection certificate was a natural process and it didn’t mean the project will be commissioned immediately.“We are not in a tearing hurry. All stakeholders will be taken into confidence. Activism is okay, but it should not be at the cost of the state’s development,” Mani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-faces-criticism-for-nod-to-hydel-project/story-zBMH3Nf6tt3Nbw9KBwWkNM.html
10-06-2020||India||31 Odisha firemen, 12 NDRF staff test Covid-19 positive on return from cyclone-hit Bengal||At least, 32 personnel of the Odisha fire services and 12 staff of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), who were part of the group that had gone to West Bengal to help in restoration work in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan last month, have tested positive for Covid-19.Over the last few days, 50 soldiers of the 3rd battalion of the National Disaster Response Force in Mundali area of Cuttack and 12 personnel of Odisha fire services had tested positive for Covid-19. Taking today’s test results into account, 62 soldiers of the NDRF and 44 personnel of Odisha fire services have tested positive for Covid-19.NDRF sources said the 62 soldiers who have tested positive are part of the 173-member force that had gone to Bengal for Cyclone Amphan relief and restoration work and returned to Odisha on June 3. Besides, the 44 fire services personnel are part of the 376 personnel of the Odisha Fire Services that had been deployed in Bengal.“All of them are asymptomatic,” said a fire services official.Following their rescue and restoration work, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation had thanked the fire services personnel and sent a letter to Odisha chief secretary for standing with Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/31-odisha-firemen-12-ndrf-staff-test-covid-19-positive-on-return-from-cyclone-hit-bengal/story-DZsrTnhCJZOxGn6V8S2TZM.html
10-06-2020||India||ED registers money laundering case against Medanta hospital||New Delhi: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money-laundering case against Medanta Hospital, its chairman Dr Naresh Trehan and unknown Haryana government officers for alleged irregularities in the allotment of land to the hospital in 2004, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday.The ED’s PMLA (prevention of money laundering act) case is based on a Gurugram police FIR filed on June 6 naming Trehan’s company Global Health Pvt Ltd, which runs Medicity at Sector 38, Gurugram, among others.The ED has named all the 16 accused mentioned in the Gurugram police FIR, an official said. This includes two officers of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) An RTI (right to information) activist Raman Sharma filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the matter in the court of additional district and sessions judge Ashwani Kumar, citing irregularities and use of several companies for laundering money.The Medanta hospital has denied the allegations as “false, baseless and motivated”.In a statement on Wednesday, Trehan said, “The allegations in his complaint pertain to the 16-year-old land allotment on which the hospital is built. Everything about this land allotment, which was done through a public auction, is absolutely legal. The allegations in the complaint are nothing short of absurd. We have built one of the finest hospitals in this part of the world, and we are proud of the work we do.”“This complaint is nothing but harassment by Raman Sharma, who has chosen to file this complaint while we are in the midst of a global pandemic. Despite being over 70 years of age I continue to tend to my patients, even in the face of this pandemic, and at risk to myself. It is of grave concern that doctors and hospitals are having to bear the brunt of harassment, by people of dubious antecedents,” Trehan said.The case pertains to the allotment of land to the hospital in 2004. The Haryana government, through HSVP, allotted 53 acres of land in Sector 38 along the Delhi-Jaipur road (NH-48), for the development of Medicity.An official statement on Tuesday by Medanta Hospital on the Gurugram police FIR said: “This complaint has been filed by a person who claims to be an RTI activist. However, it has been reported in the press that he has had an FIR for extortion registered against him. All the allegations in this complaint are completely false, baseless and motivated.”Sharma had alleged that Medanta, in connivance with government officials, obtained pecuniary advantage as “land meant for institutional purposes was used for pure commercial, speculative and self servient purposes” and several acres of land were allotted at undervalued rates. Sharma also alleged that the accused obtained occupational certificates based on misrepresentation, as there was no area on the premises that was allocated for medical and paramedical education, as advertised.In his complaint, which is now part of the FIR, Sharma has alleged that the Haryana government in 2004 evicted locals from their ancestral land in the area, now known as Sector 38, Gurugram, for public purpose under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1984. Thereafter, the state government, through the HUDA (Haryana urban development authority), released an advertisement for the ‘Medicity Project’, which was envisaged to have super-speciality hospitals of international standards, academic medical institutions and other institutions related to medical care and research to provide state-of-the-art facilities at one place along with ancillary and subservient services in the form of a shopping mall and a yatri niwas (guest lodge).Sharma has further alleged that factors of eligibility, and terms and conditions were nullified at various stages by accused government officials causing pecuniary advantage to Trehan, Sachdeva, Punj and Jain, and causing immense loss to the state. “Accused 5 (government officials) abused position by criminal misconduct and influence, caused pecuniary advantage to accused 1, 2, 3 and 4 (Trehan, Sachdeva, Punj and Jain),” the complaint stated.The government officials allotted the entire site of Medicity to Trehan without any consideration of his financial capability, he added.In its Tuesday statement, the hospital said that Sharma, the complainant in the case on whose allegations the FIR was registered, had previously filed two cases, one in a Patiala House court and another in the Delhi high court, identical to this one, and both were dismissed.“Extortionists have found a fertile breeding ground, while claiming to be RTI activists. The fact that the allegations in his complaint pertain to the 16-year-old land allotment on which the hospital is built demonstrates this,” the statement said.The FIR was registered on Saturday at Sadar police station after Sharma, a resident of Malibu Town condominium in the city, approached the district court. On June 5, the court directed the police to lodge an FIR within 24 hours of the receipt of the complaint. The court observed that without proper investigation, justice could not be ensured in the case and for that, lodging an FIR was a prerequisite.Sharma on Wednesday refuted the Tuesday statement released by the hospital. “I chose to contest the allegations of extortion against me and in that trial, neither the statement of the complainant nor other witnesses have been recorded. That matter is sub judice. In this case, I shall be submitting documents supporting the allegations in the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-registers-money-laundering-case-against-medanta-hospital/story-sPmhHLPCF211u9DHSdXwvL.html
10-06-2020||India||Assam gas well fire rages on, two firefighters killed||Guwahati: The fire that broke out on Tuesday at Oil India Limited’s (OIL) gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district has claimed the lives of two firefighters including that of a former 30-year-old national-level footballer, officials said on Wednesday and added the inferno is unlikely to be controlled anytime sooner.National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel recovered bodies of assistant fire operators Durlov Gogoi, a former goalkeeper who represented Assam, and Tikheswar Gohain, 56 from a water body close to the well. The two, who went missing on Tuesday, were working to control the blowout, or leakage of gas and condensate, from the well when it caught fire. The blowout began on May 27.“It was a difficult operation to retrieve the bodies as the water was warm and fire at the well was blowing very high. The two bodies were found close to each other,” said NDRF inspector Saurabh Singh.In a statement, OIL said immediate compensation has been disbursed to the families of the two. Five other people, who were working at the well when it caught fire, have received minor injuries.Nearly 2,000 families, which were evacuated because of the blowout beyond a radius of 1.5 km from the well, have now been shifted even further and housed in 12 relief camps.Residents of the area on Tuesday staged a protest near the site and blamed OIL for failing to control the blowout for two weeks.The well is located near the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the eco-sensitive Maguri Mottapung wetland, which are home to endangered hoolock gibbons and Gangetic dolphins.The statement said a team of experts from Alert Disaster Control, Singapore, visited the well site on Wednesday to assess the situation and to prepare for the next course of action.Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s office said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured the state of all help to tackle the situation.OIL said the foreign experts have expressed confidence about controlling the fire and capping the well safely, but the operation requires a large amount of water, installation of high discharge pumps, and removal of debris. All these could take nearly four weeks, it added.A similar fire at an abandoned oil well in Dibrugarh was controlled after over a month with the help of foreign experts in 2005.Experts have warned the fire and the blowout could have a damaging impact on the flora and fauna of the national park and the wetland a few hundred metres away.“Release of particulate matter and the fire will affect Dibru Saikhowa National Park. But the damage to Maguri Mottapung wetland will be immense. If this continues for another four weeks, humans will also not remain unaffected by the pollution,” said environmentalist Rituraj Phukan, who is also a member of the International Union for Conservation of Nature.Two days after the blowout, a carcass of a Gangetic dolphin with its skin peeled was found at the wetland. There is no confirmation yet on whether it died due to the release of gas and condensate from the well.“There are few methods to control a blowout. First, the area near the affected well is cleared of all debris. One of the oldest techniques is to carry out a blast at the well so that there is lack of oxygen and gas [or oil] in the area and the fire gets doused,” said an oil drilling expert, who refused to be named.“Another method is to drill another well or wells near the site and connect them to the blow out well allowing the gas or oil to get diverted. Another option is to put a new Blow out Preventer (BoP), which are large valves used to cap the well on the surface.”During the process, a large amount of water has to be continuously sprayed to control the fire and to lower the temperature so that the new BoP does not heat up too much. The entire process needs a lot of planning and coordination and can easily take weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gas-well-fire-rages-on-two-firefighterskilled/story-DN2RMQlrWwI8irE1rKJk3O.html
10-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand man quarantined 3 days before his marriage on villagers’ complaint||Uttarakhand authorities put paid to a 26-year-old youth’s marriage plans by ordering him into home quarantine just three days before his marriage after learning that the prospective groom had arrived from another district in the state a few days ago, said an official.“It is mandatory that if a person comes from another district of the state, he will be put under home quarantine. If anybody violates the norms, action is taken against the violator,” said TS Martolia, additional district magistrate, Champawat.The man, a resident of Chaura Mehta village of Champawat district is a teacher at a private school in Sitarganj area of Udham Singh Nagar district. His wedding was fixed for June 11 with a woman of Nainital district. As per the original schedule, he had to lead a baraat (wedding procession) to Nainital, official said.Also Read: Uttarakhand freezes vacancies in most departments, no salary hike as Covid-19 bitesAfter he reached home last week for the wedding, his relatives approached the local administration to obtain permission for the wedding. Meanwhile, some villagers complained to police that the man had come from another district and should be put under quarantine.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesActing on the complaint, the police sent the man a notice of quarantine on Monday, just three days before his wedding. Now, as per the notice, he will have to remain in 14-day home quarantine till June 21, said an official.The man told local media that since Udham Singh Nagar had been declared a green zone, he thought he would not to be quarantined. Now, he is under quarantine and both parties will fix a new wedding date after his quarantine ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-quarantined-3-days-before-his-marriage-on-villagers-complaint/story-gCxAz6Mj4C0BpaYdlCcedP.html
10-06-2020||India||Pedestrianisation project on the cards||New Delhi: Public places will need to become more suited for pedestrians and walking and cycling networks will need to be expanded in a post-Covid world, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry said in an advisory to states, asking them to redesign some market places as part of a pedestrianisation experiment. The initiative comes at a time when experts fear increased infection risk in mass transit, which in India is usually crowded at rush hours. Experts and officials handling policy in these areas believe those that can will switch to personal transport, which could have implications for pollution as well as congestion. “COVID-19 has brought cities around the world to a halt. Public transport is either shut or very limited in many cities. Movement of private motor vehicles is controlled. However, cities have benefitted from cleaner air. As cities look to ease the lockdown, the need of the hour is to provide safe, affordable and equitable modes of transport and also ensure physical distancing,” the advisory said. The ministry has asked states to select at least three market places in cities with million-plus population for the ‘pedestrianisation’ plan. For cities with fewer than a million people, at least one market area has to be redesigned and the selections need to be done by the end of this month, the ministry said in the advisory, seen by HT. “This will require proper survey of space used in the present scenario by various stakeholders. A movement/direction plan has to be prepared to see that there are designated walking paths where visitors are able to follow social distancing,” it said.Once the plan is made and firmed up, cities may start implementing it in two phases: measures that can be done in the short-term and those that will need more time. “Short-term recommendations include interventions that are quick, temporary, east to install, and ensure safety to commuters after the lockdown. The market spaces could be rearranged with quick and temporary measures such as barricades, road closure for vehicles, etc…On-street parking space or even carriageway lanes can be re-purposed for more walking and waiting space…Cyclists may be allowed with dedicated/ear-marked pathways,” it said. Access ways motor vehicles for area residents should be clearly delineated and municipal bodies may increase the width of foot paths of the streets leading to the market, it added, while also recommending provisions for high frequency public transit.According to the ministry, redesigning vending spaces provides a good opportunity for innovations and long-term local authorities can begin working on long-term permanent structures to increase pedestrianisation once short-term steps prove effective. The planning, which the government described as needing to be holistic, can be done over the next three months till September 30 but a survey of vendors and others users of a market should be done by July 31. “By the end of September 2020, a plan may be formalised to start implementation. Short term measures such as temporary barricading, closure of roads for traffic, earmarking spaces, etc. to assess the plan on the field may be started in the first week of October 2020. The assessment of the implemented plan through short term measures may be done by November 2020 and amendments as required ma be completed by November 2020,” it added. Experts welcomed the initiative. “This is a very important step and we should move quickly on it. If you look at cities around the world—London, New York etc, they are all moving shorter trips to cycling and walking which are contact-free and make mobility safer. They also reduce pressure on already stressed public transport systems that will have to operate under social distancing norms. In urban India about nearly 48% of daily trip are below a distance of 5 KM and this is a big opportunity for India to move these short trips towards cycling and to promote it as an independent mode of travel. With the advisory we will have a clear map into transitioning towards pedestrianisation,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pedestrianisation-project-on-the-cards/story-XTETBUbvNvXkTwRQWBt70L.html
10-06-2020||India||Raj starts regulating interstate commutes||The Rajasthan government regulated interstate movement on Wednesday with a steady rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. According to directions by the state home department to district collectors and the police, travelling outside Rajasthan will be banned without a special pass.A district collector, police commissioner, deputy commissioner of police, superintendent of police, deputy superintendent of police, sub-divisional magistrate, and the local police station can issue these passes.“For those travelling outside the state by road (other than by scheduled buses), screening of persons and verification of pass/IDs shall be ensured at the check posts to be set up at the border,” said an order signed by Rajeeva Swarup, additional chief secretary of home department.The order said counters will be set up at airports, railway stations and bus stands for issuing on-spot passes after verification of valid identity cards.People travelling outside the state by air, train or bus having reservation till June 10, and those travelling in case of an emergency are exempt.“It has come to notice of the state government that certain persons from hotspots and other areas, under the prevailing system of free movement, travelled outside the state after Covid testing and before their report was received, which turned out positive subsequently, posing threat to wherever they go,” Swarup said in the order.“Keeping in view the efforts made by the state government till date for preventing the spread of Covid-19, and in the interest of public safety, it has become necessary to regulate the interstate movement of persons. Accordingly, the directions have been issued, which will remain effective till further orders and till such time that the present situation is reviewed,” he said.Rajasthan is the fifth worst-affected state in the country. It ended Wednesday with a total of 11,600 cases and 259 fatalities.In a related development, the Rajasthan medical and health department announced that it will test people coming from abroad on special flights being organised by the Indian government after they complete seven days of mandatory institutional quarantine.According to an order by Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary of the health department, it has been observed that many of such people tested positive after they reached their home districts for seven days of home quarantine following their institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-starts-regulating-interstate-commutes/story-01zFgcK1niO0wdr7z74gVO.html
10-06-2020||India||Row over Goa govt’s decision to go ahead with Parrikar memorial despite fund crunch||The Goa government’s decision to go ahead with the work on the samadhi for former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, despite the state facing a severe fund crunch and needs money for tackling the Covid19 pandemic. At the forefront of the campaign is the local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party, which has questioned the government’s decision and approached the Goa governor demanding that the project be postponed. AAP spokesperson Valmiki Naik questioned the government’s claim that there is no money to offer monetary relief to sections of society affected by the lockdown but continues spending on the large projects. “Work appears to be going on in full swing on this memorial in Miramar. The amount of money you are blowing on this project can buy 50,000 more Covid-19 tests. What is more important for us Goans today?”“Because of the state’s empty coffers, you have refused to give any financial help to suffering Goans. You are continuing to borrow money in our names for even the most basic expenses, and you haven’t prepared adequately to fight the Covid crisis, but you have crores to waste on such non-critical projects?” Naik asked. The foundation stone for a ‘samadhi’ of former chief minister and defence minister Manohar Parrikar, who passed away in March 2019, was laid in December last year. Being built at an estimated cost of Rs 10 crore, the project has been criticized for its cost, necessity and on account of environmental damage to the ecosystem at the Miramar beach in Panaji. Naik also petitioned the governor against the proposal. “It is very likely that there are many such projects which could be postponed or even scrapped, thereby saving the government hundreds of crores of rupees which it doesn’t even have the luxury of spending at the moment,” he said in his letter to the Governor. A case filed against the construction of the samadhi is pending before the Bombay High Court at Goa. The state cabinet in a decision taken on Wednesday has decided not to sanction any new projects involving capital expenditure until December 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-goa-govt-s-decision-to-go-ahead-with-parrikar-memorial-despite-fund-crunch/story-bpgeCAzT2AD41xusV5R4YI.html
10-06-2020||India||Four dead after inhaling toxic gas inside well in Chhattisgarh||Four people, including two brothers, died after inhaling a poisonous gas inside an under-construction well in Chhattisgarh’s Janjgir-Champa district on Wednesday.Inspector General ( Bilaspur range ) Dipanshu Kabra told Hindustan Times that the incident took place at 7 am in Dhamni village under Hasaud police station area.“ Hemant Ratre went inside to clean his under-construction well and became unconscious. Ratre’s wife, who was there in the field, shouted for help following which three others entered the well and died. The other deceased were identified as Nagendra Madhukar (34), his younger brother Mahendra Madhukar (31) and Chintamani Banjare (45),” said the IG.All four were rushed to a hospital in Jaijaipur where doctors declared them brought dead, IG said.“Prima facie it seems that they died after inhaling some poisonous gas inside the well”, he said.A case has been registered in this connection and further investigation is underway, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-dead-after-inhaling-toxic-gas-inside-well-in-chhattisgarh/story-RO1iwGkhOo9s3q42OuvRXL.html
10-06-2020||India||Gadkari recalls Vajpayee’s words while assessing economic cost of coronavirus||Union minister for road transport & highways, micro, small & medium enterprises Nitin Gadkari has said that a loss of Rs 10 lakh crore in revenue is estimated during the current financial year due to the economic crisis precipitated by the coronavirus outbreakGadkari made the statement during a virtual meeting with BJP workers and leaders in Bhopal, called ‘Madhya Pradesh Jansanvad virtual rally’ to mark one year of Narendra Modi government’s second term.He noted that the economic crisis had made a wide impact.“Today an economic war has begun. There are a lot of difficulties and crises. Our villages, poor, labourers, farmers and industries are facing a crisis. The crisis faced by the government of India has also grown. Some of our state governments don’t have money to pay salaries next month,” Gadkari said.Gadkari said the estimated loss in revenue was worrying for the economy.“We have a GDP of Rs 200 lakh crore 10% of which i.e. 20 lakh crore has been given as a package for all sections of the society. A revenue drop of Rs 10 lakh crore is expected. We can understand that if Rs 30 lakh crore is reduced from Rs 200 lakh crore what would be the situation ahead. But Atal ji’s verses give us a lot of strength that ‘kadam se kadam milakhar chalna hoga’, ‘Koshish karne waalon ki kabhi haar nahi hoti’,” the road and transport minister said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe, however, underlined that the country will recover from any adverse circumstances under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and will win the twin battles.“We will make an Atmnirbhar Bharat. We will reduce import and increase export. We will strengthen village industry, rural industry, handloom and handicraft. People won’t need to migrate from rural to urban areas for jobs. Employment will be available in villages. This year we have faced a crisis due to Corona. We are fighting the economic battle seriously. This is also a serious crisis. But we will win both the battles.”The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Gadkari added that people needed to learn to live with the coronavirus in their midst. “For instance, we are holding a rally through an electronic medium today,” he said.Underlining the achievements of the Narendra Modi government, Gadkari said what Modi government achieved in five years, Congress couldn’t achieve in the 55 to 60 years of its rule.He said it was Modi government that worked with courage and commitment to eradicate Maoism and terrorism from the country.“Earlier, there used to be appeasement. The situation was such that Congress leaders went to the house of terrorists killed in Batla House shootout incident but didn’t visit the house of the police officer who was killed fighting them.State Congress spokesperson Abhay Dubey said the government should explain the reasons for massive unemployment in the country along with other crises.“This is obvious that the central ministers of the Narendra Modi government will cite Corona for every problem faced by the country. The Prime Minister must tell people what he did in the past six years when there was no corona. Why was the country facing a massive unemployment and along with other crises faced by every section of the society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-recalls-vajpayee-s-words-while-assessing-economic-cost-of-coronavirus/story-oqxBcM85W8HkOr9mbIZ9uL.html
10-06-2020||India||Russia shouldn’t interfere in disputes between India and China, says top Russian lawmaker||Russia shouldn’t interfere in disputes between India and China and instead act as an “honest broker” to contribute to solutions that don’t involve the use of military force, the chairman of the Russian upper house committee on foreign affairs said on Wednesday. Konstantin Kosachev, the head of the Federation Council’s committee on foreign affairs, also said the Taliban are “a very influential and important” part of the peace process in Afghanistan even though Russia continues to see the group as an extremist movement. India, as a neighbour of Afghanistan, also has a key role in the process to find a solution in the war-torn country, he added.Interacting with a small group of journalists in New Delhi via video conference from Moscow, Kosachev was sceptical of US President Donald Trump’s move to invite India, Russia, Australia and South Korea to an expanded G7 Summit later this year, saying the move appeared to be aimed against China.Asked whether Russia could play any role in the stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), he replied Moscow’s log-standing position is that such bilateral disputes should be handled by the countries involved.“Russia should not interfere in these kinds of disputes, but our role…is to be an honest broker to contribute to a dialogue and to do the utmost in order to prevent and avoid any solutions connected with the use of military force,” said Kosachev, who plays an influential role in Russia’s foreign policy set-up.This is the political message Russia keeps sending to “Chinese and Indian friends” as it respects the sovereignty of both countries, he said. Russia-China ties, which are “in the best shape ever” in decades, aren’t aimed against any other country, he added.Russia’s good relations with both China and India are “factors that mutually strengthen each other and provide good opportunities for the solution of problems that still exist between India and China”, Kosachev said.Responding to a question on the Taliban’s role in the Afghan peace process and India being kept out of most discussions on the future of Afghanistan, he said Russia perceives the Taliban as a “very difficult partner”.The Taliban is classified in Russia as an “extremist movement” though it isn’t prohibited. “At the same time, we are realists and we understand that the Taliban is a very influential and very important part of the ongoing processes in Afghanistan,” he said.“If you just try to exclude the Taliban from any type of political dialogue, you will not reach anywhere. So whether you like the Taliban [or not], you have to recognise the existence of the Taliban and the potential of the Taliban as a part of the ongoing processes,” Kosachev said.Other countries, including Russia and India, should contribute to the fragile political dialogue between the authorities in Kabul and the Taliban, he said. “India is a neighbour of Afghanistan…So I’m absolutely in favour of having India as an equal and very important participant in the ongoing discussions,” he added.Referring to US President Trump’s recent move to invite Russia and India to the G7 Summit in September, Kosachev said the American leaders doesn’t have the right to expand the grouping. Trump is free to invite additional participants to the summit but they won’t be able to join the preparations or to influence the outcomes and decisions, he said.There was also no unity among the other members of the G7, such as the UK and Canada, which have opposed the invitation to Russia, he said. Besides, Trump appears to be interested in bringing together other countries to create a joint opposition to China, and Russia is opposed to blocs that are arrayed against a third country, Kosachev said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-shouldn-t-interfere-in-disputes-between-india-and-china-says-top-russian-lawmaker/story-27eVcC2dMbTsp0okpNUzKM.html
10-06-2020||India||With 58 health workers testing Covid-19 positive, Naveen Patnaik warns about infection control||A day after four doctors at AIIMS Bhubaneswar tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of infected doctors in the state to 14, chief minister Naveen Patnaik sounded a warning saying frontline health workers getting infected pointed at a probable breach in maintaining infection control practices.On Tuesday, three senior resident doctors from surgery, pathology and pharmacology and a junior doctor from the dermatology department of AIIMS Bhubaneswar had tested positive for Covid-19 even though they were not engaged in the coronavirus ward. Three senior residents of AIIMS were home quarantined in their apartments for the last week after the area was declared a containment zone by the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation.“I am distressed to note that over the past few weeks there have been instances of health workers getting infected with Covid-19. This points to a probable breach in maintaining infection control practices. I would like to emphasize again that you are the strength of the people in this long war. Please first ensure your safety and the safety of your team,” said Patnaik, while attending a technical workshop for health personnel.Two days ago, four anesthesiologists in MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur town had tested positive for Covid-19 while two doctors at Rourkela General Hospital too contacted the virus. One each in Cuttack, Nayagarh and Angul district too have tested positive in the last fortnight. Apart from them, 13 nurses including 8 in MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur town have tested Covid-19 positive so far. Apart from them, other frontline health workers, such as ASHA workers, Anganwadi workers, sanitary staff, teachers engaged in quarantine centres as well as sarpanch in-charge of these centres are increasingly testing positive.Officials said 58 health professionals, including doctors and 48 non-health workers including a sarpanch and teachers working at quarantine centres have been infected. The Odisha Medical Services Association, a body of serving doctors in government hospitals of the state, alleged that doctors and nurses deployed at non-Covid-19 hospitals are working in risky conditions without personal protective equipment. OMSA president Dr Narayan Rout demanded that all medical staff should be provided at least five N95 masks per week apart from adequate PPE.“It is now essential that these protocols continue to be meticulously followed by you, to prevent infection amongst our valuable frontline workers and to maintain the faith of the people in our health institutions,” said Patnaik in his appeal to frontline workers.The CM’s warning came on a day when the state reported 110 new cases, taking the total tally in the state to 3,250. Out of the 110 new cases, 97 were reported from quarantine centres while 13 are local contacts. The infected people include one staff from a private hospital in Bhubaneswar.The chief minister who over last week enforced weekend shutdown in 11 districts that are seeing rising Covid-19 cases, said his government has taken extensive measures for training of personnel and purchase of required consumables, for personal protection of healthcare workers.“It is our collective responsibility to ensure that infection control measures and personal protection protocols are scrupulously followed in health facilities and by healthcare workers in the field,” he said.The CM also directed the health department to begin door-to-door integrated health surveillance for Covid-19, co-morbid conditions, TB, malaria and diarrhoea in view of the ensuing rainy season.The state government, meanwhile, approved payment of incentive to the contractual, out-sourced and volunteer health care people working to contain Covid-19. The incentive would be equivalent to the consolidated basic remuneration of a month excluding allowances or perks or taxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-58-health-workers-testing-covid-19-positive-naveen-patnaik-warns-about-infection-control/story-Tx0Tz3qSy22nc5ypIeecXN.html
10-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand freezes vacancies in most departments, no salary hike as Covid-19 bites||There will be no new vacancies in any department of the Uttarakhand government except police and health and no salary increments for government employees for 2020-21 as part of a massive austerity drive due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The government took the decision on austerity measures after suffering a loss of over Rs 8,000 crore and depletion of its revenue resources due to the pandemic and the lockdown to contain its spread. The measures were announced in a government notification issued by chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh on Wednesday evening. According to the austerity measures, expenditure in all departments except for checking Covid-19 pandemic will be cut down. The measures include creation of no new vacancies in any government departments except for police and health departments. In case of any inevitable works, services for the same would be availed from any outside agency as per norms and regulations.Those positions which are not needed, will be scrapped and the staffers working on those would be adjusted in other departments accordingly.The measures also stated that there would be no salary increment for any government employee on any position in 2020-21. The government also decided not to fill any vacancies of Class 4 along with positions of driver, gardener, wireman, electrician, plumber, carpenter, liftman and AC mechanic. The services for the same would be availed through outsourcing agencies. The government also decided to cut down expenditure on travel by officers including air travel. It has asked the officers to travel only in case of inevitable official work. It has also asked the eligible officers to opt for economy class air travel that too only in case of an inevitable official work. Under the new austerity measures, the government has also prohibited the purchase of any new vehicles by any department and asked the officials concerned to take taxi services if required.Also, no permission would be granted to any officer to attend any seminar or workshop in any foreign country for which the expenditure would have to be borne by the state government. The state government has also banned the construction of any new government building and asked the departments concerned to finish the under-construction buildings as soon as possible. It also strictly banned the change of furniture or ambiance in any office just to suit the new office bearer, if any. The government also banned any state dinners or lunches in any five-star hotels. It also asked the departments to hold meetings, seminars or workshops possibly only in government buildings and not in private hotels to cut down expenditure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-freezes-vacancies-in-most-departments-no-salary-hike-as-covid-19-bites/story-uyDPFur4ubXnFcWIidx2rI.html
10-06-2020||India||Kindling kindness: Actor Parvin Dabas became a messiah for migrant families in distress||“Poverty is like punishment for a crime you didn’t commit,” writer Eli Khamarov once used these words to describe economic deprivation. The pandemic has caused indescribable distress to countless daily wagers and casual workers across India who have lost their livelihood. A group of about fifty families comprising manual scavengers and migrant daily wage labourers was living in horrifying conditions in hutments perched near Shivar Garden, Thane, Maharashtra.When Mumbai-based actor Parvin Dabas saw a picture of a four-year-old child from the locality on WhatsApp, he could not hold back his tears. The little boy was hunting for food in a garbage dump. Dabas at once decided to help the child’s family that had got no ration for many weeks.Dabas traced the boy’s families with the help of Rupa Bhaskaran, a volunteer with Aastha Parivaar NGO that has been distributing emergency ration kits among the needy across Mumbai. The actor immediately arranged for ration kits for the family and fifty other families living in the same area. “Shivar Garden is one of the worst affected areas. There are manual scavengers, daily wage labourers and balloon sellers living here. Earlier, they lived on the footpath but the police removed them during the pandemic. They have perched tents around Shivar Garden. These people are in a terrible state. I am grateful to Parvin Dabas who come forward to help them. One man, Sahil Kumar, broke down when I gave him the kit…he hadn’t eaten for many days,” says Bhaskaran. Dabas contacted Suresh Gurjar, a local shopkeeper in Mira Road who has been preparing ration kits for distribution and placed a request. “I received a call from Parvin ji, pehle toh main pehchan nahi paya, unhone bataya ki woh ration kits banwana chahte hai. Unhone 50 pariwaron ke liye kits banwayi (I got a call from Parvin ji. Initially, I didn’t recognise him. He ordered ration kits for 50 families),” says Gurjar.  Later, Gurjar’s kids told him that he was a popular actor. Gurjar was moved by Dabas’ act of kindness. “May God bless him for his noble deed. My children are very inspired by him,” he says. Dabas says he just fulfilled his duty. “Being a father of two, it pains me deeply to see any child in distress. I don’t think I did anything great, I feel I just what I was supposed to do. I can’t say no to anyone who reaches out to me. I believe every child deserves the chance in life to be the best that he can be…the least each one of us can do is to provide every child at least the basic necessities of life in such trying times,” says Dabas.Such stories restore your faith in there’s some good in this world that is holding it together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kindling-kindness-actor-parvin-dabas-became-a-messiah-for-these-families-in-distress/story-9qSx3ZyYCmVx8UgX96DpzL.html
10-06-2020||India||Telangana Bonalu festival cancelled due to rising Covid-19 cases in Hyderabad||The Telangana government has decided to cancel this year’s Bonalu festival, one of the biggest traditional folk festivals in the state, due to the persistent threat posed by the coronavirus pandemic. The decision was taken by the Telangana ministers from Hyderabad in consultation with various temple committees in the city that celebrate the festival in a big way every year. The Bonalu was declared a state festival by the Telangana government after the state’s formation in 2014.Speaking to reporters later, state minister for animal husbandry Talasani Srinivasa Yadav said the festival would be held by the priests of the temple in a simple manner this year without involving devotees. He appealed to the devotees to celebrate the festival in their houses and not to visit temples.“The traditional offering of ‘bonam’ (derived from Bhojanam, meaning meals) to the goddess Mahankali will be done by priests within the temple premises. Even the procession of “ghatam” (pot carrying bonam) will be restricted to the temple premises. The government would supply traditional silk clothes for the presiding deity in the temples a day before the festival,” he said.‘Bonalu’ is a traditional folk festival celebrated every year in the Telugu month of Ashadham (falling in June/July), in the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, and some other parts of Telangana state. The devotees worship Goddess Mahankali (a form of Durga) seeking her divine blessings to overcome all obstacles and get cured of diseases.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDevotees make ‘bonam’ (meal, comprising cooked rice, milk and jaggery) in new earthen pots (ghatams), which womenfolk carry on their heads to the temple and offer to the deity. The pots are adorned with neem leaves, turmeric and vermilion.The festivities begin on the first Friday of Ashadham month and continue till the end. The main festivities begin at Goddess Mahankali temple at Golconda fort in the first week, followed by Ujjaini Mahankali temple at Secunderabad, Akkanna Madanna temple at Shalibanda and ends at the Mahankali temple at Laldarwaza in old city of Hyderabad.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Sections of people had demanded that the Bonalu festival be allowed to continue normally this year owing to belief that Goddess Mahankali would help devotees to overcome Covid-19 pandemic.“In fact, the Bonalu festival started in Hyderabad in 18th century when plague had broken out in the city claiming thousands of lives. It was goddess Mahankali which saved the people from the epidemic those days. This year, too, we wanted to celebrate to overcome Corona pandemic. It is not correct on the part of the government to cancel the celebrations,” argued G Niranjan, patron of Akkanan Madanna temple committee.Health department authorities had told chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday that it was not advisable to hold Bonalu festival this year since lakhs of people congregate at every temple during the festival which would likely result in an explosion of Covid cases in Hyderabad, a city already witnessing a surge in positive cases and deaths due to the virus in the last three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-bonalu-festival-cancelled-due-to-rising-covid-19-cases-in-hyderabad/story-SPlzcjptyK2q46JdiyXoTJ.html
10-06-2020||India||DU aspirants’ mask game on: Stitch, buy, borrow... anything to up the style game on campus||Delhi University will reportedly open its doors to freshers in August. Meanwhile, DU aspirants are busy finding or stitching matching masks to accompany their attires! “I’m so excited to go to college! I can’t wait to be on campus and social distance with my batchmates. I’ve asked my mom to stitch me 10 masks in neutral browns that will go with all my outfits. I have done the lace embroidery on them myself! Me and my mom will together give them a pearl lining,” says Avni Bhatnagar, a resident of Delhi’s Vasant Kunj. Some freshers have been shopping online for the mask that best suits their style. “I have ordered 15 masks in various patterns from online portals. Some of the masks I’ve ordered have millineal phrases written across them such as ‘Stay Woke’. I think it’ll create a good first impression on everyone when I’ll don such a mask with a message,” says Deeksha Nautiyal, a resident of DLF Phase 2, Gurugram. Internet seems to be the place of inspiration for youngsters keen on making DIY masks. “YouTube has quite a few easy tutorials on how one can stitch and decorate their own masks. I’m following a few tutorials and I’ve made five masks, all by myself! My friends have started asking me to make some for them too,” says Nancy Wadhwa, a resident of Delhi’s Model Town. Recycling old clothes to make masks is another hack that youngsters have used to make hand crafted masks. “My mother has plenty of old silk cotton Banarasi and Bandhani saris that she has no use of. I’ve used the borders of her saris along with a matching cotton cloth to make beautiful masks that could go with kurtis and jeans. I bet my mask will be among the most beautiful masks in my batch,” says Nayantara Tripathi, a resident of Sector 21, Noida.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/du-aspirants-mask-game-on-stitch-buy-borrow-anything-to-up-the-style-game-on-campus/story-Nw5CN6XqzW0bypZXlLlxdO.html
10-06-2020||India||Rajasthan to test foreign travellers for Covid-19 after quarantine||The Rajasthan medical and health department announced on Wednesday that it will test all foreign travellers arriving in the state for Codi-19 after they complete seven days of institutional quarantine.“It has been observed that many of these people tested positive when they reached their home districts after spending seven days in institutional quarantine,” said an order by Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary of health department, Non-resident Rajasthanis  travelling from abroad are put in seven days each of institutional quarantine and home quarantine.“For prevention for Covid-19 infection, spread and to break the chain of infections, it has been decided in public interest that every foreign traveller will be tested for coronavirus disease before going in home quarantine,” said the order.Meanwhile, 355 new cases were reported on Wednesday, taking Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally to 11,600, even though the number of active cases was only 2,772. Four deaths were also reported on Wednesday. The Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan now stands at 259.Earlier, health minister Raghu Sharma said cases had soared in the last eight days and the department was looking into the reasons for it. “Our recovery rate is 75%, which is heartening, but the rise in numbers is worrying,” he said. The minister said Rajasthan’s doubling rate was 22 days, which was better than the national average of 16 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-test-foreign-travellers-for-covid-19-after-quarantine/story-y62vFgdM7JGUjBS2aqF0bL.html
10-06-2020||India||Financial support to barbers, tailors in Jagan Reddy’s new welfare scheme||A scheme to provide financial assistance to barbers, dhobis (washermen) and tailors in the state was launched by Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday.The scheme, christened as ‘Jagananna Chedodu (Handholding by Jagan)’, was unveiled by the CM transferring the cash into the accounts of beneficiaries from his camp office at Tadepalli.It involves direct cash transfer of Rs 10,000 into the bank accounts of each of 2,47,040 beneficiaries every year. The government has released an amount of Rs 247.04 crore for the implementation of this scheme.Speaking to beneficiaries over a video call, CM Jagan said around 1.26 lakh tailors, 82,347 washer men and 38,767 barbers would benefit from the scheme. “The government has followed a completely transparent procedure for the selection of beneficiaries through village and ward volunteers. Those who are eligible but couldn’t apply for the scheme can complete the application through village secretariats,” he said.The chief minister said ‘Jagananna Chedodu’ scheme was part of his party’s election manifesto, which is like the Quran, Bible and Bhagavad Gita for him. It would, the CM said, benefit the people who work hard to earn their livelihood to improve their living standards.He said that in the last one year of his rule, his government had been implementing various welfare schemes: Amma Vodi, Vidya Deevena, Vasati Deevena, Vahanamitra, Netanna Nestham, Jagananna Chedhodu, Aarogya Sri, Zero Interest, among others, as promised in the manifesto.“I have fulfilled every promise made to the people of the state during my padayatra between 2017 and 2019. We are going to start the distribution of housing site pattas to the homeless soon and it is going to be a historic decision which will be remembered forever,” Jagan said.He said in the last one year, the government had distributed Rs 42,465 crore to about 3.58 crore beneficiaries through various schemes, adding that such a huge amount was never transferred to the beneficiaries’ account in this state before.“The benefits are being given to these sections on saturation basis, without looking into caste, creed, political affiliation and can be availed to those who did not vote for our party in the previous election as our motto is that no eligible candidate should be left out,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/financial-support-to-barbers-tailors-in-jagan-reddy-s-new-welfare-scheme/story-wVy8yTT35pYz96XL1bqF7J.html
10-06-2020||India||Jan Dhan and Ujjwala scheme figure in Smriti Irani’s attack on Congress in Uttarakhand||Union minister Smriti Irani on Wednesday listed the various ‘achievements’ of the Narendra Modi government while attacking the opposition during a video address to BJP members and leaders in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region. She alleged that the Opposition was quick to criticize government initiatives but did nothing when in power. Irani’s virtual rally was focused on the ‘achievements’ of Narendra Modi’s government in the first year of its second term. She addressed the party members from Delhi through online streaming with party state president Bansidhar Bhagat and Nainital-US Nagar MP Ajay Bhatt attending it from the party office in Haldwani town of Nainital.Attacking the Opposition, Irani said, “The Opposition criticises PM Modi’s government on various issues. But I want to ask them, what they did when they were in power all these years?”“Why didn’t the banking services, during the opposition rule, reach 34 crore people, who now have Jan Dhan accounts due to PM Modi’s efforts? Also, why didn’t they think of providing free gas connections to the poor women of the country during their government, when we have given it to 8 crore people? They only made tall promises but did nothing for the poor,” said Irani.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe Union minister also took an indirect dig at Rahul Gandhi during her address.“I won’t take the name of that Congress leader and former Amethi MP who had once publicly torn down a copy of order given by PM,” Irani said in what appeared to be a reference to Rahul Gandhi’s act of publicly tearing a copy of an ordinance brought by the UPA government under Manmohan Singh in the year 2013.Irani added that all 130 cr people of the country were standing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his handling of this ongoing pandemic.”She also attacked the Opposition on the issue of farmers.“When they were in government, they never thought of transferring money to farmers but made hollow promises for their welfare. They just wanted them (the farmers) to beg for their rights so that they can do politics on it. But our government through Kisan Samman Nidhi have transferred money directly to the bank accounts of farmers in the country even in this lockdown,” she said.Irani also spoke about the infrastructural development in Uttarakhand by the Modi government.“The highly ambitious Char Dham all weather road project worth Rs 12,000 crore is under development along with Rs 13,000 crore railway project. Our government under PM Modi is investing heavily to develop the infrastructure in Uttarakhand. PM Modi even discussed the all weather road project and Kedarnath Dham restoration project with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday,” said Irani.She also mentioned abrogation of Article 370, law banning Triple Talaq and paving the way for construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya as other achievements of the Modi government.Party state president Bansidhar Bhagar, too, attacked the Congress for questioning the BJP led state government on the issue of Gairsain as the state’s summer capital.Bhagat said, “The Congress is questioning us on why Gairsain has been made the state’s summer capital and not a permanent one. I want to ask them, why didn’t they do anything when they were in power twice? They know that they have nothing relevant to say hence they are making baseless attacks.”Also Read: Two Covid-19 patients die in Uttarakhand in 24 hours; 23 fresh cases take tally to 1560The Congress meanwhile attacked the BJP for holding virtual rallies amid the coronavirus pandemic.Suryakant Dhasmana, party state vice-president said, “When we had questioned the government on its failure in handling the pandemic in Uttarakhand, BJP had accused us of doing politics. Now, they are holding these virtual rallies all across the country including our state. They should now answer who is doing politics?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jan-dhan-and-ujjwala-scheme-figure-in-smriti-irani-s-attack-on-congress-in-uttarakhand/story-IGX1SSd1IFkaCRYWjgDGrI.html
10-06-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal, Amit Shah discuss Covid-19 as Delhi records 1,501 cases||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal met Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic in the capital as 1,501 new cases took the tally to 32,810.The death toll climbed to 984 with 48 more people succumbing to the disease, the Delhi government’s health department said.It said that 384 people were cured or discharged on Wednesday taking the total number of discharge to 12,245.Kejriwal who tested negative for Covid-19 on Tuesday, said Shah assured him of all cooperation.“Met Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Discussed the situation on corona in Delhi in detail. He assured of all cooperation,” Kejriwal tweeted after the meeting.Earlier in the day, Kejriwal said Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal’s order not to reserve hospital exclusively for the capital’s residents will be followed in “letter and spirit”.The chief minister said it was not a time for disagreements.Given the scale of the pandemic, the Delhi government’s projection estimates 44,000 cases by June 15 and 5.5 lakh cases by July 31.On Wednesday, Baijal also ordered all major hospitals in the national capital to prominently display the availability of beds and room charges outside their establishments in large letters on the LED boards.The state health department has been asked to ensure that the data displayed on these boards is in sync with the data on the government portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-amit-shah-discuss-covid-19-as-delhi-records-1-501-cases/story-QRICjCcC1aiv1DbIz1zCJL.html
10-06-2020||India||NHRC sends notice to Delhi govt, Centre on Covid-19 situation in national capital||Asserting that the state cannot leave its people to die without making the best possible efforts, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday issued notices to the Delhi government and union health secretary over mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation in the national capital.Acting on a complaint by former Delhi Congress President Ajay Maken, the Commission has referred to difficulties being faced by the people in Delhi, due to non-availability of beds in the hospitals for Covid-19 patients and inadequate number of tests leading to a grim state of affairs and mismanagement, resulting in death of a large number of people.“Allegedly, there has been massive delay in conducting the last rites of those who died during the pandemic; tests on the bodies of the symptomatic deceased are also not being conducted violating the WHO and ICMR norms, which can be extremely dangerous,” the NHRC said in a press statement.Observing that Maken has not just leveled allegations but has provided data to support his complaint, NHRC has said that the situation raises an issue of inappropriate approach of the government agencies towards the plight of the public amounting to violation of human rights. “The data indicates that there is urgent need for taking effective steps immediately by the government agencies,” it said.It has asked both the Delhi government and the Centre to submit a comprehensive report within 10 days after consulting with each other, while asking the Delhi government to increase the number of beds and tests per day.“It (Commission) understands that this is an unprecedented situation for the government agencies, hospitals, doctors as well as patients and their families but the state cannot leave its citizens to die without making the best possible efforts. It is not incorrect to state that the number of Covid-19 patients, in the country is increasing day by day and the recovery rate is above 48% but it is also true that a large number of people have died and the national capital is one of the worst-affected cities so far,” NHRC said.Maken filed the complaint with NHRC on Tuesday alleging that suspected patients are running from one hospital to another for admission, but the hospitals are turning them away.“The chart provided (by Maken to NHRC) indicates that the NCT of Delhi has a robust hospital infrastructure of 57,194 beds. It has a significant presence of central government hospitals also but it is painful to see that only 12% of the Delhi government, 8% of the central government institutions and 7% of the private hospital beds are presently occupied and are being used to treat Covid-19 patients,” the NHRC said. NHRC further said that around 70% dedicated beds in Delhi are still lying vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-sends-notice-to-delhi-govt-centre-on-covid-19-situation-in-national-capital/story-vVHJiMzLyjryJ6Ut4vgJOL.html
10-06-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal meets Amit Shah, discusses Covid-19 situation in Delhi||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he met home minister Amit Shah this evening over the coronavirus situation in the city, adding the two discussed the issue in “detail”.“He [Amit Shah] assured of all cooperation,” tweeted the CM.The coronavirus cases in Delhi have seen an upswing in the recent days as the government, with an “economic focus” in mind, allowed a number of relaxations under its Unlock 1 guidelines.With an average of 1,250 Covid-19 cases daily, Delhi added 10,000 cases in just eight days from June 1, a sharp spike from the 79 days it took to reach the 10,000 mark, analysis of data provided by the city government reveals. On June 3, the city witnessed the highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases at 1,513.In another development, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) sent notices to the Delhi government, Centre on Covid-19 situation in the national capital.Acting on a complaint by former Delhi Congress president Ajay Maken, the Commission has referred to difficulties being faced by the people in Delhi, due to non-availability of beds in the hospitals for Covid-19 patients and inadequate number of tests leading to a grim state of affairs and mismanagement, resulting in death of a large number of people.The meeting with home minister comes in the backdrop of Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, on Monday, overturning the state government’s decision to reserve hospitals, except those run by the centre, exclusively for residents of Delhi. The state government’s decision to test only those showing symptoms of Covid-19 was also overruled, allowing asymptomatic cases and high-risk contacts of a virus patient to be tested.This afternoon, CM Kejriwal, underscoring that it is not the time for disagreements, said Lt Guv Baijal’s decision will be followed in “letter and spirit”.The chief minister said in the next few days he will personally step out to supervise the preparations to convert hotels and banquet halls into healthcare facilities.“Delhi will need 1.5 lakh beds in healthcare facilities by July 31 once people start coming to the city for treatment from other states”, Kejriwal said in his first virtual briefing since Sunday. The chief minister said out of the 1.5 lakh beds, it is estimated that 80,000 will be required for Delhiites, adding that the calculation is based on numbers that showed 50 per cent of the beds in hospitals in the national capital were occupied by those from other states before the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-arvind-kejriwal-meets-amit-shah-over-coronavirus-situation-in-delhi-says-assured-all-support/story-3Pyv9s6GVIH9uLS4T7HWZK.html
10-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Maharashtra’s tally past 94,000 after new surge in cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Another new high of Covid-19 cases takes Maharashtra’s tally past 94,000Maharashtra recorded its highest single day jump in Covid-19 cases with 3,254 new cases on Wednesday as the state’s tally soared to stand at 94,041. It also recorded 149 casualties taking the death toll to 3,438, the state health department said.Read more. In Nepal’s map tactics, a reflection of China’s growing footprint in KathmanduAs Nepal’s parliament took the first step on Tuesday to formalise the country’s new political map that has set up a row with India, foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali made another request to New Delhi for dialogue.Read more. Jewels worth Rs 1,350 crore brought back from Nirav Modi’s Hong Kong godownThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday said it had brought back 108 entities belonging to Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi including polished diamonds, silver jewellery and pearls worth Rs 1,350 crore of declared value from Hong Kong.Read more. Never coined Corona Express, people did: Mamata Banerjee on attack by Amit ShahA day after Union home minister Amit Shah took a jibe at West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for dubbing Shramik Special trains as “Corona Express”, Banerjee on Wednesday issued a rejoinder saying that the term was not her coinage and she was merely voicing the people’s opinion.Read more. NIA solves mystery of 4 missing hard disks from INS Vikrant, arrests 2 menThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested two persons from Bihar in connection with the last year’s theft of four hard disks and other equipment related to sensitive data from INS Vikrant, the country’s first indigenously-built aircraft carrier, which is being readied in Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) for its commissioning next year.Read more.Sourav hardly showed emotions, Virat’s aggression is controlled: Former quick weighs in on Ganguly and Kohli’s captaincy stylesVenkatesh Prasad has drawn parallels between the captaincy styles of former India captain Sourav Ganguly and Virat Kohli, calling the current India skipper extremely passionate. Prasad, the last leg of whose career was under Ganguly, reckons there are similarities between the two captains, but pointed out he never saw his former captain show the kind of aggression Kohli does.Read more.Malaika Arora’s building sealed after resident tests positive for Covid-19Television personality Malaika Arora’s building in Mumbai has been made a containment zone after a resident tested positive for the coronavirus. The building was sealed on June 8, Hindustan Times can independently confirm.Read more. Asus TUF Gaming A15 laptop review: Making things ‘TUF’ for rivalsUsually, the limelight is on the performance when we talk about gaming laptops, but with TUF A15, the portability and build factors are enhanced as well. We used the TUF A15 for over a week, playing graphic-heavy games for hours, and lots more. Here are our key takeaways.Read more. Living the kaftan lifeKaftan or caftan has become the new summer essential for our style mavens during the quarantine. And vouching for this trend are the likes of Kareena Kapoor Khan, Malaika Arora and Sonam K Ahuja, who all are seen lazing around their home in these easy-breezy and comfy kaftans.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-maharashtra-s-tally-past-94-000-after-new-surge-in-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Ptz126dZGBI0JUYWfgzNUO.html
10-06-2020||India||Another new high of Covid-19 cases takes Maharashtra’s tally past 94,000||Maharashtra recorded its highest single day jump in Covid-19 cases with 3,254 new cases on Wednesday as the state’s tally soared to stand at 94,041.It also recorded 149 casualties taking the death toll to 3,438, the state health department said.Of the new infections, 1,567 were from Mumbai taking total cases in the city to 52,667. Mumbai’s tally alone is bigger than any other state. It also recorded 97 fatalities. The city now has 26897 active cases while 23,693 have recovered/discharged. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.A total of 44,517 people who had tested positive for Covid-19 have been discharged so far. There are 46,074, active cases while 5,93,784 people have been tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-new-high-of-covid-19-cases-takes-maharashtra-s-tally-past-94-000/story-S627jZa1u3ZTR0edqywugN.html
10-06-2020||India||‘70% hospital beds vacant’: NHRC cites plea, asks Delhi & Centre to reply||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) of India has issued notices to the Delhi government and the union government on a complaint by senior Congress leader Ajay Maken alleging 70% of beds in Delhi hospitals are lying unused while coronavirus patients are being turned away in the city.The NHRC says that Ajay Maken has provided data along with his complaint to cite the “difficulties” faced by Covid-19 patients in Delhi, which if true, highlights the “inappropriate” behavior of the authorities. The national rights body, therefore, has directed the central and the Delhi government officials to consult and file a comprehensive report within 10 days.An official press statement from NHRC cites the complaint filed by Maken on Tuesday to raise concern over reports of suspected coronavirus patients running from one hospital to another for admission without luck.“The chart provided by the complainant indicates that the NCT of Delhi has a robust hospital infrastructure of 57,194 beds. It has a significant presence of Central government Hospitals also but it is painful to see that only 12% of the Delhi Government, 8% of the Central Government institutions and 7% of the Private Hospital beds are presently occupied and are being used to treat Covid patients,” said the official statement from NHRC.It further highlights that the Congress leader has demanded for setting aside 70% of all hospital beds in Delhi for Covid patients.“It is further stated that in Delhi around 70% dedicated beds are still lying vacant. While the residents of Delhi are struggling hard to fetch a bed in times of Corona crises, the Delhi government, despite confirming availability of beds, is not providing the same to the patients who need them to save their lives,” the statement says.Maken’s complaint to the human rights body adds that 33 out of the 38 health institutions under the Delhi government are not accepting Covid patients as only 5 hospitals have been designated as Covid Hospitals making people run from pillar to post in search of treatment for Covid-19, says NHRC statement.Also Read: ‘Delhi L-G Baijal’s orders to be implemented’: CM Kejriwal on hospitals rowThe human rights body adds that Maken has also alleged that an adequate number of tests to identify coronavirus patients are not being done by the Delhi government. The complaint has also alleged that cremations of Coved-19 positive patients are being delayed leading to a crisis.“The Complainant has further stated that cremations are taking upto 5-6 days after death and relatives of the deceased have been found struggling to find slots,” the NHRC release saysFor Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe human rights body has also sought to know the government’s response to allegations that it has tweaked the definition of containment zones which is proving to be counter-productive to disease containment goals. “On 29th April, when there were just 3439 COVID positive patients, Delhi had 102 containment zones. At a time when Delhi has around 30,000 positive cases, the containment zones are merely 183,” NHRC says quoting Maken’s complaint.It adds that according to the complainant, opening up areas affected with the virus, is a dangerous practice which will increase the outspread of the coronavirus endangering human lives across the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-hospital-beds-vacant-nhrc-cites-plea-asks-delhi-centre-to-reply/story-WbqBNoHan7A8RToYQGEdmL.html
10-06-2020||India||In post Covid-19 world, cities to have pedestrian-friendly markets, more cyclists: Centre||Post-Covid 19 market spaces will need to be more pedestrian friendly, cycling and walking network will need to be expanded, the Centre has told states in an advisory issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs.The ministry has recommended holistic planning for pedestrian friendly market spaces in various cities and municipal areas in the country in consultation with stake holders. The ministry has asked states to select at least three market places in million-plus cities for the ‘pedestrianisation plan’ and non-million plus cities to select at least one market area.The selection of city market spaces for the plan has to be completed by June 30, 2020 according to the advisory reviewed by Hindustan Times.“Covid-19 has brought cities around the world to a halt. Public transport is either shut or very limited in many cities. Movement of private motor vehicles is controlled. However, cities have benefitted from cleaner air. As cities look to ease the lockdown, the need of the hour is to provide safe, affordable and equitable modes of transport and also ensure physical distancing,” the advisory said. “While the lockdown is being gradually relaxed, the need for social distancing, especially in market areas, will remain. The pandemic presents us with an opportunity to re-imagine streets for people. To make market areas Covid-19 safe and people friendly, Indian cities should consider pedestrianizing them. The need for personalized forms of transport is also expected to increase as a response to Covid-19. Cities around the world are leveraging the opportunity to expand their cycling network substantially,” it added.The holistic planning for pedestrian-friendly market space may be done in consultation with the stake holders. “This will require proper survey of space used in the present scenario by various stakeholders. A movement/direction plan has to be prepared to see that there are designated walking paths where visitors are able to follow social distancing,” it said.Once the plan is made and firmed up, cities may start implementation in two phases – short term and long term, the advisory states. “Short-term recommendations include interventions that are quick, temporary, easy to install, and ensure safety to commuters after the lockdown. The market spaces could be rearranged with quick and temporary measures such as barricades, road closure for vehicles., etc…On-street parking space or even carriageway lanes can be repurposed to provide more walking and waiting space…Cyclists may be allowed with dedicated/ear-marked pathways,” it said. Provision of access to motor vehicles for residents of the area to commute should be clearly delineated. Municipal Bodies may increase the width of foot paths of the streets leading to the market, it added.Adequate provision of high frequency public transit may be ensured for citizens to access the market area in a comfortable manner. The design of the vending spaces provides a good opportunity for innovations, the advisory said.“Long term permanent structures for promoting pedestrianisation can be developed after temporary short-term measures are found working,” it added.The holistic planning of the area through stakeholder consultation can be undertaken over the next three months, till September 30, the advisory noted, and the survey of the vendors and other users of the market space could be carried out and completed by July 31, 2020. “By the end of September 2020, a plan may be formalised to start implementation. Short term measures such a temporary barricading, closure of roads for traffic, earmarking spaces, etc. to assess the plan on the field may be started in the first week of October 2020. The assessment of the implemented plan through short term measures may be done by November 2020 and amendments as required may be completed by November 2020,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-post-covid-19-world-cities-to-have-pedestrian-friendly-markets-more-cyclists-centre/story-PXmq9CimNTtzTMApe7w38O.html
10-06-2020||India||Sabarimala priest favours delay, temple body says will open on June 14||The head priest of the Sabarimala temple favours a delay in reopening the hill shrine due to rising coronavirus cases, while the Travancore Devaswom Board, the government body that helps run the shrine, on Wednesday said it will go ahead with its initial plan to open on June 14.“We made a decision after talking to the tantri family. As of now we will go ahead with our plan to open it. I haven’t got any communication from the tantri in this regard. We have already started registration for the virtual queue,” said TDB president N Vasu. The TDB runs Sabarimala and other major temples in south and central Kerala. Kandararu Mohanararu, the Sabarimala tantri (supreme priest), said he has sent a letter to the TDB commissioner and spoke to TDB chairman N Vasu regarding the opening of the hill shrine.The TDB, however, claims that it has received no communication in this matter. The tantri is usually considered the final word on all ritualistic matters.During the 2018 violence over the entry of women in the temple following the Supreme Court verdict, both the TDB and the tantri had locked horns with the latter threatening to close down the temple.Citing a sharp increase in caseload in the neighbouring states, the priest said it is better to postpone the opening of the temple.“Many pilgrims throng the temple from neighbouring states as well. It will be difficult to keep a tab on all devotees. So the festival and other functions can be postponed now,” he said, adding allowing devotees at this juncture will pose a serious threat.His demand came in the wake of many Hindu organisations questioning the government’s decision to open shrines in the state. Earlier, the government had decided to allow ‘darshan’ for devotees at Sabarimala after applying virtual queue, submitting a Covid-free certificate obtained from a lab or hospital approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research.Unveiling the graded exit plan under Unlock 1, the central government had allowed reopening of places of worship for devotees, malls and restaurants from June 8 across the country. They have been shut since March 25, when the lockdown was first imposed to stem the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-priest-favours-delay-temple-body-says-will-open-on-june-14/story-Fs1hg4umhkbj4i4gq1NizI.html
10-06-2020||India||Assam gas well blaze claims 2 lives, experts preparing roadmap to cap fire||The fire that broke out on Tuesday at Oil India Limited’s (OIL) natural gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district, has claimed lives of two firefighters even as authorities were gearing up for a long haul to put out the blaze.The bodies of Durlov Gogoi, 30, a former footballer who had represented the Assam team as a goalkeeper and Tikheswar Gohain, 56, both assistant fire operators with OIL, were recovered by NDRF personnel from a water body close to the well at Baghjan that suffered a blowout two weeks ago before catching fire on Tuesday.The two men, who were working at the site to control the blowout, were missing since 1:14 pm on Tuesday, when the well exploded and caught fire. It is assumed they ran to the water body to escape, but were drowned.“It was a difficult operation to retrieve the bodies as the water was warm and fire at the well was blowing very high. The two bodies were found close to each other. They were later handed over to the local police,” said Inspector Saurabh Singh of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF).In a statement on Wednesday, OIL said immediate compensation has been disbursed to the families of the deceased. Four other persons, two from OIL, one from Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) and a contract worker, working at the well when it caught fire, sustained minor injuries.“The team of experts from Alert Disaster Control, Singapore, visited the well site on Wednesday morning along with OIL and ONGC teams to assess the current situation and is currently preparing a roadmap for the next course of action,” read the OIL statement.Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the situation at Baghjan over the telephone. The CM’s office in a statement said that the PM has assured all help to tackle the situation.Fire will take weeks to douseAccording to OIL, while the foreign experts have expressed confidence about controlling the fire and capping the well safely, the operation requires large quantities of water, installation of high discharge pumps and removal of debris. All these could take nearly four weeks.“There are few methods to control a blow out. First the area near the well is cleared of all debris. One of the oldest techniques is to carry out a blast at the well so that there is lack of oxygen and gas (or oil) in the area and the fire gets doused,” said a retired oil drilling expert refusing to be named.“Another method is to drill another well or wells near the site and connect them to the blow out well allowing the gas or oil to get diverted. Another option is to put a new Blow out Preventer (BoP), which are large valves used to cap the well on the surface,” he added.The entire process needs a lot of planning and coordination and can easily take weeks, the expert said.Damage to environmentThe fire is expected to have a damaging impact on the flora and fauna of the Dibru Saikhowa National Park, located around 1 km away from the gas well and also the eco-sensitive Maguri Mottapung wetland barely a few hundred metres away.“Release of particulate matter and the fire will affect Dibru Saikhowa National Park. But the damage to Maguri Mottapung weltand will be immense. If this continues for another four weeks, humans will also not remain unaffected by the pollution,” said environmentalist Rituraj Phukan, who is also a member of IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature)“Despite a history of over 100 years of oil and gas exploration in the area, it is surprising we don’t have the experts and equipment to deal with such an emergency,” he added.Two days after the blowout happened, the carcass of a Gangetic dolphin with its skin peeled was found at the Maguri Mottapung wetland. There’s no confirmation yet on whether it died due to release of gas and condensate from the OIL well.Role of OIL employees and Gujarat firmThe incident has raised questions about the role of John Energy, a Gujarat-based company which was conducting the work over operations at the well under supervision of OIL when the blowout happened.Workover is an intervention in an existing oil or natural gas well that requires invasive techniques like wireline, coil tubing or snubbing.The Baghjan well was producing 1 lakh standard cubic metre per day (SCMD) of gas at a depth of 3,870 metres. The blowout happened when workover operation was underway to produce gas from new sand (oil and gas bearing reservoir) at a depth of 3,729 metres.In the present case, while the workover operation was underway the head of the well was being repaired. The BoP installed in the well was also removed when gas started leaking from the well and resulted in the blow out.“The company is carrying out an internal inquiry and two officials responsible for the well have been placed under suspension. The probe will reveal if they were responsible or not,” said OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gas-well-blaze-claims-2-lives-experts-preparing-roadmap-to-cap-fire/story-IFY6qs54SoX5Vj7m2YdSYM.html
10-06-2020||India||Never coined Corona Express, people did: Mamata Banerjee on attack by Amit Shah||A day after Union home minister Amit Shah took a jibe at West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for dubbing Shramik Special trains as “Corona Express”, Banerjee on Wednesday issued a rejoinder saying that the term was not her coinage and she was merely voicing the people’s opinion.Banerjee also announced that the period of institutional quarantine for migrant workers returning from Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu was being reduced to one week from 14 days. They would be tested for Covid-19 within that period. “I never coined the term Corona Express. I said that the public was saying so,” Banerjee said while adding that had the BJP-led union government run the Shramik Special trains for a week before announcing the pan-India lockdown then labourers would not have suffered for three months.ALSO READ | Amit Shah targets Mamata Banerjee on CAA, Covid-19Shah, while addressing Tuesday’s virtual rally had said that the term “Corona Express”, which Banerjee had used to refer to trains ferrying migrant workers, will turn into an “exit express” for the Trinamool Congress in Bengal.In May, while pinning the blame of rising coronavirus cases in the state on the railways, Banerjee had accused the national carrier of running “Corona Express trains” and not Shramik Specials. The chief minister had accused the railways of packing in more than 2,000 migrants in one train against the capacity of 1,200, instead of increasing the frequency and number of trains to cater to the rush.Around 11 lakh people, including migrant labourers, have entered the state in trains and buses during the lockdown. Another 30,000 is expected to arrive in the next three days in 22 trains, taking the total number of trains to Bengal to 255. Banerjee also said that state government offices will now operate in two shifts to bring down the rush during office hours, which is frequently leading to overcrowding in buses. Kolkata, with 3,018 cases out of the 8,985 cases in Bengal till June 9, has been registering the highest spike in Covid-19 cases every day.ALSO READ | ‘West Bengal remains the only state where political violence is propagated’: Amit ShahWhile the first shift would operate from 9:30 am to 2:30 pm, the second shift would operate from 12:30 pm to 5:30 pm. Previously, government offices used to run from 10:30 am to 5:30 pm. “I would also urge the private sector to allow their employees to work from home to reduce the rush on the roads and public conveyance. Only those employees must be allowed for whom it is absolutely necessary to come to office. The rest 50% to 70% of the work force can work from home. This is my appeal,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-coined-corona-express-people-did-mamata-banerjee-on-attack-by-amit-shah/story-ha1PlFkPlFCzUzcO3sUTvO.html
10-06-2020||India||Following HC order, Arnab Goswami reaches NM Joshi Marg police station for interrogation||Republic TV’s editor-in-chief and prime-time anchor Arnab Goswami on Wednesday afternoon reached Mumbai’s NM Joshi Marg police station for interrogation in connection with the case registered against him at Pydhonie police station for allegedly instigating hatred against the Muslim community while anchoring a programme on April 29 on the protests by stranded migrants outside the Bandra railway station on April 14.On Tuesday, the Bombay high court (HC) had asked Goswami to be present at Pydhonie police station while hearing his application seeking the first information (FIR) against him be quashed.Pranay Ashok, Mumbai police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police (DCP), said, “Arnab Goswami reached NM Joshi police station at around 2.15pm on Wednesday while responding to the summons issued by Pydhonie police station authorities a day before.”Suresh Gaikwad, the investigating officer in the case and an inspector with Pydhonie police station, along with his team arrived before Goswami reached NM Joshi Marg police station.“Initially, Pydhonie police station authorities will question Goswami. Later, the NM Joshi Marg personnel may also quiz him related to another case registered against him, where he had made a derogatory statement about Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in connection with the lynching of two Hindu seers in Palghar on April 16,” said a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) official, requesting anonymity.Goswami was summoned to Pydhonie police station on the basis of a complaint by Irfan Abubakar Shaikh, secretary, Raza Education Welfare Society.Sheikh had alleged in his FIR that Goswami tried to create hatred against the Muslim community and targeted a Bandra-based mosque that had no links to a protest by stranded migrant workers, who wanted to go back to their native places on April 14, when lockdown 1.0, which was imposed to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, restrictions were slated to be lifted.Shaikh had alleged that Goswami on his April 29 show tried to spread hatred against Muslims.“The mosque near the Bandra railway station is not linked to the stranded migrant workers’ protest. The workers had only gathered in an open space near the mosque. But Goswami deliberately highlighted the mosque on his show on April 29 to create communal disturbances in Mumbai,” Shaikh alleged.“The raging debate on the Republic TV was aimed at blaming the Muslim community for spreading Covid-19 in Mumbai. Earlier, too, he made hate-filled comments, targeting the community,” he further alleged.The FIR was registered under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, and language), 295A (deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings of any citizen) 500 (defamation), 505 (2) (spreading rumour or alarming news with intent to create or promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities), and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Lawyers from Phoenix Legal, who are representing Goswami in the cases, couldn’t be contacted, despite HT’s attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/following-hc-order-arnab-goswami-reaches-nm-joshi-marg-police-station-for-interrogation/story-s2e35eiXklqNX6Md13W0mN.html
10-06-2020||India||In Nepal’s map tactics, a reflection of China’s growing footprint in Kathmandu||As Nepal’s parliament took the first step on Tuesday to formalise the country’s new political map that has set up a row with India, foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali made another request to New Delhi for dialogue.Gyawali told news agency AP that Kathmandu wanted to sit across the table with India for formal negotiations so that the two countries “with a very unique type of partnership” could develop a more inspiring relationship.New Delhi hasn’t responded to requests for foreign secretary-level talks made after Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli cabinet hurriedly passed a new political map that counts Indian territories of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as its own.Senior government officials told Hindustan Times that Kathmandu shouldn’t expect any dialogue on the three Indian territories either.“Once Nepal drew the red lines on the map to serve its domestic and foreign interests, there was nothing to talk about,” he said.In Kathmandu and New Delhi, PM Oli - who came to power on the nationalistic agenda - has been widely perceived to have rushed through the new political map to whip up ultra-nationalistic sentiments to consolidate support within the ruling Communist Party of Nepal. That sentiment, quite similar to his election rhetoric, targets New Delhi.Also Read: The costs of anti-Indian nationalism in Nepal | HT EditorialDomestic politics apart, the map also helps KP Oli score points with Beijing, Nepal’s other giant neighbour.It hasn’t gone unnoticed in New Delhi that KP Oli had timed the new political map around the same time India and China were engaged in a standoff in the Ladakh sector.Nepal, and PM Oli have a track record of trying to steer the India-China rivalry to his advantage. But increasingly, analysts in Kathmandu concede that China’s influence over Kathmandu was rising rapidly.In some ways, one analyst in Kathmandu said, China, which poured millions of dollars in Nepal, has gradually encircled the himalayan nation.Chinese investments in Nepal started to surge from 2008 when Kathmandu switched from a monarchy to a republic in 2008.By 2014, China outranked India in terms of total investment. In 2015-16, China contributed 42 per cent of the total FDI to Nepal.According to the latest available data, China has again surpassed India as top investor in Nepal in the first quarter of 2019-20 with a total pledge of $ 88 million FDI representing 93 per cent of total committed FDI of $95 million. Britain came next with $ 1.85 million followed by India’s $ 1.76 million.Nepal is also getting a second Chinese cement plant being set up with $ 140 million investment; the first was Hongshi Cement.This increase is also seen in Chinese overseas development assistance where China overtook Indian aid in 2015, growing steadily from $ 19 million in 2010-11 to $ 38 million in 2014-15 as compared to India’s $22 million.Nepal has also been nudging Beijing to build projects worth an estimated $ 3 billion via a grant, not the soft loan that China has agreed to. If Nepal does eventually sign off on the soft loan, it would dwarf other Chinese loans including the ones extended to build Pokhara international airport and the Trishuli 3A hydropower project.The Chinese influence was on display earlier this year also when its mission in Kathmandu rebuked the Nepal media on February 19, and accused The Kathmandu Post editor of “ulterior motives” because the newspaper had published an article critical of China’s handling of the coronavirus virus. The public reprimand, ironically, coincided with Democracy Day of Nepal. But there were no protests from the Oli government who is seen to pursue a “nationalist” agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-nepal-s-map-tactics-a-reflection-of-china-s-growing-footprint-in-kathmandu/story-ydQNYa8nEd8wL5vDQg0dBJ.html
10-06-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray warns of hard lockdown if restrictions not honoured||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray says his government has been insisting with the centre for the resumption of local train services to facilitate commute of personnel involved in the delivery of essential and emergency work. He also warned that lockdown could be clamped again in the state if the residents failed to honour the current level of restrictions.“We have been demanding for the resumption of the local rail services from the Centre. The hospital staff and other workforce engaged in essential and emergency services are finding it difficult to commute from far off areas to Mumbai. Some of them are not even able to report to the duty. The resumption of the locals is very important for the ease of this workforce,” Thackeray said.CM said he had first raised the issue of the resumption of suburban rail services with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference about a month ago.Thackeray also served a warning to people in the state to follow the restrictions put in place to check the rise of coronavirus disease failing which the state may be forced to clamp a hard lockdown to contain the virus which has already infected 90,787 people in the state, which is the highest among all Indian states.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesEarlier according to data released by Maharashtra Police, a total of 124,369 cases have been registered in the state under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code since March 22 for violation of coronavirus lockdown norms. Of these, about 846 accused were arrested in cases of assault on policemen, according to news agency ANI.Thackeray said that though relaxations were important for the revival of the economy, the government may be compelled to withdraw them if the norms are not followed.Also Read: ‘Over one lakh booked for violating Covid-19 lockdown norms in Maharashtra“The lockdown has been extended till June 30 with the relaxations rolled out recently. We were however shocked with the crowding witnessed at some places after the first phase of relaxations under Mission Begin Again came into effect. People of Maharashtra have been cooperating well with the state government, but any type of violation of restrictions will force us to impose the lockdown again,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-warns-of-a-hard-maharashtra-lockdown-if-current-restrictions-are-not-honoured/story-aFmJp5jmi26hSAPQNsTcXM.html
10-06-2020||India||Rajasthan announces guidelines for interstate travel as Covid-19 cases rise||The Rajasthan government on Wednesday announced that interstate movement will be regulated in view of an “unprecedented surge” in Covid-19 cases in the state.Under the new guidelines issued by the Home department - all persons going out of the state will need to obtain a pass for travel from the district collector and Superintendent of Police. If the permit is issued by a sub-divisional magistrate, Deputy SP or the local police station, then they have to inform the collector or SP. According to the order signed by Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Rajeeva Swarup, counters will be setup at airports, railway stations and bus stands to provide on the spot passes after due verification of IDs.For those traveling outside the state by road (other than scheduled bus), screening of persons of and verification of pass/ID will be done at the check post to be set up at the borders.People traveling outside the state via flight, train or bus with prior reservation on June 10; and in case of emergency (death, accident in immediate family or hospitalization) will be exempted.Guidelines of the ministry of home affairs for Indian nationals stranded outside will be followed for those arriving in the state through international flights. The people arriving by domestic flights, train or bus will be screened again. People driving in will be screened at check posts.“There has been a recent unprecedented upsurge in Covid19 cases in the state since the phased opening up of lockdown with effect from June 1. Also, it has come to notice of the state government that certain persons from hotspots and other areas, under the prevailing system of free movement, travelled outside the state after Covid testing and before their report was received, which turned out positive subsequently, posing threat to wherever they go,” Swarup said in his order.“Keeping in view the efforts made by the state government till date for preventing the spread of Covid-19, and in the interest of public safety, it has become necessary to regulate the interstate movement of persons. Accordingly, the directions have been issued, which will remain effective till further orders and till such time that the present situation is reviewed,” he said. Rajasthan is the fifth worst-affected state in the country in terms of coronavirus tally after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat.The western state reported 123 new Covid-19 cases till 10:30 am on Wednesday, taking its tally 11, 368, according to the state health department. This includes 256 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-announces-guidelines-for-interstate-travel-as-covid-19-cases-rise/story-8XwanODMwOobtRjaRtLgDI.html
10-06-2020||India||In third encounter in 3 days, security forces kill 5 terrorists in Shopian||A joint security team of the Jammu and Kashmir Police, the army and the Central Reserve Police Force (CPPF) killed five terrorists in south Kashmir’s Shopian on Wednesday.The JK police said a cordon and search operation was launched by the police, 44 Rashtriya Rifles and 178 Bn CRPF after a tip of presence of terrorists in village Sugoo Handhama Shopian. The slain terrorists are suspected to have belonged to the Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) and the Lashkar-e-taiba Taiba (LeT).“During the search operation, the hiding terrorists fired on the joint search party. The fire was retaliated leading to an encounter,” the police said in statement.The five terrorists were killed in the encounter and their bodies were retrieved from the site of the gun battle.“The identification and affiliation of the killed terrorists is being ascertained. However, as per credible sources the killed terrorists belonged to proscribed terror outfits….. The terrorists belonged to HM and LeT,” the statement said.It also claimed that one of the slain terrorists was a district commander of Hizbul Mujahideen.“Police and security forces conducted the operation professionally and no collateral damage occurred,’ it said..Wednesday’s operation was the third in the last three days in which 14 terrorists including top commanders have been killed.“Incriminating material including arms and ammunition were recovered from the site of encounter,” the statement said.The police also asked people to cooperate with security forces till the area was completely sanitized and cleared of all the explosive materials, if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-third-encounter-in-3-days-security-forces-kill-5-terrorists-in-shopian/story-43v5l7VT6tasHMhJzLUOOL.html
10-06-2020||India||Jewels worth Rs 1,350 crore brought back from Nirav Modi’s Hong Kong godown||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday said it had brought back 108 consignments belonging to Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi including polished diamonds, silver jewellery and pearls worth Rs 1,350 crore of declared value from Hong Kong.“Value of these goods have been declared to be Rs 1,350 crores (approx). These valuables include polished diamonds, pearls, pearl and silver jewelry etc. and were kept in the godown of a logistics company in Hong Kong,” an official statement from the agency said.The consignments weighing approx 2,340 kg were brought back to Mumbai on Wednesday, it added.Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi are Indian businessman who are wanted by the authorities in connection with cheating Indian banks of thousands of crores. Nirav Modi, the main accused, in the Rs 23,780 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud, is currently languishing in a UK prison since March last year. India is attempting to get him extradited. His uncle Mehul Choksi, also accused of cheating Punjab National Bank (PNB), is currently in Antigua. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe development comes a few days after a special Mumbai court allowed ED to confiscate Nirav Modi’s properties.The ED official statement says these consignments had been sent to Hong Kong from Dubai in early 2018 and the ED had received a tip off in the month of July the same year.“The authorities were continuously engaged in discussion with various authorities in Hong Kong to bring back these valuables to India. Various modalities were finalized and after completing all the legal formalities these consignments have now been brought back to India.” the release added.Also Read: Political barbs fly over Nirav’s caseCBI has accused Modi of pulling a large-scale fraud upon the PNB by fraudulently obtaining Letters of Understanding (LOUs or loan agreements) while the Enforcement Directorate is pursuing the businessman for laundering of the proceeds of that fraud.The ED claims to have earlier brought back 33 consignments of valuables from Dubai and Hong Kong linked to Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi case. These were valued at around Rs 137 crore, said the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-brings-back-jewels-worth-rs-1-350-crore-from-nirav-modi-choksi-s-bangkok-godown/story-Wvqi6NxvCLPwQmlaJYXf6O.html
10-06-2020||India||Delhi-NCR to get rain, thundershowers for 5-6 days: IMD||Thundershowers and light rainfall are expected in the Delhi-national capital region (NCR) till June 16, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities.There is a trough (low-pressure area) running from north Pakistan to over the Bay of Bengal across northern Rajasthan.A western disturbance is also affecting north-west India and there was cyclonic circulation over eastern Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, which has now merged with a cyclonic circulation over northern Odisha.The combination of these three systems will lead to cloudy skies, marginally lower temperatures, and thundershowers for the next five to six days, the IMD authorities said.“The combination of the western disturbance and the trough will ensure light rain and thundershowers. Temperatures had soared to over 40 degrees Celsius in the past two days in Delhi, when the wind direction was north-westerly. Now, the wind direction is easterly and there is a lot of moisture incursion,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Monsoon has advanced into parts of Tamil Nadu, some more parts of west-central and northern Bay of Bengal; most parts of Mizoram, Manipur, and Tripura and some parts of Assam and Nagaland.The conditions are becoming favourable for advancement of monsoon into some more parts of central Arabian Sea; Goa; some parts of Maharashtra; some more parts of Karnataka and Rayalaseema; some parts of Telangana and coastal Andhra Pradesh; more parts of central and northern Bay of Bengal and more parts of north-eastern states during the next 48 hours.“The conditions are likely to become favorable subsequently for further advancement of monsoon into Maharashtra; remaining parts of Karnataka, Telangana, Rayalaseema, coastal Andhra Pradesh, entire Sikkim and some parts of Odisha and West Bengal during the next 24 hours,” IMD said in its Wednesday’s bulletin.The low-pressure area over east-central and adjoining the west-central Bay of Bengal persists with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to mid-tropospheric levels tilting south-westwards.“It’s likely to move west-northwestwards and become well marked during the next 48 hours. Under the influence of this low-pressure area, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur over Odisha, north coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana on June 10 and 11 and over central India from June 11 to 13,” the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-ncr-to-get-rain-thundershowers-for-5-6-days-imd/story-KDLWx4eYdFO3Hall8oKrlO.html
10-06-2020||India||Kerala’s no-objection certificate to hydel project leads to outrage among green activists||The Kerala government’s decision to renew a no-objection certificate to the Athirapally hydro-electric project in Thrissur district has kicked off a fresh debate on the project with the state government and green activists at loggerheads. With the government saying it will not succumb to green activism, environmentalists have retorted that the state government is yet to learn a lesson from the last two floods.The proposed project across Chalakudy River has triggered fresh protests with even the junior partner in the ruling Left Democratic Front, the CPI, saying it will not allow the power project to be implemented. However, state power minister M M Mani clarified that renewing the NOC was a natural process and it doesn’t mean the project will be commissioned overnight.At the same time, Mani made it clear the government really wants to implement the project but nature-lovers are against it. “We are not in a tearing hurry. All stakeholders will be taken into confidence. Activism is fine but it should not be at the cost of the state’s development,” said the minister. When asked about the opposition to the project from the CPI, he said the media had better ask the party’s leaders about this.The hydel project along the famous Athirapally Waterfalls, a favourite getaway and sought after shooting location of Bollywood, was conceived in the early 1980s when the state was reeling under a severe power crisis but got shelved due to stiff opposition from conservationists. In 2010, then environment minister Jairam Ramesh said no to the project adding Athirapally was another Silent Valley and the project was a sure recipe for disaster.There was a demand to build a similar dam in the Silent Valley rain forests in Palakkad also but former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had scuttled it after scientist M G K Menon submitted a report saying it will destroy the rich biosphere. Today Silent Valley National Park is one of the largest tropical rain forests in the Western Ghat mountain ranges, a favourite habitat of lion-tailed macaque and elephants.Athirapally project with an installed capacity of 163 mw was planned along Chalakudy River - it will spread to 6.7 km upstream from Athirappilly Waterfall to Vazhachal Waterfall, both well known tourist destinations. Votaries of the project argue it will be built without disturbing the course of the waterfall and surrounding lush green areas but opponents say it will deliver a death blow to the picturesque landscape and submerge large tracts of forests and displace many tribal families.The 145-km long Chalakudy River that flows through three districts - Palakkad, Thrissur and Ernakulam -- before joining the Arabian Sea has many small and big dams and it cannot withstand more, green activists claim.“It seems the state has failed to learn a lesson from two consecutive floods that claimed many lives -- its greed is not on the decline. It has kept its eyes peeled on some of the remaining green cover. Votaries of the new dam should think about the upcoming generation also,” said Dr V S Vijayan, an environmental scientist who was in the team of Madhav Gadgil, who had prepared a report to save the fragile ecology of the Western Ghats.Besides the green landscape many tribal families are living along the fringes of the forests and they also face evacuation if the dam is built. “They will have to kill us before building the dam. It is a ploy to plunder green cover and destroy the serene waterfall,” said Kadar tribe leader P Kaliappan. The thunderous waterfall has in the past featured in many Hindi films like Raavan, Bahubali and Dil Se among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-no-objection-certificate-to-hydel-project-leads-to-outrage-among-green-activists/story-IYG8gIH8T8i87ZxDMo5I2J.html
10-06-2020||India||ED files money-laundering case against Medanta, Naresh Trehan||New Delhi: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money-laundering case against Medanta Hospital, its chairman Dr. Naresh Trehan and unknown Haryana government officers for alleged irregularities in the allotment of land to the hospital in 2004, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday.ED’s PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) case is based on a Gurugram Police’s first information report (FIR) filed in the matter on June 6 that named Dr. Trehan; his organisation Global Health Pvt Ltd; Atul Punj of Punj Llyod; and Sunil Sachdeva and Anant Jain, two officers of Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), among others on the orders of a Gurugram civil court.An RTI (right to information) activist, Raman Sharma, had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the matter in the Gurugram civil court of additional district and sessions Judge Ashwani Kumar, citing irregularities and corruption for laundering money.Watch l ED files money-laundering case against Medanta, Naresh Trehan: Key details The Medanta hospital authorities have denied the allegations as “false, baseless and motivated”.The case pertains to the allotment of a plot of land to the hospital in 2004. The Haryana government, through HSVP, allotted 53 acres of land in Gurugram’s Sector 38 along the Delhi-Jaipur road (NH-48) for the development of The Medicity.An official statement by Medanta Hospital authorities on Gurugram Police’s FIR said: “This complaint has been filed by a person, who claims to be an RTI activist. However, it has been reported in the press that he has had an FIR for extortion registered against him. All the allegations in this complaint are completely false, baseless, and motivated.”Sharma had alleged that Medanta, in connivance with government officials, obtained pecuniary advantage as “land meant for institutional purposes was used for pure commercial, speculative and self-service purposes”, and several acres of land were allotted at undervalued rates.Sharma also alleged that the accused obtained occupational certificates based on misrepresentation, as there was no area on the premises that was allocated for medical and paramedical education, as advertised.Dr. Trehan has reacted to Sharma’s charges.“The allegations in Raman Sharma’s complaint pertain to the 16-year-old land allotment on which the hospital is built. Everything about this land allotment, which was done through a public auction, is legal. The allegations are nothing short of absurd. We’ve built one of the finest hospitals in this part of the world, and we’re proud of the work we do. Sharma has chosen to file this complaint to harass me amid a global pandemic. I’m continuing to tend to my patients despite being over 70 and putting myself at a risk because of the pandemic. It’s of grave concern and hurt that doctors and hospitals are bearing the brunt of harassment by people of dubious antecedents,” Dr. Trehan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-books-medanta-hospital-md-naresh-trehan-in-money-laundering-case/story-2f6uyarcO2d135My0CiUBK.html
10-06-2020||India||BSF constable dies of Covid-19 at AIIMS, 14th death in paramilitary forces||A BSF constable died at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the national capital in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths in the Border Security Force (BSF) to three due to the infectious coronavirus disease, a statement from the force said on Wednesday.The 35-year-old constable was deployed for law and order duty with the Delhi Police.He was admitted to the Delhi hospital on June 5 after he complained of weakness and cough. “Constable Vinod Kumar Prasad died on June 9 at the AIIMS in Delhi. He was deployed on law-and-order duty with the Delhi Police and admitted to the AIIMS on June 5 with weakness and cough,” a Border Security Force spokesperson said.ALSO READ| Six BSF personnel test Covid-19 positive in last 24 hours, force’s tally now at 282This is the 14th Covid-19 death in the paramilitary or the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), including five in the CISF, four in the CRPF and one each in the SSB and ITBP.The constable’s Covid-19 test results came negative on June 6, but his condition deteriorated on June 8 and he breathed his last on Tuesday at the AIIMS ICU, the spokesperson said. His test results of June 8, however, had returned positive.The about 2.5 lakh personnel-strong force has had a total of 535 coronavirus positive cases till now, of which 435 soldiers have recovered and been discharged.Earlier last month, several BSF soldiers had tested positive for the coronavirus disease from other states like West Bengal, Tripura as well as among those posted in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-constable-dies-of-covid-19-at-aiims-14th-death-in-paramilitary-forces/story-H7cZe9RrjQFRyMDIRYSYII.html
10-06-2020||India||Fear of Covid-19 sparks demand for electric crematorium in Haridwar||Local residents and priests in Haridwar have voiced their opposition to open cremations on the ghats of the Ganga of people who die Covid-19 and have demanded that a defunct electric crematorium be restarted.The demand was sparked after a large number of traditional funerals on the ghats. Locals say the authorities should restart the electric crematorium in the city which is safer, cost-effective and environment friendly too. The electric crematorium has not been used for the past several years. Locals fear that cremating bodies of people who died of Covid-19 could lead to community transmission of the disease.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The electric crematorium at Khadkhadi ghat operated for over two decades. But rising maintenance costs and people choosing funeral pyres for traditional last rites eventually lead to the crematorium being abandoned.Kankhal Cremation Ghat Managing Committee president Ram Kumar Mishra said priests are now apprehensive of conducting last rites of Covid-19 casualties. “Those who perform last rites are still apprehensive about funeral pyres in the open. So electric crematorium is a necessity now as it is a much safer option for the cremation of such suspected cases”, he said.Taking cognizance of local people, particularly those residing near Khadkhadi and Kankhal cremation ghats openly opposing the funeral rites of Covid-19 casualties and those suspected to have of the virus in the past few weeks, the municipal corporation is now contemplating restarting electric crematorium at Khadkhadi ghat.According to Haridwar town commissioner Narendra Singh Bhandari, the proposal for restarting electric crematorium first needs to be put up at the civic body meeting and after the board passes it, a decision can be taken to restart the crematorium.Citing a lack of awareness as well as adherence to the custom of traditional funeral rites among the majority of people who don’t prefer electric crematoriums, Khadkhadi Cremation Ghat Managing Committee vice president Jagat Singh Rawat said that in initial years only unknown and unclaimed bodies were cremated in the electric crematorium.“Operational and maintenance cost of the electric crematorium spiked as most people preferred traditional funeral pyre. This led to the closure of electric crematorium but keeping in mind the spread of Covid-19 we have already cleaned and sanitized the electric crematorium here,” said Jagat Singh Rawat.Haridwar chief medical officer Dr Saroj Naithani said that as per Central government guidelines, the body of a Covid-19 patient can be cremated at any type of crematorium.“The body, as well as plastic sheet, is sanitized and then only handed in a special plastic bag and due precaution is taken while performing last rites”, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-of-covid-19-sparks-demand-for-electric-crematorium-in-haridwar/story-BEiBezCt3fP0TQ2kOlpL7L.html
10-06-2020||India||Four Vande Bharat Mission evacuees test Covid-19 positive in Bihar||Four out of 2,284 passengers who landed at Bihar’s Bodh Gaya international airport after evacuation from different countries in the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission, have tested positive for Sars-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus diseases (Covid-19).“Two of the four passengers to have tested positive for the virus had arrived from Qatar and one each from Oman and Saudia Arabia,” said Gaya civil surgeon Dr Brajesh Kumar Singh.The Gulf returnees to have tested positive for the virus belong to Bihar’s Gaya, Gopalganj, East Champaran and Muzaffarpur districts.Results of five other samples sent to the Patna Medical College (PMCH) for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), a confirmatory test for Covid-19, were pending, he added.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19These passengers were tested on different dates after they landed at the Gaya international airport between May 31and June 6. They are presently undergoing treatment at the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH), which has been designated a Covid-19 special facility, added Dr Singh.“Four of the 11 samples sent for confirmatory test to the PMCH have been found to be positive, while two samples, which had tested positive on the TrueNat machine, have turned out to be negative. Five results are pending,” said Dr Singh.52 of the 2,284 air passengers to have arrived at Gaya were found to be symptomatic. Of them, 10 tested positive on the TrueNat machine, while another sample of a Covid-positive woman passenger’s husband, was also sent for confirmatory test to the PMCH, he added.“The Air India operated flights from nine countries to Gaya during phase-II of the Vande Bharat Mission, catering to around 2,500 passengers from Bihar and Jharkhand between May 18 and June 6,” said Dilip Kumar, director of the Gaya international airport.“Our airport facilitated movement of 12 Air India aircraft from nine countries under Vande Bharat Mission, besides catering to special evacuation flights from Myanmar, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Oman during this period,” added Kumar.Notably, 72% of Bihar’s 5,583 Covid-19 cases are among the migrant workers. Over 2 million migrants have returned to the state by 1,491 Shramik Special trains between May 3 and June 5, said Anupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department, Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-vande-bharat-mission-evacuees-test-covid-19-positive-in-bihar/story-Xv6JOEGCnwvXdmPRzJh3JI.html
10-06-2020||India||Gandhi hospital doctors go on strike after attack on colleague by relatives of a Covid-19 patient who died||Nearly 200 junior resident doctors of Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad are on a strike since Tuesday night protesting attack on one of their colleagues by the relatives of a coronavirus patient who died at the hospital, also the nodal centre for Covid-19 in Telangana. The doctors boycotted work on Wednesday and squatted on the hospital premises while raising slogans demanding protection and action against the culprits.The doctors even refused an invitation to the state secretariat for talks by Andhra health minister Eatala Rajender, following which, the minister himself arrived at the hospital in the afternoon to meet the agitating doctors.Meanwhile, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said the police, immediately after the incident, arrested two people for the alleged assault on the doctors at the hospital.“Under any circumstances, an attack on medical staff will not be tolerated. Most firm and stringent legal action will be taken. At this time doctors are our frontline leaders,” the commissioner said.It all began with the death of a 55-year-old corona patient at around 7.30 pm on Tuesday at the hospital. According to the president of resident doctors association G Srinivas, the patient was asked not to leave the bed because he was suffering from hypertension and was on continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machine.“But the patient went to the washroom, where he collapsed and died. When the doctors informed the attendants of the patient, they got agitated and attacked a medico with a stool and an iron stand,” Srinivas told reporters.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The attack sparked off protests from the junior resident doctors who staged a demonstration outside the hospital till past midnight. They raised slogans like “we want justice” and “we are here to serve, not to suffer.”The doctors demanded deployment of a special protection force at the ICU and on all floors of the hospital. They also demanded that some Covid-19 cases be shifted to other hospitals to relieve pressure from Gandhi Hospital, which, they claimed, didn’t have sufficient infrastructure.Their other demands include recruitment of additional manpower, namely specialists, broad speciality doctors, nursing staff, paramedical staff, ward boys, patient care providers and others on a permanent basis. They also sought an adequate number of PPE kits and N95 masks for all healthcare workers at all public hospitals across the state while threatening to boycott work till the resolution of the issues raised.This was the second such incident at the Gandhi Hospital and the fourth one at government-run hospitals in Telangana since the outbreak of Covid-19. A doctor at the Gandhi Hospital was assaulted on April 1 by relatives of a Covid-19 patient following his death. On April 14, another doctor was attacked by relatives of a patient at the Osmania General Hospital.Also Read: Bihar government dismisses 11 doctors for being absent from dutyOn March 24, a woman doctor was allegedly manhandled by a police official in Telangana’s Khammam during lockdown. She alleged that the police official seized her ID card along with her phone and pulled her by her hair. The police department had later tendered an unconditional apology to her.On March 29, relatives of a 62-year-old man who died of heart attack at the Government General Hospital (GGH) in Nizamabad, allegedly assaulted the hospital staff, who tried to shift him to Gandhi Hospital, Hyderabad as they suspected him to be a Covid-19 patient.Ends//||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-hospital-doctors-go-on-strike-after-attack-on-colleague-by-relatives-of-a-covid-19-patient-who-died/story-F8RvOMH3obg73EOspv66uK.html
10-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt’s economic package provides nothing to farmers, says Shashi Tharoor and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Unplanned lockdown is worsening farmers’ condition’: Shashi TharoorThe coronavirus lockdown has pushed India’s farmers in debt and has broken the supply chain, Congress MP and senior leader Shashi Tharoor said on Wednesday. Taking to Twitter, Tharoor said that the farmers’ condition is worsening due to the “unplanned lockdown”. Read moreReached positive consensus, says China on talks with India over border tensionChina on Wednesday refused to give details about the disengagement of border troops of the two countries along the line of actual control (LAC) in Ladakh but said both sides were trying to “ease the situation” following dialogue between diplomats and military officers. Read moreOn Rahul Gandhi’s China query, Union minister’s advice to Congress leaderQuestions on international matters are not to be answered on social media platforms, pointed out Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in pithy advice to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s constant probing of the China question. Read moreEnough is enough, we ask for equality and respect: Dwayne Bravo joins Darren Sammy and Chris Gayle against racismWest Indies all-rounder Dwayne Bravo became the third cricketer from Caribbean islands after Darren Sammy and Chris Gayle to openly talk about racism. While using hard-hitting words against racial comments around the world, Bravo said he would never ask for revenge but now ‘enough is enough’ and times has come they black people demand ‘equality and respect’. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor says sister Khushi told her she was being ‘hyper’ after Covid-19 scare at home, dad Boney called her ‘headmaster’Actor Janhvi Kapoor has spoken about the recent scare her family went through, after three members of their household staff were tested positive for the coronavirus. The actor said that they were really shaken up by the situation. Read more5 fun ways to ensure that you don’t face work from home burnoutWith Unlock 1.0 encouraging workplaces to continue the work from home model, the uncertainty around getting back to work is mounting. Working professionals are already feeling the heat with the constant need to be available online. Read moreCovid War Room: Uttarakhand CM’s medical & economic plan as India ‘unlocks’As part of Hindustan Times’ Covid War Room series, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat shared details of his strategy against the Covid-19 pandemic. He commented on his administration’s plan to revive the state’s economy even as tourism sector is in a limbo and migrant workers return. Watch to know morePUBG Mobile top grossing game in May: Sensor TowerPUBG Mobile was the top grossing mobile game in May recording over $226 million in user spending, Sensor Tower reported. This is a 41% growth for PUBG Mobile as compared to the same month last year. Read moreWoman shows ‘how to make British tea,’ video angers people. Tea lovers call it ‘gross’If you are a tea lover, then there is a chance that you like your drink in a particular way. It includes everything from brewing the leaves in the correct temperature to adding just the right amount of sugar or not. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-unplanned-lockdown-is-worsening-farmers-condition-says-shashi-tharoor-and-all-the-latest-news/story-snSNNZW79deACr5fv3rKWI.html
10-06-2020||India||Setting an example: Men in khaki don PPE kits to conduct last rites of Covid-19 patient in Assam||A superintendent of police (SP) in a district in Assam and his three other staff exchanged their khaki uniforms for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits on Tuesday to conduct the last rites of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) victim in a bid to set an example of precautionary measures against the raging pandemic.Debojit Deori, SP, Karbi Anglong, his two bodyguards and a driver were left to perform the last rites of a 54-year-old person, the first Covid-19 victim in the district, after mounting local resistance because of the social stigma and a growing panic against the viral infection.The victim, who had returned from Chennai in May, had died at the medical college hospital in Diphu, the headquarters of Karbi Anglong district, on Sunday.However, his last rites were performed two days later because of the opposition from the locals and a delay in locating a suitable place to bury the dead.“Nobody was willing to perform the victim’s last rites because of lack of awareness among the locals. His last rites were performed at a place, which is not usually used for cremation, as local people were scared of contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19,” said Deori. “Ultimately, we decided to step in, as someone had to set an example and perform the last rites with proper dignity. We performed the last rites at Bokoliaghat, around 50 kilometres from Diphu. A family member conducted the rituals before the burial,” the SP added.Deori has sent his aged mother to his native place, as a precautionary measure, and he has also quarantined himself at home. The other three persons, who helped the SP to conduct the victim’s last rites, have also gone under home quarantine.“Someone had to perform the last rites, as we couldn’t have kept the body for long and he had to be given a decent send-off. We also needed to show it to the people that as long as you use the necessary safety measures, there’s nothing to fear about the viral outbreak,” said Deori.There have been instances of delays and problems in disposing bodies of Covid-19 patients at several places across the country.Similar problems were reported after Assam’s first Covid-19 death in the Barak Valley’s Hailakandi district and the first fatality in neighbouring Meghalaya in April.“We couldn’t conduct the last rites at the two places chosen earlier, as the public was panic-stricken. Sanitary workers were also unwilling to take part in conducting the last rites. Finally, it was performed close to a public cremation site near the deceased’s residence,” said Mukul Kumar Saikia, deputy commissioner (DC), Karbi Anglong.“I’m thankful to SP Deori and the other men who came forward to conduct the last rites to set an example. He and the other three men are in quarantine for a few days as a preventive measure,” he added.Assam has recorded five Covid-19 related deaths till Wednesday. Over 3,000 Covid-19 positive cases have been recorded in the state and nearly 1,100 patients have recovered to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/setting-an-example-men-in-khaki-don-ppe-kits-to-conduct-last-rites-of-covid-19-patient-in-assam/story-Y2nfGxburvZFAP23GNtZFK.html
10-06-2020||India||In Chhattisgarh’s Maoist-hit Dantewada, bank services at tribals’ doorstep||To help the tribals and elderly people living in the Maoist-affected Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh, a host of bank services will now be provided at their doorstep amid a raging coronavirus pandemic.The scheme ‘‘Bank Sangwari Tumcho Dwaar’ was launched by the Dantewada district, which falls under the Bastar parliamentary constituency, last week.Till now, 2541 pensioners out of 18,900, which include widows and elderly people of about 22 villages, have received money at their doorstep under various schemes of Chhattisgarh’s Social Welfare Department.Presently, the program covers six schemes and the administration plans to extend the services to MGNREGA employment payments.Tribal dominated Dantewada is one among the seven districts of the Bastar region.“We have found that tribals, widows and elderly people are travelling through difficult terrains to reach local banks during this pandemic. Some people were walking more than 10 km, hence we decided to launch a program to provide financial services. We also want elderly population to remain indoors during this pandemic,” said Deepak Soni, District Collector, Dantewada.Soni said that due to technological advancements, it is possible to bring all banking facilities at the people’s doorstep.A team of volunteers, “The ‘Danteshwari Mai Mitan’, is helping the people of the district to provide them pension and other banking benefits,” Soni added.The Collector said that the 70 volunteers in the Mitan team have been drawn from community service centres (CSC) and village level entrepreneurs (VLE), who then reach out to the Maoist-hit villages of the district. Most part of Dantewada has no internet connection and hence manual payment has also been made for helping tribals.“Digital payment techniques are used where there is internet while manual payments are made in the forest villages where there is no internet connectivity,” said the Collector.Lauding the initiative, Aayati Nag, 65, said earlier she had to travel five-six km to the nearest bank in Kuakonda from her village in Maharapara for her old-age pension, but things have changed now.“Due to the lockdown it was very difficult to reach the bank but a few days ago some district official came and handed over my pension money at my home,” said Nag.A senior official of the district said since Danteswahri Mitans are locals, they are not obstructed by Maoists and they know the terrain also.Similarly, Mora Devi of Chitalanka village said that due to the lockdown there were long queues in banks and hence it was very difficult. “I had to walk about 4 km and then stand in the queue,” she said.“No one could have imagined banking would be so easy and I am happy to be a part of this service, that is bringing smiles to people,” said Prembati, a Dantewada Mitan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-s-maoist-hit-dantewada-bank-services-at-tribals-doorstep/story-BQCIHzT5BSlbFMhKdcttmI.html
10-06-2020||India||Jharkhand’s first round of mapping shows 70% of migrant workers are skilled||The skill mapping of 2.5 lakh out of the five lakh migrant workers who returned to Jharkhand from different states has revealed that most are skilled and majority of them were engaged in construction, automotive and electronics sectors, government officials said on Wednesday.The exercise is being carried out on the instructions of chief minister Hemant Soren so that workers could be provided employment opportunities according to their skills. But economists are skeptical that the government would be able to provide jobs to all of them. In the first round of skill mapping, Jharkhand government has mapped the skills of 2,50,056 inbound migrant workers till now. Of those surveyed, 1,77,186 or 70% returnees are skilled labourers, while the rest 72,871 are unskilled workers, according to the state government’s assessment.According to the Jharkhand government records, about seven lakh workers, stranded outside the state had registered with the government to return home. Till now, over five lakh migrant workers have returned to Jharkhand since May 1.Jharkhand is among several states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, which have carried out skill mapping of migrant workers in a bid to provide them work within their respective states after their return. The skill of labourers was mapped by dividing them into 52 trades which were further subdivided into 14 sectors. According to first round mapping, a total of 49,942 workers were engaged in various construction works and included painters, masons and carpenters.As many as 34,757 workers have experience in the automotive sector, 22,238 workers in logistics, 21,054 in electronics, 17,291 in apparel, 15,692 in tourism and hospitality and 11,511 in the healthcare sector. Besides, 17,768 workers have experience in beauty wellness, capital goods, financial services, information technology, plumbing, retail and security. But providing job opportunities to such a large scale of migrant returnees will be a major big challenge for the Jharkhand government, said Belgium-born economist Jean Dreze.“I don’t expect the Jharkhand government to provide much employment to skilled workers from its own funds. If it has no money to pay its own employees, how is it going to employ large numbers of extra workers?” Dreze said.Dreze said, “A fair amount of skilled work could be generated under MGNREGS in the form of gram rozgar sevaks, assistant engineers, field assistants, social auditors, computer operators and others. This could also include skilled work for masons and others at worksites. This will also have multiplier effects in the form of helping to increase the overall scale of MGNREGS.” Migrant workers who returned, have already started pleading for jobs for survival. The workers said they would not go back to their workplaces if the Jharkhand government provides them employment.Guddu Yadav, who returned from Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu to Jharkhand’s Palamu district said, “I used to work in a tyre company there and earn Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 a month. We migrated to other states only to earn livelihood for family members. If I get a job here, I would not like to move out of the state,” he said.Another migrant worker, Etoram Tudu, who returned from Kerala, said he has experience in fabrication work. “But, I am ready to work even in MGNREGS. I do not want to go outside leaving my mother alone here,” said Tudu, a resident of Gomia in Bokaro district.Aradhana Patnaik, secretary of the Jharkhand rural development department which carried out the skill mapping said most of the workers would be accommodated in rural development schemes.“The department has chalked out some short and long-term plans for these migrant workers. Bulk workers would be accommodated in various rural development schemes such as MGNREGS and national rural livelihood mission.”She said work demand in MGNREGS has increased more than double in the past fortnight. “On an average, 3-3.5-lakh workers work in MGNREGS per day. However, the workers count reached 6.6-lakh on Tuesday. More than one lakh migrant workers who have completed 14-day quarantine have been engaged in MGNREGS jobs. Many skilled labourers are willing to work in MGNREGS.”Patnaik said the mapping data would be shared with other departments including industry, urban development and information technology and they would also create job opportunities according to the skill of the workers.However, Harishwar Dayal, a Jharkhand- based economist, said, “Providing jobs to all the migrant workers is not an easy task for the government. MGNREGS jobs are not permanent and remuneration is also very poor. Private players will have to pitch in to accommodate skilled workers.”He expects entrepreneurs to make the most of cheap labour in Jharkhand. “I think private players and entrepreneurs would come to Jharkhand to cash in on the opportunity, as they would get labour at a cheap price right now. Industries would also try to pick the skilled workers for their needs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-s-first-round-of-mapping-shows-70-of-migrant-workers-are-skilled/story-t2IXHB0cOBwTZh4m3XLf2N.html
10-06-2020||India||Congress leader Oscar Fernandes in hospital over chest pain complaint||Senior Congress leader and a former Union minister Oscar Fernandes was rushed to a private hospital in Mangalore after he complained of chest pain. He is also fighting kidney and heart related issues.Fernandes, 79, is a sitting Congress Rajya Sabha member.The Congress veteran is being treated at a hospital in Kodialbail in Mangalore. Incidentally, the leader had visited a hospital day before yesterday for a routine check-up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oscar-fernandes-admitted-in-hospital-over-chest-pain/story-rzHP1OzBRedsWA3DttMDkL.html
10-06-2020||India||‘Good news’: Aaditya Thackeray lists Covid-19 stats for Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray shared some good news about the spread of coronavirus in Mumbai, the city hit hardest by the Covid-19 pandemic in India.Thackeray quoted civic body BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to say on Twitter that Mumbai’s Covid-19 fatality rate has lowered to three per cent, which is almost at par with the national averge. Thackeray also said that the discharge rate in the city is now 42 per cent and the rate of doubling of cases in one of the worst-affected areas of Mumbai, Dharavi, has increased to 42 days.The doubling rate - the number of days it takes for positive cases to double - in Mumbai is 24.5 days, as against the national average of 16, Thackeray further said in his tweet. The good news from Municipal Commissioner of @mybmc today:As of yesterday, 1. Mumbai’s doubling rate was at 24.5 (national ave is 16)2. Death Rate has lowered to 3% (almost at par with national ave)3. Discharge rate is 44% 4. Dharavi doubling days at 42 daysMaharashtra is worst-affected in India by the coronavirus disease. The state’s tally crossed the 90,000 mark as 2,259 more infections were reported on Tuesday. Maharashtra’s case count stands at 90,787, of which 43,591 are active ones, according to the state health department.The death toll of the state also reached 3,289 after 120 casualties were reported on Tuesday, of which 49 were in the past two days, while the rest were between May 11 and June 6, clarified the state government.Tuesday was the ninth day wherein the state recorded over 100 deaths. Of them, Mumbai recorded 58, taking its toll to 1,638. The city saw an addition of 1,015 cases on Tuesday.The case count in Mumbai is 51,100. Of these, 26,391 are active cases.The current situation of Covid-19 was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Tuesday evening.The recovery rate in the state is showing constant improvement. It was 26.25% on May 20, and imporved to 29.06% on May 24. It further increased to 43.28% on May 29 after as many as 8,381 patients were reported as recovered following the changes in norms to discharge patients.On Tuesday, it reached 46.96% as 42,638 patients have been discharged so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-news-aaditya-thackeray-lists-covid-19-stats-for-mumbai/story-DxcFpusOTz9l0h44d87zEK.html
10-06-2020||India||22 terrorists, including 8 top commanders, killed in J&K in last 15 days||Twenty-two terrorists, including 8 top commanders, have been killed in the last 15 days in Jammu and Kashmir by security forces, sources said.According to sources, soon after Eid festival operations were stepped up with more vigour focussing on top terror leadership. “This has lead to terrorists being neutralised without any collateral damage,” sources added. Islamic State Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) commander Adil Ahmad Wani and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) cadre Shaheen Ahmad Thoker were killed on May 25 at Khud Hanjipora Kulgam while Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) commander Parvaiz Ahmad Pandith and JeM commander Shakir Ahmed Itoo were neutralised on May 30 at Wanpora Kulgam.Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) group commander Aaqib Ramzan Wani and Awanitpora JeM commander Mohammad Maqbool Chopan killed on June 2 at Saimoo Tral Awantipora.According to sources, on June 3, in a major breakthrough JeM top commander Fauji Bhai, who was a resident of Pakistan, HM top commander Manzoor Ahmad Kar, JeM commander Javaid Ahmad Zargar were neutralised at Kangan Pulwama.HM top commander Ishfaq Ahmad Itoo, JeM top commander Owais Ahmad Malik were killed on June 7 at Reban Shopian. Three HM commanders- Adil Ahmad Mir, Bilal Ahmad Bhat and Sajad Ahmad Wagay were also neutralised in the same encounter.On June 7, HM operation commander Umer Mohiudin Dhobi, LeT top commander Rayees Ahmad Khan along with HM commanders Saqlain Ahmad Wagay and Wakeel Ahmad Naikoo were eliminated at Reban Shopian.Apart from Fauji Bhai, all terrorists were locals of Jammu and Kashmir and most of them hail from districts of Shopian, Kulgam and Pulwama.Meanwhile, sources said in addition to the 18 above terrorists, four more terrorists were neutralised in Rajouri on May 28 from a newly infiltrated group. Three were killed along LoC in Nowshera sector and one in Kalakote who had managed to reach the area after infiltrating from across the border.Three over ground workers (OGW) -- Muzaffer Ahmad Naik, Jan Mohd Najar and Azad Ahmad -- who worked for HM terror outfit were arrested by the Awantipora Police.According to sources, “Pakistan based agencies are engineering and indicating some retaliatory terror attacks through their proxies like TRF, LeT, JeM in the form of IED/standoff/suicide attacks in response to the heavy losses suffered by various terror outfits in last two weeks.”Earlier, Jammu and Kashmir’s Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said that 88 terrorists have been killed this year in around 36 operations. (The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-terrorists-including-8-top-commanders-killed-in-j-k-in-last-15-days/story-aERrjmprj5IVwIWpvaO8OJ.html
10-06-2020||India||‘Unplanned lockdown is worsening farmers’ condition’: Shashi Tharoor||The coronavirus lockdown has pushed India’s farmers in debt and has broken the supply chain, Congress MP and senior leader Shashi Tharoor said on Wednesday. Taking to Twitter, Tharoor said that the farmers’ condition is worsening due to the “unplanned lockdown”. “The condition of our farmers is worsening thanks to the unplanned #lockdown & completely broken supply chain. Last harvest didn’t yield good monetary value since farmers unable to sell,” Tharoor’s tweet read.The minister also added that the economic packages provided by the government have given nothing to the farmers. “They need help!” he posted.Also read: Covid-19: Number of recoveries exceed active cases for first timeThe condition of our farmers is worsening thanks to the unplanned #lockdown & completely broken supply chain. Last harvest didn't yield good monetary value since farmers unable to sell. They are heavily in debt &Govt's package provides them nothing. They need help! #किसान_के_बोलTharoor called for the elimination of the middlemen who he said “are profiting at the expense of our sweat-stained farmers”. “Why should they buy the farm products and exploit both growers and consumers?” he questioned. The Congress leader said that the Food Corporation of India should purchase directly from farmers. The move will “give the aam aadmi cheaper food if parasitical middlemen are eliminated!” he said. Tharoor’s comments came on the sidelines of the Kisan Congress’ ‘Kisan Ke Bol’ social media campaign to raise the voice of the farmers.Last month, while announcing the details of Rs 20 lakh crore economic relief package, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman focussed on funding big-ticket reforms in the agricultural sector.The government recently amended the Essential Commodities Act to enable better price realisation for farmers, resulting in deregulation of prices for foodstuffs including cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions and potatoes.“Farmers can now export or store these commodities as they wish. These are our farmers’ demands pending for nearly 50 years now,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar said while making the announcement earlier this month. “As a result of this, farmers will get good returns,” the minister said, adding that farmers will now be able to sell their produce anywhere and to the highest paying party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unplanned-lockdown-is-worsening-farmers-condition-shashi-tharoor/story-UtvXzG1HC4BRHU9SoyiY0M.html
10-06-2020||India||Delhi Lt Guv may rope in experts for help to ramp up beds for Covid-19 patients||Lt Governor Anil Baijal is learnt to have favoured setting up an expert panel for a quick but detailed prognosis of the coronavirus disease in national capital Delhi to get a clearer picture of its spread over the next few weeks and months. Baijal also wants the experts to guide how the city could rapidly ramp up beds available for Covid-19 patients without compromising on the quality of medical care to patients, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.Baijal’s push to seek expert advice comes after a panel set up by the Arvind Kejriwal government indicated that the city’s Covid-19 count could exceed 5 lakh by July 31.The state’s health department has estimated that the city would need 80,000 beds to treat serious patients by the end of July. Patients who have mild symptoms are advised to isolate themselves at home.In contrast, Delhi has all of nearly 58,000 hospital beds in the government and private sector.As on Tuesday, Delhi had 8,892 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients, 582 ICU beds, 507 ventilators beds and 3,590 oxygenated-supported beds in Covid-designated hospitals.The Aam Aadmi Party government had appointed an expert panel in the early stages of the coronavirus disease. The worst-case scenario that this panel had asked the government to prep for was 1,000 new Covid-19 cases every day.Also read | ‘Delhi L-G Baijal’s orders to be implemented’: CM Kejriwal on hospitals rowSome experts have told the government that the city could expect twice as many cases next week.It was on account of concerns around the projected spike in Covid-19 cases that Arvind Kejriwal’s cabinet had attempted to shut the doors of the city government’s hospitals to patients from outside Delhi.That order was, however, overruled by Anil Baijal who cited Supreme Court rulings that right to health is an integral part of right to life.Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodi had severely criticised the Lt Governor for this decision yesterday. Today, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a video statement that his government would completely abide by Anil Baijal’s decision and moved ahead to battle Covid-19.Set up electronic dashboardsBaijal has, to help patients running around searching for hospital beds, decided to issue orders to all hospitals to install an electronic dashboard at the entrance that would list the occupied and available beds for Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients. The dashboard, which would have to be updated in real time, would also feed hospital beds data to a central control unit to be set up in the Divisional Commissioner’s office.The government had earlier required hospitals to set up flex board at the entrance that would ask patients to download the Delhi Corona mobile app or check the website, www.delhifightscorona.in/beds, set up by the government to check availability of beds.But there have been many complaints that hospitals would indicate that the beds were available, only to turn back patients.Also read | ‘Around 30,000 more Covid-19 cases likely in next 12-15 days’: Delhi health minister||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-lt-guv-may-rope-in-experts-for-help-to-ramp-up-beds-for-covid-19-patients/story-otqpCl9mwELKmO4cEPHQNM.html
10-06-2020||India||On Rahul Gandhi’s China query, Union minister’s advice to Congress leader||Questions on international matters are not to be answered on social media platforms, pointed out Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in pithy advice to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s constant probing of the China question.“Rahul Gandhi should know that on international matters, like China, questions should not be asked on Twitter. He is the same man who asked for evidence after the Balakot airstrikes and 2016 Uri attack,” Ravi Shankar Prasad was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The Congress leader has been tweeting, seeking answers from the Central government on the China aggression in Ladakh. Earlier today, the former Congress president, stepping up the attack, targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on the issue. “The Chinese have walked in and taken our territory in Ladakh. Meanwhile The PM is absolutely silent and has vanished from the scene,” he tweeted.The latest salvo comes even as the Chinese troops at the four standoff points in Ladakh have started thinning out. A Major General-level meeting is also scheduled between the two sides to work out the mechanics of scaling down troops on both sides of the Line of Actual Control.On Tuesday, a group of retired officers of the armed forces deplored Rahul Gandhi’s statements on India-China border issue, terming them as ill-conceived and against national interest.“We, as a group of senior armed forces veterans, strongly deplore the ill-conceived and ill-timed statements and tweets of Rahul Gandhi questioning the handling of India-China border disputes by our armed forces and the Government of India,” the group of nine retired army officers, including Lt Gen Nitin Kohli, Lt Gen R N Singh and Maj Gen M Srivastava, said in a statement.His statements are “patently harmful to our national interest. In the past too, Rahul Gandhi and Congress leaders questioned the Indian armed forces’ ground and air strikes”, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-rahul-gandhi-s-china-query-union-minister-s-advice-to-congress-leader/story-p8i6X5JGyouickSnjA9imN.html
10-06-2020||India||Jama Masjid may have to be closed again due to deteriorating Covid-19 situation in Delhi: Shahi Imam||The historic Jama Masjid in Old Delhi is likely to be temporarily shut again amid fears over the spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the mosque’s Shahi Imam Syed Ahmed Bukhari said on Wednesday, two days after it reopened because of the nationwide easing of lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 in a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak. Bukhari is looking at temporarily shutting down the Jama Masjid because of the spike in Covid-19 positive cases in the national capital, which also led to a personal tragedy for him on Tuesday night, when his personal assistant for over 20 years, Amanullah (57), died at Safdarjung Hospital. “Amanullah was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital on June 3 after he had tested Covid-19 positive. He had a heart condition, diabetes, and also liver ailment. He was at home for the past three-four months, as he wasn’t keeping well,” Bukhari said. An official from the Shahi Imam’s office said on Tuesday night Bukhari had sought the opinion of the people on temporarily shutting down the Jama Masjid until the viral outbreak is reined in.“A message was circulated on Tuesday night seeking people’s opinion on the matter. Most people have been in favour of shutting down the mosque until the Covid-19 crisis blows over. People are airing their views on social media. A decision on this will be taken later in the day, as consultations are on and other mosques may also follow suit,” the official said.On Monday, around 200 people offered namaz at the Jama Masjid after it reopened following the easing of lockdown restrictions.“I’ve also urged other smaller mosques to appeal to people to offer namaz at home. All social gatherings should be strictly avoided, including for offering prayers, as they could turn out to be potentially lethal because of the viral outbreak,” said Bukhari.Delhi reported 1,336 new Covid-19 positive cases till Tuesday night, as the overall tally rose to 31,309, including 905 deaths, the health authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jama-masjid-may-have-to-be-closed-again-due-to-deteriorating-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-shahi-imam/story-o8QuT5jr7ffe4e7q4tkSwL.html
10-06-2020||India||Widespread mask-wearing could prevent Covid-19 second waves, study shows||Population-wide facemask use could push Covid-19 transmission down to controllable levels for national epidemics and could prevent further waves of the pandemic disease when combined with lockdowns, according to a UK study published Wednesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe research, led by scientists at the Britain’s Cambridge and Greenwich Universities, suggests lockdowns alone will not stop the resurgence of the new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, but that even homemade masks can dramatically reduce transmission rates if enough people wear them in public.“Our analyses support the immediate and universal adoption of facemasks by the public,” said Richard Stutt, who co-led the study at Cambridge.He said the findings showed that if widespread mask use were combined with social distancing and some lockdown measures, this could be “an acceptable way of managing the pandemic and re-opening economic activity” long before the development and public availability of an effective vaccine against Covid-19, the respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus.The study’s findings were published in the “Proceedings of the Royal Society A” scientific journal.The World Health Organization updated its guidance on Friday to recommend that governments ask everyone to wear fabric face masks in public areas where there is a risk to reduce the spread of the disease.In this study, researchers linked the dynamics of spread between people with population-level models to assess the effect on the disease’s reproduction rate, or R value, of different scenarios of mask adoption combined with periods of lockdown. The R value measures the average number of people that one infected person will pass the disease on to. An R value above 1 can lead to exponential growth. The study found that if people wear masks whenever they are in public it is twice as effective at reducing the R value than if masks are only worn after symptoms appear. In all scenarios the study looked at, routine facemask use by 50% or more of the population reduced Covid-19 spread to an R of less than 1.0, flattening future disease waves and allowing for less stringent lockdowns.“We have little to lose from the widespread adoption of facemasks, but the gains could be significant,” said Renata Retkute, who co-led the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-mask-wearing-could-prevent-covid-19-second-waves-study-shows/story-spFoW3FdS0ziAIz4WKcBzL.html
10-06-2020||India||Hearing plea against Mumbai Police’s ‘gag order’, high court asks a question||The Bombay high court on Tuesday sought to know if the Mumbai Police intended to extend the order it issued under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) that made criticising the government and its functioning a punishable offence.The court was hearing a petition filed by Navi Mumbai resident and journalist Rajeev Mishra, challenging the May 23 order on the ground that it was violative of the freedom of speech and expression. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 are being issued right from the beginning of the nationwide lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and are being renewed from time to time. Mishra has complained that the order not only prohibited dissemination of fake news, incorrect information and other objectionable content on various social media platforms, but also specifically stated that legal action will be taken against those criticising the state and its functioning in the times of Covid-19.Amongst other directives, the order prohibits any person from inciting mistrust towards government functionaries and their actions taken in order to prevent spread of the disease, thereby causing danger to human health or safety or a disturbance to the public tranquility, the petition said. It specifically stated that any person contravening the order will be prosecuted under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), it added.According to Mishra’s counsel, this “gag” on public speaking against the state government’s functioning was completely in breach of freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by the Constitution and therefore liable to be struck down.However, when the petition came up for hearing on Tuesday, assistant public prosecutor Madhavi Mhatre pointed out that the order under challenge has expired on June 8, and the petition had become infructuous.The bench of justice Ujjal Bhutan and justice Riyaz Chagla sought to know if the police authorities intended to extend the gag by extending the order dated May 23 or by issuing similar order. The bench adjourned the petition till June 23 after the prosecutor sought time to answer the query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hearing-plea-against-mumbai-police-s-gag-order-high-court-asks-a-question/story-6uOR60OtZqBTEjtV3Xv9oL.html
10-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Number of recoveries exceed active cases for first time||The number of recovered Covid-19 patients has exceeded the total active cases in India for the first time on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.India reported close to 10,000 new instances of the infection in the last 24 hours till Wednesday 8 am, pushing the country’s cumulative caseload to over 2.7 lakh.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe country has recorded 279 new fatalities due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 7,745.Also Watch | Covid-19 cases in Delhi to rise from 30k to 500k by July end: Govt The number of active cases in the country stands at 1,33,632, while 1,35,205 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the ministry said.“Thus, 48.99 per cent of the patients have recovered so far,” an official said.Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor in the Department of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine at the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, said the data shows that more and more people are recovering which is as per global trends that 80 per cent are likely to have mild disease and make 100 per cent recovery.“This should provide hope to the people of India at large who are having a mortal fear of the disease. But then this should not make them complacent and people should follow social distancing and sanitization guidelines,” Gupta said.As per global evidence, 80 per cent of Covid cases are mild cases, while remaining 20 per cent may develop complications which would require hospitalisation.  Out of the hospitalized cases of Covid-19 only 5 per cent may require ICU care, an official said.According to the ICMR, a total of 50,61,332 samples have been tested till 9 am on Wednesday, with 1,45,216 samples been tested in the last 24 hours.India currently is the fifth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK, according to data issued by the Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-number-of-recoveries-exceed-active-cases-for-first-time/story-uA0C6zESJTdkl9UQ2lHc2M.html
10-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Delhi L-G Baijal’s orders to be implemented’, says CM Kejriwal on hospitals row and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Delhi L-G Baijal’s orders to be implemented’: CM Kejriwal on hospitals rowUnderscoring that it is not the time for disagreements, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal’s decision to not reserve hospitals exclusively for Delhi residents for Covid-19 treatment will be followed in “letter and spirit”. Read moreLadakh MP delivers biting response to Rahul Gandhi on China-occupied territoryLadakh lawmaker Jamyang Tsering Namgyal has waded into the political back-and-forth between the opposition and the ruling BJP-led government over the India-China border row with a sharp comeback to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Read moreNatural pool ‘untouched’ by humans discovered deep inside a cave in New MexicoIn an incredible moment, a team of explorers discovered a natural pool which may have never been seen by humans, until now. They discovered this pristine water body in Lechuguilla Cave, Carlsbad Caverns National Park, New Mexico, USA. Read moreCovid-19 cases in Delhi to rise from 30k to 500k by July end: GovtHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, cases in Delhi to rise to 500k by July end, 90% of parents unable to pay fee at some private schools in April and May, House considering ‘hybrid’ session for monsoon and more. Watch to know moreRoger Federer to be out of action after knee surgery, expects to return at start of 2021The most successful tennis player in Grand Slam history, Roger Federer, has announced that he will be out of action after undergoing another arthroscopic surgery on his right knee. In a tweet, Federer said that he expects to be back in action at the start of 2021 season. Read moreSushmita Sen was once asked about achieving ‘lesser’ than Priyanka Chopra, Aishwarya Rai. Watch her classy replyWhat is common between Sushmita Sen, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and Priyanka Chopra? The three were beauty pageant winners before breaking into Bollywood. While Sushmita won the Miss Universe title in 1994, Aishwarya and Priyanka were crowned Miss World in 1994 and 2000, respectively. Read moreInside Irrfan Khan’s Mumbai home: Take a look at the interiors, decor of the prolific actor’s abodeOn April 29th, the entire world mourned the loss of Hollywood and Bollywood star Irrfan Khan. The Angrezi Medium actor’s unmatched talent and wit will be a part of us for ages to come. The Life of Pi actor suffered from a colon infection, and had been battling and recovering from cancer since the past few years, and breathed his last in a Mumbai hospital on April 29. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-l-g-baijal-s-orders-to-be-implemented-says-cm-kejriwal-on-hospitals-row-and-all-the-latest-news/story-c3kGKig8LtSdFXe7yAHNQM.html
10-06-2020||India||Jama Masjid might close again in view of ‘deteriorating’ Covid-19 situation in Delhi||The Jama Masjid may have to be closed again in view of the “deteriorating” situation in Delhi due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the mosque’s Shahi Imam Syed Ahmed Bukhari said on Wednesday.The development comes after the Shahi Imam’s secretary Amanullah died due to the novel coronavirus at the Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday night.Delhi recorded 1,366 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally to 31,309, while the death toll mounted to 905, authorities said on Wednesday.“He (Amanullah) had tested positive and was admitted to the Safdarjung Hospital on June 3, where he breathed his last yesterday,” Bukhari said.The Shahi Imam said the opinion of the people has been sought on closing the historic mosque again in view of the surge in the number of novel coronavirus cases in the national capital. “People are giving their views through social media and other channels on closing the Jama Masjid. We may again shut it down for people and limit ‘namaz’ for a few people, in a day or two,” he said.The mosque had opened on June 8 after a gap of over two months with the government allowing further relaxations as part of “Unlock-1”, the first phase of a calibrated exit from the novel coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown. “I have also asked other smaller mosques to appeal to people to stay at home and offer ‘namaz’ instead of going to mosques for it. What is the point of visiting mosques at such a time when the spread of the coronavirus is peaking in Delhi, when we did not do so even during Ramzan and Eid due to the lockdown,” Bukhari said.As religious places along with several other establishments, like shopping malls and offices, opened across the country on June 8, Bukhari asked governments to reconsider their decision in view of the rapid spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jama-masjid-might-close-again-in-view-of-deteriorating-covid-19-situation-in-delhi/story-queN5Sim0CgOpKZ1X0XU7N.html
10-06-2020||India||Ladakh MP delivers biting response to Rahul Gandhi on China-occupied territory||Ladakh lawmaker Jamyang Tsering Namgyal has waded into the political back-and-forth between the opposition and the ruling BJP-led government over the India-China border row with a sharp comeback to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Namgyal, responding to Rahul Gandhi’s tweet asking the government to spell out if the Chinese had occupied Indian territory in Ladakh, replied in the affirmative. But this, he said, had happened in the years that the Congress was in power at the Centre. Starting from 38,000 sq km of Aksai Chin in eastern Ladakh seized by China in the 1962 war.The 34-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker went on to cite three occasions over the 12 years when, according to Namgyal, China had occupied Indian territory.“I hope @RahulGandhi and @INCIndia will agree with my reply based on facts and hopefully they won’t try to mislead again,” he tweeted along with his list of territories that had been occupied by ChinaWatch: Jamyang Tsering Namgyal Vs Rahul Gandhi on China-India faceoff  I hope @RahulGandhi and @INCIndia will agree with my reply based on facts and hopefully they won't try to mislead again.@BJP4India @BJP4JnK @sambitswaraj @JPNadda @blsanthosh @rajnathsingh @PTI_News pic.twitter.com/pAJx1ge2H1The Ladakh MP had shot to fame last year after he delivered an impassioned speech in parliament that underscored how his constituency had been neglected for decades by successive governments that ruled Jammu and Kashmir. Namgyal’s speech put the spotlight on Ladakh, a region that had traditionally been relegated to the background in most debates over the erstwhile state’s special status.Also Read: India, China disengage in three sectors at LAC.Namgyal’s rebuttal to Rahul Gandhi comes at a time the opposition has amped up its attacks on the government over some media reports that claimed Chinese troops had entered inside Indian territory during the ongoing standoff.Gandhi, however, continued to target the government. On Wednesday morning, he aimed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The Chinese have walked in and taken our territory in Ladakh. Meanwhile The PM is absolutely silent and has vanished from the scene,” he tweeted.Gandhi’s fresh attack on Wednesday comes even as Chinese troops at the four standoff points in Ladakh have started thinning out. A Major General-level meeting is also scheduled between the two sides to work out the mechanics of scaling down troops on both sides of the Line of Actual Control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-mp-delivers-biting-response-to-rahul-gandhi-on-china-occupied-territory/story-g4MAH2N8nfgsSoxZE5fO3O.html
10-06-2020||India||UP woman kills her five-year-old son in trans-Ganga area of Prayagraj||In a shocking incident, a woman killed her five-year-old son using a spade on late Tuesday night at Kanauja Kala village under Phulpur police station of trans-Ganga area in Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh. The woman was going to throw the body in the well when she was spotted by her kin. The accused is reported to have been suffering from mental illness and has been taken into custody, police said.Also read: Panic among locals after locusts attack villages of Koraon area of PrayagrajAccording to reports, the accused was married to an auto driver and had three sons with him. She was presently living with her parents at Kanauja village. Late Tuesday night, she killed her five-year-old son with a spade and was going to throw the body in a nearby well when her cousin spotted her. Also read: Furious after married daughter elopes with lover, father hacks 2 to deathOther family members rushed to the scene when the cousin raised an alarm and caught the woman. The boy was pronounced dead by the doctors at a nearby hospital. Superintendent of police, trans-Ganga, NK Singh said primary questioning suggests that she was suffering from some mental illness. An FIR has been lodged in this connection and the child’s body has been sent for autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-woman-kills-her-five-year-old-son-in-trans-ganga-area-of-prayagraj/story-8E3SZwLG6QlVwJEgIrw34K.html
10-06-2020||India||Furious after married daughter elopes with lover, father hacks 2 to death||A man from Haryana, angry after her married daughter eloped with her lover, hacked two people to death in Rajasthan, the police said. One of the persons he killed was the brother of the man her daughter eloped with, the police added.The incident happened in Jhunjhunu district on Monday night.The accused has been identified as Anil Jat. He killed Deepak Kumar (20) and his friend Naresh Kumar (19) while they were sleeping on the terrace of Deepak’s house. Their bodies were found stained in blood by Deepak’s father Rajveer at around 4 am, the police said.Rajveer immediately informed the police about the incident after which dog squad was called for investigation and senior police official also reached the spot. The axe Jat used was also recovered a few metres away from the spot.“During preliminary investigation, it was revealed that the daughter of the accused Anil Jat, native of Mahendragarh district in Haryana, had got married in Lalamandi village of Buhana town. She is allegedly absconding with another son of Rajveer identified as Krishna and things were not good between the two families. On June 2, the in-laws of the Anil’s daughter had reported her missing. We further collected evidence and detained him,” said Gyan Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Buhana (in Jhunjhunu district).The police said that Anil Jat came from Haryana on a bike. “The accused movement’s was also captured in a CCTV placed in Buhana police station area. After his bike got stuck in the partially constructed road, Anil walked till Rajveer’s house and killed both the young men sleeping on the roof. While fleeing the spot the axe fell at some distance from his hand,” Singh added.The official further added that when questioned, Anil said that once he is released from the police custody he would kill the daughter and her lover too. “The accused also wanted to kill Rajveer but he was not able to find him. Jat told that I have lost my prestige in society because of Rajveer’s son and I will take revenge,” the Buhana DSP told.The deceased Deepak had one brother Krishna and one sister. While his sister is married, both brothers were unmarried. Deepak’s along with his best friend Naresh Kumar wanted to get into the armed forces and were preparing for that. The police said that both used to wake-up early in the morning and used to go for jogging together in the village and that’s why Kumar used to sleep at Deepak’s home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/furious-after-married-daughter-elopes-with-lover-father-hacks-2-to-death/story-2Kd3ZyYRX7GI4KAF3s3z7M.html
10-06-2020||India||‘Delhi L-G Baijal’s orders to be implemented’: CM Kejriwal on hospitals row||Underscoring that it is not the time for disagreements, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal’s decision to not reserve hospitals exclusively for Delhi residents for Covid-19 treatment will be followed in “letter and spirit”. “L-G’s directives will be implemented in letter and spirit, this is not the time for disagreements or arguments,” said CM Kejriwal, who tested negative for coronavirus yesterday, at a virtual briefing.On Monday, L-G Baijal overruled the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s decision to reserve hospitals, except those run by the centre, for residents of Delhi. The state government’s decision to test only those showing symptoms of Covid-19 was also overturned, allowing asymptomatic cases and high-risk contacts of a virus patient to be tested. Watch | ‘Delhi will implement Centre’s decision on hospitals’: CM Arvind Kejriwal “We will try our best to make arrangements to provide treatment to all. We all have to fight Covid-19 together,” underlined CM Kejriwal, presenting a united front.The CM, however, did bring out the difficulty in providing beds for Covid-19 treatment, which he termed a “huge challenge” going by the estimates of the rise in coronavirus cases by July end.Baijal, overriding the Delhi government’s decision, drawing from various Supreme Court judgments had impressed upon the government that the right to health is an integral part of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution. In a letter, the L-G’s office said that “Delhi belongs to all” and that none can be denied treatment for not being a resident of the national capital. According to the Delhi government’s projection, there will be 44,000 cases by June 15, one lakh cases by June 30 going up to 2.25 lakh cases by July 15 and 5.5 lakh cases by July 31.“Data shows Covid-19 cases will significantly increase in Delhi in coming days; we have a big challenge ahead,” said Kejriwal. The Centre has already ruled out any community transmission of Covid-19 in the national capital.The CM said the fight against coronavirus has to be turned into a “jan andolan (people’s movement)”, much like the odd-even scheme for vehicles in the city to combat pollution. He said we need to keep in mind three things: wearing masks, washing hands regularly and maintaining social distancing. The people, Kejriwal said, should encourage each other to follow this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/l-g-anil-baijal-s-orders-on-not-reserving-hospitals-for-delhi-residents-will-be-implemented-says-cm-kejriwal/story-hiv6fmeOJ4dNZocgsdIFsJ.html
10-06-2020||India||‘Around 30,000 more Covid-19 cases likely in next 12-15 days’: Delhi health minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that given the prevailing coronavirus situation in the national capital, Delhi is likely to register around 30,000 more Covid-19 cases in the coming 12-15 days. “If one person gets infected, it takes around 2 weeks for him/her to get cured and during this period they infect nearly 2-10 other people. Considering the present situation, it’s expected that in the next 12-15 days, there’ll be around 30,000 more cases,” he said. Orders have been issued to increase no. of beds by 2000 in next 2-3 days. It is expected that we would need 15000 beds by end of June. We will even use space available in banquet halls, hotels&stadiums, if required. We are working accordingly: Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain pic.twitter.com/fQYl8qHuKWThe minister said that the administration has issued an order to increase the number of hospital beds by 2,000 in the next 2-3 days. “It is expected that we would need 15,000 beds by the end of June. We will even use spaces available in banquet halls, hotels and stadiums, if required. We are working accordingly,” Jain said. Also read: Rajasthan to seal its borders after surge in Covid-19 cases#WATCH There is transmission in the community, but if it is community transmission or not that can be declared by Centre only, it is a technical term: Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/ltJV7hYUxaJain said only Central government can declare if the transmission fits the category of community spread or not. “There is transmission in the community, but if it is community transmission or not that can be declared by Centre only, it is a technical term,” he added. On Tuesday, the minister had said that the source of Covid-19 infection is “not known” in nearly half of the fresh cases being reported. He also said that the Kejriwal government is making all the preparations to handle the huge rush of patients estimated by June end.“Epidemiologically, community transmission is the third stage of the infection...In Delhi, of the new cases being reported, in nearly half of these cases, the source of infection is not known,” he said.National capital’s Covid-19 tally rose to 31,309 on Wednesday, 11,861 patients have recovered here while 905 have died due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/around-30-000-more-covid-19-cases-likely-in-next-12-15-days-delhi-health-minister/story-46fSsHRJRDvUL24jprqchL.html
10-06-2020||India||Two firefighters found dead near Assam oil well||The bodies of two firefighters were found on Wednesday morning near the Oil India Limited (OIL) natural gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia district that caught fire on Tuesday.Personnel from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) engaged in rescue operations found the bodies at a pond near the well at Baghjan, which had a blow out on May 27 and spewed gas and condensate for 14 days before it caught fire.“The dead have been identified as Durlov Gogoi, 30, and Tikheswar Gohain, 56. Both used to work as firefighters with OIL and were engaged in controlling the well, which caught fire on Tuesday,” said an NDRF official.“Their bodies were found at 10 am from a pond close to the well. The bodies have been handed over to district officials.”On Tuesday, OIL announced in a statement that only one person, an employee of Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) working at the site, had sustained a minor injury when the fire broke out.The fire broke out a day after three experts from a Singapore-based firm, Alert Disaster Control, reached the site to try to plug the well.The Baghjan well witnessed the blowout while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 metres. A blow out is the uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well when pressure control systems fail.Following the blow out, nearly 2,000 people living near the well were moved to four relief camps. Natural gas and condensate from the well had been flowing “uncontrollably” from May 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-firefighters-found-dead-near-assam-oil-well/story-UCwuX6LALc6tBL5cV9UA3L.html
10-06-2020||India||2 men engaged for painting job stole 4 hard disks from INS Vikrant, caught: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested two persons from Bihar in connection with the last year’s theft of four hard disks and other equipment related to sensitive data from INS Vikrant, the country’s first indigenously-built aircraft carrier, which is being readied in Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) for its commissioning next year.Both the accused were engaged in painting job at the vessel two years ago, NIA authorities said. More details are expected later in the day.Last September, the Kerala Police had registered a case on the basis of a complaint filed by the CSL general manager about the theft and later the probe was transferred to the NIA.The theft had raised serious concerns over a security breach and later a multi-agency probe began, headed by NIA.Four hard disks, memory cards, a processor, and other equipment were stolen from the high-security area after dismantling computers installed on the ship.The theft came to light after the information technology (IT) system developed a snag. There was no closed-circuit TV (CCTV)-led surveillance mechanism since work was still going on at the vessel.NIA authorities had collected fingerprints of over 1,200 people, including the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and CSL employees, contractual workers, and others. The Central investigating agency had also announced a reward of Rs 5 lakh for any information about the theft, as the probe had appeared to have hit a dead end.Several agencies are involved in the building of the aircraft carrier, which is considered to be one of the prestigious defence projects of the country. The theft had not only embarrassed the defence sector, but there were also widespread apprehensions over the pilferage of sensitive data.The commissioning of INS Vikrant by next year will help India join an elite club of five countries, including the United States of America, Russia, China, the United Kingdom, and France, which have built their own carriers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-vikrant-theft-case-nia-arrests-two-persons-from-bihar/story-8mg6hzksVsn51CjvEo4wyN.html
10-06-2020||India||Panic among locals after locusts attack villages of Koraon area of Prayagraj||A swarm of locusts was spotted over villages located in Koraon tehsil of Meja Development block of the district, located around 65 kilometres from Prayagraj city in district’s trans-Yamuna area. The incident created panic among the farmers on late Tuesday night.The swarm, around 3 kilometres wide and 1 kilometre long, spurred the district administration and the agriculture department into action. The administration launched an operation to spray anti-locusts’ chemicals in the fields with the help of four fire tenders, officials stated.A smaller swarm was also spotted near Jhunsi but dissipated soon, they added.Also read: Locals in Rajasthan’s Ajmer clang utensils to keep locusts at bayAs per reports, the locals suddenly saw a huge swarm of locusts late evening near Kalyanpur and Sahajnipur areas of Koraon which grew as the time passed. “Within a few hours, the crop-munching insects were everywhere and I saw them at Ledirai market,” shared a local farmer, Ramdeen.Locals then informed the officials and soon a team of officials including deputy director (agriculture) Vinod Kumar Sharma, district agriculture officer Ashwin Kumar Singh and sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sandeep Kumar Verma reached the spot. After assessing the situation, the officials decided to launch an offensive against the locusts. “Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot. With additional support from tractors of locals, anti-locust chemicals were sprayed. The exercise went for five hours after which the locusts flew away,” said block development officer (BDO) Rama Shankar.Also read: UN body warns of another invasion of locusts in JulyA smaller swarm was also spotted in Jhunsi at Chatnag and Munshi-Ka-Pura village as well as in areas of Badra-Sonauti. The swarm, after some time, proceeded towards Kachari village before disappearing in the night towards West, he added.We believe that the swarm entered Prayagraj from the bordering villages of Madhya Pradesh, the official added.District Magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami said that as there was already an alert sounded against the locusts, the officials and the locals were well aware of steps to be taken in case of an attack by the insects. “All officials reached the spot and were able to take the necessary steps. Villages of Kalyanpur, Itwa and Sohagi were impacted but as no major crops have been planted yet, no major damage is feared barring few vegetable crops. We are keeping a watch on the situation and all neighbouring districts have also been alerted,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panic-among-locals-after-locusts-attack-villages-of-koraon-area-of-prayagraj/story-qjf4r4TiuOaj1r4NZACdqL.html
10-06-2020||India||Assam gas well fire: 2 firefighters killed, flames continue to erupt||Two firefighters who were engaged in controlling a blaze in Assam’s Baghjan were killed on Wednesday. Their bodies were found near the natural gas well that ignited on Tuesday.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) confirmed that the bodies of Durlov Gogoi, 30 and Bikeshwar Gohain, 56, were found from a pond near the well at Baghjan.Meanwhile, flames continue to erupt from the gas well, reported news agency ANI. The fire broke out at the well a day after three experts from Singapore had reached the area to attempt plugging the well.The gas well had been spewing gas and condensate since the blowout began on May 27.Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal has deputed industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary to the site. He also suggested use of Indian Air Force aircraft to douse the fire.“I have apprised Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan about the incident and asked him to take steps to contain the fire and the blowout. Indian Air Force (IAF) can also play a role in controlling the fire and I have asked defence minister Rajnath Singh about it,” he said on Tuesday.Sonowal also asked residents of the area and Tinsukia town, which is 9 km away from the site not to panic and assured all help from the state government.“The fire broke out at 1:40 pm at the site,” said Jayant Bormudoi, senior manager (corporate communication) of OIL.Smoke could be seen billowing from the well several kilometres away from the site close to Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the eco-sensitive Maguri Mottapung wetland.Following the blowout nearly 2,000 people residing near the well were shifted to four relief camps.The Baghjan well suffered the blowout on May 27 while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gas-well-fire-2-firefighters-killed-flames-continue-to-erupt/story-6sVTfH4v9q0787q96jGlGI.html
10-06-2020||India||Rajasthan govt issues clarification, says interstate movement to be ‘regulated’ as Covid-19 cases rise||The Rajasthan government on Wednesday decided to regulate interstate movement in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. The arrangement will be in place for a week. All movement to and from the state will be regulated. No person can enter the state without a ‘No Objection Certificate’ (NOC) from the state or leave without a pass, Director General Of Police, Law and Order, M L Lather said in an order.Rajasthan is the fifth worst-affected state in the country in terms of coronavirus tally after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat.The western state reported 123 new coronavirus infections till 10:30 am on Wednesday, taking its total count to 11, 368, as per the state health department data, ANI reported. This includes 256 deaths from the disease.Directions were issued to all range IGs, SPs, commissioners and deputy commissioners in this regard, officials said.Only those carrying a NOC from a district magistrate or SP, should be allowed to enter the state or those with required passes would be allowed to leave, he said. Lather also directed that check posts be put up at the international airport, railway stations and bus stands. This arrangement will be in force for the next seven days.The order to regulate inter-state movement is an amendment to a previous order on Wednesday morning which said Rajasthan was sealing its borders with neighbouring states. The clarification issued later said that the ‘seal’ should be read as ‘regulated’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-seal-its-borders-after-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-Dhsh1OpnY1zNNrJwi7XjQM.html
10-06-2020||India||‘Over one lakh booked since March 22 for violating Covid-19 lockdown norms’: Maharashtra Police||A total of 124,369 cases have been registered in Maharashtra under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code since March 22  for the violation of coronavirus lockdown norms, Maharashtra Police has stated. Total 80,890 vehicles have been seized by the police till date and fines worth Rs 6,86,47,691 have been collected.Of these, about 846 were arrested in cases of assault on policemen, news agency ANI reported. Maharashtra government has extended Covid-19 lockdown till June 30 but has also rolled out a host of relaxations in its ‘Mission Begin Again’ to gradually get the economic activity in the state back on track.  Also read: Covid-19 cases in Delhi cross 31k, over 90k patients in MaharashtraTotal 124369 cases have been registered under Section 188 of IPC, since 22nd March till today, for violation of #CoronavirusLockdown norms. 846 accused arrested in cases of assault on policemen: Maharashtra Police pic.twitter.com/dg6eAIQ4oWAll markets and shops in Mumbai, which has seen a steady rise in Covid-19 cases, are now allowed to function for “full working hours” except on Sundays, with the city civic body on Tuesday amending its lockdown guidelines in a major relief for citizens.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 90,787 on Wednesday. As many as 3,289 people have died of coronavirus in the state while 42,638 have recovered.Also read: 274 deaths, 9,985 cases in 24 hours - India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 2.76 lakh Mumbai alone has accounted for over 50,000 Covid-19 cases till date. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation officials claimed that it has carried out 2,33,570 coronavirus tests so far in the city.The growth rate of Covid-19 cases in the city between June 1-8 was 3 per cent, but in three civic wards in Western suburbs (P-north, R-north and R-south) the growth rate was over 5 per cent, the BMC said.The national Covid-19 tally on Wednesday jumped to 276,583. According to the latest figures by the Ministry of Health, 135,205 patients have recovered across the country while 7,745 have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-one-lakh-booked-since-march-22-for-violating-covid-19-lockdown-norms-maharashtra-police/story-semTAVkolCKgeIffnILuEN.html
10-06-2020||India||India nearly 11,000 short of Covid-19 tally of fourth worst-hit UK||India is inching towards the Covid-19 tally on the United Kingdom, with record daily cases. India has been recording close to 10,000 cases for eight days and it’s tally reached 2,76,583 on Wednesday, according to the Union health ministry.The number of Covid-19 cases in the UK is 2,87,403, according to the World Health Organisation dashboard.However, India is far behind the UK in terms of fatalities. According to WHO, 40,597 people have succumbed to the coronavirus disease in the UK. In India, the number of fatalities reached 7,745 on Wednesday.The number of cases in the UK have been steadily falling. On Tuesday, it recorded a little over 1,300 cases. In India, the daily increase on June 9 was over 9,500.Britain has allowed some relaxation in the coronavirus enforced lockdown. British business minister Alok Sharma said on Tuesday that retailers will be allowed to reopen on June 15, subject to social distancing guidelines.The announcement, which will only apply in England because Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland set their own policy on lockdown restrictions, had previously been announced, subject to sufficient progress against the coronavirus being made.“This is the latest step in the careful restarting of our economy and will enable high streets up and down the country to spring back to life,” Sharma told reporters.India too announced relaxations to restart the economy after many sectors were shuttered due to the lockdown announced by the government in March to check the spread of the disease.The first of the three-phased lockdown came into effect on Monday (June 8) after which religious places, malls, restaurants etc reopened. Cinema halla, gymnasiums, schools and colleges are still closed and the government will take a call on it in July.India, meanwhile, saw another record addition of nearly 10,000 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The country recorded 9,985 cases in the last 24 hours.According to Union health ministry update at 8 am, the number of active cases in the country are 1,33,632, while those cured or discharged are 1,35,205.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nearly-11-000-short-of-covid-19-tally-of-fourth-worst-hit-uk/story-KApqL3w6uwfcrg1qf3x1lN.html
10-06-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Delhi cross 31,000-mark, over 90,000 patients in Maharashtra: State tally||Coronavirus cases in the country show no sign of abating. The national Covid-19 tally on Wednesday jumped to 276,583. According to the latest figures by the Ministry of Health, 135,205 patients have recovered across the country while 7,745 have lost their lives. The national capital inched towards another grim milestone after Covid-19 cases here crossed the 31,000-mark. Maharashtra, which officially has more Covid-19 cases that China, witnessed its tally zoom to 90,000 on Wednesday. Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan continue to struggle with a high incidence of Covid-19 infections.Also read: 274 deaths, 9,985 cases in 24 hours: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 2.76 lakhMadhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have also seen a surge in Covid-19 numbers. All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands have recovered. Here’s taking a look at the statewise breakup of Covid-19 numbers. The big 5MaharashtraCovid-19 tally here jumped to 90,787 on Wednesday. As many as 3,289 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 42,638 have recovered. Tamil NaduCovid-19 cases have jumped to 34,914 in the southern state. Three hundred and seven people have died of Covid-19 in the state, over 18,000 people have recovered. DelhiIn the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 31,309 on Wednesday, 11,861 patients have recovered here while 905 have died due to Covid-19. Gujarat PM Modi’s home state saw the Covid-19 rise to 21,014 on Wednesday. The state has seen 14,365 people recover from coronavirus while 1,313 people have died.Rajasthan The state has reported 11,245 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 8,328 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 255.Covid-19 spread in other statesMadhya Pradesh has less than 10,000 coronavirus cases while Uttar Pradesh has seen Covid-19 cases jump beyond the 11,000-mark. In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 8,985. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 5,459 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 5,070 Covid-19 cases till date. Karnataka has reported nearly 6,000 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has over 3,900 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 4,300-mark. Haryana nears the 5,500-mark while Odisha has reported over 3,000 cases. Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura and Assam are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. States like Manipur, Chandigarh, Goa, Nagaland, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya, Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Sikkim, Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-delhi-cross-31-000-mark-over-90-000-patients-in-maharashtra-covid-19-state-tally/story-6FkuuvnXUc0uA2jck0HoJP.html
10-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu lawmaker, DMK MLA J Anbazhagan dies due to Covid-19||DMK lawmaker J Anbazhagan died of Covid-19 in a hospital in Chennai on Wednesday morning, his 62nd birthday. The Chepauk- Triplicane MLA was being treated for the coronavirus disease and his condition had turned critical on Monday, according to the doctors treating him. Considered close to DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi, Anbazhagan was the party’s Chennai west district secretary. He had complained of severe acute respiratory distress on June 2 and had tested positive for coronavirus after being hospitalised, according to news agency PTI. He is the first legislator to die of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu. Tamil Nadu is the second-most affected state in the country after Maharashtra with 34,914 Covid-19 cases reported till Tuesday. These include 16,282 active cases and 307 deaths from the virus. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-lawmaker-dmk-mla-j-anbazhagan-dies-due-to-covid-19/story-7LJ6M48we43LvXcniMOjnJ.html
10-06-2020||India||274 deaths, 9,985 cases in 24 hours: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 2.76 lakh||India’s Covid-19 tally saw a record addition of nearly 10,000 cases on Wednesday to cross 2.76 lakh as hundreds more tested positive for the dreaded virus in several states and union territories. The country recorded 9,985 cases in the last 24 hours.According to Union health ministry update at 8 am, the number of active cases in the country are 1,33,632, while those cured or discharged are 1,35,205.Two hundred seventy four people died due to the disease in the last 24 hours, the ministry said.The health ministry said on Tuesday that central teams have been deployed in 15 states and union territories to assist the local administration in containment and management of the outbreak.Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said India is better positioned in the fight against the coronavirus disease in comparison to many countries but cautioned against any complacency.“Let us also not forget the ‘social vaccine’ against Covid-19 through strict adherence of norms of physical distancing, hand hygiene and mask/face covers,” he said on Tuesday.While the single-day nationwide count of cases rose for the eighth consecutive day on Wednesday, the overall tally has risen by more than 75,000 since June 1, which marked the beginning of the exit from the over-two-month-long nationwide lockdown.Under the latest phase of unlocking, malls, religious places and restaurants also reopened on Monday in various states. Offices and several other establishments have also reopened, except in containment areas with high caseloads.The World Health Organization (WHO), meanwhile, said on Tuesday that the coronavirus disease pandemic has been worsening globally and now is not the time for any country to “take its foot off the pedal”.WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said this on Monday, citing what he said was the highest number of new cases seen in a day by the health agency.More than 136,000 new cases were reported worldwide on Sunday, the most in a single day so far, and nearly 75% of them were reported from 10 countries, mostly in the Americas and South Asia, Ghebreyesus said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/274-deaths-9-985-cases-in-24-hours-india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-76-lakh/story-qyElullbncwl7tc9ePDDbO.html
10-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt starts work to construct Laldhang-Chillarkhal motor road||Months after the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) gave its nod for building the Laldhang-Chillarkhal road through the buffer zone Rajaji Tiger Reserve, Uttarakhand government has now started work to construct the motor road.Harak Singh Rawat, state forest minister, met officials last week for the revision of Laldhang-Chilarkhal motor road.“For the benefit of the people of the state, the work of strengthening this road is very important. It is an important link route connecting Kotdwar,” said the minister. In this regard, he instructed the officials to submit practical proposals and action plans for the construction of Lal Dhang-Chilarkhal motor road.He further said that the length and the width of the bridge to be made on the road should be re-evaluated.Also read: Our economy is tourism dependent... I don’t expect many visitors this year - Uttarakhand CMIn January, after going through the recommendations of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) of building underpasses for animals and forest land transfer, the NBWL had approved the proposed road.The Standing Committee of the NBWL recommended the proposal for building the road through the buffer zone of Rajaji Tiger Reserve, an ecologically sensitive area in terms of movement of wildlife, with certain conditions.The conditions were, “Permission for starting the work on the project shall be granted by the state government only when road design is modified as per animal passage plan prepared by project proponent in consultation with state chief wildlife warden on the basis of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) guidelines named Eco-friendly Measures to Mitigate Impacts on Linear Infrastructures on Wildlife.”The NTCA had recommended that as per the guidelines set by the WII, “construction of an elevated road (underpass for animals) with substantial clearance for elephants (8m above ground to provide safe passage) needs to be undertaken for the central stretch of 4.7 kilometres from Chamaraia bend to Siggadi sot.”The recommendations further mentioned that “While planning the elevated road, it should be ensured that at least 100 metres of passageways per kilometre is provided. However, being an elephant dense area, it is suggested to provide one and a half time more permeability which entails a permeable space of 705 metres.”The chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand had then been asked to decide upon the exact location of the 705-metre structure in consultation with field unit and the WII, which can be broken down into smaller structures “with a span of not less than 50 metres at any given location.”Last year in July, the Central Empowered Committee (CEC) of the Supreme Court, after inspecting the Laldhang-Chillarkhal road, had observed that the road construction work violates the Forest (Conservation) Act of 1972.The committee had also found that the state forest department requires clearance under section 38 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 to go ahead with the project.The Supreme Court in June 2019 had put a stay order on all construction work underway on Laldhang-Chillarkhal road passing through what the court termed as an ‘ecologically sensitive’ area.The apex court made the judgment while hearing an application filed with the Central Empowered Committee (CEC) by Delhi-based wildlife activist Rohit Choudhury, ‘to stop construction of road, bridges and culverts’ on the said road.As an interim measure, PV Jayakrishnan, chairman of the CEC in his report stated, “that the construction work on the Laldhang-Chillarkhal road in the Rajaji Tiger Reserve may please be stopped forthwith as it would adversely impact the habitat and wildlife of the ecologically sensitive area.”After the inspection, the CEC in its report had recommended the apex court to direct the state to “withdraw the orders dated 7.12.2018 and 28.12.2018 issued without authority for transfer of forest land for non-forestry use to the State Public Works Department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-starts-work-to-construct-laldhang-chillarkhal-motor-road/story-ESCHoDYBD6Q6nxJwUHr25O.html
10-06-2020||India||Punjab issues fresh guideline for religious places, allows reopening of community kitchens, prasad||The Punjab government on Tuesday allowed distribution of prasad at releigious places and reopening of langars and community kitchens.The order was issued by the state home department. It further said that all necessary precautions and protocols should be followed.“It has now been decided to allow community kitchens, langar and serving of prasad at religious places subject to the conditions that physical distancing norms and all Covid hygiene precautions whie preparing and distributing food shall be strictly followed,” the order said.These places opened in most states on June 8 after the first phase of the relaxations (called Unlock 1) given by the central government came into force. Some of the temples, mosques and other places, however, remained closed on the first day.But the places which opened saw long queues as devotees showed up in a large number.The administration of various places of worship have put elaborate measures in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Many sites have disinfectant tunnels in place to ensure that the devotees are completely disinfected before entering the premises. Delhi’s Bangla Sahib Gurudwara is one of them.The Central government, in its guidelines issued last week, stated that all places of worship that open up will have to ensure social distancing is in place, and sanitise and screen devotees at regular intervals. It also put a bar on the number of people to five who will be allowed inside at a time. The guidelines also specifically mention that only asymptomatic people will be allowed inside these religious places.In line with the Centre’s guidelines, the Punjab government has not allowed cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars theatres, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places to open till June 30. Schools, colleges and educational institutions will not be allowed to open in Unlock 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-issues-fresh-guideline-for-religious-places-allows-reopening-of-community-kitchens-prasad/story-AtOCGWUnBkim4yAIpX6jON.html
10-06-2020||India||‘Allow states to avail extra GSDP borrowing without conditions’: Chhattisgarh CM to Centre||Chhattisgarh chief mnister Bhupesh Baghel has asked Centre to allow states governments to avail the additional borrowing limit of 2% and enhance their resources during the Covid-19 crisis without any conditions. In a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Baghel asked her to reconsider the Centre’s decision to link the increased borrowing limit of states to specific reforms, adding that the economic packages announced by the Centre to deal with Covid-19 crisis and the ensuing lockdown were insufficient to revive the economy. The chief minister said that considering the demand of states, the Centre has allowed an additional borrowing limit of 2 per cent of GSDP, but the state governments are unable to avail the benefit due to non-fulfilment of conditions and norms.“The problem of scarcity of resource remains unchanged for the states and the responsibility of the state government has increased even more as economic packages announced by the Centre to deal with the anomalous situation arising due to the Corona crisis and nationwide lockdown are also insufficient to revive the economy and meet the needs of the common people,” the CM wrote.The CM said that in present crisis it is the states’ priority to provide free food grains to the poor families, regular salary to the salaried people and proper health facilities for all. To provide relief to the people of the state, it is necessary to take prompt and effective action in this direction along with additional financial resources, he added.Baghel further said that automation of fair price shops including installation of POS machines in remote and forest areas is a difficult target for the state to achieve as 14 districts of Chhattisgarh are affected by LWE activities. Similarly, there are many technical hurdles in implementing the DBT system by ending the power subsidy being given to farmers in the agrarian state, he added. The chief minister said that although these reforms are quite important, this does not seem an appropriate time for these changes.“…In the present situation, it is more important that the state governments satisfactorily fulfil the immediate and primary responsibilities of public welfare and requested the union minister to allow the states to avail the additional borrowing limit and enhance their resources during the Covid-19 crisis without any conditions,” the CM said.As part of her final tranche on the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced that an increase in the borrowing limits of states from 3% to 5% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for the year 2020-21, subject to their carrying out specific reforms. Chattisgarh reported 14 new Covidd-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its total count to 1,211, PTI reported quoting a state health official. There are 859 active cases in the state while five people have died of Covid-19. EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-states-to-avail-extra-gsdp-borrowing-without-conditions-chhattisgarh-cm-to-centre/story-XnoKiiLfCFqIiZkfvaBmeP.html
10-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Plea seeks action against Centre for ‘non-compliance’ of J-K’s 4G order and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Plea seeks action against govt for ‘non-compliance’ of J&K 4G orderA non-governmental organisation (NGO) has sought contempt proceedings against the Centre and the local administration for “non-compliance” with the Supreme Court’s May 11 order directing constitution of a special committee to review internet restrictions in Jammu & Kashmir. Read more2 terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s ShopianTwo terrorists were killed in a gunbattle between the security forces and terrorists at a village in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Wednesday. Read moreKerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s daughter Veena to marry DFYI president RiyazKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s daughter Veena is set to marry Democratic Youth Federation of India (DFYI) national president PA Mohamad Riyaz later this month. The marriage will take place on June 15. Read moreProtesters in Oxford demand removal of statue of Cecil RhodesHundreds of protesters in Oxford rallied outside the university’s Oriel College on Tuesday (local time) to demand the removal of a statue of Cecil Rhodes, reported CNN. The long-running campaign to remove the statue has been reinvigorated after the recent Black Lives Matter protests across the world following the death of George Floyd, the report said. Read moreT20 World Cup decision caught in ICC election crossfireFour months away from the T20 World Cup in Australia, a call over its postponement is still to be taken. The ICC will meet virtually yet again on Wednesday, as the sixteen competing nations wait for word on whether the event will go ahead or not. Read moreTwitter Fleets: How to create a post on Android, iOSTwitter just unveiled its ‘Fleets’ feature in India as a part of a test and you might see it appearing on top like Instagram’s Stories. While one can call this as Twitter’s answer to Facebook and Instagram features, it actually has its own set of pros and cons. Read moreMental health, mindfulness, kindness: Tips to help you lead a happier, more fulfilling lifeThe times we are currently living in can be overwhelming occasionally. It is important that we take time to ourselves, to gather our thoughts, regroup and strengthen. Read moreGul Panag gives fans food for thought with throwback beach pic in favourite swimsuit. See hereActor Gul Panag has shared a throwback picture from a recent vacation, but also left her fans with some food for thought. Taking to Instagram, Gul shared a picture of herself at the beach, along with her son, Nihal. Read moreWatch| Sona Mohapatra breaks down: ‘Music industry, artistes are looking at an abyss’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-plea-seeks-action-against-centre-for-non-compliance-of-j-k-s-4g-order-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6IfnOXrYzyJBQ5i2SWhuYO.html
10-06-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh government to run liquor shops amid row with contractors||The Madhya Pradesh government started preparations on Tuesday to run liquor shops whose licences were surrendered by contractors amid a standoff between the two sides on reopening the vends.About 70 per cent contractors have surrendered their licences. They have refused to open their liquor vends for well over two weeks due to poor sale owing to the economic slowdown caused by the coronavirus outbreak. This had put them on a collision course with the BJP government in the state.The state government has now decided to run more than 1,000 liquor shops across the state till it finds new contractors in the rebidding process, as per officials.On Thursday, hearing petitions of liquor contractors, the Madhya Pradesh high court’s Jabalpur bench said that those who want to run the shops as per the state government’s rules should file an affidavit within three days. It allowed the state government to go for rebidding of the remaining shops.As per the officials of the state excise department, additional manpower is required to reopen and run the shops. It has asked the home guard department for assistance in smooth operation of these outlets. The revenue generated from these shops will be deposited in the sub-treasury of the district with the help revenue department officials. In his letter to director general of Home Guard, dated June 7, excise commissioner Rajiv Chandra Dubey said, “Execution of the (bidding) process after closure of liquor shops is expected to take 15 to 30 days. In the circumstances the department will have to run more than 1000 liquor shops. The department doesn’t have sufficient staff to run such a big number of shops. At the same time, the department has to take action to control (sale of) illicit liquor too. Hence, it is requested that home guards be made available to the districts as per their demands.”The places where liquor contractors surrendered their licences include major cities like Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Gwalior too.An excise department official who didn’t want to be named said, “It will take at least 3 to 4 days in making all the preparations for running the shops in the entire state.”In state capital Bhopal, district collector Tarun Kumar Pithode issued an order on Tuesday for 32 shops which make country made liquor and Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) to run. The shops will be run by the excise department personnel with a supervisor assigned to look after groups of two to four shops.Talking to mediapersons, Dubey said, “The process to run the shops has begun and these will be reopened by Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning.” The excise commissioner said that safety norms at the shops like social distancing, sanitisation etc would be ensured.The tug of war between the state government and the contractors has been going on for about a month. The contractors want the licence fees reduced given closure of shops due to Covid-19 and reduced sale after lockdown restrictions were lifted.Liquor shops opened in the state on May 7 after 45 days, but since the state government didn’t concede to the contractors demands to reduce the licence fee, about 30 contractors moved the high court.The state government was expected to have a revenue of about Rs 10,500 crore in the present financial year through auction of liquor shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-government-to-run-liquor-shops-amid-row-with-contractors/story-Q7twCMuxDtYG2TpgWK2gqN.html
10-06-2020||India||Candlelight march taken out in J-K after Cong sarpanch Ajay Pandita was killed by terrorists||A candlelight march was taken out in Jammu on Monday in memory of Ajay Pandita, Congress sarpanch who was killed by terrorists in Anantnag on June 8.Earlier on Monday, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha held a protest and burnt an effigy of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on the killing of Pandita in Jammu and Kashmir.“Pakistani terrorists killed an elected sarpanch out of frustration. We have staged this protest against Imran Khan and terrorists,” said Arun Dev Singh, President BJYM Jammu and Kashmir.On Sunday, unidentified terrorists fired upon Congress sarpanch at Lokbawan, Anantnag. Pandita later succumbed to his injuries at a hospital.“Today at about 6 p.m., some unknown terrorists fired upon one Congress sarpanch identified as Ajay Pandita at Lokbawan, Anantnag who later on succumbed to his injuries at a hospital,” Jammu and Kashmir Police said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/candlelight-march-taken-out-in-j-k-after-cong-sarpanch-ajay-pandita-was-killed-by-terrorists/story-w7b5zLrLh9N5n6BSJbVUEI.html
10-06-2020||India||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s daughter Veena to marry DFYI president Riyaz||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s daughter Veena is set to marry Democratic Youth Federation of India (DFYI) national president PA Mohamad Riyaz later this month.The marriage will take place on June 15. It will be a simple function in Thiruvananthapuram, solemnised under the Special Marriages Act, according to the CM’s family members.Veena is the director of a small IT firm, headquartered in Bengaluru.Riyaz, an advocate by profession, entered politics as member of the Students’ Federation of India. .He had contested the 2009 Lok Sabha election as the CPI (M) candidate from Kozhikode in north Kerala. However, he lost to MK Raghavan of the Congress by a slender margin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-s-daughter-veena-to-marry-dfyi-president-riyaz/story-vXaE5fjp1EH0VtOHKM8FnK.html
10-06-2020||India||From air tickets, free train travel to higher wages, employers try to bring back migrant workers||Hyderabad-based construction major Megha Engineering and Infrastructure s Limited (MEIL) brought back about 1,000 workers who had returned to Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh during the coronavirus lockdown. The firm paid for their train tickets to resume construction work of the Polavaram multi-purpose project on Godavari River in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district, company officials said on Tuesday. Another 1,800 would be brought back soon, they said.MEIL general manager, Satish Angana, said over 3,000 migrant workers had gone back to their native states like Bihar, Jharkhand and Orissa, compelling the company to continue works with the available meagre workers.Also read: Covid-19 cases spike in 6 states as migrants return“Till now, around 1,000 workers had been ferried back to Andhra Pradesh through Shramik Special trains at the company’s expenses. Another 1,800 workers are expected to be brought back shortly,” said another official who was not willing to be quoted. Angana said all these returning workers were tested at special medical camps and are allowed to work.Although the government has relaxed restrictions and allowed industries to reopen from May 3, the production has not increased much because of the shortage of labourers as workers left for their homes after the lockdown commenced from March 25. The Central government informed the Supreme Court last week that close to 10 million workers were sent back to their homes through special Shramik trains that started from May 1.However, as the industries and realty sector resumed operations in full swing from May 17, the employers tried to bring back workers, especially the skilled ones, who were needed to start the work. As workers expressed inability to return in the absence of enough trains, the employers tried to woo them, promising higher wages, better working conditions and even flight and train tickets. Bangalore-based Prestige Group has flown 10 carpenters from Patna to Hyderabad where it has taken up a major real estate project. “One of our contractors booked flight tickets for these 10 carpenters from Patna to Hyderabad. We have to complete the projects before the deadline fixed by the Real Estate Regulatory Authority and deliver the flats to the customers,” a senior vice-president of Prestige Group told a news agency.Bobby Jindal, owner of Balaji processors, a blanket manufacturing firm in Punjab’s Ludhiana, brought back seven of his master craftsmen by air from Patna.“I was left with less than 50 workers at my unit which adversely affected production. I booked air tickets for seven master workers who took a flight from Patna to Delhi and then from Delhi to Sahnewal Airport in Ludhiana last week,” Jindal said, adding that he had also arranged two taxis and booked train tickets for some of the other workers. “I have spent Rs two lakh on bringing 50 workers back in the last few days.”Rahul Verma, who runs a manufacturing unit in Ludhiana, brought his five highly skilled workers back from Bihar who were needed in the casting unit. “For some other workers, I have booked their tickets and paid them to return,” he said.In Rajasthan, from where workers go to other states looking for work, some industry owners have offered to arrange transport for workers to return. Sunil Jain president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), Rajasthan said the real estate and construction sector was facing a 30 to 40% shortage of labourers as a large chunk of labourers has returned home due to the scare of coronavirus and the lockdown. Most of the workers have returned to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand.“I know of some real estate firms that are trying to get labourers back through contractors. Contractors are in touch with the workers and are convincing them to return, assuring them that they will get full work and wages. A few have even sent vehicles to ferry workers back and promised higher wages,” he said.Aseem Kumar, general secretary of the Garment Exporters Association of Rajasthan says the industry was facing up to 70% shortage of labourers and therefore, facing problems in meeting the delivery deadlines. “Some units have offered a 50% increase in wages to deliver pending orders. They are offering higher wages, accommodation and even promising work for the whole year but labourers are not ready to return,” he said, adding that a majority of garment exports from Rajasthan are for Japan, the US, Europe and South America.Charanjit Singh Vishwakarma, former President of United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) in Ludhiana, said he has already sent money to three of his labour contractors in Bihar to bring back workers. “As trains have not fully resumed, the workers are finding it difficult to get confirmed tickets to come via train. The government should start Shramik trains to bring them back,” he said.“Some factory owners have also offered higher salary for workers returning immediately. They are also paying for their train tickets,” Tarsem Jodhan, President of Punjab Mazdoor Union.To revive industrial production in the state, Punjab government last week sent two buses to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to bring back workers. “I have arranged buses to bring back workers to industrial towns,” said Punjab Industries Minister Sham Sunder Arora, after a meeting with industrialists in Ludhiana on last Friday. Rajasthan government has offered to help the industry in getting labourers back from other states, provided industry bears the cost of transportation. Labour secretary, Niraj K Pawan said, “If the industry provides us details of districts from which they want the labourers back, we will coordinate with those states and facilitate the transport of the workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-air-tickets-free-train-travel-to-higher-wages-employers-try-to-bring-back-migrant-workers/story-2lJWPSMriR3O9FnBZ1kjPO.html
10-06-2020||India||Podcast: Vipul Mudgal on India’s Policing Challenge||The police in India, as in America, face a reckoning. From the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests to the Delhi riots and the COVID pandemic, recent events have raised troubling questions about the quality of Indian policing. In 2019, the non-profit Common Cause and the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies issued a report on the “Status of Policing in India.” The report is one of the most comprehensive, empirical examinations of the police on record.  This week on the show, Vipul Mudgal, the Director of Common Cause, joins Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) to discuss the colonial legacy of the Indian police, the personnel and operational challenges ordinary police officers must confront, and the contested role the police have played during the COVID pandemic. Vipul also outlines a reform blueprint for more effective policing. Programming note: This is the very last episode of Season Three of Grand Tamasha. As usual, we are going to take a little time off this summer to recharge our batteries and prepare for a brand-new season of Grand Tamasha, which we will kick-off at the end of the summer. During this break, please send us your feedback, comments, and criticisms. You can contact us on Twitter @MilanV or email the Grand Tamasha team at podcasts@ceip.org.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/podcast-vipul-mudgal-on-india-s-policing-challenge/story-WiHORxfP3FRfeWKW0fJdcI.html
10-06-2020||India||86% Covid-19 cases reported in last 40 days, 76,000 since June 1: Report||Nearly 86 per cent cases of coronavirus disease have been reported in the last 40 days, according to Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan.Also, 84 per cent of the patients died between May and June, Hindustan further reported.May was the worst month for India as far as spread of the disease is concerned. One lakh fifty three thousand cases were reported in the 31 days of May, according to Hindustan.The government issued orders to ease restrictions in the country and restart economic activities from June 1. In these nine days, the country has seen more than 76,000 cases of Covid-19, Hindustan further reported.Under the latest phase of unlocking, malls, religious places and restaurants also reopened on Monday in various states. Offices and several other establishments have also reopened, except in containment areas with high caseloads.India’s Covid-19 tally saw a record addition of nearly 10,000 cases on Tuesday to cross 2.6 lakh as hundreds more tested positive for the dreaded virus in several states and union territories (UTs).The Union health ministry said that central teams have been deployed in 15 states and UTs with districts or municipal bodies witnessing major spurt in cases to assist the local administrations in containment and management of the outbreak.Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said India is better positioned in the Covid-19 fight in comparison to many countries but cautioned against any complacency.“Let us also not forget the ‘social vaccine’ against Covid-19 through strict adherence of norms of physical distancing, hand hygiene and mask/face covers,” he said.India is the fifth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK, according to the Johns Hopkins University data. Globally, more than 71.5 lakh people have tested positive for the virus ever since its emergence in China last December, while more than 4 lakh have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/86-covid-19-cases-reported-in-last-40-days-report/story-0D6NcqhQIKTXx4VQTvbGcL.html
10-06-2020||India||5 terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian||Five terrorists were killed in a gunbattle between the security forces and terrorists at a village in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Wednesday.The encounter began around 1.30 am when Army Police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) began an operation on specific input about presence of militants in the village.These terrorists were believed to be trapped inside a house in Sugoo village, according to police.This is the third encounter in Shopian district since Sunday. Fourteen militants have already been killed in these encounters.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-shopian-third-since-sunday/story-mxjcGcXZx9uprKJcjHJUCM.html
10-06-2020||India||Plea seeks action against govt for ‘non-compliance’ of J&K 4G order||A non-governmental organisation (NGO) has sought contempt proceedings against the Centre and the local administration for “non-compliance” with the Supreme Court’s May 11 order directing constitution of a special committee to review internet restrictions in Jammu & Kashmir.In its plea filed on Monday, the Foundation of Media Professionals, the NGO, said the mobile internet speed was being restricted to 2G on flimsy grounds. “29 days have elapsed since the Supreme Court directed the special committee to ‘immediately’ determine the ‘necessity’ of the continuation of restrictions on internet access in Jammu & Kashmir. However, to the best of the petitioner’s knowledge, no action has been taken by the special committee to consider the necessity and proportionality of the ongoing blanket mobile internet speed,” the plea said.The Supreme Court on May 11 directed constituted of the panel comprising high-level government officers to examine a separate plea for the restoration of the high speed 4G mobile internet services and the necessity to allow faster internet in certain areas.The NGO first approached the Supreme Court in April challenging the Jammu & Kashmir administration March 26 order restricting internet speed to 2G. It had sought restoration of the 4G internet services, saying patients, doctors, and the general public were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories and restrictions about Covid-19 because of the low mobile internet speed.The mobile internet has been restricted to low-speed 2G services since the government eased a communications blackout imposed in August last year. The blackout was among a series of sweeping measures taken to prevent protests against the Centre’s move to divest J&K of its special status and to divide it into two Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-seeks-action-against-govt-for-non-compliance-of-j-k-4g-order/story-seQw8RMIhdklZEHWKviWCL.html
10-06-2020||India||Amit Shah targets Mamata Banerjee on CAA, Covid-19||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday asked the people of West Bengal to give Prime Minister Narendra Modi a chance for the state’s development as he hit out at chief minister Mamata Banerjee saying she would be relegated to a “political refugee” because of her opposition to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).“Change is needed to take Bengal ahead. People, who changed the communist rule expecting development, are now saying that even the communists were better than TMC. They are so upset. You gave communists 34 years and 10 years to Didi [Banerjee]. Now, give a chance to Modi...,” Shah said at his third virtual rally since Sunday. “I appeal to people to give Modi a chance for corruption and violence-free Bengal... you will see an end to violence, corruption, scams, extortion, terror, infiltration, and dynasty politics.” Shah said Banerjee’s “insensitive” reference to special trains for migrant workers as “corona express” would eventually seal her exit.TMC hit back and said BJP has misplaced priorities and was focusing on politics instead of battling Covid-19, dealing with the border stand-off with China and focussing on post-cyclone Amphan relief in West Bengal.“Covid-19 and cyclone Amphan are our focus. But since Shah raised the issue of CAA, we need to say a few things. The rules for CAA had to be notified within six months and the duration ends this week. Now they will seek another six months’ extension and revive the issue in December, which will be barely three months before the polls [in West Bengal]. They care for nothing other than votes,” TMC spokesman Derek O’Brien said.He said their government is faring better than other BJP-ruled states. “According to the report of Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the national unemployment rate is 23.5%, while in Haryana it is 35%, in Madhya Pradesh 27%, in UP 21%, and in Karnataka 20.4%, whereas Bengal has it at 17.4%.”TMC’s youth wing chief, Abhishek Banerjee, targeted the Centre over the border standoff. “As usual the speech of @AmitShah Ji was all rhetoric and no substance. Nonetheless, since he has talked about his dream of seeing ‘EXIT’ of TMC, I would like to ask him one more time - ‘When are the Chinese EXITING our territory’ #BengalRejectsAmitShah,” he tweeted.BJP emerged as TMC’s principal opponent in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls bagging 18 of the state’s 42 seats. TMC won 22. In the 2016 assembly polls, BJP won three of the state’s 294 seats, while TMC got 211.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-targets-mamata-banerjee-on-caa-covid-19/story-0YdrbkEhXKaaD1fyMevSIL.html
10-06-2020||India||IIT Bombay is India’s top university, says 2021 global ranking||The Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, is India’s highest ranked university among top 200 global universities, with Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, and IIT Delhi also figuring in the 200-bracket, according to the QS World University Rankings.The rankings for 2021 are based on six indicators: academic reputation, employer reputation, citations per faculty, faculty/student ratio, international faculty ratio and international student ratio, compilers of the rankings said.IIT Bombay is ranked 172nd, while IISc is 185th and IIT Delhi 193rd. Overall, 21 Indian higher education institutions figure in the top 1000. India’s best research university is IISc, which received a perfect 100/100 on the ‘citations per faculty’ indicator.Other IITs in the top 500 are: Madras (275), Kharagpur (314), Kanpur (350), Roorkee (383) and Guwahati (470).The compilers said that as a group, Indian higher education performs most strongly in measure of research quality, though its universities are failing to increase academic standing, teaching capacity, and levels of internationalisation at the same rate as global competitors.Ben Sowter of QS said: “Though India’s universities have dropped as a group this year, this is frequently because of other universities across the world making increasingly intense efforts to enhance their educational offerings”.“To regain lost ground, Indian higher education must find ways of increasing teaching capacity, and of attracting more talented students and faculty across the world to study in India. There is plenty of potential, and there are pockets of excellence, within the Indian system,” he added. Massachusetts Institute of Technology retains its position as the world’s best university, while the top three institutions remain American: MIT is followed by Stanford University (2nd) and Harvard University (3rd).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-bombay-is-india-s-top-university-says-2021-global-ranking/story-kADAErNt9myO4y46k67W6N.html
10-06-2020||India||Dalit boy killed over prayer at UP temple||Upper caste villagers allegedly shot dead a 17-year-old Dalit boy at Domkhera in Uttar Pradesh’s Amroha district on Saturday night following an argument over puja at a village temple, the teenager’s family said even as police maintained a dispute over money led to the murder. The teenager’s father said that his son and nephew had gone to the village temple on May 31, where one Horam Chauhan and his aides stopped them from offering puja. He added his son argued with them and later filed a police complaint on June 1. The father accused the police of inaction, claiming they did not act on his son’s complaint. He added on Saturday when his son was sleeping outside their house, Chauhan came with his aides and shot him dead. Three people, including Chauhan, have been arrested and raids were being conducted to arrest the other named accused, police said.Amroha police superintendent Vipin Tada insisted the dispute over money was the reason behind the killing. He said the boy’s brother and Chauhan had taken a mango orchard on contract and they parted ways after the dispute over money.  “There was a brief fight over it a few days ago,” added Tada.Police said a case has been registered under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 302 (murder) and under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against Horam Chauhan, Lala Chauhan, Jaiveer and Roshan. Horam Chauhan and Lala Chauhan were arrested on Sunday. Tada said that one Deepak, who was arrested on Monday, allegedly supplied the murder weapon to Horam Chauhan and the two killed the boy while he was sleeping under a tree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-boy-killed-over-prayer-at-up-temple/story-evS5ludyWjLWkJruO9Dk2J.html
10-06-2020||India||Expert clarifies on role of silent spreaders of coronavirus disease||A top World Health Organization (WHO) expert tried to clear up on Tuesday “misunderstandings” about comments she made that were widely understood to suggest that people without symptoms rarely transmit the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a comment that had immediately triggered scepticism from health experts around the world.Maria Van Kerkhove, the UN health agency’s technical lead on the pandemic, insisted that she was referring only to a few studies, not a complete picture, in the comments she made on Monday. On Tuesday, she said there were also studies that showed that the disease could be spread by asymptomatic careers.Van Kerkhove’s remarks on Monday raised questions among outside experts and health officials who have recommended that people wear masks to try to prevent the virus from spreading.“That’s a very small subset of studies,” she said. “I used the phrase ‘very rare’, and I think that that’s (a) misunderstanding to state that asymptomatic transmission globally is very rare. What I was referring to was a subset of studies.”The clarification, which came during a WHO social-media chat, showed questions remain about whether infected people who don’t show symptoms can transmit the virus to others. Critics of the agency have previously pointed to WHO’s position on wearing masks as an example of inadequate policy recommendations. The agency said for months that wearing masks would not contain the virus, a position that it changed last week.A second WHO official, in comments to HT, sought to make a distinction between asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic transmission. “Sars-CoV2 transmission is associated with high virus load in the upper respiratory tract. While a proportion of people (around 15 to 20%) are asymptomatic, most transmission seems to occur from those with symptoms. However, we have to be careful because people can be infectious one to two days before they develop symptoms, so right now it is important for everyone to wear face coverings when they cannot maintain physical distancing,” said Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, WHO, Geneva.On Tuesday, prior to Van Kherkhove’s clarification, experts urged caution. “The knowledge gaps are there but there are too many contradictory statements from there WHO that are confusing countries, particularly those with limited technical capabilities. The latest statement about asymptomatic transmission being rare will create more confusion in an already volatile situation,” said K Sujatha Rao, former health secretary, ministry of health and family welfare.Dr Ashish K Jha, director at the Harvard Global Health Institute, said on Twitter some models “suggest 40-60% of spread is from people when they didn’t have symptoms”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-clarifies-on-role-of-silent-spreaders-of-coronavirus-disease/story-wm9zvNBF2204gjkL5RJwYI.html
10-06-2020||India||Covid-19 cases spike in 6 states as migrants return||Six states — Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha and Assam — that send a large number of migrant workers have shown a sharper rise in cases than the rest of the country, particularly over the last two weeks, data shows.While the total cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in these states have grown 8.2 times since May 1, cases in the rest of the country have grown only 7 times, according to an analysis by HT.The number of daily cases in these six states has seen a huge spike, particularly over the past few weeks when migrants started returning to their home states. All six states have seen a sharp rise over the past three weeks. The weekly average new cases in four of these states – Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Assam and Jharkhand – are currently at an all-time high. Only Bihar and Odisha are currently not at the peak of their outbreak, however they have not reported any significant downturn in new cases as well.Also Read: India, unlocking, is among 15 high-risk nations: StudyTo be sure, these states have also increased their daily testing in the same time period and almost all of the country has seen a major spike in cases in this period as well. So in order to remove these factors from our analysis, we also looked at how the share of cases in these states has changed in the national Covid-19 tally (Chart 2).While these states were contributing 10.5% of total cases in the country on May 1, this number has since increased to almost 12% by June 8. In fact, only 8% of new cases reported across the country in the week between May 1 and May 7 came from these six states. This number has since doubled to 16% in the week between June 2 and June 8. Their share of deaths in the total toll, meanwhile, has grown from 7.4% between May 1 to May 7 to 10% in the week between June 2 and June 8.Finally, we look at the rate of the spread of the virus in the six states (Chart 3). In order to keep comparisons between these states uniform and to compare different stages of the outbreak, we have taken Day 1 as the first day each state reported over 100 cases.We see that four of these states – Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha – have charted very similar trajectories since the time they crossed 100 total cases. The rate of increase started rising only after 30 to 40 days since the start of the larger outbreak. Assam, meanwhile, paints an alarming picture. Only 22 days since reporting its 100th case, the north eastern state has reported close to 3,000 cases. Only Uttar Pradesh (1,337 cases by Day 22) reported more than 800 cases in the same time period.  Jharkhand has been relatively safe. It is the only state among the six considered that has seen a very gradual increase in cases (as can be seen in Chart 3). Forty-three days since it reported its 100th case, Jharkhand reported 1,290 cases. In the same time period, the remaining states had at least two to three times the total number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-spike-in-6-states-as-migrants-return/story-KdaJIXm3QF3FzOYVxIGBpM.html
10-06-2020||India||Migrant workers must be sent home in 15 days, says Supreme Court||States and Union territories received a time-bound mandate on Tuesday from the Supreme Court to ensure the return of all migrant workers stranded by the post-coronavirus lockdown to their home states within a fortnight and to inform the apex court within the same deadline about welfare programmes, including job opportunities, they plan to offer the returnees. A three-member bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan and comprising justices SK Kaul and MR Shah, is expected to pass directions on the matter on July 8, the next date of hearing.To mitigate the plight faced by the migrants, the Supreme Court asked states and Union territories to identify migrant workers who have returned at the district and block levels and prepare an inventory of the vocational skills they possess and their employment history. In addition, they were asked to set up counselling centres to provide the workers information on welfare schemes and employment avenues that are open to them; they will also have to advise workers who want to go back to where they were employed.Millions of workers and daily-wage earners left the big cities and returned to states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal in the aftermath of the lockdown enforced on March 25 to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).These directions follow the May 28 order whereby the court took suo moto (Latin for on its own) cognizance of the hardships faced by migrants returning to their villages. After going through the responses of all states/UTs on the transport of the migrant workers, the bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, SK Kaul and MR Shah said: “Police officers of states, paramilitary forces wherever deployed are doing a commendable job but some instances of excess with regard to migrant labourers are also there.”The court asked the states/UTs to consider withdrawing all prosecution proceedings or complaints lodged against the returning workers for violating the lockdown and norms of social distancing enforced under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.The court also noted lapses on part of the states and central agencies in implementing welfare schemes as pointed out in intervention applications filed by non-government organisations and individuals. The court said in its 38-page order, “We impress on States and Union Territories to streamline the vigilance and supervision of actions of their officers and staff and take appropriate action where required.”On the transportation of migrant workers, the court was convinced that much of the task had been completed, barring in Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat where some migrants are still stranded. The bench said: “We direct that all the States/Union Territories to transport all stranded workers by train, bus or other mode within 15 days from today.” So far, some 9.8 million migrants have been transported by rail and road across the country beginning May 1. Some 171 trains are still lined up for shifting the remaining, still stranded migrants until June 16. The court directed Indian Railways to arrange Shramik Special trains within 24 hours of request by states.Finding gaps in the registration of migrants (in difficulties they face while filling up the registration forms such as language barriers), the court called for a “decentralizing” of the process of registration by providing this facility to stranded migrant workers at police stations and other places of local administration. In addition, states/UTs were asked to publicise journey dates of special trains and buses in local newspapers and television channels.Once they arrive at their destinations, the court directed states to gather details of migrant workers, the nature of their skill, and place of their earlier employment at the village level, block level and district level. Counselling centres would provide these migrants information about government schemes and avenues of employment so that this workforce can be utilised as a resource, the bench said.A list of all such schemes, including employment has to be tendered by Centre and states to the court in two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-must-be-sent-home-in-15-days-says-supreme-court/story-YQsRZroVlJFzUdw2GaTgCL.html
10-06-2020||India||Delhi likely to have 550,000 Covid-19 cases by July 31: Govt||A day after Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal revoked the Delhi government’s order to reserve beds in its hospitals for Delhi residents, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the Capital is likely to have 550,000 Covid-19 cases by July 31, for which 80,000 beds would be needed, and accused the L-G of not having “any plan” for the surge in hospital admissions. The Delhi government also expressed its disappointment over the Centre not declaring that the Capital has reached the community transmission stage, even as health minister Satyendar Jain said they are unable to establish contact tracing in almost 50% of the Covid cases being recorded.The issue of hospital beds turned into a war of words, with the L-G releasing a statement late evening, in which he said that rather than “discriminating between patients, the goal of the government should be to plan and prepare for adequate infrastructure”. “We are all Indians and Delhi belongs to all!” the L-G’s statement read.Kejriwal, in a digital press briefing on Sunday, announced that hospitals under the Delhi government and some private ones will be reserved for the people of Delhi till the Covid-19 crisis subsides. The order was overruled by the L-G on Monday saying that ‘right to health’ has been held as an integral part of ‘right to life’ under the Constitution by the Supreme Court — a point which the L-G office on Tuesday said was clarified to Sisodia and health minister Jain during Tuesday’s meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA). At the meeting, which was chaired by the L-G, Sisodia urged Baijal to reconsider his decision.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is the vice-chairperson of the authority empowered Sisodia to attend the meeting since he was down with Covid-like symptoms, though his test result which came out in the evening was negative. After the meeting, Sisodia told reporters, “We asked the L-G about his predictions on the increase in Covid cases in the coming days. We also asked him how many cases might come from outside. But, he had no answers. We also asked if people from outside come to Delhi, then how many beds would be needed. He had no answer to that as well.”He said, there was, however, a consensus that considering the current doubling rate of 12.6 days, around 5.5 lakh cases are expected in the state by July 31 and 80,000 beds will be needed at that time. “The prediction is based from the time when the borders were sealed due to lockdown and only residents of the state were coming for the treatment in Delhi hospitals. It was considering the surge in Covid cases that the Delhi Cabinet decided to reserve Delhi government and private hospitals for those living in the Capital. Now the decision of opening the hospitals for all will create a lot of obstacles for the people of Delhi,” Sisodia said. Jain said that any given point of time, nearly 50% of patients treated in Delhi’s private hospitals are from outside the state and that in government hospitals, the proportion goes up to nearly 70%. “During the lockdown in both private and government hospitals, the occupancy of people from outside was 10% and only the planned surgeries were happening. This could have been continued for some time but the L-G has not agreed to this,” he said. The L-G responded by saying he is “fully aware” of the need to ramp up medical infrastructure. “In fact, from time to time several ideas and strategies have been discussed in the SDMA meeting chaired by the L-G to augment the medical infrastructure to meet the rising requirement… In today’s SDMA meeting also, ideas e.g. use of spaces like Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, Tyagraj Stadium, JLN Stadium, Pragati Maidan to make large makeshift medical facilities were discussed. It was also decided to utilize banquet halls, marriage places, etc. to ramp up the facilities,” the L-G’s office said.Baijal has also advised the officers concerned to invoke Section 50 of Disaster Management Act, 2005 for expeditious procurement and timely setting up of required infrastructure, it further said. The SDMA meeting also saw a lack of consensus between the Delhi government and the Central government officers over the issue of community spread in Delhi.“The Central government officials present in the meeting said it has not happened yet in the city. So, there is no need to discuss this matter,” Sisodia said.A city is said to have reached the community transmission stage once it is no longer possible to trace the source of infection. Health minister Jain said that the director of AIIMS, Dr Randeep Guleria, has also stated that there is a community spread in the containment zones of Delhi. “On behalf of the state government, we can only say that there is a significant spread but only the Central government can say if it is community spread or not,” said Jain.While health secretary Preeti Sudan did not respond on the matter, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, during a recent interview to HT, has said that Delhi government wasn’t giving the true picture of the Covid situation with labs and doctors being threatened. “Hiding numbers will not do; you have to actively search for cases as part of covid containment strategy,” he said.Two members of a panel constituted by the government to aid in the augmentation of the city’s health care infrastructure said the L-G’s decision to make available beds in Delhi hospitals to those from all states will be detrimental. “The committee has said Delhi will need 40,000 beds by mid-July. These calculations are based solely on Delhi’s population and the number of cases being reported from the city every day. Now, if these facilities were to be utilised by people from neighbouring states, the government will need to arrange thousands more beds over and above the projected requirement,” Dr RK Gupta, a member of the committee and former president of the Delhi Medical Association, said.Dr Arun Gupta, a member of the committee and president of the Delhi Medical Council, said: “Health is a state subject and the government utilises the tax payers’ money on health care services. So a government’s primary responsibility is to the people of Delhi. The Delhi government order only kept aside Delhi government-run hospitals and some private hospitals for its residents; people from neighbouring states could still go to central government-run hospitals, hospitals run by civic bodies, or the super speciality private hospitals. Now, Delhi residents will be at a disadvantage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-likely-to-have-550-000-covid-cases-by-july-31-govt/story-qb5HpnRRZE4d4WE1r89uDI.html
10-06-2020||India||Fourth Delhi Police official dies as Covid-19 takes toll on front-line warriors||A 59-year-old Delhi Police sub-inspector (SI) died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday morning, becoming the fourth city police personnel to succumb to the infection and spotlighting the turmoil within the force struggling with rising cases coupled with falling morale, long working hours and panic among the families of the front-line workers.Karambir Singh was posted as the driver of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Seelampur, Saurabh Chandra, in the city’s northeast district. He developed mild symptoms in the last week of May, after which he remained in quarantine for three to four days, said deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya. “Karambir’s testing report came positive on June 1. He was admitted to Army Base hospital the next day as he was symptomatic. He died during treatment. The ACP’s test was also done but his report is negative,” added Surya. Before Singh, two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs), Shesh Mani Pandey and Vikram died on May 30 and May 31, respectively. Head constable Amit Kumar died on May 5. The two ASIs died during treatment at the Army Base hospital and they were symptomatic. The constable was confirmed to have contracted the virus after his death.Since April, at least 689 Delhi Police personnel have tested positive for the disease and the swift spread of the pathogen has forced authorities to seal at least four police stations. In many of these spots, mini outbreaks of the disease were reported – such as 25 personnel infected in Moti Nagar police station, 10 cases each at Jahangirpuri police station and at Chandni Mahal police station.A number of senior officers -- including deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj and additional DCP (Shahdara) Rohit Rajbir Singh -- were also infected, but have recovered and returned to work. Bhardwaj said she visited city railway stations, where Shramik Special trains for migrant workers were operating, before developing a fever. “For the first five days, I had mild fever but when the temperature started increasing, I got the Covid-19 testing done. I remained in home quarantine and away from my family members and children after being tested positive,” she added.At the beginning of May, the number of cases in the force was 110. The near six-fold rise in one month has spooked junior ranks in the force even as senior officers insist that a foolproof standard operating procedure (SOP) on precautions and reporting virus symptoms has helped in managing the disease. Most of the cases have been reported from the northwest, central, northeast and west districts. “There are few areas which have reported more cases than others. We are taking all due precautions and are regularly advising our staff about the safety protocols against the pandemic. A detailed SOP was drawn way back all unit in-charges are advised to follow the same strictly,” said joint commissioner of police (northern range) Manish Kumar Aggarwal.Still, there are signs that the force is struggling to deal with the disease. On April 23, the department announced it will give ₹1 lakh to patients for treatment. But the amount was decreased to ₹10,000 in the third week of May after the number of cases spiked. The rising number of cases has triggered anxiety among the junior ranks and their families, said a top police official on condition of anonymity. “Many of our police station personnel were worried as they had to visit the containment areas. Some were concerned about their families. but we assured them that our department will take all necessary steps for our well-being,” the officer said.To deal with rising stress and anxiety in the force, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava ordered in April that 33% of staff in police stations and other units would be sent off duty for 10 days on rotation, with preference given to those above 50 or with co-morbidities. But this may not be enough.The Delhi Police comprises 80,000 personnel, roughly 70% of which are engaged in Covid duties that kicked in soon after the government imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25 to arrest the disease’s spread. These duties included enforcing the lockdown, stopping people from stepping out in containment zones, keeping a check on people in home quarantine and in quarantine centres and feeding migrant workers who were on the roads. A second top police officer said the manifold duties meant that work hours soared and many personnel were working for 10-12 hours straight, often without adequate medical protection in the early weeks. “Our duty hours increased because of the multiple works. Though we feel proud being among the front-liners in the fight against Covid-19, our personal safety and safety of our family members always remain a major concern. Our fears increased and the morale came down when police officers we know personally are found positive but we have no choice but to deal with it,” said the officer. To be sure, the police also faces several allegations of excess force being used, especially on the poor and migrants. A third police officer who is the station house officer of a police station said the problems increased once the lockdown was relaxed as crime soared and personnel frequented crime scenes that were sometimes inside containment zones or hot spots. “To solve cases and arrest suspects, we require multiple visits to various areas. This increases the infection risk,” the SHO said. Former Delhi Police commissioner Ajai Raj Sharma said police officers were more vulnerable to the infection as they are front-line workers. “Senior officers should regularly meet the constabularies to increase their morale,” he said. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said police personnel were more vulnerable to infection because they come in contact with a large number of people and no kind of social distancing is possible in policing. “Long working hours, little rest and improper diet increase their stress level and affects their immunity,” he added. To be sure, such problems have plagued police forces in other cities too. In Mumbai, which has 51,000 infections until now, the local police have seen 1,871 of their colleagues contract to the virus while many others have fainted on the streets, collapsed at home or protested after 12-14 hours of gruelling duty under the scorching sun. Despite the rising numbers, Delhi Police say they have a plan to contain the virus spread. This includes reserving beds for police personnel in 10 hospitals and setting up isolation centres for asymptomatic personnel, who are advised to be in home quarantine, but many of whom do not have enough space at home to self-quarantine themselves. A testing centre dedicate for police personnel is operational at Shalimar Bagh with a capacity of testing 50 samples per day. Around 1,500 personnel have already been tested here, said a third police officer privy to the information on condition of anonymity. Six police vehicles have been designated for ferrying personnel to quarantine centres or hospitals from their homes, following all protocols such as wearing PPE kits.“As soon as any symptoms are reported by any personnel, the person is quarantined in a suitable facility - may it be hospital, quarantine centre or home quarantine. The person’s testing is done and based on the outcome contact tracing is done without a delay. The contacts are also isolated and subject to all preventive measures,” said Aggarwal.Joint commissioner of police (southern range) Devesh Chandra Srivastava said that a circular was issued last month that detailed how to work amid the pandemic and avoid coming in physical contact of colleagues and the public. “Focus has been given on the use of technologies to avoid physical contacts. Most of the meetings are now being done through video conferencing,” added Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-delhi-cop-succumbs-to-covid-689-positive-so-far/story-Q9ii68hLqS7vRClICEHbCJ.html
10-06-2020||India||Villages in Goa take to self-imposed Covid lockdowns||PANAJI : As the number of coronavirus cases rise in Goa, villagers in the state have been voluntarily locking themselves up at home and ensuring a complete shutdown of normal activity to ride out the coronavirus pandemic.It began on June 6, when a health worker from Guleli in Sattari, a village located deep in the Western Ghats that line Goa’s eastern fringe with Karnataka, tested positive for the virus. People of the village quickly shut down the few shops in the village and quarantined themselves within their homes. The worker was posted on duty in the port town of Vasco da Gama which has since become a hotspot for the virus.Faster than the disease, the practice soon spread to neighbouring villages like Morlem after cases were found there too and culminated in Keri, a village that lies along the border with Karnataka, self-declaring a four-day shutdown to “break the chain” of the virus. On Tuesday, another village Usgao in the same taluka declared a two-day shutdown.“Yesterday the Keri youth and villagers got together and decided that since the coronavirus has reached close to home. The youth have come forward and called the each panchayat member and explained the plan. This is for our own good and is our own decision,” Laxman Gauns, a panchayat member from the Keri village, said.“We have to break the chain of the virus. So we will remain shut for four days. This is not a government directive or anything, but it is our own choice and decision. Those who work outside the village, they should take their own precautions. We cannot take the law into our own hands and they should make their own choice,” he said.“It’s not as if the virus will disappear within four days but we want to do what we can and also spread awareness,” he added.Cases emerge in rural Goa after health workers -- mainly those associated with the Vasco Urban Health Centre began testing positive. To date 15 health workers have tested positive and five family members related to the health workers also tested positive. Seven hail from the Morlem village neighbouring Keri and one from Guleli.A large number of persons from the villages of Sattari taluka are employed in the health department owing to the ‘benevolence’ of health minister Vishwajit Rane who favours jobs to people from the constituency he represents.Rane asked people to remain calm and promised to ramp up testing. “I have instructed the health officials to conduct tests in these areas to reduce the risk of community spread. I appeal to the people to remain calm as we are closely monitoring the situation in Sattari and Usgao,” he said.Aware of the fear that was building in the state, the Goa government deployed the director of health to brief the media and assure the state that Covid19 is “just like any other respiratory disease.”“There is a lot of fear that has spread and people are scared and they are scaring others too. It is just like any other respiratory disease and if we can take precautions, there will be nothing to worry. Also, as per our numbers, only 5% of patients show symptoms the rest 95% are asymptomatic. We also have a zero mortality rate and a 100% cure rate,” Dr José de Sa, director of health services, said.“There are other communicable diseases in the community, we don’t have to fear. But have to take all precautions and for high risk persons those who are above 65, children less than five and those who have comorbid condition and pregnant women, have to be extra careful. Wear a mask hand washing and routinely follow all precautions,” he said.Propagating the fear were legislators who insisted that the Vasco town in Goa was a fit case for a complete lockdown. While the government has refused to impose a lockdown on the town, traders and sellers voluntarily decided to shut shop citing their own safety. On Tuesday, Goa reported 29 new cases, taking the total to 359, of which 292 cases are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villages-in-goa-take-to-self-imposed-covid-lockdowns/story-kveGMZhZqsZRqKTPiWGb2J.html
10-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Sunday, the world saw around 136,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease — the most in a single day. On Monday, the World Health Organization’s director general Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said this in a media briefing. WHO also warned that the pandemic appears to be accelerating.The number may not be accurate — although it has been widely reported by many respected media outlets without qualification — but the trend is. The New York Times’ database shows 114,990 new cases on Sunday, June 7. The Johns Hopkins database shows around 119,100 cases on Sunday and worldometers.info 113,417.Perhaps, everyone else has it wrong. Or maybe, this is another thing that WHO — it once said masks weren’t required and that there was no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus disease — has gotten wrong.But that wasn’t the strangest thing someone from WHO said on Monday. The organization’s technical lead for Covid-19, Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, said in a briefing that: “It still appears to be rare that an asymptomatic individual actually transmits onward.” Experts reacted cautiously. Some said that, if true, it was a momentous discovery. Others said they’d like WHO to provide more details.It’s been widely accepted so far that asymptomatic individuals — around a third of the infected population, according to some experts; and around a fourth of the infected population in India, according to a study of around 40,000 cases by the Indian Council of Medical Research — pose a big transmission risk. One expert, Dr Ashish Jha, the director of Harvard’s Global Health Institute, took to Twitter and reasoned that perhaps “WHO is drawing a distinction between asymptomatic spread and pre-symptomatic spread” and that “maybe there isn’t a lot of asymptomatic spread but plenty of pre-symptomatic spread”. But he added that “such a statement by WHO should be accompanied by data” and that “WHO should be clearer in communication” (see page 11).WHO partially walked back the comment on Tuesday, but stopped short of a complete retraction (which would have been preferable). As for the trend that WHO did get right, the pandemic does not appear to be slowing down even as the number of cases has exceeded 7 million and the number of deaths 400,000. There are new hot spots that are driving up the number of cases; India, Russia, and Brazil are all hot spots and Latin America would appear to be the next epicentre of the pandemic which, even as it wanes in one geography, starts growing in another (see page 11).Countries and cities affected early by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, are now opening up. Europe appears to be fine; according to a report in the Wall Street Journal that cited the European Centre for Disease Control, infections in early June are 80% lower than the peak seen in early April. Even New York City started opening up earlier this week. Experts say that while the virus seems to have run its course in these countries and cities, scattered flare-ups of infections cannot be ruled out. Many countries have seen these, but barring Singapore and, now, Iran, most have avoided a full-fledged second wave of infections — at least for now.While on the subject of waves, research by the Harvard Medical School, based on satellite images of hospital parking lots in Wuhan and search engine queries for “cough” and “diarrhoea” (both symptoms of Covid-19) suggest that China’s first wave may have started as early as August 2019, Reuters reported on Tuesday. China dismissed the claim as “ridiculous” but it is still not clear how the virus mysteriously emerged in Wuhan in December (see page 11).That is an important piece of the puzzle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-o2tQyy0LFSBrsyPsobhN8H.html
10-06-2020||India||Our economy is tourism dependent... I don’t expect many visitors this year: Uttarakhand CM||The first of the major relaxations as part of India’s three-phase ‘unlocking’ plan following Covid-19 lockdown came into force on Monday. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat spoke to Chetan Chauhan and Neeraj Santoshi about the plan, the pandemic, return of migrants, and revival of the economy. Edited excerpts: What steps have you taken to check the Covid-19 spread?Uttarakhand reported its first case on March 15 when an IFS [Indian Forest Service] trainee officer returned from Spain and tested positive. We Immediately announced school holidays and issued an order regarding work from home in case of government employees. Even before the [national] lockdown was announced from March 25, we had imposed lockdown here on March 23. We identified all the jamaatis [who attended a congregation in Delhi that led to a spike in Covid-19 cases in March] and their contacts, numbering over 1,400, and sent them for quarantine and treatment. We intensified our vigil on borders and started sanitisation drives on Saturdays and Sundays.How are you dealing with the return of migrants, who may have been infected?By May 15, we were moving towards freeing the state from Covid, but then the cases again spiked with the return of the migrants. We expected that cases will spike with migrants returning from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi. But it was important to bring these people back, as the industries and the service sectors they were working in had shut down. In the last two days, comparatively, the Covid-19 cases have come down. Watch | Covid War Room: Uttarakhand CM’s medical & economic plan as India ‘unlocks’What are your plans for the migrants who have returned? As per our survey, the people, who had returned, wanted to return. Now, most of the returnees do not want to go back. We have launched an online portal HOPE through which skilled people of Uttarakhand working or living in any part of the country can upload details regarding their expertise based on which authorities and employers here can take a decision on where and how they can be employed in the state. I have been told that around 6,000 people have uploaded their details.How does the state plan to revive its economy as the country unlocks?Except in Dehradun, we have opened all religious places, hotels, and restaurants. We allowed industries to start operating even before the unlock began. Farming had not stopped. We have started focussing more on agriculture and the allied sectors. The demand for Himalayan products will increase, be it the immunity-boosting herbs, vegetables, fruits, honey, or ayurvedic products.How long will it take to revive the economy?...we have incurred a loss of over Rs 8,000 crore. Our economy is primarily dependent on tourism. And the way the situation is emerging, despite unlock, people are still apprehensive. Our main tourism season is from April to June. During monsoons and after, tourists hardly come here. I do not see many tourists coming here this year.Does Uttarakhand have any plans to promote Ayurvedic and Himalayan products?The demand for herbs and medicinal plants has soared. Take the example of herb Giloy, which was available earlier for Rs 10 per kg. Now, it is available at Rs 50. Likewise, the demand for fruits and vegetables has increased. Products like honey and golden trout, most of which are unseasonal, are in great demand. We have especially focussed on herbs. Under Mukhyamantri Swarojgar Yojana, we have identified 150 employment avenues. People who opt for this scheme will get subsidised loans to start their own ventures for producing Himalayan products. We are focussing on hilly areas, where we have started rural growth centres, where local people will be facilitated to start their own ventures using local resources without harming the environment. So overall, we will be focussing on branding, grading and value addition of our Himalayan products. We are also developing a cluster approach for developing and promoting local Himalayan products. So far, we have identified 10,000 clusters in the state related to agriculture, horticulture, aromatic plants, fisheries, medicinal plants.What are apprehensions related to tourism and pilgrimage to Char Dham?We have opened all religious places except for Char Dham and the ones in Dehradun as the priests are apprehensive. I have told officials and public representatives to talk to them. We want to start Char Dham yatra in a limited way... People are apprehensive about tourists and we need to tell people that they need to learn to live with the virus. We are working on this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-economy-is-tourism-dependent-i-don-t-expect-many-visitors-this-year-u-khand-cm/story-kGKkbU2JldHc4dHwR95zTJ.html
10-06-2020||India||India, unlocking, is among 15 high-risk nations: Study||India is among a group of 15 high-risk countries where relaxing lockdowns could lead to a spike in new infections, creating a situation which, “in the extreme case”, could lead to stringent curbs being re-imposed, an analysis by securities research firm Nomura has said.The analysis, which covers 45 major economies, takes into account case trajectories and mobility trends to determine the impact movement of people will have on new cases. “Our visual tool has yielded a mixed bag of results: 17 countries are on track with respect to reopening economies with no sign of second wave; 13 countries showing some tentative warning signs; and 15 countries in danger zone of being most at risk of a second wave” the report said.According to the analysis, lifting lockdowns will lead to either of two potential scenarios. “In the first (good) scenario, a country or US state experiences a quick recovery in people mobility. Lockdown measures become relaxed, and businesses resume operations with minimal increases in the number of new daily cases, resulting in an ease in public fear and further increase in people mobility. As the number of new cases declines, a positive feed-back loops kicks in,” the analysis said.“On the other hand, the second (bad) scenario is characterised by a much ‘flatter’ curve. The reopening of the economy is associated with an acceleration in the number of new daily infections, growing public fear and ceasing people mobility; in extreme cases, lockdowns would be reimposed,” it added.The analysis divides the 45 countries into three groups: those ‘on track’, facing ‘warning signs’, or are in the ‘danger zone’. India falls in the danger zone, along with several other low-to-middle income countries such as Indonesia, Chile and Pakistan. Some of the advanced economies in this group are Sweden, Singapore, South Africa and Canada.Among those on track are France, Italy and South Korea, while countries like Germany, United States and United Kingdom face risks. The projections come at a time when most of these nations are easing restrictions in order to allow people to get back to work following what has been an unprecedented erosion of earnings and employment in many regions. The World Health Organization urged countries to press on with efforts to contain the virus and that now “is not the time for any country to take its foot off the pedal”. In India, malls, restaurants and religious places opened on Monday for the first time since March 25 as most parts of the country rolled out new guidelines that are part of the government’s “unlocking” plan. Economists have expressed concerns that another lockdown of the nature seen before the unlock measures kicked in will not be feasible unless the government announces adequate interventions to protect jobs and earnings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-unlocking-is-among-15-high-risk-nations-study/story-qv9MXw9Sv5ccLlVD9pe1VK.html
10-06-2020||India||Maharashtra crosses 90,000 Covid-19 case mark||Maharashtra crossed the 90,000 mark of Covid-19 cases with 2,259 new infections reported on Tuesday even as authorities in Mumbai expressed concern about the spread of the virus in the western suburbs of the coastal city.The case tally in the state stood at 90,787. Tuesday was ninth day when the state recorded more than 100 deaths in one day. Mumbai recorded 58 deaths, taking its toll of fatalities to 1,638. The city logged 1,015 cases on Tuesday, taking its case tally to 51,110As part of ‘Mission Begin Again’ to unlock restrictions in phases, the state government has allowed private offices in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to operate at 10% of its workforce or 10 employees (whichever is higher) from Monday.This relaxation, along with the resumption of Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus services, saw more people and traffic snarls on roads in the city. Last week, the state also allowed physical activities such as jogging, running and non-essential shops to operate on alternate days in red zones (excluding containment areas).“We are closely monitoring the situation as cases may surge following maximum relaxations in lockdown given so far even in red zones. We are more worried of second wave that has hit countries like China and South Korea following relaxations. It will spark panic among people and the state may have to reconsider its decision on giving relaxations,” said a senior minister, wishing not to be named.The current situation of Covid-19 was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Tuesday evening. ‘We are also expecting curve to flatten by this month end if things remained under our control. After this, decline in cases will start,” added the minister.But there was a new cause for concern in Mumbai.While the average growth rate of Covid-19 cases in the city dipped to 2.93 per cent, three wards in the western suburbs covering areas like Malad, Kandivali, Borivali and Dahisar presented a problem for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). While the rate of growth of the disease across the city was between one and four per cent, the rate in wards PN (Malad), RS (Kandivali, RN (Dahisar, Borivali) stood above five per cent.According to the BMC’s data, three wards -- covering Malad, Kandivali, Dahisar and parts of Borivali -- have over 4,000 Covid-19 cases.According to BMC officials, the growth rate in these three wards is high given that cases are now being reported from pockets in the city that had no cases initially. A BMC official said, “The recovering rate of the three wards including PN, RN and RS is also between 25 to 33 per cent which indicates that the cases have increased in the past few days.”Sanjay Kurhade, assistant municipal commissioner of RS Ward that covers Kandivali, said, “It is a universal strategy for tracing more, quarantining and testing more focused suspects, and due to this there is no separate strategy as such, but the growth rate is high also because we are having pockets where there were no cases earlier, but we are having cases now. Hence, our focus on such areas.”Kurhade added, “Slums are having a major chunk of focus when it comes to tracing and quarantining maximum people. There were few slum pockets where the downfall has started and things are under control there, but new pockets are emerging that are in a way contributing to the increased growth rate. Our focus currently is on areas like Poisar and Hanuman Nagar where cases have started reporting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-crosses-90-000-covid-case-mark/story-yqChR6CfmAuBSw4PTDZKvI.html
10-06-2020||India||Monsoon session could see online participation by MPs||The monsoon session of Parliament could see some members of Parliament in the house and others online -- a sort of hybrid seating -- so as to ensure that legislative business goes on without compromising on social distancing, officials of both houses involved in planning the session said on condition of anonymity. The last day Parliament sat was on March 24; the national lockdown , aimed at slowing the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, was imposed on March 25. The last phase of the lockdown ended on May 31; India is now in what the government calls Unlock 1.0, with more activities and air and rail travel resuming. The monsoon session typically starts in the first week of July. The plan being considered involves physical attendance of only those members whose participation in items of business is required on a particular day. Members of Parliament who have given notices to mention issues, have questions scheduled against their names, or have been nominated by the party to participate in debates will get preference to sit in the House.Those, who have no scheduled business against their name will participate digitally.At this stage, this is just a plan under consideration and a final call on the monsoon session and how it should be conducted will be taken by the union government, one of the officials said. The idea of a hybrid sitting of Parliament came up during a virtual meeting attended by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu , Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, and senior officials of both Houses on Tuesday. While reviewing options for the monsoon session, the officials pointed out that if the Indian Parliament has to maintain the prescribed social distancing norms, even the Central Hall of Parliament or Vigyan Bhavan’s plenary hall can’t accommodate all Lok Sabha members at a time.Given that, “an option discussed was to enable attendance in the Chambers of both the Houses of only those many members who can be accommodated as per the social distancing norm by drawing up lists of such members whose participation in various items of business is required on a daily basis,” said a second official official. “Officials were asked to examine in detail various issues related to enabling virtual participation of members in the proceedings of both the Houses including the maximum capacity available for enabling such virtual participation and the feasibility,” this person added. The original plan was to shift the Rajya Sabha to the Lok Sabha and hold the session of the Lower House in the more spacious Central Hall or even in Vigyan Bhavan.But if the members were to adhere strictly to social distancing norms, the Central Hall can accommodate not more than 200 people while the Rajya Sabha can accommodate about 60 MPs. They further said that “even if the Members were to be accommodated in the galleries (the chamber has galleries for public, diplomats and press), the total seating capacity would be much less than the required, if all members were to be accommodated.”Meanwhile, the plan to take the session entirely online has hit a technical hurdle. The NIC, government’s IT arm, has informed that it can only accommodate 600 participants for any virtual conference.A senior official of the Lok Sabha pointed out that it would be extremely difficult to request some MPs to go online in the hybrid plan, as almost all MPs would prefer to come to the House. “If the government brings any contentious bill, or if there is a discussion on issues such as Covid management of Indian economy, do you think the Opposition MPs would watch the proceeding online? If there is a voting on any bill, how will MPs participate?”Two former officials of Indian Parliament said that the government should wait for the Covid curve to flatten and only then think of holding a session.One of them pointed out that the Indian Constitution allows a six-month gap between the last day of the previous session and the first day of the next parliament. “The government has enough time till September to hold the monsoon session,” added this person who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-could-see-online-participation-by-mps/story-Kr9f4LpqSzCFDkstW33HTM.html
10-06-2020||India||Surpassed Punjab in procurement of wheat, says Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh claimed to have surpassed Punjab in wheat procurement this rabi harvest season, to become the top state to procure the grain. The government said in an official communiqué that it had procured over 12 million metric tonnes of wheat by June 8.“Madhya Pradesh has reached the first position in the country in procurement of wheat on support price. Punjab ranks second in the country. Thus, 33% of the total wheat procured by all the states of the country has been procured in Madhya Pradesh,” the statement said. “As much as 38,654,000 metric tonnes of wheat have been procured throughout the country. Wheat procurement in Madhya Pradesh has increased by 74% as compared to that of the last year. Last year 73.69 lakh metric tonnes wheat was procured in Madhya Pradesh on support price.”Principal secretary, Food and Civil Supply Shivshekhar Shukla said, “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan gave top priority to the management of wheat procurement. In 75 consecutive meetings conducted by the CM from March 23, wheat procurement was reviewed daily. Leaving behind the hurdles of Corona lockdown and Nisarga cyclone impact the procurement team, Corona warriors and farmers of Madhya Pradesh made concerted efforts in this gigantic task.”The principal secretary said the government formulated an effective strategy for wheat procurement. All arrangements were made while procurement started late on April 15 due to Corona situation. Government made arrangements for additional gunny bags and storage immediately.“The biggest challenge was to ensure more procurement in a short time from more farmers. For this, the number of procurement centres was increased from 3545 last year to 4529 centres this year. While adhering to social distancing, the system of sending SMS to farmers was ensured so that only those who received the SMS reached the procurement centre. For the first time, in view of the challenge of completing procurement at the appropriate time, the facility to determine the SMS number at each centre was given to the collectors. At least 75 lakh SMSes were sent to farmers to ensure their awareness about Corona and other related information”, said the principal secretary.On Food Corporation of India (FCI) portal not showing the figures as being claimed by the state government the principal secretary said, “The FCI data on its web portal shows Punjab ahead but its data is yet to be updated. Wheat procurement process in Punjab came to an end on May 31 for this year, hence there is no chance of any further increase in Punjab procurement figure whereas in Madhya Pradesh procurement will go on up to June 15.”The FCI data shows that the government will have enough wheat to maintain steady food stocks to enable that the government is able to run different food schemes including Public Distribution System (PDS) during Covid pandemic, in which the government has increased supply of subsidised food grains to the poor and needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surpassed-punjab-in-procurement-of-wheat-says-mp/story-Fojb3BPjUA70LoDRNNm2MJ.html
10-06-2020||India||Police suspect former Kerala Ranji player’s death a murder, son detained||Former Kerala Ranji Trophy player Jayamohan Thambi’s (64) death is suspected to be a case of murder, said Kerala police on Tuesday, adding his son has been detained for questioning in the case. Thambi was found dead in his Thiruvananthapuram house on Monday. His body was two-days old and was found in a decomposed state. He was staying with his son, who later told police that he was not aware of his death. In post-mortem, it was found that Thambi died of a serious head injury and police also found some traces of a struggle in the report. Police suspect that the injury was allegedly inflicted by his son who is said to be an alcoholic. Though odour emanated from the two-day old decomposing body, his son who was found in the house in a drunken stupor, told police that he had no idea how his father died. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Police have started questioning his son Aswin Thampy. Jayamohan’s wife had predeceased him. A wicket keeper batsman, Thambi had donned Kerala’s jersey in many first- class matches between 1979 and 83. Later, he joined the State Bank of Travancore and held many positions. He is survived by two sons, his first son is settled in Bengaluru. His other family members refused to comment saying a police investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-suspect-former-kerala-ranji-player-s-death-a-murder-son-detained/story-1MXA4EyeQacOon7x7Zk4CO.html
10-06-2020||India||Ministries sanitise as employees test Covid-19 positive||With the number of cases of the coronavirus disease in Delhi continuing to rise, the corridors of government haven’t been spared, causing some consternation among officials.For instance, on Monday, officials at the law ministry reached Shastri Bhawan, where their office ids located, only to encounter a circular that said three more of their colleagues had tested positive for Covid-19. That added to three other cases, including that of a joint secretary, that had already been reported.“There was concern among a lot of us. It seems even in these top offices, the attempt to control the pandemic are not proving very successful. So of their own initiative around twenty law ministry employees went and got themselves tested in a Delhi hospital. Their results are yet to come,” said an official who asked not to be named. HT couldn’t confirm this and it isn’t immediately clear how they got around guidelines and infrastructural bottlenecks that make testing in the capital a testing exercise.Still, the law ministry is better off than the labour ministry in the neighboring Shram Shakti Bhawan in Lutyens’ Delhi.An official memorandum released by the labour ministry on Monday carried a long list of employees of the ministry who had tested positive: 22 in all. “It is like a case of community spread within the ministry,” said the official cited above.Several other ministries in the venerable Shastri Bhawan and government departments have had their corridors sealed and offices sanitized with employees, and their drivers or relatives testing positive.There have been many such cases of indirect contact -- the driver of a joint secretary in the culture ministry or the daughter of an employee in the social justice ministryThe coal ministry saw the death of a section officer due to Covid on May 27.On Sunday, a key official responsible for the government’s communication outreach, Principal Director General of the Press Information Bureau (PIB) K S Dhatwalia tested positve and was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Ministries are trying to take steps to control the spread of the pandemic by calling fewer employees, ensuring social distancing, and regular sanitization.The department of administrative reforms and public grievances issued a circular detailing the steps that need to be taken. The circular took note of the rising number of cases among government servants and also the instances of deaths.It suggested washing hands every half an hour, disinfecting electrical switches, door knobs, elevator buttons, wearing face masks and not calling anyone even with mild cough to office. Other ministries too are trying to take precautions yet the last few days have been quite testing.“The situation is not pleasant at all. However, there is the compulsion to carry on the work. We have to take it in our stride, it is now like an occupational hazard. Often bureaucrats as they make policies are accused of not knowing ground realities. Now with so many cases in our buildings, at least, we can’t be accused of not knowing the situation on the ground,” said another official who spoke on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministries-sanitise-as-employees-test-ve/story-UIttkKGmPmNQ4g9v0cAkXN.html
10-06-2020||India||As migrant workers return, state govts gear up to control Covid-19 spread||West Bengal has reported the fastest increase in the Covid-19 cases since June 1 followed by Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar, according to the data from the state health departments. These states have received the maximum number of migrant workers left jobless by the Covid-19 lockdown in industrial states like Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana and Karnataka.The Centre on May 30 released details of the first of a three-phase plan - Unlock 1.0 - to lift stringent restrictions imposed over two months ago to stop the spread of the Covid-19 and allowed unrestricted interstate movement from June 1. According to an affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court, around 10 million migrant workers had returned to the states like Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand on special Shramik trains till the first week of June from May 1, when the special railway services were started.The return of the migrant workers has been cited among the reasons for the spike in the Covid cases in these states even though they are still lesser than those in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. As the lockdown restrictions have been eased since June 1, the increase in Covid cases is much higher in the states that received a large number of migrant workers than Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan.In the first eight days of June, West Bengal recorded about 3,300 new cases as compared to 1,042 in the last eight days of May. The cases in Jharkhand increased from 360 to 610 in the last eight days of May. In the first eight days of June, the cases went up to 1,290 there. Similarly, Covid cases in Odisha increased to 2,994 from 1,948 on May 31. The number was 1,335 on May 24. The pace of increase in cases in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh from June 1 to June 8 (between 8 to 6%) was not as high as in West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha but was higher than the western states.“The cases have increased because of the migrant workers, who account for 72% of the total cases. In fact, their contribution has increased from about 66% in last week of May to 72% now,” said Bihar’s health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh. He added two million migrants have arrived in the state on 1,491 Shramik Special trains between May 3 and June 5.A Madhya Pradesh health department official, who did not want to be named, said, “Though the recovery rate has gone up to more than 65%, there is no reduction in the number of positive cases being reported daily....” He added that this was even as major cities like Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur are still under lockdown.Jharkhand health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said a large number of untested samples had piled up (over 13,000 as on June 1). “Their results started coming in the first week of June, a reason for the increase in the cases.”Dr DK Singh, director of government-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, said, “Only a target group [in the quarantine centres] are being tested. Samples are not coming from the community as a whole. So it is difficult to assess the actual effect of unlock-1 when movements within the cities, towns and villages started.”Odisha government officials said over the last 15 days, 80% of 1,557 cases have been detected in quarantine centres housing migrant workers. “What is worrying is that new cases have emerged from rural areas of Odisha,” said a health official on condition of anonymity.In Bengal, ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) blamed the Centre for the spike from 3,816 cases on May 25 to 8,613 on June 8. “I would like to ask the Union government, who runs the Indian Railways? Who packed the migrant workers in the trains like cattle?” TMC spokesman Derek O’Brien said. Bharatiya Janata Party state unit chief, Dalip Ghosh, accused the state government of mismanagement and fudging data to hide the real picture. “The situation is really bad due to the failure of the TMC government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-workers-return-state-govts-gear-up-to-control-spread/story-sof1MtaZSLp3h3EkhNtLEI.html
10-06-2020||India||Centre deploys teams to 15 states to help manage Covid-19 crisis||The Centre has deployed a three-member multi-disciplinary team each in 50 districts of 15 states that are laden under a high burden of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for direct monitoring of the situation, and assist in the management of the pandemic.The 15 states that have reported a surge in cases over the past few weeks are Maharashtra (7 districts), Telangana (4), Tamil Nadu (7), Rajasthan (5), Assam (6), Haryana (4), Gujarat (3), Karnataka (4), Uttarakhand (3), Madhya Pradesh (5), West Bengal (3), Delhi (3), Bihar (4), Uttar Pradesh (4), and Odisha (5).“There are about 15 states where large clustering has been reported in some districts that needs meticulous implementation of containment strategies. The teams will review the situation, and look into ways that can be adopted for better containment and clinical management of cases. They will be in direct contact with the respective state governments on ground to chalk-out areas-specific plans,” said a health ministry official.The three-member teams consist of two public health experts—an epidemiologist and a clinician— and a senior joint secretary level nodal officer for handholding states on administrative matters related to Covid-19 management and also technical support for assisting in containment measures.“Whatever bottlenecks are faced on ground in terms of getting approvals to follow certain protocols or specific measures needed to manage the situation it will be quickly addressed,” said the official, who requested anonymityThe health ministry in a statement also said, “These teams are working in the field and visiting health care facilities to support the State health department in implementation of containment measures and efficient treatment/clinical management of cases within the districts/cities.”“In order to ensure better coordination, quick action on the ground, adoption of a more granular strategy, it is proposed that these districts/municipalities should regularly remain in touch with central teams which are already coordinating with the States. Such frequent interaction would further strengthen the surveillance, containment, testing and treatment related action on the ground,” the statement said.The focus areas of the teams are to address gaps mainly in testing, especially low tests that are performed on per million population, high confirmation rates, risk of capacity shortfall over the next two months and potential bed shortage, apart from looking at the growing case fatality rate, high doubling rate, sudden spike in active cases, etc.Many districts and municipalities have already constituted a dedicated core team at the district level consisting of district level medical and administrative officials to coordinate over regular basis directly with the central team for better flow of information.Experts say area-specific strategies should have been started early on when there was noticed a surge in cases.“That is how epidemics are contained by going back to the drawing board and devising strategies that are specific to a particular geographical area. What works in one state may not work in another, so the plan has to created accordingly. And there should be no communication loss between the centre and the states when dealing with an outbreak situation,” says Dr Jacob John, former head of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore. As the lockdown is being lifted, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan urged everyone to download the Aarogya Setu app to help in self risk assessment and in protection against the disease while chairing the 16th meeting of the high-level group of ministers (GoM) on Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday.At least 1.25 billion people in the country have already downloaded the app so far, and according to the experts the app will be most effective when maximum number of people download it. “It can be an effective surveillance tool but how effective the app is will depend on how many people have downloaded it,” said a senior health ministry official.The health minister also said that there was no space for complacency as curbs were being eased.“…as we enter into the Unlock1.0 phase where restrictions have been eased and curbs have been lifted, we need to be more disciplined in our COVID appropriate behaviour to ensure that all follow norms of physical distancing, make use of masks and face covers in all public places, adhere to norms of hand hygiene and follow protocols of respiratory etiquette. There is no space for complacency,” said Harsh Vardhan, in a statement.The meeting was attended by S Jaishankar, minister of external affairs, Hardeep Puri, Civil aviation minister, Nityananda Rai, minister of state for home affairs, Mansukh Lal Mandaviya, minister of state for shipping & chemical and fertilizers, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, minister of state for health and family welfare and Bipin Rawat, chief of defence staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-deploys-teams-to-15-states-to-help-manage-crisis/story-IOZ4WzbADWdeCwV2e26BbJ.html
10-06-2020||India||India considering universal basic income, NHRC tells UN||India is considering a universal basic income and will not consider a repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers ) Act or a moratorium on the death penalty, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has told the United Nations. In a first, NHRC, submitted a mid-term report to the United Nations on the human rights situation in the country , highlighting the government’s policies on climate change, rights of women, children, disabled, and the elderly, and the right to food, work and health. In the report, Universal Periodic Review (UPR)-III, the UN has been informed that the Indian government is examining and “actively considering” the possibility of a universal basic income to reduce poverty. Universal basic income (UBI) refers to periodic cash transfers to every citizen.The government has focused cash transfer schemes aimed at farmers, especially, but no universal cash transfer programme. As part of UPR-III, the Indian government accepted 152 recommendations out of 250 by 112 UN member states in September 2017 pertaining to poverty alleviation, rights of women, children, persons with disabilities, elderly, marginalized populations and right to education etc. However, it refused to accept 98 recommendations including repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers ) Act, a moratorium on the death penalty, violence against marginalized groups and concerns over the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), a law regulating foreign funding to non-governmental organizations etc.UPR is an international peer review mechanism based on a periodic self-assessment by each country of its human rights record, achievements and challenges, which is supplemented by reports from UN human rights experts, entities, treaty bodies, national human rights institutions, and civil society organizations. India was one of the first countries to be reviewed under the UPR mechanism.In the mid-term report submitted last month, accessed by Hindustan Times, NHRC has listed passing of Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, which criminalizes instant Triple Talaq, as a key step in eliminating discrimination against women.It has also listed government flagship schemes such as the PM Awas Yojana affordable housing initiative , the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation, the Swachh Bharat Mission, and the Ujjwala scheme of free cooking gas connections for the poor.Civil society organizations, which are part of the Working Group of Human Rights (WGHR), say NHRC has done the bidding of the government of India rather than giving an independent view on the human rights conditions in India.Henri Tiphagne, executive director of the People’s Watch, said: “We are quite surprised because this NHRC UPR report reads like a government of India report. Many events have taken place (since India accepted the recommendations of UN member countries) but nothing has been mentioned in the report. The report doesn’t show the independent view of NHRC”.Sanjoy Hazarika, director of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, welcomed NHRC submitting a mid-term report but added that the non-government organisation was meeting in couple of days to brainstorm on the findings. A 12-member Working Group of Human Rights (WGHR) for India, which includes CHRI, will prepare its own report and send it to the UN. NHRC chairperson, justice (retd) H L Dattu, said, “This (mid-term) report addresses all the recommendations given by the UN members for the central government during last review meeting (in September 2017 in Geneva). The UPR is significant because it takes into account issues pertaining to human rights including poverty, religious issues, women rights etc.”Asked about NHRC’s role in the whole process, Dattu said, “The Commission has the role of an onlooker as these recommendations are for the central government (to address).”Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia Director at Human Rights Watch (HRW) said: “The NHRC, to meet standards set out under the Paris Principles, should act as an independent authority to ensure human rights protections, recommend reforms, call for accountability when there are violations. It should act as a constitutional body to provide independent checks and balances. The commission should also be speaking out about violations linked to a crackdown on freedom of speech and peaceful protest. It is not supposed to report government achievements. That is for the state party to do.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-considering-universal-basic-income-nhrc-tells-un/story-EiOBsxDkDtzhGIQlbb141N.html
10-06-2020||India||Railways likely to merge junior and mid-level jobs, say officials||Indian Railways is mulling merging several junior and mid-level posts as part of its plans to rationalize the organisation and making it leaner, following the Union cabinet’s nod for merging its eight major cadres into a central services Indian Railway Management Service, according to officials aware of the development. The rail ministry has drafted a proposal based on recommendations from all railway zones for merging key posts in the accounts, commercial, electrical, mechanical, engineering, medical, personnel, operating, stores, and signal & telecommunication departments, and also other miscellaneous posts. According to the proposal, all ticket checking, reservation and enquiry posts from the commercial department may be merged. Railway Protection Force constables may be deployed for checking tickets at stations. “ A single category may be defined with a particular training schedule,” the proposal said. According to a suggestion by two railways zones the category of guard and the Loco Pilot should be merged ; the zones also proposed a ticketing process akin to that in airlines. In the accounts department, the zones said, “preparation of salary and passing can be done by same department… Disbursement of salary should be streamlined along the lines of pension payments which are managed by banks and except supervisory staff of personnel and accounts department, all other categories should be extinguished.” Zones have also recommended outsourcing unskilled jobs including that of cleaners. The Union cabinet in December 2019 approved the restructuring -- trimming the Railway Board’s strength to half (from 8 to 4) and unifying its eight railways services into a central service in a bid to reform the 150-year-old Railway Board of the Indian Railways.The modalities and unification of the services will be worked out by the rail ministry in consultation with the Department of Personnel and Training. The process was scheduled to be completed within a year.The proposals will be finalised by an eight-member committee constituted last month by the railway board for looking into re-skilling of the staff. Separately, the Centre had also formed a group of secretaries headed by the cabinet secretary for implementing the exercise of restructuring the board; this committee includes the Chairman, Railway Board, the DOPT secretary and the secretary of the department of expenditure. This committee will assist the group of ministers constituted by the government for formalizing the restructured railway board. The GOM will be formed after the recommendations of the committee, officials said.Spokespersons for the ministry of railways did not respond to HT’s queries. “The plan is to streamline the organisation; 1.3 million employees is too manpower intensive and becomes under productive too hence it is broadly to reduce manpower,” a railway official said on condition of anonymity.The national carrier may also merge the medical cadre categories into four from the current seven. Two zones said that only laboratory staff, pharmacists and nursing staff should remain while all other categories should be outsourced. “ Broadly they have made up their mind to push through manpower rationalization. And since higher cadre merger has been done this won’t be much of a problem,” another railway official said, asking not to be named. The proposed organizational reforms were aimed at ending the division of the mammoth organisation into different departments. The Indian Railways employs nearly 1.3 million people and its trains carried 2.3 million passengers every day before the lockdown. The government has said the move was aimed at ending a legacy marked by inefficiency in work, infighting over control of assets and resources, and delays in decision-making.“I have always maintained that there should be two services instead of one. A single service will always create problems when you ask technical department to do non-technical work all their education and specialization in the field will go to waste,” said former railway board chairman Vivek Sahai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-likely-to-merge-posts-across-depts/story-6dihbrFjSosaWSOgS0gTOM.html
10-06-2020||India||Two weeks after big blowout in Assam, gas well catches fire||A gas well at Baghjan in Assam’s Tinsukia district caught fire on Tuesday and triggered protests from the residents of the area even as chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal assured them of their safety and said he has spoken to Centre for all possible assistance. The well caught fire as experts were trying to control the blowout, or leakage of gas and condensate, from it since May 27. The blowout had prompted the evacuation of nearly 2,000 people living near the well to four relief camps. Plumes of smoke emanating from the well could be seen kilometers away from the site near the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the eco-sensitive Maguri Mottapung wetland, which are home to endangered hoolock gibbons and Gangetic dolphins.The residents staged a protest close to the site and blamed Oil India Limited (OIL) for failing to control the blowout for two weeks. “We have been living in relief camps for two weeks now with the hope that the blowout would be controlled. But the fire has damaged several houses and hopes of any early solution. The night sky is lighted up by the fire and the air is filled with smoke,” said Madhab Moran, a resident of Baghjan.OIL has asked the state government to control the situation so that experts and officials can reach the site to control the fire and the blowout. Three experts from Singapore firm Alert Disaster Control arrived in Assam to plug the leak on Monday.“The fire broke out at 1:40 pm. The reason for the outbreak is not ascertained yet. Apart from a fireman of the Oil and Natural Gas Commission, who sustained a minor injury, no one else has been injured,” said OIL’s senior manager (corporate communications) Jayant Bormudoi. “The experts were not present at the site when the fire broke out. They were at meetings at an OIL office in Duliajan. There is no immediate threat to residents of the area, who have already been shifted beyond a radius of 1.5 km from the well.”An OIL statement said fire tenders have been pressed into service to control the fire. “The current situation would be brought under control by the experts,” it said.The statement said several options for plugging the blowout were discussed and it was decided to use the capping stack guide rail system, which will involve a large prefabricated device to seal off the well.Sonowal said instructions have been issued to district officials to ensure the safety of the residents. “Police, military, paramilitary forces, and NDRF [National Disaster Response Force] are present at the spot,” he said. “I have apprised Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan about the incident and asked him to take steps to contain the fire and the blowout. The Indian Air Force can also play a role in controlling the fire and I have asked defence minister Rajnath Singh about it.”Sonowal asked residents of the area and Tinsukia town, 9 km away, to not panic and assured all help from the government.The blowout on May 27 was reported while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas bearing reservoir at a depth of 3729 metres. A blowout means an uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well when pressure control systems fail.HT on June 3 reported the blowout was causing extensive damage to biodiversity and wildlife in the region.“Release of particulate matter and the fire will affect Dibru Saikhowa National Park. But the damage to Maguri Mottapung wetland will be immense. If this continues for another four weeks, humans will also not remain unaffected by the pollution. Despite a history of over 100 years of oil and gas exploration in the area, it is surprising we do not have the experts and equipment to deal with such an emergency,” said environmentalist Raj Phukan, who is a member of the International Union for Conservation of Nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-weeks-after-big-blowout-in-assam-gas-well-catches-fire/story-MkNRQVICwqz0fOPsj3gyrM.html
10-06-2020||India||India’s ties with Nepal set for deep freeze after Kathmandu’s decisive step on new map||Nepal’s lower house on Tuesday evening made a strong pitch in favour of the constitution amendment bill to redraw Nepal’s political map that could lead to a freeze in relations between Kathmandu and New Delhi.The new political map pushed hard by the KP Sharma Oli government is set to clear the first legislative hurdle in the lower house. The constitution amendment bill will next go to the 59-member National Assembly where the ruling Communist Party of Nepal has an overwhelming majority.The map, cleared by the Oli Cabinet last month, counts Indian territories of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as its own. Its passage by the cabinet on May 18 had angered India that asked Nepal to “refrain from such unjustified cartographic assertion” for an “artificial enlargement of territorial claims”.That message from New Delhi appeared to have gone unheard in Kathmandu.The new map was Prime Minister Oli’s effort to whip up ultra-nationalistic sentiments at India’s cost and consolidate his weakening hold on the government and the ruling Communist Party of Nepal. It appeared to have bought PM Oli time.Also Read: The costs of anti-Indian nationalism in Nepal | HT EditorialOpposition parties that have been attacking the Oli government for his handling of the economy and Covid-19 found themselves coming around to back PM Oli in the lower house on Tuesday. PM Oli needs a two-third majority in both houses of Nepal’s Parliament.It was supported by political parties across the spectrum - 83 MPs spoke at Tuesday’s meeting - but the formal approval could take some time as the proposal for consideration of the bill “was adopted with lawmakers given 72 hours to file an amendment to the bill”. It would be passed once the chief whips of political parties agree that no amendment is required.There has been no formal response from New Delhi to Tuesday’s development. “There may be one later to set the record straight, a senior government official told Hindustan Times.Also Read: Decoding the India-Nepal dispute | OpinionNew Delhi is furious at Nepal’s political leaders creating a boundary dispute with India to serve their respective domestic political interests and is expected to cold shoulder requests for a dialogue.“Once Nepal cabinet and then parliament backed changes to its map to incorporate Indian territory, there isn’t a lot to talk about,” a senior government official said hours after Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali spoke of his country’s desire to talk to New Delhi to resolve the boundary issue.“We have expressed time and again that Nepal wants to sit at the table to resolve this problem,” Pradeep Gyawali had told news agency Associated Press on Tuesday.The foreign minister’s boss PM Oli had ignited the row after India reissued its map to incorporate changes in Jammu and Kashmir that had been carved into two union territories. Like in all previous maps, this one too continued to count Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of the Indian state of Uttarakhand.Also Read: The past, present and future of the Nepal-India stand-off | AnalysisThe two countries planned to hold a round of discussions at the foreign secretary’s level to address Nepal’s concerns but the meetings couldt be scheduled for one reason or the other. PM Oli’s government, however, renewed the attacks after India inaugurated an 80-km road in Uttarakhand that almost goes up till Lipulekh Pass at the India-China border. This project essentially involved building a metalled road connecting Dharchula town in Uttarakhand to the Lipulekh pass.New Delhi was surprised when Kathmandu protested over the road that had been built in indian territory.This area, spread over 330 sq km near Nepal’s western tri-junction with India and China, had always been part of India in every map that had been issued for more than a century and in terms of the ground situation, a senior official said. This claim was also accepted by the Chinese when it inked a pact with India to trade via Lipulekh pass back in 1954. When the two sides mentioned LipuLekh as a bilateral trade route in a 2015 joint statement sixty years later, Nepal registered its protest.Behind the sharp rhetoric from Kathmandu over the road and Covid-19 in recent weeks, Indian officials said PM Oli appeared to be aiming to immortalize himself in Nepal’s history as the prime minister who stood up to its big neighbour. Quite like Prime Minister Kirtinidhi Bista who persuaded Indira Gandhi in 1969 to wind up Indian military posts along the Nepal frontier. When former foreign secretary Shyam Saran was India’s ambassador to Kathmandu, Bista told him that he counted his conversation with Gandhi as his life’s “greatest moment”.In recent years, Indian officials said Nepal politicians had found themselves unable to take a stand on India and found it politically expedient to lay the blame at India’s doors.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in contrast, had gone an extra mile to accommodate the himalayan nation.Like when the two countries were looking at a new pact to replace the 1950 Treaty of Peace and Friendship between the two countries, PM Modi had messaged early in his first stint as prime minister that Kathmandu could put together the first draft of the new treaty which the two sides could discuss.When Nepal had reservations over the 50:50 funding format proposed for the Pancheshwar dam project, PM Modi had again asked Nepal to contribute what it could and promised to pool in the rest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-ties-with-nepal-set-for-deep-freeze-after-kathmandu-s-decisive-step-on-new-map/story-MF1pWaJYEQrB0PMuFe9XmL.html
10-06-2020||India||India, China disengage at Ladakh standoff points, commanders to meet tomorrow||China is withdrawing soldiers deployed in the Galwan area of eastern Ladakh and thinning out troops in the Pangong Tso sector where it was locked in a standoff with Indian military for a month, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.Top government officials said the process of the Chinese side withdrawing troops had started yesterday. “We have also reciprocated and moved back our troops,” a top government official said on Tuesday evening.“The process to restore status quo ante has started at the standoff locations,” the official said. The next steps will be worked out at a meeting of Major General-level officers scheduled for tomorrow.Hindustan Times was the first to report on Monday that the activity at the standoff points had declined after discussions between military commanders of the two countries. Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, who had been in constant touch with national security planners in Delhi, had led the Indian delegation. The Chinese side was led by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.The standoff started after a May 5 clash after Chinese soldiers clashed in eastern Ladakh near Pangong Lake. This was the first major flare-up along the LAC since the 73-day standoff at Doklam in 2017. Chinese troops also moved in three more locations in the Galwan sector, setting up the standoff in three locations of the Galwan valley with additional troops and support elements.Also Read: India China standoff explained: Bridge over troubled watersThe standoff in the Galwan valley was at three points, marked as the Indian army’s patrolling points 14, 15 and 17. These locations are about 6 km east to the confluence of the Galwan rivulet and Shyok river.ALSO WATCH | Indian, Chinese troops disengage at standoff points in eastern Ladakh At patrolling point 14, Chinese soldiers had come to their claim of the Line of Actual Line and objected to India building a 60-metre-long strategic bridge being built to give troops easy access to Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass. “They have gone back from patrolling point 14,” a government official said.At patrolling point 15, Chinese soldiers had put up a large number of tents and had been camping there for the last one month. India had also matched their presence and had been camping at the same place. “Both sides have started reducing their tents at this point,” the official explained.At the third standoff point, marked on a map as Galwan sector’s patrolling point 17, both sides had mobilised a large number of troops and armoured carriers. The armoured carriers have been moved back; the soldiers will be next, an official said.“The de-escalation exercise has started near the Pangong lake standoff point also…. It will take some time to complete the process,” a senior army officer said.Chinese troops had come to Finger 4 - the name given to one of the 8 cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range that overlooks the lake - and brought along 124 vehicles and 14 boats. The boats have been moved back and the thinning out process has begun in this sector, a top government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-troops-at-standoff-points-in-ladakh-s-galwan-valley-start-thinning-out-india-also-reciprocates/story-szMVWcXpP5Gn7zwIzgMMsN.html
10-06-2020||India||Maharashtra Dalit youth murdered for ‘stalking’ upper caste girl, six arrested||Maharashtra police have arrested six persons for murder of a 20-year-old youth Viraj Vilas Jagtap, who had fallen in love with a girl from upper caste, according to an FIR registered by deceased’s uncle Jitesh Vasant Jagtap, a resident of Jagtap nagar area of Pimple Saudagar in Pune. Police inspector Mohan Shinde said that four of the six accused-- Hemant Kailas Kate, Sagar Jagdish Kate and two minors--were tracked and arrested by a crime branch unit of Pimpri Chinchwad police. The other two arrested in the case are Kailas Murlidhar Kate and Jagdish Murlidhar Kate, said police.The Jagtaps are dalit, while the Kate family belongs to the upper caste Maratha community. According to the FIR, the accused hurled racial abuse at Viraj before bludgeoning him to death.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Viraj was found lying at the spot in blood-soaked trousers. He had received injuries on his head and elsewhere on his body, says the complaint filed by his uncle. Jitesh Jagtap told police that Viraj was able to give an account of the assault before he died.According to the FIR, the six members of the Kate family had driven their mini tempo into Viraj’s two-wheeler and attacked him with rods and stones as he fell down. An injured Viraj reportedly told his uncle that he started running when the six charged at him before he fell down. Kailas and Jagdish Kate along with the two minors pinned him down while Sagar and Hemant assaulted him with metal rod and stones, it alleges. Jagdish Kate allegedly also hurled casteist remarks at him for daring to pursue his daughter and even spat on him, the complaint says.Viraj was later rushed to Aditya Birla hospital where he was declared dead on Monday morning.The accused have alleged that the deceased was stalking a girl from the Kate family despite being warned and a history of enmity between the two families.Assistant police inspector Ambrish Deshmukh of unit 4 crime branch that led the team that arrested four members of the Kate family threw light on the version of the accused. “They said they had warned him against standing outside their house and stalking the girl. On Sunday night, Sagar Kate’s tanker got punctured near their house. Sagar says Viraj arrived at the spot under the influence of alcohol and started abusing him. Their fight turned violent, which is when two other family members arrived in a tempo and dashed Viraj’s two-wheeler and joined the fight. This is the accused men’s version,” said Deshmukh.A case of murder, criminal conspiracy has been registered at Sangvi police station with sections of prevention of atrocities against scheduled caste and scheduled tribe act and Maharashtra Police Act also invoked. Police inspector Ajay Bhosale is investigating the case. “We are now looking at the call records to confirm details. The girl’s version of the story will also be recorded. What the accused say has no meaning at this point in the investigation,” said Bhosale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-dalit-youth-murdered-for-stalking-upper-caste-girl-six-arrested/story-Q2FRuKoXhReKyY0O9nUhRN.html
