13-06-2020||India||With 61 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand’s coronavirus tally now at 1,785||With 61 fresh Covid-19 cases reported from Uttarakhand on Saturday, the tally of total positive cases in the state increased to 1,785. The health department on Saturday confirmed that one Covid-19 positive patient who had died on June 4, had succumbed to the infection after his health reports and post mortem results were analysed.According to health department officials, a 26-year-old man from Muzaffarnagar had died at AIIMS Rishikesh on June 4. As per his death summary and reports, the cause of death has been established to be acute respiratory distress syndrome with underlying cause Covid-19 and pneumonia. This is the first death directly attributed to the disease in the state even as, 22 Covid-19 positive patients have died in the state, for which health officials attributed co-morbidity to be the cause of death.On Saturday, two more Covid-19 positive patients died in Uttarakhand.A bulletin released by the health department on Saturday evening mentioned that an 82-year-old man-- a Covid-19 positive patient died in Udham Singh Nagar district and that the actual cause of death is awaited. The health bulletin mentioned that this patient had no travel history. In another incident, a 46-year-old man was found dead by officials during screening at the Kotdwar check-post after he returned from Delhi. Officials took his sample and he tested positive for Covid-19.Out of the 61 cases, 14 patients reported on Saturday had no travel history or were local people and two were Army personnel. All the other patients had returned to the state from places like Maharashtra, Delhi-NCR, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh.The cases were reported from districts like Chamoli (3), Dehradun (12), Haridwar (20), Udham Singh Nagar (5), Pauri Garhwal (9), Tehri Garhwal (23), Uttarkashi (4), and Rudraprayag (1).On Saturday, 130 Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state. They were discharged from hospitals in different districts like Dehradun (13), Champawat (6), Udham Singh Nagar (2), Haridwar (8), Tehri Garhwal (93) and Bageshwar (8).Uttarakhand has so far tested over 44,000 samples of which results for over 4,100 are awaited.Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand police on Saturday registered an FIR for attempt to murder against a Covid-19 patient for hiding his test results after the patient recently returned to Nainital from Delhi.Ravi Saini, inspector of Ramnagar police station in Nainital said, “A 26-year-old resident of Lakhanpur village in Ramnagar reached the town with his family on June 11. Officials had put them in institutional quarantine but he didn’t inform us that he has undergone a test in a private lab in Delhi.”Saini further said that the health department reported about a coronavirus positive patient in Lakhanpur village of Ramnagar. When examined, it was found that this patient was the only person to arrive with his family on June 11.The police have registered an FIR against him under section of 307 (Attempt to Murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-61-fresh-covid-19-cases-uttarakhand-s-coronavirus-tally-now-at-1-785/story-Aa6PTdvO5nizC0kipVZEBI.html
13-06-2020||India||SC’s virtual hearings can now be accessed from any district court in Delhi||Virtual court hearings in the Supreme Court can now be accessed by lawyers and litigants from any district court in Delhi, according to a circular issued by the top court on Saturday.Until now, this facility was only available at the additional Supreme Court complex situated at Pragati Maidan near the apex court.There are seven district court complexes in the national capital at Rohini, Dwarka, Patiala House, Tis Hazari, Saket, Rouse Avenue and Karkardooma. A video conferencing facility has been established in each of the seven district courts for lawyers and litigants to attend the virtual court hearings at the Supreme Court, the circular said.The move is aimed to benefit the lawyers, litigants or petitioners appearing in person who otherwise had to travel to the Supreme Court for want of video conferencing facilities in their homes or chambers. Anybody intending to avail of this facility has to send an intimation to video.conference@sci.nic.in 24 hours prior to the scheduled hearing. Any complaints with regard to connection or supply of meeting link can be addressed to the helpline number 1881.The facility is the latest among a series of initiatives undertaken by the top court to improve the online court hearing experience. Earlier, the Court had even allowed e-filing of cases and opened chamber blocks for lawyers wishing to attend the virtual court hearings.While lawyers’ bodies have demanded physical court hearings over the virtual proceedings, the Supreme Court is yet to take a call. Hearing of cases through the videoconferencing app called Vidyo has been operational since March this year, ever since the lockdown forced Court to shut. The Court will be breaking for vacation on June 19 and is expected to resume in the first week of July. The CJI along with his colleagues is expected to decide by June end on whether to continue with the present arrangement when the Court reopens or explore the option of physical court hearing.Statistics maintained with the Supreme Court indicate that as on March 1, 2020, the total number of pending cases is 60,469. Several crucial matters pertaining to faith versus rights involving entry of women in Sabarimala, challenge to amendments in Citizenship Act, and petitions challenging scrapping of Article 370 and 35A giving special status to Jammu and Kashmir, are awaiting consideration once the physical hearing in the apex court resumes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-s-virtual-hearings-can-now-be-accessed-from-any-district-court-in-delhi/story-Pnrpar80jn6tngjeBnK03I.html
13-06-2020||India||‘Second income must for an actor’||Varanasi lad Siddharth Arora said actors should do other things as well, besides acting, so that they are not dependent on one income. “With this ongoing going crisis, I feel strongly for a second source of income. This has two advantages: an actor can choose a project which gives him satisfaction, while money can always be earned through the second option,” said the ‘Mukti Bandhan’ and ‘Singhasan Battisi’ actor.An MBA from Banaras Hindu University (BHU), he opened a boutique hotel in his hometown last year. “Due to the lockdown that too is closed and we are in the process of opening it. But, having said that, a second income gives me the liberty to pick up projects of my choice,” he said over the phone.He is also vocal about the payment system in the TV industry. “We are paid three months after the episode is aired. Sometimes that too defaults! I don’t agree with this payment system as it makes it tough for actors to survive. This should be brought down to a maximum of one month. With the current crisis, the situation is even tougher for actors and crew members,” he said.Siddharth has been in Varanasi since Holi. “Vishwanath Baba ‘ke ashirwad se’ (blessings) I was about to go when things started turning bad. So, I stayed back with my parents, brother, his wife and their sweet daughter. We also have two dogs and pigeons. I spent time working out and after the lockdown. I went to BHU for a walk and run. Thankfully things are better here,” he said.The actor was last seen in ‘Laado: Veerpur Ki Mardani’ opposite Avika Gaur and his show ‘Doli Armano Ki’ is having a re-run. “Before the lockdown I was working on a project. We have already shot 50% in Hyderabad. It’s a digital series but I am not allowed to disclose anything. Besides, I am in talks for some TV shows. I have already given my look test with the script and dialogue from Varanasi only,” he said.The actor said the lockdown period has given time for good preparation. “Shooting has stopped but writers are doing their job, casting directors are working so are other departments. I feel this is good for pre-production which will help in the project.”He is in no hurry to go to Mumbai. “I am waiting for clarity and feel that one should stay where they are. “Lockdown has opened but corona has not stopped and is in fact spreading. In Mumbai, I live near Goregaon. Earlier, buildings were getting sealed now floors are being sealed after detection of cases. I don’t think it’s practical to shoot, especially for actors as after make-up they can’t wear masks, gloves and social distancing is challenging.”Recently, he made a film, ‘Tera Shukriya’ that got a good response. “I wrote a poem thanking God for sparing us from sufferings. It was after I was touched by the plight of the migrants and the needy during lockdown. I narrated the poem and took some clipping and stitched everything together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/second-income-must-for-an-actor/story-YK6qDcJmVwL1qOWxNZVBrK.html
13-06-2020||India||Kerala expats slam mandatory Covid-19 test rule for Gulf returnees||Expatriates from Kerala are unhappy with the Kerala government’s decision to seek Covid-19 test results of all passengers returning by chartered flights from the Middle East. The minister of state for external affairs, V Muraldeedharan, also differed on the move.“From June 20, all private chartered flights departing to Kerala from Middle-East countries shall only carry passengers who have been tested for Covid-19 infection and shown to be negative. A test certificate to that effect should be carried by the passenger. It applies to all flights for which consent letters were issued earlier,” said the government order issued by state principal secretary K Elangovan on Friday.Anwar Naha, leader of the Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre, an outfit working among expatriates in the Gulf, said, “It is highly unethical and discriminatory. The government also insists the certificate should be obtained at least 48 hours before the flight. In some countries, it is a tedious process and a costly affair. We have no idea why the government is troubling people who are eager enough to reach their country.”There are least 18 lakh people from the state working in the Gulf. Muraldeedharan said that such conditions will put extra pressure on expatriates. He had earlier locked horns with the state government saying it was more interested in maintaining its records rather than brining back stranded expatriates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-expats-slam-mandatory-test-rule-for-gulf-returnees/story-H5e776dEAbGdtwcRJCCFQO.html
13-06-2020||India||24 staffers of Goa health centre test positive for Covid-19, facility closed||As many as 24 out of the 34 staffers of a health centre in Goa’s Vasco and their 31 family members and other primary contacts have tested positive for Covid-19 and prompted the closure of the facility. The emergence of the centre as a Covid-19 hotspot has trigged panic in the villages of the staffers and forced villages, where these staffers reside, to impose lockdowns on their own.A security guard, who contracted the infection at the centre, infected three members his family and six neighbours. Two other staffers have been found to have been the source of the infection to 15 people at Morlem near the Goa-Karnataka border. Six infections reported from Dharbandora, Usgao, Canacona villages have been also traced to health workers associated with the centre.The staffers were deployed in Mangor Hill, a congested locality in the port town of Vasco, before it was designated as Goa’s first Covid-19 containment zone on June 1.“Various active cases are of people working at the Urban Health Centre in Vasco. They are from various parts of Goa. Now all of them [health workers] are being put up in hotels and residencies. We are equally concerned that they have infected others across the state. We are trying to mitigate the situation and ensure that it does not happen again,” Goa health Secretary Nila Mohanan said.Goa had reported 523 Covid-19 cases until Saturday.The state government on Saturday got all security guards posted at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital tested at the premier health facility after a security guard working there was diagnosed with the disease.“With reference to a security guard working at GMC who was tested positive, we have conducted swab testing for all the guards and their family members. We have placed them under quarantine until their results are out...,” said health minister Vishwajit Rane.He said he has written to Mohanan instructing mass and random testing in areas where cases have been reported from.Covid-19 cases have also been reported from the residential quarters of the Employee State Insurance Corporation, which is located near Goa’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital. Besides the 25 health workers, five drivers of the Kadamba Transport Corporation, the state-owned bus service, and four postal workers at the Vasco Post Office have also tested positive for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-staffers-of-goa-health-centre-test-positive-for-covid-facility-closed/story-RPCFWR397GILFI49lgR5VM.html
13-06-2020||India||In highest one-day spike,Telangana records 253 Covid-19 cases, TRS MLA among them||Telangana reported 253 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, the highest ever since the first case on March 2, taking the overall tally to 4,737, the health department said.The virus spread which was confined to a few containment zones in Greater Hyderabad limits three weeks ago has now spread to the entire state again.The state also reported eight fresh deaths on Saturday, taking the casualties in the state to 182.Ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi lawmaker Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy from Jangaon assembly constituency tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and was admitted to a private hospital in Hyderabad. He is the first legislator in Telangana to test positive for the virus.Click here for full Covid-19 pandemic.While his family members went into self-quarantine at home in Jangaon, as many as 10 officials who participated in various official programmes along with the MLA were kept in isolation, pending test results.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s nephew and state finance minister T Harish Rao went into quarantine after his personal assistant (PA) tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago. The minister, however, tested negative.Mayor of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Bonthu Rammohan, who underwent tests for Covid-19 twice in the last one week, also turned out to be negative on Saturday, after his driver tested positive.According to the health department officials, there has been a sharp and consistent rise in the number of deaths and positive cases since May 18, when the lockdown 4.0 came into force with a lot of relaxations. While the number deaths have gone up from 34 on March 18 to 182 till date – an increase by 148 deaths, the number of positive cases went up alarmingly by 2,824 – from 1,661 to 4,737 cases in a span of 26 days.Director of medical and health G Srinivasa Rao said the surge in Covid-19 in the state was due to a lot of mobility and movement of people from all walks of life and of all age groups.“People are travelling across the state and some of them are not following the basic preventive measures like wearing a mask and maintaining safe physical distancing. There has been a surge in the cases since relaxation of lockdown on March 18,” he said.So far, 64 doctors from Osmania General Hospital and five from Gandhi Hospital tested positive for the virus. Similarly, four employees of the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospital in Sanathnagar also tested positive.As many as 15 policemen, including a sub-inspector, from the Banjara Hills police station in Hyderabad also tested positive for coronavirus till now taking the police station’s tally to 15.In all, 100 policemen from different police stations in Hyderabad have contracted the virus. A 37-year-old constable from Kulsumpura police station had succumbed to Covid-19 last month.Out of 4,737 positive cases in the entire state, nearly 1,500 cases are from Greater Hyderabad limits. On Saturday alone, as many as 179 cases were reported from the state capital.The neighbouring Sangareddy district reported 24 cases in a single day. This includes 19 members of a single family in Zaheerabad town, who participated in the funeral of an old woman who died of Covid-19 early this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-highest-one-day-spike-telangana-records-253-covid-19-cases-trs-mla-among-them/story-5bGRavKb2OidC05rW8pIZJ.html
13-06-2020||India||Patanjali CEO Balkrishna claims Covid-19 cure possible through ayurveda||Even as India’s pharmaceutical majors are racing against time to find a vaccine for Covid-19, Acharya Balkrishna, co-founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Patanjali Ayurveda Limited, on Saturday, claimed that a medicine developed by the company has been able to cure Covid-19 patients within a span of five to 14 days.He said clinical case study on hundreds of Covid-19 patients yielded “100% favourable results.”“We appointed a team of scientists after Covid-19 outbreak. First, the simulation was done and compounds were identified which can fight the virus and stop its spread in the body. Then, we conducted a clinical case study on hundreds of positive patients and we have got 100 per cent favourable results,” Balkrishna said in Haridwar, according to ANI.He said the company is now conducting controlled clinical trials and will release evidence in less than a week.“After taking our medicine, Covid patients recovered in 5-14 days and then tested negative. So, we can say the cure for Covid is possible through Ayurveda. We are performing controlled clinical trials only. In the next 4-5 days, evidence and data will be released by us,” he said.Balakrishna who founded Patanjali along with yoga guru Ramdev, did not say where the controlled clinical trials were being carried out.In late April, the Uttarakhand government approved a fund of Rs 2.48 crore to acquire ayurvedic and homeopathic medicines to boost the immunity of Covid-19 warriors.Balakrishna’s claim of an ayurvedic cure for Covid-19 came on a day when India recorded its highest-ever spike of 11,458 cases, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).India’s Covid-19 tally has soared to 3,08,993 including 1,45,779 active cases. While 1,54,329 people have been cured or discharged the death toll stands at 8,884.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patanjali-ceo-balkrishna-claims-covid-19-cure-possible-through-ayurveda/story-Bk1NOtdZAl0Ed8atoE01ZM.html
13-06-2020||India||Foreign ministers of Russia-India-China to hold virtual meeting on June 22||The foreign ministers of Russia, India and China are expected to hold a meeting via video conference on June 22, people familiar with developments said on Saturday, against the backdrop of heightened tensions between New Delhi and Beijing due to a border stand-off.The meeting of the foreign ministers of the RIC (Russia-India-China) grouping is being convened at the initiative of Moscow and is largely focused on enhancing cooperation to tackle the fallout of the global Covid-19 pandemic, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.“The three sides are working on the agenda for the meeting and this is expected to be finalised by early next week,” said a person familiar with planning for the meeting.The people pointed out that the meeting had been in the pipeline for some time and wasn’t in any way linked to the flaring up of tensions between India and China over a weeks-old tense standoff between border troops along the Line of Actual Control, especially in Ladakh sector.This would also be the first meeting to be joined by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi since the stand-off along the LAC became public. Both leaders had joined a virtual meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on May 13, but at that time the full details of the stand-off hadn’t become public.HT had first reported on violent clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in certain stretches of the LAC on May 10, though the stand-off involving thousands of troops from both sides hadn’t become public at that time.There was no official word from the Indian side regarding the June 22 meeting, which is yet to be formally announced. It was also not clear whether the border stand-off could figure in the discussions, especially since India has clearly said there is no room for intervention by any third party in the matter. The Indian government had made its position clear after US President Donald Trump recently offered to mediate between India and China.The Russian side has repeatedly said in recent days that it hopes India and China will take steps to de-escalate tensions. Moscow’s relations with both New Delhi and Beijing are currently very good, and both Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev and deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin have, in remarks to the Indian media, spoken of the need for easing of tensions for regional stability.Kudashev said Russia is confident that India and China will be guided commitments made by the Indian and Chinese leadership during their two informal summits and work for peace and tranquillity on the border. He also said Russia is looking toward further engagements in the RIC, SCO and Brics (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) groupings to enhance mutual trust and stability.Babuskin said Russia was “worried” about the situation along the LAC but also confident that India and China will find a way out by using existing mechanisms to handle such issues. He also said a constructive India-China relationship is key to regional stability.India has said it has engaged with China through diplomatic and military channels to find an “early resolution” to the boundary issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-beijing-border-stand-off-on-agenda-in-russia-india-and-china-s-virtual-meet/story-SfuYcYry9269iUY4BOGDJL.html
13-06-2020||India||Gujarat’s Covid-19 cases go past 23,000-mark with 517 new patients, 33 deaths||Gujarat on Saturday recorded 517 new Covid-19 cases and 33 deaths, including 26 from coronavirus hotspot Ahmedabad, taking the total case count of the state past the 23,000-mark to touch 23,079, the state health department said.The death toll in Gujarat rose to 1,449, with the addition of the 33 latest fatalities due to the infectious coronavirus disease.A total of 390 patients, including 255 from Ahmedabad and 88 from Surat, were cured and discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the number of recovered patients to 15,891, health department data said.Gujarat, currently, has 5,739 active cases out of whom at least 61 patients are critical and on ventilator support.Of the 33 deaths registered in the last 24 hours, 26 deaths occurred in Ahmedabad, three deaths were reported in Surat, two in Amreli and one each in Bhavnagar and Patan districts.Of the 517 fresh Covid-19 cases, coronavirus hotspot Ahmedabad alone has reported 344 positive cases, taking the tally in the district to 16,306 and fatalities to 1,165.Other Gujarat cities, Surat and Vadodara, reported 59 and 40 cases, respectively, taking the total count in Surat to 2,503, and the tally in Vadodara to 1,511.In Gujarat, 24 of 33 districts reported coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, including Gandhinagar (9), Bhavnagar (7) and Mehsana (6), the health department said.The state has so far tested 2,83,623 samples and an estimated 2,11,867 people are quarantined t avoid the spread of the infection. After Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi, Gujarat is the fourth worst-hit state in the country by the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-s-covid-19-cases-go-past-23-000-mark-with-517-new-patients-33-deaths/story-kup2fR8stPhnJ3jpg63JUL.html
13-06-2020||India||MP Governor Lalji Tandon in Lucknow hospital, tests Covid-19 negative||Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon, 85, was admitted to Medanta hospital in Lucknow after he complained of body ache and fever on Saturday. He was initially admitted to an isolation ward, but was moved to a private one when his coronavirus test report came negative.“Governor Lalji Tandon has been running fever for the last few days but he is Covid-19 negative. His report confirms urinary tract infection. He has been advised complete bed rest and is attended by a team of doctors,” said Medanta hospital director Dr Rakesh Kapoor. “Since governor Lalji Tandon is also a diabetic, care is being taken to save him from other infections.”Meanwhile Manohar Lal Dubey, secretary to the MP governor, on Saturday said, “The information that I have is that the governor got himself admitted for some check-up.”Madhya Pradesh Raj Bhavan had reported eleven Covid-19 positive cases till June 9 when Tandon left for Lucknow on a 10-day leave. Tandon reached Lucknow from Bhopal on Tuesday. He is scheduled to return on June 19. Of the 11 coronavirus cases found on MP Raj Bhavan campus, 10 are Raj Bhavan employees and their family members.Earlier on June 9, Dubey had said: “The governor has gone home on a 10-day leave and it has nothing to do with Covid-19 patients found at Raj Bhavan. In fact, the latest patient happens to be a labourer who was engaged in construction work in the Raj Bhavan and he tested positive about a week earlier. The employees who tested positive for coronavirus were shifted to some other place and the Raj Bhavan at present has no presence of any Covid-19 patient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-governor-lalji-tandon-in-lucknow-hospital-tests-covid-19-negative/story-2Rohu2UOsDXwLwPiUCsQWI.html
13-06-2020||India||In Bihar’s skill mapping of its migrants, construction activity tops list||A mapping of skills of the migrant workers who have returned from various states to Bihar shows out of 14 lakh migrants, whose profile has been prepared so far, 8.40 lakh are engaged in different spheres of construction ranging from carpenter to those engaged in construction of road, bridges, dams, painter, mason helpers, among others.The people have been categorised into different groups: handicrafts, mechanics, healthcare, general services, electronics and electrical, construction, computer and IT, banking and financial services, agriculture and others. While construction and related activities seems to be the major source of livelihood for these migrants, the second largest chunk of people belonged to services that includes cooks, drivers, daily wagers, domestic helps, and tailors.“The skill mapping of 16 lakh migrants has been completed by the government. Out of this 8.40 lakh are construction workers,” said building construction department minister Ashok Chowdhary.“So far 38,874 migrants have been found to be doing the work of a cook, 14,773 as domestic help/child caretaker, more than 30,000 as drivers and 62,270 as tailors,” said principal secretary disaster management department, Pratyaya Amrit.Cooks from Bihar, particularly those from the Mithilanchal region, are in great demand in metros. “From a small village Bhakjari in Benipatti block in Madhubani district, more than 200 people alone work as a cook at different places,” said a government official, not wanting to be quoted.In the construction sector, more than 3.9 lakhs are unskilled workers while more than 1.48 lakh worked as mason’s help. Close to 54,000 belong to a group of mechanics with expertise in different fields, more than 22,000 migrants are from the electronic and electrical field, 15,000 from the computer and IT sector and a sizable number are from banking and financial sectors.Chief minister Nitish Kumar had announced that based on the skill profiling, the state government will reach out to industrial houses to invest in the state and create employment.Till June, 12, 1510 Shramik Special trains arrived in Bihar bringing 21.24 lakh people travelled to the state. Most of the migrants who returned were kept at block level quarantine centres for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-s-skill-mapping-of-its-migrants-construction-activity-tops-list/story-Wd4k1X9RrlLe3ulNQeNv9J.html
13-06-2020||India||Goa’s Covid-19 tally crosses 500 with 60 new cases||The total number of coronavirus positive patients in Goa crossed the 500 mark after 60 new cases were reported over the last 24-hours taking the state’s tally to 523 of whom 454 are active cases, the state health authorities announced on Saturday. The huge rise in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus has led the state government to designate yet another facility as a Covid Care Centre -- the third in a span of six days. The government-owned Colva Tourist Hostel has now been designated as a Covid Care Centre. “We have 60 new cases today of which 26 cases are from Mangor Hill, (the state’s first containment zone), five are travellers into the state and the rest are primary contacts of infected persons,” Health Secretary Nila Mohanan, said. Further complicating matters for the health department, a Covid-19 ‘critical’ patient was ‘dumped’ at the Goa Medical College and Hospital by two persons who later fled from the scene. “We are trying to ascertain who this person is. All we know is that he is from Betim (a village on the northern bank of the Mandovi River, opposite the capital city of Panaji),” Mohanan said. The man who was admitted with Chronic Obstructionary Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and had suffered a heart attack is in a critical condition and has currently been put on a ventilator at the Covid hospital. Until the beginning of June, the ESI Hospital in Margao, a town in South Goa was designated as the sole Covid19 Hospital that treated all patients who were registered as positive -- symptomatic and asymptomatic. Earlier, this week, however, the State administration changed gears and set up a 220-bed Covid Care Centre at a Primary Health Centre in Shiroda in South Goa and quickly followed it up with yet another private hostel being designated for asymptomatic coronavirus positive patients. Symptomatic patients continue to be treated at the ESI Hospital. On June 1, Goa’s Covid-19 tally stood at 73. In the last 13 days, 450 more cases have been reported. Ninety five per cent of the patients remain asymptomatic while there have been no deaths yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-500-with-60-new-cases/story-ulqeJRHUASbU8M97CVSyiN.html
13-06-2020||India||Health ministry issues revised clinical management protocols for Covid-19 and spurt in cases||As the number of Covid-19 cases crossed the three lakh-mark, the government on Saturday came out with a revised treatment protocol to deal with the deadly infection, allowing use of antiviral drug Remdesivir in moderate cases and Hydroxychloroquine in patients during the early course of the disease.It also recommended an off-label application of Tocilizumab, a drug that modifies the immune system or its functioning, and convalescent plasma for treating coronavirus-infected patients in moderate stage of the illness, besides adding loss of smell or taste to the list of Covid-19 symptoms.In its revised ‘Clinical Management Protocols for Covid-19’, the Union health ministry, in a turnaround from its earlier decision, advised use of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine in the early course of the disease, while dropping the use of azithromycin in combination with HCQ in severe cases and those requiring ICU management. Ten days after recording two lakh Covid-19 cases, India surpassed the three lakh-mark on Saturday with the worst daily spike of 11,458 infections, while the death toll too climbed to 8,884 with 386 new fatalities, according to the Health Ministry.India took 64 days to cross the one lakh-mark from 100 cases, then in another fortnight it reached the grim milestone of two lakh cases. It has now become the fourth worst-hit nation with a caseload of 3,08,993. Only US, Brazil and Russia have more cases.Hydroxychloroquine has demonstrated in-vitro activity against SARS-CoV2 and was shown to be clinically beneficial in several small single-centre studies though with significant limitations, the health ministry said.“Nonetheless, several large observational studies with severe methodologic limitations have shown no effect on mortality or other clinically meaningful outcomes,” the revised document said.“As such, the evidence base behind its use remains limited as with other drugs and should only be used after shared decision making with the patients while awaiting the results of ongoing studies,” it said.As is the case with other antivirals, this drug should be used as early in the disease course as possible to achieve any meaningful effects and should be avoided in patients with severe disease, the health ministry said, adding that an ECG should ideally be done before prescribing the drug.Under emergency use authorisation, Remdesivir may be considered for patients in moderate stage requiring oxygen support. It is not recommended for those with severe renal impairment and high level of liver enzymes, pregnant and lactating women, and those below 12 years, the document stated. The drug, administered in the form of injection, should be given at a dose of 200 mg on day one followed by 100 mg daily for five days.According to the revised protocols, convalescent plasma therapy may be considered for patients with moderate illness with no improvement in condition despite the use of steroids.The therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 and transfusing those to a coronavirus patient to help kickstart the immune system to fight the infection.The recipient should be closely monitored for several hours after transfusion for any adverse events and its use should be avoided in patients with immunoglobulin A deficiency or immunoglobulin allergy.“The dose is variable ranging from 4 to 13 ml/kg -- usually 200 ml single dose given slowly over not less than two hours,” the revised document stated. The guidelines state that tocilizumab may be considered in patients with moderate illness with progressive increase in oxygen requirement and in mechanically ventilated patients not improving despite the use of steroids. Long term safety data in Covid-19 remains largely unknown, the guidelines stated.The presence of raised inflammatory markers should be checked before its use and the patient should be carefully monitored after tocilizumab is administered for secondary infections and neutropenia. Active infections and Tuberculosis should be ruled out before use, it stated.For patients with progressive deterioration of oxygenation indicators, rapid worsening on imaging and excessive activation of the body’s inflammatory response, glucocorticoids can be used for a short period of time.Larger dose of glucocorticoids, a class of steroid hormones, will delay the removal of coronavirus due to immunosuppressive effects, the revised document stated.The ministry said that coronavirus-infected patients reporting to various Covid-19 treatment facilities have been reporting symptoms like fever, cough, fatigue, shortness of breath, expectoration, myalgia, rhinorrhea, sore throat and diarrhoea. They have also complained of loss of smell (anosmia) or loss of taste (ageusia) preceding the onset of respiratory symptoms. The ministry said the use of Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and convalescent plasma therapy, at present, is based on limited available evidence. As the situation evolves and when more data become available, the evidence will be accordingly incorporated, and recommendation upgraded, it stated.Meanwhile, the ministry’s data updated at 8 AM on Saturday showed active cases at 1,45,779 and those who have recovered at 1,54,329; one patient has migrated.“Thus, around 49.95 per cent patients have recovered so far,” a ministry official said.The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-issues-revised-clinical-management-protocols-for-covid-19-and-spurt-in-cases/story-jokq8akJs7xwvh5PVFaF2O.html
13-06-2020||India||Surge in Goa’s Covid-19 cases traced to infection at this health centre||Amid rise in coronavirus cases across Goa, it has emerged that a health establishment - the Urban Health Centre (UHC) in Vasco da Gama, the state’s port town - is the single source for a bulk of cases in the state. Health authorities first realised they had a problem on their hands when staff members at this health centre began testing positive. It is believed that these health workers were deployed to work in Mangor Hill, a congested locality in the port town of Vasco da Gama, before it was declared as Goa’s first Covid-19 containment zone. Testing within the containment zone was stopped after the workers were found positive and a new team was brought in. Data released by the government has revealed that 24 out of the 34 staff working at the Urban Health Centre in Vasco tested Covid-19 positive which forced the shuttering of the centre. Tests on their family members have also come out positive. To protect themselves, the villages where they come from have gone into ‘self-lockdowns’. A security guard who worked at the UHC in Vasco, in turn, infected three members of his family and five others in the neighbourhood, forcing the authorities to demarcate a zone of restricted movement. At Morlem in Sattari, a village on the eastern frontier with Karnataka and deep within the Western Ghats, 15 persons have contracted the disease that can all be traced to a couple of workers from the village who were posted at the said health centre. It’s a similar story for other villages in Goa - Guleli, Melaulim, Usgao - as well as Canacona in South Goa where cases were found after primary contact of the health workers was tested and found positive. The Health Authorities admitted to the lapse that led to the spread. “Various active cases are of people from people who are working at the Urban Health Centre in Vasco but were from various parts of Goa. Now all of them (health workers) are being put up in hotels and residencies. We are equally concerned as from them it has gone to others across the state. We are trying to mitigate that and see that it doesn’t happen again,” Health Secretary Nila Mohanan said. The health workers were earlier being given the option of returning home at the end of their shifts, a practice that has now been stopped.The statement comes even as more staff members linked to the state health department have tested positive. On Saturday the Health Department conducted tests on all security guards at the Goa Medical College and Hospital, the state’s premier health facility, after a lone security guard working at the facility tested positive, sparking fears that the state’s main hospital too may be carrying the infection.“With reference to a security guard working at GMC who was tested positive, we have conducted swab testing for all the guards and their family members. We have placed them under quarantine until their results are out, as per my discussion with the Collector,” Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. “I have also written to Secretary Health instructing that we conduct mass/random testing in all the areas where we have a positive case. Our team will ensure such testing is carried out. If required, based on the number of cases, we will declare the said ward as a containment zone,” Rane added. Cases have also sprung up in the quarters of the Employee State Insurance (ESI) Corporation which is in the vicinity of the ESI Hospital which is Goa’s dedicated Covid-19 Hospital. Besides health workers, five drivers of the Kadamba Transport Corporation, the state owned bus service and four postal workers at the Vasco Post Office, have also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-goa-s-covid-19-cases-traced-to-infection-at-this-health-centre/story-SxN9nXjPE9qTGQFZOihAKK.html
13-06-2020||India||85 fresh Covid-19 cases take Kerala’s coronavirus tally to 2,407||Kerala on Saturday reported 85 new coronavirus cases taking the total tally to 2,407, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office said. Amid a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases, there is some relief also as 46 people were cured and discharged from hospitals.Among the new coronavirus cases, 53 are expatriates, 18 came from other states and 10 people got infected from others, his office said adding full lockdown will be in place on Sunday. Currently, the active cases are 1,342, at least 1,045 people have recovered and there have been 20 deaths. The total number of people under observation has risen to 2, 35,000 and the state has 117 containment zones.As more flights are expected from the middle-eastern countries, the worried government has issued an order making a Covid-19-free certificate mandatory for all passengers coming by chartered flights. This has evoked sharp reactions from the expatriate community and opposition parties. “It is a cruel move. The government should withdraw it immediately,” said state opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.The latest notification came at a time when many organisations working among the expat community in the Gulf arranged chartered flights to reach home as coronavirus cases shot up in some countries. At least, 400 chartered flights are being planned in one-month. They said the move was highly discriminatory as people coming by ‘Vande Bharat’ flights did not need such a certificate. At least, 212 people from the state have died in the Gulf due to Covid-19 in the last two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/85-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-kerala-s-coronavirus-tally-to-2-407/story-eB6xzhvpMOGWhx3EEhkBiI.html
13-06-2020||India||Maharashtra slashes Covid-19 test price by 50%, caps it at Rs 2,200||In a relief to patients, the Maharashtra government on Saturday capped the price for the Covid-19 tests (RT-PCR) by private laboratories at Rs 2,200 from the existing maximum price of Rs 4,500. The laboratories can charge up to Rs 2,800 in case of the services like swab collection and delivery reports are given at home.The state’s health minister Rajesh Tope, announced the decision of capping the test price after a committee of senior health department officials submitted its report on the issue. The decision came on a day when Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally went past 1.04 lakh.Tope said the price of the test in Maharashtra is now lowest in the country. The minister said that in the backdrop of the testing for coronavirus being done in huge numbers and the drop in the prices of the kits used for the test, the decision to reduce the prices of the test was justified. He said that the four-member committee had given its recommendation for the revision in the prices after analysing every aspect related to the cost incurred for the test.“Maharashtra has conducted the highest tests and the count is more than 6.25 lakh tests from 95 testing labs, including 42 private labs, that are operational across the state. The ICMR protocol for the RT-PCR tests remains the same and there would be no compromise on the quality. This has been another decision in the interest of the common public and in the direction of curbing the profiteering,” Tope said.He said that the home test charges too have been brought down to Rs 2,800 from Rs 5,200. Dr Sudhakar Shinde, state health assurance society’s CEO, headed the committee that took all aspects related to the tests into account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-slashes-covid-19-test-price-by-50-caps-it-at-rs-2-200/story-ytxiS9bUPjevcEcFAZVuCK.html
13-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: India says Nepal’s border move ‘violative’, ‘artificial enlargement of claims’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India says Nepal’s border move ‘violative’, ‘artificial enlargement of claims’Nepal’s Parliament on Saturday passed a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a map depicting disputed areas such as Lipulekh as Nepalese territory, prompting India to say such “artificial enlargement of claims” violates an understanding to resolve boundary issues through talks.Read more. India had offered dialogue to Nepal on row over map. Why PM Oli ignored itOn Saturday, the lower house of the Nepali Parliament passed the constitutional amendment bill updating the so-called “political map of Nepal”. The “updated map” includes territories that are parts of the Indian states of Uttarakhand and Bihar. The bill will now go through Nepal’s upper house before receiving presidential assent. According to experts, that is a mere formality.Read more. PM Modi meets ministers to assess India’s response to Covid-19 pandemicPrime Minister Narendra Modi, who is scheduled to meet chief ministers over the course of two days next week, met senior ministers and officials on Saturday evening to review the country’s response in fighting the coronavirus pandemic.Read more. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally swells to 1.4 lakh, 57K of them in MumbaiMaharashtra recorded 3,427 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday to take the state’s tally to 1,04,568, the state health department said. Out of the 3,427 new cases, Mumbai alone reported 1,380 cases. The city’s tally now stands at 56,831 and is higher than any other state in the country.Read more. Photos: India crosses UK, now fourth worst-hit by coronavirusOn June 12, India became the fourth country in the world after the United States, Brazil and Russia-- to report 309,324 cases of the coronavirus disease. More than 57% of all cases in India can be traced to three states – Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. The country reported 11,172 new cases and 384 new deaths, taking the total number of cases to 309,324, and deaths to 8,884.Read full story here. ‘Ask ICMR to change guidelines for Covid testing’: Delhi’s Health MinisterDelhi’s Health Minister Satyendar Jain spoke on Covid-19 testing in Delhi. Jain said ICMR would have to change guidelines if more Covid tests are to be done. ICMR guidelines does not allow everyone to be tested for Covid-19. AAP MP Sanjay Singh also said ICMR should change rules to testing to know how many people are infected in India. Covid-19 cases in India are over 3 lakh with over 8,800 deaths.Watch here. Gautam Gambhir explains why Virat Kohli and Co. don’t play well in knockout matchesGambhir’s point of view is sure to be looked at. India have lately stuttered in big match scenarios, losing crucial knockout matches such as the final of the ICC Champions Trophy 2017 and the semifinal of last year’s World Cup.Read more. Da 5 Bloods movie review: A spectacular masterpiece from the legendary Spike Lee; it’s what Netflix was made forDa 5 Bloods movie review: Spectacular Netflix film is director Spike Lee’s retort to decades of Hollywood storytelling from a white perspective. He’s rewriting the narrative - methodically, patiently, and furiously.Read more. Zadie Smith’s new volume of essays to release this August; e-book to be out in JulyAuthor Zadie Smith has used the lockdown period to pen a short and powerful volume of six essays called Intimations, to be published by Hamish Hamilton. The e-book will be out on July 28 and the paperback in August this year.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-india-says-nepal-s-border-move-violative-artificial-enlargement-of-claims-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HrlqDM1hH33SuhrsdaBBKK.html
13-06-2020||India||Maharashtra govt testing fewer samples to keep Covid-19 numbers low, alleges Fadnavis||Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis took a swipe at the Shiv Sena-led coalition government in the state and alleged that Maharashtra had the capacity to test 38,000 samples per day for coronavirus, but only 14,000 tests were being carried out so that the government could project lower statistics by testing fewer samples.“Maharashtra has the capacity to test 38,000 samples per day for Covid-19, but only 14,000 tests are being conducted. Mumbai has the capacity to test 12,000 samples per day but only about 4,000 tests are happening,” Fadnavis alleged.“The government is trying to keep the number of Covid-19 positive cases low by testing lesser number of samples,” the former Maharashtra chief minister said.ALSO READ | Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally swells to 1.4 lakh, 57K of them in MumbaiMaharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope, however, on Saturday said that the state government has reduced the rates of Covid-19 tests conducted by private laboratories from Rs 4,500 to Rs 2,200.The health minister said the lowering of rates for the crucial tests would provide some relief to the common people. “Rs 2,200 will be charged for collecting the swabs through viral transport media (VTM) from hospitals, while it would cost Rs 2,800 for collection of swabs from home. Earlier, the charges were Rs 4,500 and Rs 5,200 respectively,” he said.The revised rates are the maximum these labs can charge. District collectors too, can negotiate with private labs to reduce the rates further, Tope said.“If the private labs charge more than the prescribed upper limit, legal action would be taken against them,” he said, claiming that the new rates will be the lowest in the country.At present, there are 91 labs in Maharashtra for Covid-19 testing and about four to five are also in the offing.Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state by the coronavirus pandemic, crossed the one lakh-mark on Friday with 3,717 new cases and 127 deaths. On Saturday, the state recorded 3,427 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 1,04,568. The death toll too rose to 3,830 with 113 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.Mumbai reported 69 deaths in the last 24 hours and at least 1,380 new Covid-19 cases.The city’s total count of coronavirus positive cases now stand at 56,831 and the death toll is 2,113.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-testing-fewer-samples-to-keep-covid-19-numbers-low-alleges-fadnavis/story-an6lQ4xF9CAbD2gfnXd06K.html
13-06-2020||India||Nearly 90% of Odisha’s Covid-19 cases in 24 hours from quarantine centres||At 225, Odisha on Saturday registered its biggest single-day surge of Covid-19 cases taking the total number to 3,723.Of the total new cases, 196 were reported from quarantine centres while the other 29 were local contacts, said health and family welfare department officials. Cuttack district registered the highest number of cases with 92 followed by Ganjam (20) and Khordha (19). However, with 2,474 persons discharged from various Covid hospitals, the total number of active cases in the state now stands at 1,236. The surge came even as the state government continued to curb movement of people in 11 districts by imposing weekend shutdowns. Beginning this month, the state government has enforced complete shutdown in the districts amid a spike in cases. Odisha was among the first states to impose lockdowns from March. During the lockdown, state police collected a penalty of Rs 1.25 crore from people caught in public places without a face mask While the rising number of positive cases is almost matched by number of recoveries, what is worrying the officials is the rising trend of frontline workers like doctors, nurses and policemen getting infected. On Saturday, two women doctors, working at Narla Community Health Centre of Kalahandi district tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of infected doctors in Odisha to 16.Kalahandi district collector Parag Harshad Gavalli said the doctors reportedly contracted the disease after coming in direct contact with a returnee from Telangana. The returnees visited the CHC by breaking home quarantine protocols. Three days ago, chief minister Naveen Patnaik too had raised concerns about more and more healthcare workers getting infected. “I am distressed to note that over the past few weeks there have been instances of healthcare workers getting infected with Covid-19. This points to a probable breach in maintaining infection control practices. I would like to emphasize again that you are the strength of the people in this long war. Please first ensure your safety and the safety of your team,” Patnaik had said.Odisha has already announced ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh for the next of kin of doctors, nurses and health workers who die of Covid-19 while performing their duties.In Ganjam district, two police personnel too tested positive. Chhatrapur sub divisional police officer and inspector of Chhatrapur police station tested positive. On Friday, a havildar of Motu border check post in Malkangiri district had tested positive for coronavirus.In a related development, a Covid-19 patient who had fled a hospital in Bhubaneswar on Friday, was nabbed by locals. The patient, a 77-year-old man from Bhadrak district had tested positive for Covid-19 at AIIMS Bhubaneswar. While his family members were admitted to the AIIMS, he was shifted to a Covid hospital in Bhubaneswar. While his registration process was underway, the man walked out of the hospital. He was later caught by a few locals at a vegetable market in the city.Meanwhile, the district administration of Ganjam, the Covid hotspot of Odisha, joined three other districts in banning mass congregations for the popular Raja festival, the celebrations of which began on Saturday. Ganjam collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said restrictions would remain in place till June 16. Earlier, Keonjhar, Khurda and Balasore districts had imposed curbs on Raja celebration.In another development, the Odisha government has sought expenditure details of quarantine centres being run in various gram panchayats. Odisha has set up 16,813 quarantine centres in 6,798 gram-panchayats with 7,62,091 beds.In a letter to all district collectors, panchayati raj secretary Deoranjan Kumar Singh said to maintain the financial propriety, the civil construction work of each of the quarantine centres should be measured, and total expenditure incurred on all items of work like civil construction, electrification, bed, bathroom, toilet and drinking water be assessed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-s-spike-of-225-covid-19-cases-today-196-from-quarantine-centres/story-C5T8BeKwxv57oRqGrVIIqN.html
13-06-2020||India||India says Nepal’s border move ‘violative’, ‘artificial enlargement of claims’||Nepal’s Parliament on Saturday passed a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a map depicting disputed areas such as Lipulekh as Nepalese territory, prompting India to say such “artificial enlargement of claims” violates an understanding to resolve boundary issues through talks.On Saturday afternoon, the House of Representatives or lower house of Nepal’s Parliament unanimously adopted the constitutional amendment bill for including the country’s new political map in the national emblem. This map, cleared by the KP Sharma Oli government on May 20, depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal.All 258 members of the 275-strong House of Representatives present in the lower house voted for the bill. The ruling Nepal Communist Party doesn’t have a two-thirds majority in the lower house, and the bill was supported by key opposition parties such as Nepali Congress and Rastriya Prajatantra Party.Also Read: India had offered dialogue to Nepal on row over map. Why PM Oli ignored itThe bill is set to be taken up by the National Assembly or upper house next week, people familiar with developments said. The Nepal Communist Party has a two-thirds majority in the upper house and the bill’s passage by the National Assembly is considered a formality.Reacting to the development, the external affairs ministry – which has said in the past that the matter should be resolved through talks – described the passage of the bill as an “artificial enlargement” of Nepal’s territorial claims.“We have noted that the House of Representatives of Nepal has passed a constitution amendment bill for changing the map of Nepal to include parts of Indian territory. We have already made our position clear on this matter,” said external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava.He added, “This artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues.”Also Read: Nepal parliament clears new map, shuts possibility of talks on boundary rowNepal’s Speaker Agni Sapkota was quoted by The Kathmandu Post as saying: “All 258 lawmakers present in the meeting voted for the bill, while there was no vote against it. I announce that the bill has been endorsed by more than a two-thirds majority.”When the Nepal government presented the bill in the lower house on Tuesday for discussion, it was unanimously backed by lawmakers from all political parties. After being passed by the upper house, the bill will have to be signed by the president to come into effect.Nepal’s move to issue the new political map was triggered by India’s inauguration of an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the border with Tibet to facilitate the movement of pilgrims going to the Kailash Mansarovar site. Last year, Nepal had been irked when India depicted Kalapani as part of a new map of the union territory of Ladakh.Nepalese officials have said they made three proposals to India for talks since last November, with the most recent one in May, but that there was no response from the Indian side. Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has maintained that Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura are part of his country’s territory on the basis of the Treaty of Sugauli signed with the British in 1816, which says all areas east of the Kali river belong to Nepal.Oli has also accused India of creating an “artificial” boundary in the region and of encroaching on Nepalese territory by deploying the army.India has dismissed these claims, saying they are not based on historical facts and records.Hours before the lower house of Nepal’s Parliament voted on the amendment, Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane emphasised the strong relations between the two countries. The remarks marked a U-turn from his earlier comments about Nepal working at someone else’s behest to raise the border issue.“We have a very strong relationship with Nepal. We have geographical, cultural, historical, religious linkages. We have very strong people-to-people connect. Our relation with them has always been strong and will remain strong in the future,” Naravane told reporters.The India-Nepal border row comes at a time when India is engaged in a tense stand-off with Chinese troops in several sections of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and Constantino Xavier of Brookings India said it was time for New Delhi to move towards de-escalation with Kathmandu.“India spent too many years wasting scarce resources on micro-managing Nepal politics. Useless, counter-productive. Delhi can’t be petty. Ignore symbolic amendment. Olis will come and go. Move on, focus on de-escalation, delivery,” Xavier tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-nepal-s-border-move-violative-artificial-enlargement-of-claims/story-twKEXxMOOULzpiK6pVUn7J.html
13-06-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally swells to 1.04 lakh, 57K of them in Mumbai||Maharashtra recorded 3,427 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday to take the state’s tally to 1,04,568, the state health department said.Out of the 3,427 new cases, Mumbai alone reported 1,380 cases. The city’s tally now stands at 56,831 and is higher than any other state in the country.The death toll in the pandemic rose to 3,830 with 113 casualties on Saturday. Sixty nine of the casualties were in Mumbai which raised the city’s death toll to 2,113.A total of 1,550 patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the number of recovered cases to 49,346, the health department said. The state now has 51,392 active cases.Four policemen were among the casualties in Mumbai. It is the worst single-day toll for any unit of the force in Maharashtra since the pandemic began, a police official said according to PTI.So far, 25 personnel and one officer of Mumbai police have died of Covid-19. Across the state, the police have lost 40 of its men to the pandemic while several hundred are under treatment for the infection at various hospitals.The number of new cases in Maharashtra on Saturday was a little less than the surge of 3,493 on Friday that took the state’s Covid-19 tally past the one lakh mark.On Thursday, Maharashtra had seen its highest single-day spike with 3,607 new Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-swells-to-1-4-lakh-57k-of-them-in-mumbai/story-8ejSlaIr56aiLMd95syHFI.html
13-06-2020||India||Cloudy weather, rains bring down mercury in Delhi||Cloudy skies and light rains made way for pleasant weather in the national capital on Saturday. Cool, high-velocity winds also swept across the city. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 39.4 degrees Celsius, which is normal for this time of the year. The weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ayanagar recorded their maximum temperatures at 37.7 and 38.2 degrees Celsius respectively. Humidity levels oscillated between 54 and 71 per cent. On Friday, the mercury had crossed the 42 degrees Celsius-mark in parts of the national capital. There is a possibility of a light rains along with winds gusting up to 40 kilometers per hour on Sunday.  The maximum and minimum temperatures on Sunday are expected to settle at 39 and 30 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department, said that the region is not likely to witness a heat wave till June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cloudy-weather-rains-bring-down-mercury-in-delhi/story-9MIgkp3skY9g7ISCtyrokL.html
13-06-2020||India||Hit hard by Covid-19, Bengal braces for dengue, malaria as monsoon breaks||Kolkata: With the monsoon setting in, West Bengal is now bracing for a spike in dengue and malaria cases even as it wrestles with a surge in Covid-19 cases with Kolkata registering the maximum numbers.On Friday, Bengal’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 10,000-mark out of which 3,356 cases were from Kolkata.Since January, more than 550 cases of dengue have been detected across Bengal of which around 90 are from Kolkata.“This year the situation is a bit different. Most of the health department officials and hospital staff are engaged in tackling Covid-19 as it is spreading fast. But now we will also have to tackle dengue and malaria,” said a senior health official.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had already warned officials to gear up for the challenge. She had particularly stressed on the district of North 24 Parganas. The district has also the third highest number of Covid-19 cases after Kolkata and Howrah. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“Please carry on the work needed to prevent dengue. Ensure that a situation does not arise later where you have to fight dengue and Covid-19 together,” she had said in April.Every year dengue caused by two species of mosquitoes Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus and malaria caused by Anopheles stephensi take a heavy toll in Kolkata and West Bengal. In 2018 and 2019 around 23,000 and 47,000 people were detected with dengue respectively. More than 180 people have died of dengue in the last five years. Malaria infected more than 75,000 people in the last three years and more than 130 people have died in the last five years. “What could make matters worse is that the symptoms of the three - Covid, dengue and malaria and a few other diseases such as typhoid and common flu often overlap – fever, sore throat and body ache. One should first go for dengue and malaria tests. If found negative they should go for Covid-19 tests and if the fever persists for almost a week then one should go for a typhoid test,” said Amitava Nandi, virologist.The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has already held several meetings at the borough levels and campaigns and public announcements are being made to make the people aware of the situation.“Unlike other years we can’t go inside buildings and people’s houses to check if there is any stagnant water where mosquitoes can breed. So this time we are asking people to check their homes while we check the roads. We have 144 malaria clinics and 15 dengue clinics,” said Debasis Biswas, chief vector control officer of KMC.What has compounded the problem is that because of the lockdown a section of the civic body’s ground level workers have returned home. Trees that had fallen during cyclone Amphan on May 20 in and around Kolkata could now end up increasing the threat of dengue and malaria.“Even though we have cut the trees to clear the roads, not all have been removed and the trunks and branches are still lying on the roadside. Plastic containers and earthen pots could be hidden beneath them. They could become ideal breeding sites for the Aedes aegypti which are small container breeders. The Aedes albopictus, another dengue mosquito which breeds in hollows of trees can also proliferate,” said a KMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-hard-by-covid-19-bengal-braces-for-dengue-malaria-as-monsoon-breaks/story-mVYqWZIbGUHzg1nNflV2eN.html
13-06-2020||India||Finance Ministry crosses 2 million followers on Twitter||Followers of the Finance Ministry Twitter handle has crossed the 2 million mark. The ministry started its twitter handle @FinMinIndia in July 2014. “We are very glad that 2 Million Tweeple are connected with us now. Thank you for staying connected with us. Stay Connected,” the ministry said in a tweet on Saturday. The other ministry on the Raisina Hills like the Home Ministry has 4.9 million followers while the defence ministry has 0.5 million or 530 thousand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-ministry-crosses-2-million-followers-on-twitter/story-rwOItg05r7W6YPdc9wjzrN.html
13-06-2020||India||Sikkim records spike in Covid-19 cases, govt defers reopening of schools||The highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases has forced the Sikkim government to defer reopening of educational institutions till August and take additional precautionary measures.On Friday, 50 people, most of whom had returned from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19. With this, the number of cases reached 62 till Saturday afternoon. Four people have so far been cured. Till May 22, the Himalayan state, which shares borders with China, Bhutan and Nepal, was coronavirus-free. The next day, a 25-year-old man who returned from Delhi, tested positive for the disease. He has been released from hospital.A meeting of the state task force was held in Gangtok on Friday. It was chaired by chief minister Prem Singh Tamang. He decided to resume classes in schools, colleges and universities only from the first week of August. Earlier, it was decided that the classes from nine and above would resume from July 1.While speaking to HT, Mani Kumar Sharma, Sikkim health minister, said, “Adequate precautions need to be taken before classes resume.”He said the number of cases would slowly decrease as most of the returnees have already been tested.Sikkim has made it mandatory to put all returnees in compulsory quarantine for 14 days before they go for mandatory home quarantine for another 14 days.“All the returnees are being tested and it has become easy for the government to track them. All those who tested positive were asymptomatic and this is dangerous. It is a challenge for us,” said Sharma. The state government has already announced a ban on entry of people from other states and abroad till October. It was among the first states to ban entry of migrant workers and non-residents, including tourists although the latter support Sikkim’s vast tourism industry.So far, more than 6000 Sikkim locals have returned home. Among them, 191 people returned from Mumbai on June 4.Pempa Bhutia, state health secretary, said “No health worker has so far tested positive and the state healthcare infrastructure is adequate enough to deal with the present situation.” “If the number of cases rise the government may face problems,” said Sharma and Bhutia.According to the state health bulletin published on Saturday afternoon, the total number of people tested so far is 5,377.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-records-spike-in-covid-19-cases-govt-defers-reopening-of-schools/story-WHBUE9frMshYIJu0sPtOeM.html
13-06-2020||India||127 young soldiers join Ladakh Scouts||As many as 127 young soldiers joined Ladakh scouts at an attestation parade held on Saturday at Ladakh Scouts Regimental Centre (LSRC) in Leh.“Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the ceremony was conducted without any military or civil dignitaries or parents of the recruits by following norms and advisories issued by the Union ministry of home affairs as well as the Indian Army,” a defence spokesperson said.The attestation parade was reviewed by Colonel Rinchen Dorje, Commandant, LSRC.The young soldiers, hailing from far flung areas of Ladakh, took oath in unison to serve the nation. The reviewing officer urged them to devote their life in service to the nation as proud soldiers of the Indian Army. He exhorted the young soldiers to continue to strive hard in pursuit of excellence in all spheres and take a solemn vow to uphold the sovereignty of the nation.The young riflemen were awarded medals for their outstanding performance during the training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/127-young-soldiers-join-ladakh-scouts/story-80kxhlbUkhqf8OGCKjBlFO.html
13-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand man gets washed away while taking selfie in Ganga canal||A youth was washed away in Haridwar’s Ganga canal while taking a selfie on his mobile phone, while his friend was saved by locals, who were taking a bath, when the accident occurred on Friday evening.The youth were on a pilgrimage to Kaliyar area in Haridwar district and were on a sightseeing of the Ganga canal, when the mishap took place.Police said a rescue operation is on to trace the deceased identified as Kadir (22), who was a native of Sikraudha village in Bhagwanpur block of Haridwar district.According to the station house officer (SHO), Kaliyar, Prakash Pokhriyal, Kadir and his friend Azam while strolling along the Ganga canal ghat on Friday evening tried to take at a selfie at a difficult angle, and both slipped and fell into the water.The youngsters, who were taking a bath, tried to rescue the duo, but only Azam could be saved, as Kadir got washed away.Earlier in June, an ashram vehicle driver had got washed away in the Ganges while taking a holy dip at Saptrishi. In May, a priest (28) had drowned after he slipped into the Ganges while taking a bath at Saptsarovar Ganga ghat.Last year in January, state forest officials had slapped a penalty of Rs 2,000 on a Haldwani-based man, who had tried to take a selfie after climbing atop the tiger cage at GB Pant High Altitude Zoo in Nainital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-gets-washed-away-while-taking-selfie-in-ganga-canal/story-5pf05qPUeBcKBdZ9OLEsBL.html
13-06-2020||India||16 trade bodies in Darjeeling call for a week’s shutdown to fight Covid-19||Sixteen trade and transport organizations in Darjeeling have called for a shutdown of all markets and transportation for a week beginning June 15 in a desperate bid to stave off Covid-19. The newly-formed Save Darjeeling Covid 19 Protection Committee announced the decision on Friday evening.The Committee consists of 16 organisations including Chamber of Commerce Darjeeling, Himalayan Transport Coordination Committee and Path Pasaley Sangh. S N Pradhan, president of HimalayanTransport Coordination Committee who is also one of the three conveners of the newly formed committee said “We have not called a bandh but have appealed all in Darjeeling town falling under Darjeeling Municipality to remain inside homes and not to open business establishments and ply vehicles for seven days till June 21.”The decision according to Pradhan was taken after reaching a conclusion that social distancing has not been followed practically. “The only way to save oneself and others is to remain in self isolation and thus we have decided to keep close all business establishments and transport after two-day-long deliberations,” he said.As on June 12, Darjeeling district has recorded 184 Covid-19 cases, three of whom have died.Mira Baraily, secretary, Path Pasaley Sangh, Darjeeling said, “The call to remain inside homes is not against anyone and it is also not against the National Disaster Act. Everyone has a right to stay safe and the 16 organisations’ move to close the shutters for a week is only aimed at fighting the coronavirus. Transport, both public and private would also be closed for the period.”Bimal Mintri, vice president, Chamber of Commerce Darjeeling said “We have taken a unanimous decision to keep everything other than essential commodities closed for a week on a trial basis.” The Darjeeling hills had witnessed 104-day-long bandh during 2017 agitation for the creation of a separate state of Gorkhaland. S Poonambalam, district magistrate of Darjeeling said “We will sit with the organisations on Saturday evening and listen to their grievances.”As the Covid 19 cases are on the rise particularly in Siliguri plains of Darjeeling district, the district administration has already closed the fish market at Siliguri Regulated Market for a week from Friday. The vegetable and fruit markets will also be closed for a week from Monday.The decision was taken after reports that few people related with the fish, vegetable and fruits mandis in the regulated market have been tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-trade-bodies-in-darjeeling-call-for-a-week-s-shutdown-to-fight-covid-19/story-sQKfxWWwPerKpV3NAiMwGP.html
13-06-2020||India||4 Mumbai Police personnel succumb to Covid-19, 1,233 cops recover and join work||Four Mumbai Police personnel, who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19, succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, according to a statement from the Mumbai Police. The four policemen were infected in the line of duty. In some encouraging news, however, a total of 1,233 personnel of the Mumbai Police have also recovered from Covid-19 and 334 of them have resumed work, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Saturday.The state home minister said he was proud of the policemen who risked their lives to perform their duties during the severe outbreak of the coronavirus disease.ALSO READ | Covid-19 positive cases in Mumbai Police cross 2,000-mark“A total of 1,233 policemen from the MumbaiPolice Force have successfully defeated Covid-19. 334 of them have returned to duty. Congratulations to these corona warriors. I am proud of the @MumbaiPolice who risk their lives to perform their duties diligently,” Deshmukh said in a tweet.The Maharashtra Police, on the other hand, reported 129 new Covid-19 cases in the last 48 hours taking the total number of personnel who tested Covid-19 positive to 3,388.On Friday, Maharashtra Police officials said that active cases currently stand at 1,388 and 1,945 policemen have recovered till date. They said 36 police personnel have succumbed to the disease in Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state in the coronavirus pandemic in the country.Maharashtra crossed the one lakh-mark on Friday with 3,717 new cases and 127 deaths. Mumbai reported 1,366 cases and 90 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total cases in the city to 55,451. So far 2,044 people have died. The recovery rate in Mumbai at present is 47.3 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-mumbai-police-personnel-succumb-to-covid-19-1-233-cops-recover-and-join-work/story-gENOdb15U3hXpFNcFR5OBN.html
13-06-2020||India||PM Modi meets ministers to assess India’s response to Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is scheduled to meet chief ministers over the course of two days next week, met senior ministers and officials on Saturday evening to review the country’s response in fighting the coronavirus pandemic.The meeting also took stock of the situation in different states. India crossed the grim milestone of three lakh cases yesterday as the situation gets grimmer.“The meeting reviewed the national level status and preparation in the context of the pandemic,” tweeted the prime minister’s office. The present and emerging scenario of the Covid-19 disease in Delhi, which reported its biggest single day spike with 2,137 cases on Friday, was discussed and the projections for next two months were deliberated, said the PMO. It was observed that out of the total cases, two-thirds are in five states with an overwhelming proportion of cases in big cities. In view of the challenges being faced, particularly by the large cities, it was discussed to augment testing as well as the number of beds and services to effectively handle the peak surge of daily cases.Taking cognisance of the recommendations of the empowered group, the PM, said his office, instructed health ministry officials to undertake emergency planning in consultation with the states and union territories. He also advised the ministry to ensure suitable preparations in view of the start of the monsoon season.The PM, said his office, underscored that success stories and best practices in the fight against coronavirus should be widely talked about to provide inspiration and innovative ideas to others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-ministers-officials-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-country/story-cwirSCjFgDoyWMdg05MwDN.html
13-06-2020||India||Covid-19 bites IMA’s passing out parade, no kin of new officers allowed||For the first time since its inception, a batch of young offices graduated from the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun on Saturday without their parents watching the passing out parade (POP) due to restrictions for the Covid-19 pandemic.Instead, the academy’s officers and their wives played the role of parents for the Gentlemen Cadets (GCs) by putting stars on their shoulders as a symbol of getting commissioned as army officers. The changes were introduced considering the precautionary measures as per the guidelines of government for Covid-19 pandemic. The IMA officials said that it was done to ensure the safety of the GCs and the academy staff. In the morning, when the event started, the GCs in the POP wore masks and maintained extra distance than usual during the ceremonial parade. There was no shower of rose petals from helicopters on the GCs which have become a tradition to welcome the young officers into the army. There were also some first-time changes during the Pipping ceremony which happens after the parade is over. The ceremony comprises taking the oath by the GCs and then putting the stars of their ranks on their shoulders by their family members. But since family members were not allowed to attend the event, the IMA staffers and their wives played the role of their parents by putting the stars on their shoulders. The whole event was live streamed through a drone camera which was used for the first time. The venue of the ceremony was also changed from the ground near Khetarpal Gymnasium to the one near Nizam Pavilion of the Academy. Some of the GCs at the event were quite emotional as their parents couldn’t witness them becoming officers in the army but said the void was filled by their instructors and IMA officials from the Indian Army. Twenty-four-year-old Abhishek Negi, a newly commissioned officer from Dehradun said, “Obviously it felt bad that my parents couldn’t see me wearing the officer’s uniform despite living in the same city. But then, it is for the safety of all. We are thankful for our instructors at the academy who played the role of our parents and made us realise once again, that we all are one big family.”Samrat Thapa, 22, another newly commissioned officer from Bhopal, said his father cried over the phone while speaking to him after the ceremony.“My father, who is a serving Colonel in the Indian Army, wanted me to see passing out as an army officer with flying colours. Unfortunately, due to obvious reasons he couldn’t come and cried over the phone when I called him after the ceremony. I consoled him asking him not to cry as from now onwards I will also be wearing the uniform like him,” said Thapa. The IMA officials and their wives who played the roles of the GCs’ parents said they were more than proud of the role they played. “I felt extremely proud while putting the stars on the shoulders of these young officers along with my husband. We are all one family,” said Sumati Gakhar, wife of an Indian Army officer, also an IMA official. Saturday’s ceremony also witnessed a significant change with the introduction of ‘Pahla Kadam’ or first step, a symbolic stair in the Pipping ceremony. Lt Col Amit Dagar, public relation officer while speaking on the introduction of Pahla Kadam said, “Earlier, there was Antim Pag or last step after the parade which symbolises the conclusion of training, but from this season we introduced Pahla Kadam after Antim Pag which symbolises the first step of the new officers in their army careers after completing the training.”This time, the newly commissioned officers also didn’t get their leave to go home before joining their respective units. They will join their units right away.“All these changes were introduced due to the ongoing pandemic in the country as we wanted to ensure the health safety of the GCs, their family members as well as the IMA staffers,” said Lt Col Dagar.A total of 423 GCs passed out of the academy including 333 from India and 90 from friendly foreign countries. The coveted award of Sword of Honour was awarded to GC Akashdeep Singh Dhillon of Punjab. The gold medal for the GC standing first in the Order of Merit was awarded to GC Shiv Kumar Singh Chauhan while the silver and bronze medals went to Sakshyam Rana and Suraj Singh respectively. Doan Van Son from Vietnam was awarded silver medal for the GC standing First in the Order of Merit among foreign GCs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bites-ima-s-passing-out-parade-no-kin-of-new-officers-allowed/story-qpvbzjpwGMx4C0Vc34FTeP.html
13-06-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to address virtual rally for BJP workers in Jammu tomorrow||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will address a virtual rally for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in the Jammu division of the union territory of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) on Sunday, the first since the nationwide lockdown restrictions were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. The BJP leaders from all parts of the Jammu division and the office-bearers of the Valley have been asked to remain present in their offices and certain designated places in a bid to listen to Singh’s speech live. BJP office-bearers said that the minister’s speech would start at 11 am and is likely to go on for an hour. Altaf Thakur, BJP spokesperson, J&K, said Sunday’s virtual rally would be the first big party event addressed by a senior leader since the lockdown restrictions were imposed in the union territory.“The virtual rally is going to be attended by hundreds of BJP leaders from the Jammu division and the office-bearers from the Kashmir Valley. On June 28, a similar rally will be held for the BJP workers in the Kashmir Valley. It will be addressed by another senior BJP leader,” Thakur said.“The defence minister will address party workers on Covid-19 and other important matters. All the workers are eagerly waiting for his speech. The audio and video output of the speech will be made available at BJP offices and other designated locations,” he added.Surinder Ambardar, a former lawmaker and senior BJP leader, said all prominent leaders have been asked to reach the party office in Jammu on Sunday morning. “We’re expecting some important message in the minister’s speech. We hope the speech will centre on Covid-19 and other key issues pertaining to J&K,” Ambardar said.“Only BJP leaders and workers are active during the lockdown restrictions,” said a senior office-bearer of the party from south Kashmir. He said party leaders and workers are strictly adhering to social distancing norms.Virtual rallies could become a new reality in the country until the pandemic abates, he added.Earlier, former J&K chief minister and National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah had addressed a meeting of party leaders in the Jammu division via Zoom application after he was released from detention in March after eight months of house arrest post the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-address-virtual-rally-for-bjp-workers-in-jammu-tomorrow/story-RgJcJE2jTvQSfIHOvhChVL.html
13-06-2020||India||Locked down in Kashi: Foreigners’ tryst with ghats comes to a halt||The raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak has been a dampener for itinerant foreigners, who are attracted to Varanasi, a melting pot of pristine Indian culture and traditions.Varanasi, one of the four oldest living cities, including Rome, Athens, and Jerusalem, in the world, is known for its iconic ghats -- steps leading to the banks of the Ganges river -- serpentine lanes and by-lanes celebrating the mysticism of Hinduism.This is what had attracted Sarah Wackernell, an Austrian national and a social worker, to Varanasi on March 20. She had chalked out elaborate plans to soak in the sights and sounds of the ancient city upon her visit.Alas! Her plans remained a non-starter amid the viral outbreak that led to a day-long “Janta Curfew” on March 22, which was a precursor to the nationwide lockdown restrictions that were enforced three days later to contain the pandemic.Wackernell remained cooped up in her room at a guesthouse in a narrow lane near Rana Mahal Ghat for over 70 days during the lockdown restrictions. There was a sameness to her daily routine during the lockdown, when the hustle and bustle of the ancient city, which is never known to go to sleep, came to a standstill.In the morning, she would sit on the staircase at her doorstep and stare at the empty lane in front of her guesthouse as the pandemic-scarred world went by, while she would spend hours on the rooftop at night and gaze at the benign sheltering sky.“All my plans were dashed because of the lockdown restrictions. I had no option but to be confined to my room at the guesthouse. However, local people and the guesthouse owner and his family were all very kind to me. They took care of me during the lockdown restrictions and are doing so even now,” she said.The viral outbreak hasn’t ebbed her wanderlust. She wants to explore Varanasi and wants to keep her tryst with iconic ghats and mystic dingy by-lanes, as and when an opportunity arises, as the social distancing norms have made these places off-limits for now.She will decamp to Rishikesh in neighbouring Uttarakhand once she has a fill of Varanasi.Ryan G, an American national, who, too, arrived in Varanasi and got stranded because of the lockdown restrictions, however, doesn’t share the same experience as that of Wackernell.He alleged that the police were selective in enforcing lockdown restrictions, as they discriminated between locals and foreigners. “We’re asked by the police to stay inside the guesthouse. However, I saw several locals were roaming on the streets in violation of the lockdown restrictions,” the American tourist alleged.His only attempt to visit the ghats was thwarted by the police, he further alleged.While Nita C, a Dutch national, who arrived in Varanasi four days before the lockdown restrictions were imposed, had a mixed experience.“The locals are very cooperative. They helped us. But the guesthouse staff wasn’t supportive. I was asked to cough up an unreasonable price for four chapatis,” she said.Nita whiled away her time during the lockdown by immersing herself in yoga and meditation sessions daily. She is planning to leave for Delhi soon amid the easing of lockdown restrictions.Spaniard Virginia Tolls, too, reached Varanasi a few days before the lockdown. She had a pleasant experience with her stay. “Locals people are good. They did shopping for me, as I couldn’t venture out of the guesthouse during the lockdown,” she said, while she’s still undecided when she would like to leave Varanasi.Portuguese tourist Alexandre Afonso made good use of the downtime because of the lockdown restrictions. “Personally speaking, it was a life-altering experience for me, as I could indulge in an inner journey to explore who I’m. I may have been born and brought up in Portugal, but I’m a global citizen,” he said.Afonso, who too missed visiting the ghats, one of Varanasi’s star attractions, blamed a section of guesthouse owners for many tourists’ unpleasant stay during the lockdown restrictions.Kirtiman Srivastava, regional tourism officer, Uttar Pradesh tourism, made the ground rules clear.“Owners of hotels, lodges, and guesthouses were clearly instructed to take care of foreigners and provide them with good food during the lockdown restrictions. We’ve taken care of them well, despite the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locked-down-in-kashi-foreigners-tryst-with-ghats-comes-to-a-halt/story-ztx7AHORDqHA9i90F0KbTL.html
13-06-2020||India||Loss of smell, taste are now key symptoms to identify Covid-19 patients: Health Ministry||The Centre has added two new symptoms of the infectious Covid-19 disease, for the reference of medical professionals to help in detecting Covid-19 positive patients. Loss of smell (anosmia) and loss of taste (ageusia) have been added to the list of coronavirus symptoms by the Union Health Ministry.The other symptoms of the disease are fever, cough, fatigue, shortness of breath, expectoration, sore throat and diarrhoea.When the first set of criteria for Covid-19 testing was fixed in January 2020, it comprised fever, cough, and breathlessness as symptoms. Later, in May with a surge in Covid-19 positive cases, gastrointestinal health issues such as diarrhoea or vomiting were also added.ALSO READ | Loss of smell, taste may be added to Covid-19 test criteriaThere are currently 13 clinical symptoms and signs in the specimen referral form that was revised by the ministry last month. The symptoms are fever, cough, diarrhoea, vomiting, abdominal pain, breathlessness, nausea, haemoptysis (coughing up of blood), body ache, sore throat, chest pain, nasal discharge and sputum. Any patient with one or more symptoms is allowed to get tested for Covid-19. If loss of smell and taste are added to the list, a patient would have to report one or more of 15 symptoms to get tested.The Health Ministry in its document has indicated that direct person-to-person transmission occurs only through close contact, mainly through droplets that are released when the infected person either coughs, sneezes or talks to another person.“These droplets may also land on surfaces, where the virus remains viable. Infection can also occur if a person touches an infected surface and then touches his or her eyes, nose or mouth,” the document states.Earlier, during the onset of the disease, several cases were reported where the patients showed a loss of smell or taste.In April, the World Health Organization (WHO), along with many European Union (EU) countries, the USA, and Australia, added the loss of smell and taste as one of the crucial Covid-19 symptoms. The United Kingdom also added these to its list of Covid-19 symptom on May 18.Senior citizens, those who are over 60 years of age are particularly vulnerable to the coronavirus. Among them, those with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and cardiac disease, are also at high risk, according to the Health Ministry. So clarity on symptoms of the new disease will not only help doctors in treating coronavirus patients but also expanding the eligibility criteria will help in identifying potential Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loss-of-smell-taste-are-now-key-symptoms-to-identify-covid-19-patients-health-ministry/story-8Mo5vphGzqKbx5XeSkNHaP.html
13-06-2020||India||Telangana Congress leaders in house arrest, visit to project sites scuttled||Hundreds of Congress leaders in Telangana were arrested and many others, including MPs and MLAs, were placed under house arrest by the police at different places in the state on Saturday, as they were planning to visit various irrigation projects being built on Godavari river as part of their “Jala Deeksha” programme.As per the schedule, announced by the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC), the state and district-level leaders were to visit various project sites on Godavari river in the northern Telangana and highlight, what they say, corruption in the execution of projects.PCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, Sangareddy MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy and MLC T Jeeva Reddy were scheduled to go to Tummidihatti on the banks of Godavari river in Adilabad district. Many others were given the task of visiting various other project sites like Dummugudem, Gouravelli, Yellampalli Sridpada Sagar project, Upper Manair dam, Devadula project and Bhimpalli project.However, the police took into custody several leaders even before they could visit the project sites and confined them to the guest houses.CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka was placed under house arrest at Wyra in Khammam district, while PCC working president A Revanth Reddy was not allowed to come out of his residence in Jubilee Hills in Hyderabad with the police placing vehicles all around his house. Jagga Reddy, J Kusum Kumar and Vamshichand Reddy were also placed under house arrest in Hyderabad.Jeevan Reddy was arrested in Jagityal on his way to Tummidihatti, while Ponnam Prabhakar was stopped at the Sircilla Congress party office. Only Sampath Kumar managed to reach Gouravelli reservoir before being arrested.Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah was also arrested on his way to Sitaramasagar project while Mulug MLA Anasuya alias Seethakka was placed under house arrest in Mulugu.Speaking to reporters in Hyderabad in the afternoon, PCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that the TRS government was unleashing a reign of terror in the state and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was cheating the state with false claims and hollow promises.Describing KCR’s claims on irrigation projects as lies, the PCC chief said the Congress leaders were planning to visit the project sites only to expose the government’s claims. “We are not being allowed to visit any project site on the pretext of Covid-19 pandemic, though we were going there individually by strictly following the Covid-19 guidelines,” he said.He reminded that on June 2, too, the police had arrested several Congress leaders who were planning to visit irrigation projects on Krishna river. “The KCR government has ignored the projects already started by the previous Congress governments and took up new ones in the name of redesigning only for the sake of kickbacks,” Reddy alleged.The PCC chief alleged that some police officials were being used by the TRS leaders to suppress the opposition. “We never expected that democracy would be trampled upon in the new state of Telangana,” he said.He sought to know why the police had remained silent when the chief minister, his son K T Rama Rao and other ministers were openly holding meetings in violation of Covid-19 guidelines. “Why are they stalling only the Congress leaders despite our assurance that we would strictly maintain social distance and follow other rules?” he asked.The PCC chief said he would raise the matter with Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and also with the Centre regarding the state police actions. “We shall also fight a legal battle against the state government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-congress-leaders-in-house-arrest-visit-to-project-sites-scuttled/story-8gQe2vjtmqpwW4zmu0OhRM.html
13-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Amit Shah, Arvind Kejriwal meet tomorrow amid spike in Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amit Shah, CM Kejriwal, AIIMS chief meet tomorrow to discuss Covid-19 situation in DelhiUnion home minister Amit Shah and health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will meet Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal along with members of the SDMA to review the situation in the national capital, where Covid-19 cases have been rising exponentially over the last few days. Read moreKerala puts Covid-19 rider for chartered flights from West Asia for expatsAmid rising number Covid-19 cases among expatriates returning home, the Kerala government on Saturday said only people certified negative for coronavirus will be allowed to board chartered planes from West Asian countries. The restriction will not apply to Vande Bharat Mission flights. Read moreLockdown Life: Unwinding becomes a Covid-19 casualtySweat is streaming down my face. This is partly because of the unbearable pre-monsoon humidity of Mumbai, but also because I’m trying to run from a policeman. Read moreBand-Aid announces bandages in different skin tones, gets mixed reactionsAn announcement by Band-Aid about a new line of bandages to include a more diverse range of skin tones has received mixed reactions on social media. In a post on Instagram, the company shared a picture of the different bandages announcing the launch of their new range. Read moreFormer Pakistan captain Shahid Afridi says he has tested positive for Covid-19Former Pakistan captain Shahid Afridi on Saturday took to Twitter to confirm that he has tested positive for Covid-19. Read morePooja Banerjee on shooting Kehne Ko Humsafar Hain after Nach Baliye injury: ‘My hands were completely immobile’Television actor Pooja Banerjee was juggling between the shoots of the ALT Balaji series Kehne Ko Humsafar Hain season 3, Kasautii Zindagii Kay reboot and Zee 5 series The Casino when the lockdown was enforced. She has been using the much-needed break to spend some quality time with her husband Sandeep Sejwal. Read moreVadodara boy develops ‘automatic sanitiser drone’ to mitigate Covid spreadA teenager in Gujarat joined the fight against Covid-19 by developing a sanitiser drone. The 13-year-old Vadodara boy has designed an automatic sanitiser drone. Prem installed sanitiser mechanism in drone to mitigate coronavirus spread. “The sanitiser drone has a capacity of 500 ml. The mechanism works with the help of a servo motor,” he added. So far, India has recorded over 297,530 infections and more than 8490 deaths. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-amit-shah-arvind-kejriwal-meet-tomorrow-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NYMF0YoODqA0xMUev3ZyjI.html
13-06-2020||India||Increase number of beds, ventilators for Covid-19 patients, HC tells Centre, AAP govt||The Delhi High Court has directed the AAP government and the Centre to increase the number of beds and ventilators for Covid-19 patients in the national capital which has recorded almost 37,000 cases.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued the directions after the Delhi government informed it that till June 9 there were 9,179 beds for Covid-19 patients in the city and out of that 4,914 were occupied and remaining were available. The order was passed on June 11 but made available on Saturday.The Delhi government also told the court that a total of 569 ventilators were available, out of which 315 were being utilised and remaining are available.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“Considering the gravity of the situation, we hereby direct the respondents (Centre and Delhi government) to increase the number of the beds for Cocid-19 patients and also try to increase the number of ventilators so that all Covid patients in need can get these facilities,” the bench said in its order, according to PTI.The Delhi government had recently faced flak with complaints that patients were not being admitted as many hospitals claimed that there were no beds available. The high court also said it expects all hospitals in the national capital to correctly upload the availability of real-time bed capacity data so that the public may know in advance where to go if they are suffering from Covid-19.The court’s order came while disposing a plea by several lawyers seeking proper implementation of containment guidelines and to ensure availability of adequate number of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients in DelhiThe Chief Minister’s office in a tweet on Friday night said that out of a total of 9,558 beds 5,361 were occupied and 4.197 were vacant. It also said that out of a total of 598 ventilators 345 were currently being used.On Thursday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that Delhi would need 150,000 beds by the end of July if its hospitals are to also treat Covid-19 patients from other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increase-number-of-beds-ventilators-for-covid-19-patients-hc-tells-centre-aap-govt/story-wyQIcuf4rYvPNquCnsCtdN.html
13-06-2020||India||Covid-19 patient replies to similar name, discharged; ambulance brings him back||What’s in a name? It turned out to be a lot in Assam’s Darrang district as a Covid-19 patient was discharged from hospital instead of a recovered person due to confusion over their similar-sounding names.Officials on Saturday said the incident occurred two days ago when authorities of the Mangaldoi Civil Hospital were calling out the names of 14 recovered people for their release.The Covid-19 patient responded to a name sounding similar to his, which was in fact of a recovered person from his Dalgaon Sialmari village. He was then discharged instead, they said.But the hospital authorities quickly realised their mistake and sent an ambulance to bring the Covid-19 patient back to the medical establishment the same night, the officials said.The patient fortunately tested negative for Covid-19 in a test conducted on Friday and was discharged along with the person in whose place he was released earlier, they said.Hospital authorities said that the mistake was caused due to similar-sounding names of the two persons and also because their faces were concealed by masks.Darrang Deputy Commissioner Dilip Kumar Bora has ordered an inquiry into the incident and declared the mistakenly discharged person’s house a containment zone.Swab samples of his family members have been collected and sent for tests.Assam has reported over 3,600 Covid-19 cases so far, of which over 2,000 are active, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. Eight persons have died of Covid-19 in the state so far. Of them, four succumbed to the disease this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patient-replies-to-similar-name-discharged-ambulance-brings-him-back/story-DHm1ib1XdOZO1enQC9uNKK.html
13-06-2020||India||Amit Shah, CM Kejriwal to meet tomorrow to discuss Covid-19 situation in Delhi||Union home minister Amit Shah and health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will meet Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal along with members of the SDMA to review the situation in the national capital, where Covid-19 cases have been rising exponentially  over the last few days.The meeting will take place at 11 am on Sunday, a statement from the Home Minister’s office said.Director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Dr Randeep Guleria and other senior officers would also be present at the meeting to be helmed by the home minister.Delhi is now in the third spot, as far as the concentration of coronavirus cases is concerned in India, with the capital’s total tally closing in on the 40,000 mark.ALSO READ | Delhi L-G Anil Baijal appoints panel to aid Delhi’s Covid-19 pandemic responseEarlier, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) too sent notices to the Delhi government, Centre on the Covid-19 situation in the national capital.Acting on a complaint by former Delhi Congress president Ajay Maken, the Commission has referred to difficulties being faced by the people in Delhi, due to non-availability of beds in the hospitals for Covid-19 patients and inadequate number of tests leading to a grim state of affairs and mismanagement, resulting in death of a large number of people.On Friday, Delhi had reported 2,137 new Covid-19 cases in the highest single-day spike so far and 71 deaths due to the coronavirus infection, taking the national capital’s count to 36,824.ALSO READ | L-G Baijal orders Delhi hospitals to display number of beds, prices outside gatesThe latest 71 fatalities reported took the capital’s death toll to 1,214. The number of deaths recorded on Friday also happened to be a record single-day spike. The earlier highest single-day spike of 1,877 new Covid-19 cases was recorded two days earlier on June 11.The national capital currently has 222 containment zones with a high concentration of coronavirus positive cases. At least, 17,261 Covid-19 positive patients are confined to home isolation in the city. The current doubling rate of the coronavirus infection in the national capital is 14 days, so Delhi is likely to see over 56,000 cases by the end of the next two weeks, the Delhi health ministry predicted earlier this week.Except for June 1, when Delhi saw a spike of 990 cases, it has been recording over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases every day from May 28 to June 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-cm-kejriwal-aiims-chief-meet-tomorrow-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-in-delhi/story-KJnbD5GfKbxzuzJ14CQiWI.html
13-06-2020||India||Goa government orders random testing at slums near Covid-19 hospital||After a few personnel from Goa’s dedicated Covid-19 hospital tested positive for the infection, the state government on Saturday decided to conduct random testing at slums near the facility in Margao town.State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said people living in slum areas around ESI Hospital in Margao will be tested for coronavirus.Earlier this week, a few members of the hospital staff had tested positive for the deadly infection.“In view of cases detected at ESI quarters, I have directed the health secretary to test all employees there,” he said.Apart from this, random testing will be conducted in the slums of Azad Nagar and Moti Dongar, which are located near the hospital, Rane said. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, who is also Margao MLA, had requested for tests to be conducted, he added.As on Friday, Goa has recorded 463 cases of Covid-19, of which 69 patients have recovered so far.The state government has declared Mangor Hill in Vasco town of South Goa and Ghodemal in Sattari taluka of North Goa as containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-government-orders-random-testing-at-slums-near-covid-19-hospital/story-iDObjX6EYOlalmrw0EkAiL.html
13-06-2020||India||Dr Reddy’s, Biocon’s Syngene among 4 more firms in pact with Gilead for Covid-19 drug remdesivir||Gilead Sciences Inc has said it has signed licensing pacts with four more firms, including three from India and one from Egypt, for manufacturing and sale of its antiviral drug remdesivir, the first treatment to show improvement in Covid-19 trials.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd, Biocon arm Syngene International Ltd, Zydus Cadila Ltd, and Egypt-based Eva Pharma Pvt Ltd are the companies Gilead has entered into non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements with.The company had signed similar pacts with Cipla Ltd, Jubilant Life Sciences Ltd, Hetero Drugs Ltd, Mylan and Pakistan-based Ferozsons Laboratories last month.Zydus Cadila also said on Friday it signed a non-exclusive licensing pact with Gilead Sciences Inc to manufacture and market remdesivir.Gilead said in a release that the terms for all nine companies are the same. The pact will allow these companies to manufacture remdesivir for distribution in 127 countries, which consist of nearly all low-income and lower-middle-income countries, as well as several upper-middle- and high-income countries that face significant obstacles to healthcare access.The licenses are royalty-free until the World Health Organization (WHO) declares the end of the Public Health Emergency of International Concern status for Covid-19 or until an alternative drug or vaccine is approved against the fatal respiratory disease, whichever is earlier.The nine companies, under the licensing agreements, have the right to receive a technology transfer of the Gilead manufacturing process for remdesivir which will enable them to scale up production more quickly, as well as set their own prices for their products.Remdesivir has received emergency use authorisation (EUA) in the US, India and a few other countries for the treatment of Covid-19 after preliminary results from two trials, including one by US’ National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, showed some promise.However, the safety and efficacy of remdesivir to treat Covid-19 are still being evaluated in multiple Phase 3 clinical trials that are underway. Remdesivir is also part of WHO’s Solidarity Trial which is underway across the world, including at over half a dozen sites in India.The Drug Controller General of India had on June 1 granted the marketing authorisation to Gilead Sciences’ anti-viral drug remdesivir injection 5 mg/mL and Remdesivir lyophilised powder for injection 100 mg for the treatment of suspected or laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 in adults and children hospitalised with severe disease.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-biocon-s-syngene-among-4-more-firms-in-pact-with-gilead-for-covid-19-drug-remdesivir/story-fHJs7x6Lj7yhEwsPYfPOkJ.html
13-06-2020||India||Andhra records 186 new Covid-19 cases, tally nears 6,000-mark||Andhra Pradesh recorded 186 new Covid-19 positive cases and two deaths in the last 24 hours on Saturday, taking the Telugu state’s coronavirus tally to 5,822.With two additional deaths reported since yesterday, the death toll in Andhra has now climbed to 82, according to the state health department.Around 2,641 people have recovered from the infectious disease and been discharged.In the last 24 hours, 42 coronavirus patients got cured and were discharged from hospitals, the state government bulletin said.ALSO READ | Covid-19 latest: Andhra joins the list of states with more than 5,000 positive patientsAmong the total cases reported in the state so far, over 4,500 were local people while an estimated 1100 had come from other states and a few hundred had come back from abroad.On Friday, an employee of the Tirupati Govinda Raja Swami temple tested positive for Covid-19, a statement from the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams said.Devotees now will not be allowed for darshan for two days inside the temple. The temple will be sanitized as per the Covid-19 protocol and will be reopened for devotees from Sunday onwards.However, all services will be held, in the absence of devotees, the TTD statement said.According to TTD, the employee had gone in for a coronavirus test as he had some health problems after which he was detected positive for the disease on Friday.Contact tracing of the employee is being carried out and those who were in contact with him will also be tested, the TTD said.Govindaraja Swamy temple is popular in Tirupati with devotees generally paying a visit to the temple after visiting the shrine of Lord Balaji at Tirumala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-records-186-new-covid-19-cases-tally-nears-6-000-mark/story-WPnB8uX6wYzhjXA6pgVt3L.html
13-06-2020||India||Kerala puts Covid-19 rider for chartered flights from West Asia for expats||Amid rising number Covid-19 cases among expatriates returning home, the Kerala government on Saturday said only people certified negative for coronavirus will be allowed to board chartered planes from West Asian countries. The restriction will not apply to Vande Bharat Mission flights.. “From June 20, all private chartered flights departing to Kerala from Middle East countries shall only carry Covid-19 negative passengers. Test certificates must be carried by them. It applies to all flights for which consent letters were issued earlier,” Kerala Principal Secretary Dr K Elangovan said, according to ANI.Elangovan heads Keala’s war room for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.Kerala had appeared to get a grip on Covid-19 by bringing down the number of infections before the return of its residents from abroad and other parts of the country led to a spike in the numbers. The state currently has over 2,300 cases including 1,300 active cases.India launched the third phase of Vande Bharat Mission on Thursday to evacuate stranded citizens. More than 165,000 Indians returned to the country in the first two phases. The third phase of the evacuation will continue till August 2.More than 400,000 Indian nationals have registered with missions abroad for repatriation.The third phase of the evacuation has 170 flights scheduled from the Gulf Cooperation Countries.India launched the first phase of Vande Bharat Mission in April to bring back its citizens stranded around the world because of Covid-19-related restrictions. The initial phases of the evacuation focused on West Asian countries, which are home to about eight 8 million expatriates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-flight-home-without-covid-19-negative-certificate-kerala-tells-expats/story-TvoWilLLjc91ujjzDw8rKK.html
13-06-2020||India||Community transmission of Covid-19 on in many parts of India, ICMR survey not reflective of current reality: Experts||Amid a massive spurt in coronavirus cases in India, experts on Saturday came down hard on the ICMR for its sero-survey findings to assert that there was no community transmission of Covid-19, saying it was not reflective of the current situation and the government was showing “obstinacy” in accepting the truth.Emphasising that community transmission was on in many parts of the country, the experts asked the government to admit it so that people don’t get complacent.The assertion by experts from the field of virology, public health and medicine came after Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava at a media briefing on Thursday said that India is definitely not in the community transmission stage of Covid-19 spread while releasing the findings of the survey.India’s first sero-survey to monitor the trend of coronavirus infection transmission found that 0.73 per cent of the 26,400 people surveyed from about 65 districts were exposed to coronavirus.AIIMS former director Dr M C Mishra said there is no doubt that there has been community transmission in several parts of the country.“With the mass exodus and the country unlocking, it has become more rapid and the disease has reached areas where there were no cases. It is high time the government comes to fore and acknowledges it so that people become more alert and do not become complacent,” Mishra told PTI.Talking about the ICMR sero-survey, he said the sample size of around 26,400 people is quite inadequate to capture the scale of the spread of the infection, especially keeping in mind the large population and the diversity of the country.Leading virologist Shahid Jameel said India reached the community transmission stage a long time ago.  “It’s just that the health authorities are not admitting it. Even ICMR’s own study of SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) showed that about 40 per cent of those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 did not have any history of overseas travel or contact to a known case. If this is not community transmission, what is,” said Jameel. CEO of Wellcome Trust/Department of Biotechnology’s India Alliance and best known for his extensive research in Hepatitis E virus and HIV, Jameel said an important point to consider is the sensitivity and specificity of the test that ICMR has not revealed, and even a one percent change would make a big difference in the results in areas of low prevalence.Noted lung surgeon Dr Arvind Kumar said that even if the ICMR argument is accepted, it cannot be denied that community transmission is happening in places like Delhi, Ahmedabad and Mumbai.“India is a vast country and every state is experiencing the virus differently and peaking at different times,” said Kumar, who works at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here.“The antibodies take two weeks to develop so the survey is reflective of April. In April, we were in the best possible state. Based on a study representing the April situation, saying that we are not in community transmission is a wrong statement,” he told PTI. Chairman of one of the empowered groups set up to deal with the pandemic and NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul had said the results of the survey indicate the situation of the country around April 30 as the study was conducted mostly around third week of May and antibodies against an infection take around 15 days to develop.While the sero-survey to estimate the fraction of population infected with SARS-CoV-2 in the general population has been completed, the survey in containment zones of hotspot cities is ongoing.India’s Covid-19 tally breached the three-lakh mark on Saturday with a record single-day spike of 11,458 infections, while the death toll rose to 8,884 with 386 new fatalities, the Union Health Ministry said. With a Covid-19 caseload of 3,08,993, India is now the fourth worst-hit nation by the pandemic. The ICMR is doing a study of containment areas and that study will throw up much higher numbers that are likely to fall in the criteria of community transmission, Paul added.          Dr Ravi Shekhar Jha, Head of the Department, Pulmonology, Fortis Escorts Faridabad, said he strongly feels that community transmission has occurred.         “The government  has stopped contact tracing. Earlier the government was doing rigorous contact tracing, but in the last 7-10 days no government, in Delhi or anywhere, is doing it. They know community transmission is happening, but are not accepting it,” Jha told PTI.       On sero-survey, he said it has been done in places where there were not many cases and it should have been carried out in Dharawi or Delhi.  If these surveys are not done in proper places then there is no point in doing it, he said.“It (survey) is definitely not reflective of the current situation. In the end of April we were in a reasonably good position anyways,” he said.Dr Vikas Bajpai, assistant professor, Centre for Social Medicine and Community health at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, said if the government has decided that “obstinacy and blindness to truth” is going to be a matter of policy for it in fighting against this Covid-19 pandemic then it is pointless to try and make them see reason.  “Community transmission is a stage when you are not able to track down the source of infection of a positive case despite thorough contact tracing. Then it is presumed that the virus is in general being transmitted in the community,” he said.Hitting out at ICMR, he said it has mentioned that the study does not include data from the containment zones and the spread of the virus was not uniform everywhere. So if you exclude the most active areas of transmission which are the containment ones obviously the prevalence rate you will arrive at will not reflect the reality, Bajpai added.Dr Manoj Goel, Director and Head, Pulmonology, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram, said it would not be right to believe that there is community transmission at the national-level, but it is definitely happening in certain cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad.The ICMR sero-survey found that lockdown and containment measures were successful in preventing rapid spread of the disease, but a large proportion of the population still remains susceptible.Bhargava had said the study surveyed a total of 83 districts with 26,400 people enrolling for it and 28,595 households were visited.  The surveyed districts were categorised into -- zero cases, low incidence, medium incidence and high incidence--- and were selected based on incidence of reported Covid-19 cases as on April 25.         The findings shared with the media stated that data from 65 districts has been compiled till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-transmission-of-covid-19-on-in-many-parts-of-india-icmr-survey-not-reflective-of-current-reality-experts/story-LZZbgWBIMvLgs3JZQvsYNL.html
13-06-2020||India||Rain, thunderstorm in Delhi, UP and Haryana in next 2 hours: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday predicted thunderstorm accompanied with rain and wind over a few places in southwest and west Delhi and several areas of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. In an update issued at 12:15pm, the weather department said thunderstorm with rain and wind would occur over and adjoining areas of UP’s Aligarh and Kasganj during the next two hours.The same weather condition will also be seen in Haryana’s Rewari, Bawal, Manesar, Gurugram, Rohtak, Bhiwadi, Nuh, Sohna, Palwal, Faridabad and Ballabhgarh, it said.K Sathi Devi, the head of the national weather forecasting centre, had said earlier that parts of northwest India will get thunderstorms over the weekend. “This is because moisture-laden easterly winds are blowing over northwest India and a western disturbance is also impacting the region. So intermittent thundershowers can be expected for the next two to three days,” she added.According to IMD on Friday, the monsoon has surged and covered the entire Bay of Bengal, northeast India, some parts of Arabian Sea, Goa and parts of Maharashtra under the influence of a low-pressure area lying over the Odisha coast.It said that conditions are favourable for the monsoon to advance into many other parts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, in the next 48 hours. It will also enter West Bengal and Odisha. “The monsoon has strengthened its pace because of the low-pressure system which developed over the Bay of Bengal. In fact, by early next week, it will enter Gujarat, covering many parts of central India. This system has helped the monsoon move at its normal pace. It’s too early for us to tell if monsoon will arrive over Delhi on its normal date, June 27,” Devi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-and-thunderstorm-in-delhi-uttar-pradesh-and-haryana-in-next-2-hours-imd/story-NZyofIq6O55JH3WYUWTAeI.html
13-06-2020||India||As Nepal preps to vote on new map, a hint about India’s stance from Army chief||Hours before Nepal’s lower house votes on a new political map of the country that includes Indian territories, Army chief General MM Naravane on Saturday underscored the strong people-to-people ties between the two countries that have lately soured over the map that depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as Nepalese territory.“We have a very strong relationship with Nepal. We have geographical, cultural, historical, religious linkages. We have very strong people-to-people connect. Our relation with them has always been strong and will remain strong in the future,” General Naravane said.Officials said General Naravane’s comment appeared to hint India’s stance on Nepal’s effort to expand its territory, one that gives Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s government a silent treatment but continues to build and cement people-to-people ties.ALSO WATCH | At least 1 Indian killed after Nepal police fire near border area with BiharPM Oli is expected to give a constitution amendment bill that formalises the new map a final push at a special sitting of Parliament’s lower house on Saturday afternoon. Diplomatic sources told Hindustan Times that the bill is expected to be passed later this evening, possibly around 5.30 pm.There appeared to be support for the bill in parliament earlier this week when 83 lawmakers discussed the legislation to incorporate the new map in Nepal’s national emblem. Lawmakers were given 72 hours to move amendments to the constitution amendment bill before the lower house votes on it. The 72-hour period ended Friday evening.Rather than wait for the next working day to put the bill to vote, PM Oli requested parliament to hold a special sitting on Saturday - a weekly holiday in Nepal. Only one amendment has been proposed by a lawmaker who opposed the new map but there are reports in local media that she is being pressured to withdraw it.PM Oli’s anxiety to rush the bill through the lower house at a special sitting has been seen to signal his determination to get parliament’s seal of approval and a disregard for New Delhi’s views on the boundary row that he has created.New Delhi has also been upset at how PM Oli had escalated a difference over Lipulekh Pass to score brownie points with Beijing and serve his domestic political interests.PM Oli’s move to jump start the row over Nepal’s map is seen as an effort to consolidate his support within the ruling Communist Party of Nepal by whipping up ultra-nationalistic sentiments in the country. And turn India into a dartboard.PM Oli had last month come up with the map barely 10 days after India upgraded a trail to Lipulekh Pass into a metalled road for pilgrims to Kailash Mansarovar. Nepal contended that the 80-km road passes through its territory though it did not reflect in its map.The new map shows a sliver of land - including Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani - jutting out from the northwestern tip of Nepal.New Delhi promptly rejected the map, calling it a “unilateral act” that was not based on historical facts or evidence.This week, PM Oli’s government started to fix this gap and set up a 9-member team to collect historical facts and evidence to back its claim about these territories, according to The Kathmandu Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-nepal-preps-to-vote-on-new-map-a-hint-about-india-s-stance-from-army-chief/story-VBmlrBLU8bBes0tpnYnCbJ.html
13-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Slum dwellers allege Mumbai hospital charged high rates for Covid treatment and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Slum dwellers allege city hospital charged exorbitant bills for Covid-19 treatment, Bombay HC seeks report from charity commissionerThe Bombay high court (HC) has ordered the Charity Commissioner, Maharashtra, to submit a report by June 19 on whether KJ Somaiya Hospital and Research Centre, a charitable institution, provides free treatment for 10% of its beds reserved for underprivileged patients after seven slum-dwellers from Bharat Nagar in Mumbai’s Bandra (West) filed a petition that the medical facility had charged them an exorbitant amount to treat for the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreMaximum Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra in 31-40 age group: DataThe age group of the maximum number of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in the worst-hit state of Maharashtra is between 31 and 40 years, state government’s data showed on Saturday. Read moreBihar man released by Nepal after firing incident: ReportA Bihar man was released by Nepal’s security personnel on Saturday, a day after he was detained following a firing incident inside its territory near the border with the Indian state, news agency ANI reported. Read moreFormer TDP MLA JC Prabhakar Reddy, son arrested in transport scamThe Andhra Pradesh (AP) Police on Saturday arrested senior Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader and former lawmaker JC Prabhakar Reddy and his son JC Asmith Reddy for alleged irregularities in their private transport business based on a complaint filed at Anantapur town-1 police station by the state road transport authority (RTA) officials earlier this week. Read moreTrump shifts date of Oklahoma rally to ‘respect’ emancipation holidayUS President Donald Trump said on Friday he would shift the date of an Oklahoma rally from June 19th, the date of the “Juneteenth” holiday, to June 20th out of respect for a day commemorating the end of US slavery. Read moreVasant Raiji, India’s oldest first-class cricketer, passes away at 100India’s oldest first-class cricketer Vasant Raiji passed away at his residence in Mumbai in the wee hours of Saturday, reported news agency PTI. Raiji was 100 years old and is survived by his wife and two daughters. Read moreWhatsApp might let you login to multiple devices soon, clear entire chats etcWhatsApp has been testing a couple of new features and some of them have been spotted in the latest beta update. Discovered by WABetaInfo for beta builds on both Android and iOS, these new features include a multiple device login, clearing chats and improved search function for in-chat searches. Read moreGulabo Sitabo celeb review: Taapsee Pannu calls Amitabh, Ayushmann film a ‘feel good ride’Actor Taapsee Pannu said Shoojit Sircar’s Gulabo Sitabo, with Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana in lead roles, left her with a ‘beautiful feeling’. The first major film to get a direct-to-digital release, Gulabo Sitabo landed on Amazon Prime on Friday. Read moreHappy birthday Disha Patani: The new gen fashion icon turns 27Disha Patani caught the eyes of the film industry with her ‘cute girl next door’ looks in the Cadbury Dairy Milk Ad in 2015 and within a year she had made her Bollywood debut in M.S. Dhoni: The Untold Story. Read moreDo you know black guava exists in nature? These amazing pics will surprise youHave you ever seen black guava? If you haven’t then chances are that these images shared by IFS officer Susanta Nanda will not just leave you amazed but may also evoke a craving for the fruit. Read moreWatch| ‘GermiKlean’: DRDO develops chamber to sanitise uniform of security forcesDRDO has developed sanitizing chamber to sanitise uniforms of security forces. DRDO named the a dry heat treatment chamber, ‘GermiKlean’. The sanitising chamber has been set up at Parliament Street Police Station. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-most-covid-19-patients-in-maharashtra-belong-to-31-40-age-group-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3ZyNMUt4iKrdnqeB9URgnJ.html
13-06-2020||India||‘No ghost, all rumour’: Jhansi Police on dramatic rocking of open gym equipment||Jhansi Police officials came into action after a video went viral showing dramatic movement of equipment at an open gym in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh. After carrying out the investigation, the police said that the equipment, a shoulder press machine, was over-greased by some miscreants as a result of which it was rocking on its own. “There is no ghost, it’s a rumour,” Jhansi Police tweeted out, adding that some miscreants greased the machine and rocked it after which it kept moving on its own for a few seconds. The video was shot and shared on social media.  इस झूले में अधिक ग्रीस लगे होने से एक बार हिला देने पर कुछ सेकंड तक हिलता रहता है।किसी शरारती तत्व ने झूला हिलाकर वीडियो बनाकर सोशल मीडिया पर डाल दिया है।पुलिस ने जाँच की और झूले को हिलाकर उसका वीडियो बनाया है।पुलिस शरारती तत्व को तलाश रही है।भूत की बात अफ़वाह है #FakeNewsAlert https://t.co/5uWjpJcvO8 pic.twitter.com/KiiwbyDVQ8“Once the swing was over greased, it kept shaking for a few seconds. Some miscreant made a video by rocking the swing and putting it on social media. We are looking for the culprit. There is no ghost, it’s all a rumour,” Jhansi Police’s tweet read.Rahul Srivastav, a top police official in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh, posted the video on his Twitter handle on Friday and wrote, “Fitness freak ghost?” डीजे सिर्फ़ नाच गाने के लिये ही नहीं बल्कि टिड्डी दल भगाने में भी कारगर होता है ।दिन सबके बदलते हैं !आप मुँह से आवाज़ निकाल सकते हैं या थाली भी पीट सकते हैं ।#DiscJockey #Locustswarm #locustswarms #Locusts #Locustsattack #LocustInvasion #LocustSwarmsAttack pic.twitter.com/zUcpYiJTGb“Miscreants will b hosted in a ‘haunted’ lockup soon #NoHostForGhost,” Srivastav tweeted. Previously, Srivastav had posted a video of farmers in Jhansi trying to tackle the locust attack by playing loud music with the help of a ‘DJ vehicle’ used in marriage processions.    “DJ is not only effective during parties but for fighting off locusts as well. Days change everyone! You can make a noise or even beat the plate,” Srivastav tweeted along with a short clip of the video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ghost-all-rumour-jhansi-police-on-dramatic-rocking-of-open-gym-equipment/story-qxnVhs66VsVZQTZLt2QlRO.html
13-06-2020||India||Top 5 coronavirus-hit cities account for nearly 50% of India’s Covid-19 cases||India is the fourth top country globally with the highest number of Covid-19 cases. With 308,993 total cases, India trails countries like the US, Brazil and Russia. A massive chunk of India’s Covid-19 cases come from Maharashtra, around 32 percent. Maharashtra has over one lakh Covid-19 cases, and when clubbed with Tamil Nadu’s tally, the two states account for over 45 percent of Covid-19 cases in the country. Top Covid-19 affected cities come the top-hit states. Mumbai, Pune and Thane in Maharashtra, Delhi, Ahmedabad in Gujarat, Chennai in Tamil Nadu and Jaipur in Rajasthan are among the cities with high Covid-19 cases in the country. Together, Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Chennai and Thane account for nearly half of the national Covid-19 tally. Also read: India sees record jump of Covid-19 cases at 11,458 in one dayTop Covid-19 cities in India MumbaiIndia’s financial capital accounts for over half of the Covid-19 cases reported in the state. It is also the worst-hit city in the country. With 55,451 cases, Mumbai’s tally is higher than most the total number of cases reported in countries like Sweden, the Netherlands, Egypt, the UAE, among others. Over 2,000 people have died from coronavirus in the city. DelhiThe national capital has been struggling with a high incidence of Covid-19 cases. In Delhi, the Covid-19 tally rose to 36,824 on Saturday, 13,398 patients have recovered here while 1,214 have died due to coronavirus. ChennaiThe city has reported over 27,000 Covid-19 cases which is around 70 percent of total Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu. As of Saturday, the number of coronavirus cases in the state stood at 40,698. ThaneAnother cities from worst-hit state, Maharashtra. Thane as reported over 16,000 Covid-19 cases. More than 400 people have succumbed to death here. Ahmedabad The city is the major contributor of Covid-19 cases in the state tally, accounting for nearly 16,000 cases till date. On Saturday, Gujarat’s coronavirus tally jumped to 22,527, the state has seen 1,415 Covid-19 fatalities so far. PunePune is Maharashtra third-worst Covid-19 city with over 11,000 cases. The Covid-19 death toll here stands at 459.IndoreOne of the top Covid-19 hotspots in Madhya Pradesh, Indore accounts to nearly 4,000 of state’s total 10,443 coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-5-coronavirus-hit-cities-account-for-nearly-50-of-india-s-covid-19-cases/story-mdwaBt07cOKozkv7y6NE3J.html
13-06-2020||India||Bihar man released by Nepal after firing incident: Report||A Bihar man was released by Nepal’s security personnel on Saturday, a day after he was detained following a firing incident inside its territory near the border with the Indian state, news agency ANI reported.One Indian national was killed and two others were injured when Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF), which guards the country’s border with India, opened fire on a group following an altercation on Friday morning.Twenty-two-year-old Vikesh Yadav was killed and Uday Thakur, 24, and Umesh Ram, 18, were injured in the firing on Friday morning near Lalbandi-Janki Nagar border. Lagan Kishore was detained.“My son and I were at the border to meet my daughter-in-law (a Nepali national). Security personnel from that side hit my son. They asked me to shut up when I asked why did they do that. They called up 10 more security personnel, they came to the border and fired bullets in the air,” Lagan Kishore was quoted as saying by ANI.“We ran to return to India when they started firing but they dragged me from the Indian side, hit me with a rifle butt and took me to Nepal’s Sangrampur,” Kishore said.“They told me to confess that I was brought there from Nepal. I told them you can kill me but I was brought there from India,” he added.Kumar Rajesh Chandra, the director general of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), had said the firing incident took place around 8.40am on Friday in Nepalese territory when members of a family, some of whom reside in Nepal were meeting near the border.“The Nepal APF objected (to them being there) saying there is a lockdown in Nepal till June 14, leading to some avoidable and instant altercation. Nepal APF has said that villagers became aggressive and they had to open 15 rounds of fire. This is being investigated,” Chandra said on Friday.The free movement of people between India had Nepal stopped over the past three months due to the coronavirus pandemic and Nepal APF has increased the number of posts to stop Indians from entering its territory.Only those on a list shared by local administrations from both sides were allowed to travel to and fro; cargo movement was also allowed.Yadav and the two others who were injured were not in the list of persons shared by the local administrations, another official who asked not to be named said on Friday. They were accompanied by others from their village and stones were thrown at the APF, an official said citing preliminary reports.“Nepal APF has informed us that the villagers tried to snatch weapons from them but there will be an enquiry by them and by us also. As of now, everything is peaceful and locals have been told not to violate the lockdown imposed by Nepal,” the official said.It was the third such incident in the last one month on the border when Nepal’s police force has fired to disperse people, particularly after India started easing its nationwide lockdown, an official, who asked not to be named, said.Nepal has announced a lockdown in the border region till June 14.Both the countries are locked in a dispute over territory following a map issued by Nepal that stakes claim over Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. India’s ministry of external affairs said: “such artificial enlargement of territorial claims will not be accepted by India”.India has said these were part of Uttarakhand while Kathmandu had shown them as part of western Nepal in its recent map.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-man-released-by-nepal-after-firing-incident-report/story-nzpGLWzxdXR4OT3Jf4cvtK.html
13-06-2020||India||Bengal woman held for LeT links was part of Pakistan WhatsApp groups: Report||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has said the 22-year-old woman, who was arrested in West Bengal in March for alleged links with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), used WhatsApp number of Pakistan, news agency ANI reported on Saturday.Tania Parvin, who was taken into custody by the agency on Friday in the state capital of Kolkata for questioning, had been a part of several groups on the social messaging site, according to ANI.She was arrested on March 19 from her residence at the Bangladesh-bordering Malayapur village, within Baduria police station jurisdictions in Basirhat police district.Police had said in March that Parvin, a first-year masters’ student, was trying to honey-trap Indian soldiers using Facebook and WhatsApp.“Her direct connection with LeT operatives based in Pakistan has been established. She was using the dark web to interact with them. We expect her interrogation to provide us with further leads in busting the whole network,” Ajay Kumar Nand, inspector general of STF, said.LeT, which is led by Hafiz Saeed and responsible for the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, is one of the deadliest anti-India terror groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-woman-held-for-let-links-was-part-of-pakistan-whatsapp-groups-report/story-LICquAKo6XOJ1USdMV2GaO.html
13-06-2020||India||‘Insanity is doing the same thing…’: Rahul’s dig at lockdown impact on Covid-19 cases||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday used a quote, often misattributed to Albert Einstein, to hit out at the government over its lockdown strategy to point out that the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has not been halted because of the restrictions.The former Congress president also used graphs showing the rise in Covid-19 cases during the last four phases of the national lockdown.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage”Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results,” Gandhi tweeted.His tweet came on a day India reported 11,455 new Covid-19 cases and 386 deaths, taking its infection tally to 308,993 and its toll to 8,884.On Friday, he had criticised the government’s Covid-19 containment efforts and alleged that India’s fast rise among the nations worst-affected by the coronavirus pandemic across the world was due to a “lethal blend of arrogance and incompetence”.Rahul Gandhi had also used a graph to show India overtaking other badly-affected countries with a rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country.“India is firmly on it’s (sic) way to winning the wrong race. A horrific tragedy, resulting from a lethal blend of arrogance and incompetence,” he had tweeted on Friday.Rahul Gandhi has been questioning the Centre’s handling of the coronavirus crisis.He has alleged that the lockdown imposed to contain the rise of Covid-19 cases and the subsequent phase-wise unlocking to revive economic activity in the country was ill-timed.He had posted graphs to back up his claim that some of the other worst-hit countries in the west had timed their lockdowns and its easing and their strategy was much better than India’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insanity-is-doing-the-same-thing-rahul-gandhi-s-dig-at-lockdown-impact-on-covid-19-cases/story-jOpl7dIo1XOdmiklNOPpaO.html
13-06-2020||India||India sees record jump of Covid-19 cases at 11,458 in one day||India, the fourth worst-hit country in the world, recorded more than 11,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 386 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Sunday.There were 11,458 new Covid-19 cases and 386 deaths between Friday and Saturday, taking India’s infection tally to 308,993—with the latest 100,000 cases added in just the last 10 days—and its toll to 8,884.The previous 100,000 cases took 15 days and the first 100,000 cases took 78 days after the coronavirus disease was reported in the country in late January. A little under a quarter of all cases have been reported just in the last week and the cases doubling in the last 17 days.Also read: Covid-19 infection rate jumped by 21% in 12 days in Delhi, recovery rate droppedAccording to the health ministry’s dashboard, 154,329 patients have recovered from Covid-19 or nearly 50% of people who contracted the respiratory disease have been discharged from hospitals so far. The active cases stood at 145,779 and the number of recovered patients in the country has been outnumbering that of active cases since Tuesday now.The United States, Brazil and Russia are the other countries to report more than 300,000 cases of Covid-19.Most of India’s Covid-19 cases have been reported from four states of Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat.Also read: Govt reviews use of HCQ and antibiotic combo in treating Coronavirus casesMaharashtra has breached the one lakh-mark and now has 101,141 infections with 3,717 deaths. In Tamil Nadu, there are 40,698 Covid-19 cases and 367 fatalities, while Delhi has reported 36,824 infections and 1,214 deaths so far. Gujarat has a higher number of deaths than the national capital at 1,415 but its case tally is 22,527.West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have also seen a rising number of Covid-19 cases.More than 7.6 million infections of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, and 425,330 deaths has been reported across the world since the virus was first reported in China’s Wuhan in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-record-jump-of-covid-19-cases-at-11-458-in-one-day/story-6d1ZMuVpmuOcq28AFG7qUI.html
13-06-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: West Bengal becomes 8th state with over 10,000 cases, more than 40k patients in Tamil Nadu||Coronavirus cases in the country have breached the 300,000 mark and show no signs of abating. With 308,993 total cases, India stands on the fourth spot globally among countries with the highest number of Covid-19 cases after the US, Brazil and Russia. Maharashtra set another grim milestone as the number of cases here crossed one lakh. Tamil Nadu, the state with second-highest number of Covid-19 cases, has seen the tally soar beyond 40,000. Also read: Covid-19 infection rate jumped by 21% in 12 days in DelhiOver 36,000 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the national capital till date. Here’s taking a look at the statewise breakup of Covid-19 numbers. Top five statesMaharashtraCovid-19 tally here jumped to 101,141 on Saturday. As many as 3,717 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 47,796 have recovered. Tamil NaduCovid-19 cases have jumped to 40,698 in the southern state. Three hundred and sixty-seven people have died of Covid-19 in the state, over 22,000 people have recovered. DelhiIn the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 36,824 on Saturday, 13,398 patients have recovered here while 1,214 have died due to Covid-19. Gujarat PM Modi’s home state saw the Covid-19 rise to 22,527 on Saturday. The state has seen 15,493 people recover from coronavirus while 1,415 people have died.Rajasthan The state has reported 12,068 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 8,898 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 272.Other statesIn Madhya Pradesh, Covid-19 tally has crossed 10,000 while Uttar Pradesh has seen Covid-19 cases jump beyond the 12,000-mark. In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have zoomed beyond the 10,000-mark. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 6,103 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 5,680 Covid-19 cases till date. Karnataka has reported nearly 6,516 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has over 4,484 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 4,700-mark. Haryana nears the 6,400-mark while Odisha and Assam have reported over 3,400 cases. Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. States like Manipur, Chandigarh, Goa, Nagaland, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Mizoram have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya, Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-west-bengal-becomes-8th-state-with-over-10-000-cases-over-40-000-patients-in-tamil-nadu/story-EoyKKQHBBE90oUGTp1fLkL.html
13-06-2020||India||TDP MP slams Jagan Reddy over Atchennaidu’s arrest; accuses govt of being vindictive||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MP K Rammohan Naidu on Friday slammed Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy for arresting his party leader K Atchennaidu over alleged irregularities at Employees’ State Insurance (ESI).Naidu alleged that Atchennaidu was arrested as he has been effectively raising the voice and giving befitting replies to Reddy in the assembly. The Backward Classes (BCs) will fight against his arrest.The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials arrested TDP leader regarding alleged irregularities at ESI on Friday morning.Raising a question regarding his arrest, the MP said, “Why the (state) government is showing so much vindication, enmity and rivalry against Atchen Naidu?”“In a democracy, ruling and opposition parties argue in the House, for the good of the public. But Jaganmohan Reddy does faction politics. He wants people to obey him but he is not a monarch. It is a democracy that is in place in the country and not respecting democracy is a misfortune for the state,” TDP MP added.Giving mere vindication for the party leader, the MP said, “All the BCs in the state will stand by Atchennaidu and raise voice for him. Our leader has committed no mistake, and he proved it long back.”“If needed, he will come fearlessly and speak the truth. We appeal to all BCs in the Tekkali constituency and Srikakulam district to stand brave and stand with us. We will discuss with Chandrababu Naidu (TDP chief) how to fight in this regard. We will proceed legally in this matter,” he further added.ACB officials will soon hold a press conference at Vijayawada and Vishakhapatnam regarding the TDP leader’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdp-mp-slams-jagan-reddy-over-atchennaidu-s-arrest-accuses-govt-of-being-vindictive/story-ny6HwlJfhKwCdhApmwabBI.html
13-06-2020||India||Social distancing norms thrown to wind during union agriculture minister’s birthday bash||A huge crowd turned up to receive food grains distributed during a programme organised by a former BJP MLA in Indore, about 200 kilometres south-west of Bhopal, to mark the birthday celebration of union minister for agriculture and farmers welfare Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday. The event witnessed flouting of social distancing norms, leading to a chaotic situation.The union minister was not present during the programme.A video of the crowd, wherein people were seen jostling with one another to take the food grains packets from ex-MLA Sudarshan Gupta in Banganga area and other BJP workers, went viral on social media.Also read: 5 students booked in MP for social media post on Union minister Narendra Singh TomarThe programme was organised to distribute packets of food grains among 2,000 needy families. During the chaotic situation, people were seen snatching the packets from those distributing it and running away. ‘Looto, ration looto,’ (steal the ration) is what could be heard in the video clip.Congress was quick to attack the BJP over the incident. State Congress leader KK Mishra said, “When the entire country is facing a grave crisis due to coronavirus and hundreds of people have died from the disease, is this the right time for the BJP workers to celebrate the birthday of any leader? The fact is the incident exposed the real face of the BJP which is hardly concerned about people.”State BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “The BJP didn’t organise the programme.” In a clarification, ex-MLA Sudarshan Gupta said, “Our workers organised the programme to distribute food grains. Social distancing norms were followed. Circles were marked every four feet. Tokens were distributed among those who were supposed to receive the packets. There was a problem for some time when some people, who didn’t have tokens, entered the crowd and created disturbances but our workers controlled the situation. I regret that this happened and will ensure that such an incident doesn’t recur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-norms-thrown-to-wind-during-union-agriculture-minister-s-birthday-bash/story-GfpIADeayMFvKXtP1ku7LI.html
13-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt reviews use of HCQ and antibiotic combo in treating Covid cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt reviews use of HCQ and antibiotic combo in treating Covid casesThe Union health ministry is reviewing use of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), in combination with antibiotic azithromycin, for treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on patients in India, and is likely to come up with revised clinical management guidelines for this soon. Read more‘Final gift’: Widow of Chinese Covid-19 whistleblower doctor gives birthThe widow of Li Wenliang, the 34-year-old whistleblower doctor from Wuhan who raised the alarm about Covid-19 in China last year, has delivered their baby. Li died from coronavirus in February, his wife Fu Xuejie was pregnant with their second child. Read moreCovid-19 infection rate jumped by 21% in 12 days in Delhi, recovery rate droppedDelhi has seen a rise in the infection rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the number of patients recovering has come down in nearly a week. Data between May 30 to June 11 shows that the infection rate has increased by 21%, while the recovery rate has come down by 8%. Read moreAshok Gehlot hits out at BJP on ‘poaching’ attemptRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said that a complaint has been lodged with special operations group (SOG) to probe alleged attempts to topple the state government by poaching Congress legislators through money transfers. Read moreChina reports 11 new confirmed, 7 asymptomatic Covid-19 casesChina reported 11 new Covid-19 cases and seven asymptomatic cases for June 12, the national health authority said on Saturday. The National Health Commission (NHC) said in a statement that five of the new confirmed patients were so-called imported cases involving travellers from overseas. Read moreLike a physio, having a mind skill trainer equally important: S BadrinathHe may not have had the greatest of runs with the Indian cricket team, but Subramaniam Badrinath is really hitting it out of the park in his latest innings. Read moreHow to find Covid-19 testing centers using Google Search, MapsGoogle has rolled out an important update to its services in India that make it easy for people to look for Covid-19 testing centres across the country. Read moreWhen Chris Evans ‘spoiled’ Marvel retirement in a 2018 tweet, and had to clarifyActor Chris Evans had been fielding comments about his future in the Marvel Cinematic Universe ever since he revealed that his contract would run out after Avengers: Endgame. Read moreA new platter: F&B industry gears up for the new normalAs Mumbai began to trickle back to its normal rhythm, the first day of Mission Begin Again saw people step out in Marine Drive for morning walks and as always, the Eastern and Western Express Highways were packed during the peak hours. Read moreWatch| ‘Barbaric act’: WB Governor slams Mamata govt over mistreatment of dead bodies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-widow-of-covid-19-whistleblower-doctor-gives-birth-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kQGIJdnr02GMBO8y1Se1NI.html
13-06-2020||India||DRDO develops ‘GermiKlean’ to sanitise uniforms of security forces||Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed a sanitizing chamber named ‘GermiKlean’ to sanitise uniforms of security forces.The sanitizing chamber has been set up at Parliament Street Police Station. DRDO’s move came after Delhi Police gave their requirement for sanitizing their uniforms, canes, cane shields, helmets, etc.“We can keep our uniforms and other items to be sanitised inside the chamber and it has proved to be really beneficial for us. I am really thankful to DRDO for taking this initiative on our request. DRDO has also designed a sanitisation tunnel for us and they have also designed a mat for us for foot sanitization,” said Eish Singhal, DCP, Parliament Street Police Station. DRDO designed and developed a dry heat treatment chamber named “GermiKlean”. This chamber is designed to sanitise 25 pairs of uniforms within 15 minutes, said DRDO officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-develops-germiklean-to-sanitise-uniforms-of-security-forces/story-TPmn9s3shBZbihi9ALm3iJ.html
13-06-2020||India||Former AP minister K Atchannaidu, 5 others arrested in Employees’ State Insurance scam||Senior TDP leader and former Andhra Pradesh Minister K Atchannaidu and five others were arrested on Friday by the Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths over their alleged involvement in the Rs 150 crore ESI medical purchases ‘scandal’ during the previous regime, a senior ACB official said.While Atchannaidu was arrested from his residence in Srikakulam district, former Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESI) Directors C Ravi Kumar and G Vijay Kumar were arrested in Tirupati and Rajamahendravaram respectively, ACB Joint Director Ravi Kumar told reporters in Visakhapatnam.A joint director of ESI Janardhan, superintendent Chakravarthy and a senior assistant were arrested in Vijayawada.Atchannaidu was the Labour Minister in the previous TDP government when the scandal allegedly took place in the procurement of medicines and medical equipment. “The Vigilance and Enforcement Department conducted a probe into the ESI purchases between 2014 and 2019 and established large scale irregularities. Our investigation also revealed a scam of Rs 150 crore in purchase of medicines, medical kits, furniture and other items. Accordingly, we made these arrests,” the ACB Joint Director said.Earlier as soon as Atchannaidu was taken away from his house, TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu termed it as an “attack on the backward classes”, saying the former minister, who belonged to the community, was in the forefront “exposing the misdeeds” of the Jagan Mohan Reddy-led YSR Congress government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-ap-minister-k-atchannaidu-5-others-arrested-in-employees-state-insurance-scam/story-Npa0D7e8RyTi7aO4jdFzjI.html
13-06-2020||India||Peon’s daughter takes over Kangra SDM office for a day||Hina Thakur, 14, who scored 94 per cent marks in Class 10 worked as a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) for one day in Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra on Friday.Heena’s father works as a peon in the office of Kangra SDM, Jatin Lal.SDM Lal is an IAS officer, 2016 batch.After Hina scored 94 per cent in her class 10th exams, Lal took this decision and gave an opportunity to Hina to become SDM for a day. SDM Lal also sat next to Hina, the SDM for one day.Officiating as the SDM, Hina took office meetings under the guidance of SDM Lal. Visitors who had arrived to meet the SDM recounted their problems to her. The teenager said that the experience was like “a dream come true” for her. “SDM Jatin Lal sir has shown me a dream, I will fulfill it. I will become a doctor first and then an IAS officer,” said Hina. SDM Lal in a media report stated that his peon told him about his daughter scoring 94 per cent in class 10th attaining 34th rank in merit.“I called Hina to the office in order to honour her. She told me that she wants to become an IAS officer following which I decided to make her SDM for a day. Today (Friday) Hina is the SDM and she is looking after all the work,” said Lal.“I helped her while sitting right next to her. My motive for doing this is to promote Beti Padhao, Beti Bachao Abhiyan so that every daughter gets honoured,” he added. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peon-s-daughter-takes-over-kangra-sdm-office-for-a-day/story-r7SN35WGTZRdlAUWABcV4O.html
13-06-2020||India||Telangana Police rescue 5-year-old girl made to work as domestic help, abused||Police on Friday rescued a five-year-old who was employed as a domestic help here by a physically challenged woman who also beat her up.The minor girl had been working for a woman named Seema at Wahed Nagar area of Chaderghat Police Station limits.Polishetty Sateesh, Inspector, Chaderghat Police Station speaking to ANI over phone said, “We received a complaint at around 3:30 PM on Friday that a 5-year-old girl was being used as a child labourer and physically abused by a physically challenged lady named Seema.”“We immediately raided her residence and rescued the child and handed her over to the Child welfare, A case has been registered and an investigation underway,” the inspector said.Police said that the girl had burn wounds and stitches on her body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-police-rescue-5-year-old-made-to-work-as-domestic-help-abused/story-9DjemjsX1IzfFiKBS6O42M.html
13-06-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot hits out at BJP on ‘poaching’ attempt||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said that a complaint has been lodged with special operations group (SOG) to probe alleged attempts to topple the state government by poaching Congress legislators through money transfers.Hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Party, the opposition party in the state, the CM said at a press conference, “In Rajasthan, if the BJP leaders are making calls to Congress and independent MLAs, what should we call it,” in an apparent reference to the toppling of Congress governments in Karnataka and then Madhya Pradesh.This has come after Congress chief whip in the state assembly Mahesh Joshi filed a complaint with the anti-corruption bureau on Wednesday, seeking action against those allegedly trying to topple the government.Reacting to deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s statement that he had not received any complaint of horse trading, Gehlot said, “I am the leader of the house and the chief minister and if something has been learnt, it would have come from a source. How can this be disclosed?”Hitting out the BJP of indulging in politics amid the ongoing coronavirus disease pandemic, Gehlot said, “They toppled the government in Madhya Pradesh and now something similar is being planned in Rajasthan. They (BJP) are exposed in public.”Meanwhile, state Congress president Pilot said the party has a comfortable mandate to win two of the three seats in the Rajya Sabha elections. “Both the party candidates will win and there is no doubt on this,” he said.Congress spokesperson and the Rajasthan observer for Rajya Sabha elections Randeep Surjewala said, “There is no compulsion on any legislators and they all want to stay together. If someone comes to your house to commit theft then you will safeguard your house from thieves. If thieves are coming to steal democracy then it is our responsibility to protect democracy.”BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said, “The horse trading word is used by Congress and they have such history. People connect with BJP for its ideology. Congress leaders have lost faith in their leadership, and the party is blaming BJP for this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-hits-out-at-bjp-on-poaching-attempt/story-fsNjXwPSUreyeh19qOGV2I.html
13-06-2020||India||2 terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s Kulgam||Two unidentified terrorists were killed on Saturday by security forces during a gun battle in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district, police said. The bodies of the terrorists have been recovered from the encounter spot in Nipora area of Kulgam district, according to officials.They said the operation, which was launched during midnight by the Indian Army, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the local police, is over.Dilbag Singh, Jammu and Kashmir’s director general of police (DGP), has said that 88 terrorists have been killed this year in around 36 operations.Islamic State Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) commander Adil Ahmad Wani and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) cadre Shaheen Ahmad Thoker were killed on May 25 at Khud Hanjipora Kulgam while Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) commander Parvaiz Ahmad Pandith and JeM commander Shakir Ahmed Itoo were gunned down on May 30 at Wanpora Kulgam.Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) group commander Aaqib Ramzan Wani and Awanitpora JeM commander Mohammad Maqbool Chopan killed on June 2 at Saimoo Tral Awantipora.On June 3, a top JeM explosives expert Abdul Rehman alias Fauji Bhai, a native of Rawalpindi in Pakistan, HM’s Manzoor Ahmad Kar, JeM’s Javaid Ahmad Zargar were neutralised at Kangan in Pulwama.HM’s Ishfaq Ahmad Itoo and JeM’s Owais Ahmad Malik were killed on June 7 at Reban in Shopian. Three HM commanders—Adil Ahmad Mir, Bilal Ahmad Bhat and Sajad Ahmad Wagay—were also neutralised in the same encounter.On June 7, HM’s Umer Mohiudin Dhobi, LeT’s Rayees Ahmad Khan along with HM’s Saqlain Ahmad Wagay and Wakeel Ahmad Naikoo were eliminated at Reban in Shopian.Apart from Fauji Bhai, all terrorists were locals of Jammu and Kashmir and most of them hail from districts of Shopian, Kulgam and Pulwama.In addition to the 18 above terrorists, four more terrorists were neutralised in Rajouri on May 28 from a newly infiltrated group. Three were killed along LoC in Nowshera sector and one in Kalakote who had managed to reach the area after infiltrating from across the border.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-gunned-down-in-j-k-s-kulgam-encounter-underway/story-lzNuHLzen5t9U6kMacvvKJ.html
13-06-2020||India||Fresh parota at restaurant attracts 5% GST, tax rate jumps to 18% if sold frozen||Plain rotis or parotas (types of Indian flatbreads) is treated as a staple diet of common people and attract 5% tax, but they will attract an 18% levy if sold in the frozen form, a senior government official said. “Plain roti or parota served in a restaurant or provided in takeaway get same treatment in [tax] rates and attract 5% GST [Goods and Services Tax] only,” the person said requesting anonymity.He was commenting on a decision by Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR), Karnataka that frozen and preserved wheat parotas and malabar parotas with a shelf life of three to seven days are not plain ‘rotis’ but a distinct product that would attract 18% GST.The finance ministry declined comments on this matter.The official said frozen parota is preserved, sealed packed and branded. It is sold at a premium and it is not a staple item. It is consumed by the affluent class that could afford to pay tax.“Even items like cheaper biscuits, pastries, cakes, etc., also attract GST at the rate of 18%. Frozen food would be more comparable to such item. Frozen foods cannot be comparable to plain roti or plain parota served in restaurants or taken as staple food, or eaten by poor on day-to-day basis,” the official said.The AAR ruling is area and product specific. A poor person staple food like plain roti cannot be treated at par with a packed product or a frozen parota, he said.This order does not decide the tax rate of ordinary plain parota. “The ordinary or any parota, served for consumption by a restaurant, or a take away, would attract 5% GST rate just like plain roti,” he added.“The AAR (Karnataka) held that such frozen and preserved parota would not be entitled to concessional rate as available to roti (plain roti, khakra attracts 5% GST rate). It has been held that frozen and preserved parota would attract GST at the rate of 18%,” he said.The matter was earlier discussed in the 37th meeting of the GST Council. The Council did not recommend to reduce GST rate on “frozen” and “preserved” parota for the reasoning that these parota are sold by organised sector, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-parota-at-restaurant-attracts-5-gst-tax-rate-jumps-to-18-if-sold-frozen/story-ru5EAiZ6eIiNRzwBYWSn5L.html
13-06-2020||India||Karnataka withdraws order extending factory work hours||The Karnataka government has withdrawn its notification that allowed factories to extend working hours up to 10 hours a day and 60 hours a week, with immediate effect.The extension of work hours was from eight hours a day and 48 hours a week. On May 22, the state exempted all the factories registered under the Factories Act, from the provisions of Section 51 (weekly hours) and Section 54 (daily hours), till August 21 subject to certain conditions.“Whereas, having examined the provisions further, the Government of Karnataka now intends to withdraw the said notification,” the state government in a fresh notification dated June 11 said. It said, “Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 5 of Factories Act, 1948 (Act No.63 of 1948), the Government of Karnataka hereby withdraws the Notification dated 22-05-2020 with immediate effect.” According to the Karnataka Employers’ Association, a petition was filed in the High Court challenging the May 22 notification as “illegal, arbitrary and in violation” of Section 5 of the Factories Act which permits exemption from any of the provisions of the Factories Act only in case of `Public Emergencies’.During the course of hearing on June 11 an observation was made by the HC, that it may have to quash the notification unless the government clarifies as to what is the ‘Public Emergency’ involved to enhance the working hours by exempting some provisions of the Factories Act, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-withdraws-order-extending-factory-work-hours/story-xNfG5bfBk6C8znV7ZGPUhJ.html
13-06-2020||India||Gujarat Covid-19 count up 495; tally over 22,000||The number of coronavirus positive patients in Gujarat jumped to 22,562 as the state reported 495 cases in the last 24 hours, the health department said on Friday. During the same period, as many as 31 Covid-19 patients succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll due to the virus to 1,416, it said in a statement.Nearly 392 people recovered and were given discharge from different hospitals in the state, taking the total to 15,501.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-covid-19-count-up-495-tally-over-22-000/story-7CJJsMzDpBHt9Gv645AnCI.html
13-06-2020||India||Supreme Court tells private airlines to give refunds for cancellations||The Supreme Court on Friday asked private airlines to find a way out to refund the air fare of passengers whose flights were cancelled during the lockdown, along with the ministry of civil aviation.Most airlines had placed passengers in a Credit Shell by which they could avail the travel on the same sector within the next seven months to one year. A non-profit organisation, Pravasi Legal Cell, filed a petition in the top court saying that passengers did not intend to avail of the Credit Shell within the stipulated period and should be given a full refund. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhusha, SK Kaul and MR Shah said, “The credit facility that you grant must be for at least two years and passengers should be allowed to avail it across all sectors.” In response, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that the airlines ought to make full refund to passengers. Senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for Spicejet sought to be added in the matter as he felt that a full refund was impossible. “We are having zero revenue and our global earnings have been hugely hit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-tells-private-airlines-to-give-refunds-for-cancellations/story-rQolnR1QwH116YFeHima2I.html
13-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India crossed 300,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Friday, ending the day with 309,324 cases, of which 146,292 are active. Thus far, 154,150 have recovered from the disease, and 8,882 have died. There are only three other countries that have more cases than India, Russia, Brazil and the US. India ended June 2 with 207,112 cases so its last 100,000 cases were added in 10 days.These numbers shouldn’t worry anyone; in the absence of widespread (and indiscriminate) testing, they are also irrelevant. Many of the cases recorded are of asymptomatic people (a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research based on 40,000 patients put the proportion at 28%); and many other patients who are infected suffer mild symptoms and recover without hospitalization. Some require hospitalization; a few of these, critical care and ventilator support; and 2.85% of those infected, succumb to the disease. On Thursday, India added 11,199 cases according to the HT dashboard. This is the most the country has added in a 24-hour period. Again, this number is largely irrelevant. But the break-up isn’t. Here’s why: reports of the coronavirus disease across the world tell us that the disease ravages densely populated urban centres, spreading rapidly through communities, with no apparent source of infection, and overwhelming health systems. If that sounds familiar, it’s because this is exactly what’s happening in Delhi, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu or, more specifically, Delhi, Mumbai, and Chennai right now. On Thursday, the three states accounted for 66% of all new cases reported in the country. This means that Thursday’s spike did not happen because of an emerging wave in a hitherto unaffected or less affected part of the country, but was driven by higher numbers in the three states. Over the seven-day period from last Friday (June 5) to Thursday (June 11), these three states accounted for 55%, 53%, 53%, 54%, 52%, 61%, and 66% of daily new cases. And within Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, the cities of Mumbai and Chennai account for the most new cases — on Thursday, for instance, Mumbai accounted for 1,540 of the 3,607 new cases Maharashtra added, and Chennai, 1,407 of the 1,857 Tamil Nadu did. The health systems of the three cities (and the states) have been overwhelmed or are on their way to being overwhelmed. Still, with these three cities accounting for a significant proportion of cases, India has the opportunity of aggressively strengthening their health capacities to manage the coming peak of the infection. If it can manage the situation in Delhi, Mumbai (and Maharashtra) and Chennai (and Tamil Nadu), it would have addressed half (maybe even more) of the problem. Meanwhile, there are lessons from all three states that should be applied universally across India. These are simplicity personified (when put down in black and white) but no country or city has got it right so far. One, test and trace. Two, define clear quarantine and isolation protocols, the last especially for people with mild cases of the disease (otherwise they will take up valuable hospital space). Three, set up dedicated Covid-19 facilities and prevent Covid and non-Covid patients from being in the same space. Four, train health-care workers on safety protocols and protect them (all three states, but especially Delhi and Maharashtra, have done poorly on this front). Five, get the staffing of health care workers right -- both Mumbai and Delhi may or may not have adequate beds, but they are definitely facing a pinch when it comes to health care workers. Six, plan for the worst and procure the requisite health-care equipment (including medical devices) early. Seven, do not confuse hospitals, health care workers, and the public with hundreds of orders. Eight, work out an effective patient admission and transfer system. And nine, draft and implement a painless cremation/burial protocol. There is still time to prepare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-1ZWBASXO0hUeZIRsWTzF0H.html
13-06-2020||India||With composure, determination, 97-year-old from Agra beats Covid-19||GC Gupta, 97, a retired civil engineer from the city of the Taj Mahal, survived the coronavirus disease and has been lionised as an example by the administration for other senior citizens to follow. Gupta was discharged from Nayati Hospital on June 10 after 12 days of treatment. He was admitted in the hospital on May 29 with breathing difficulty and a kidney infection. He tested positive for Covid-19 on May 30. An executive at the hospital credited Gupta’s recovery to his sheer determination to defeat the coronavirus.“ He exhibited no signs of nervousness and rather being worried for himself, was more concerned about his family undergoing quarantine. He remained calm and composed and made things easy for doctors treating him,” added this person who asked not to be named. Gupta’s son Arun Kumar said his father has always been a man with strong will.Gupta served in the irrigation department of Uttar Pradesh and retired in 1973. Arun Kumar said his father is a vegetarian, a teetotaller and into meditation. “He remains on basic medication and is regular with his multi-vitamins, a tablet each for urine trouble and blood pressure beside that for thinning the blood. An early riser, he gets up at 3.30am for meditation and loves watching television to keep himself appraised of the latest in the world,” said Arun Kumar, 65.Covid-19 cases in Agra crossed the 1,000 mark on Wednesday night when the city had recorded an overall of 1,008 positive cases till date, which is highest in state of Uttar Pradesh. It was Agra which had the state’s first five positive cases, on March 2.Agra has seen 56 Covid-related deaths but has a good cure rate of 84%, with 840 patients already having been discharged after being cured. On March 30, an elderly couple from Kerala, aged 93 and 88, who had tested positive and remained critical for days, were reported to have recovered completely. The duo had caught the infection from their son who came down from Italy, the state government had said in a press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-composure-determination-97-year-old-from-agra-beats-covid-19/story-BJFmOFFpHK8RVuBHI7oSGI.html
13-06-2020||India||‘Beauty of old Lucknow, charms & mesmerises all’||Actor Tina Bhatiya who was last seen in ‘Gully boy’ and TV shows like ‘Pyaar ke Papad’ and ‘Kyuki Jeena Isi ka Naam Hai,’ is more than elated to share screen space with none other than Amitabh Bachchan.“Like many out there I too have been a diehard fan of Amitabh sir and wanted to work with him in any capacity. When I was offered this film by Soojit (Sirkar) sir, I was glad to bag the role but had not thought in my wildest dream that it I will get to work with Amitabh sir. I got to know about this only when the entire star cast finally met.” A National School of Drama (NSD) alumna, she has been a theatre person throughout. “I’m out and out a theatre person. For me being on stage is a feeling of being alive as an actor. Besides acting, I have also directed a play based on three stories from legendry writer Harishankar Parsai that has done multiple shows till date. After NSD, I took up theatre and then TV. Thereafter, from Delhi, I moved to Mumbai and theatre kept me all occupied till I bagged a role in ‘Gully Boy.’ I consider myself lucky to have worked with makers like Zoya Akhtar and Soojit sir, in the beginning of my career in films.”Talking about her role in ‘Gulabo Sitaboo,’ she said, “I play ‘Dulahin’ who is a care taker at ‘Fatima Mahal’ and lives with her husband and child. Working with such a cast and makers gave me immense happiness. Soojit sir is from theatre background and his idea of film-making is very similar to theatre. Amitabh sir is such pleasure to work with; you get to learn so much from him when he is on the sets. Getting to work with young superstars like Ranveer Singh and Ayushmann Khurrana was a great feeling too as they are truly humble and know their craft so well. The best part was when Ayushmann recognised me as ‘choti ammi’ from ‘Gully Boy’.”Sharing her experience of shooting in city of nawabs, “I have been to Lucknow for a play before and knew the place all well. But shooting here for a film was an altogether a different experience. The beauty of old Lucknow, charms and mesmerises all. You feel you are in another world altogether. I love the places we shot in specially that palace and those narrow lane buildings which have numerous stories to tell. Also, the people and markets are so cool. You feel you are in another world.” Tina regrets that due to ongoing crisis the film couldn’t get theatrical release. “The crisis has affected us all especially our work but I and husband, actor Boloram Das, made a good use of the time and shot a short film, ‘Conditions Apply’ where we acted, directed and released the film last week. We used the time to the fullest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/beauty-of-old-lucknow-charms-mesmerises-all/story-qvgqJKCrKVAoDhdHC8ctQK.html
13-06-2020||India||1 lakh cases in Mumbai by June-end?||With the state crossing the mark of one lakh Covid cases on Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is bracing for a similar scenario by the end of the month. While the civic body said the city may not necessarily touch the mark by June-end, it is ramping up medical infrastructure to handle one lakh cases, of which 58,000 are expected to be active. According to BMC officials, if there is no sharp rise in the number of cases reported daily, the count could be 75,000 to 80,000 by the end of the month. On Friday, Mumbai reported 1,366 cases, taking the count to 55,451, of which 28,248 cases were active. Of the new cases, 29 were in Dharavi, taking the total of the area to 2,013 and toll to 77. Ninety new deaths took the city’s toll to 2,044.BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “By the end of June, we will be prepared to handle one lakh cases, of which 58,299 are likely to be active. However, it is not correct to say we will have that many cases by June-end, but we will be prepared to handle this load, if it comes.”To handle such a spike, the civic body will have to double the number of existing ICUs, oxygen beds and ventilator units. BMC data shows that of the 26,897 active cases on June 10, 1,152 are occupying ICU beds, 3,905 oxygen beds, followed by 483 ventilators. The occupancy of ICU beds is 99%, oxygen beds is 75% and ventilators is 95%. “We are looking at double the number of cases, from the current 54,000, so the facilities will also have to be doubled,” said a BMC official. “By the end of the month, BMC plans to set up 1,700 ICU beds from the current capacity of 1,163.”The civic body has 5,200 oxygen beds as of June 10 and plans to set up more than 9,000 by the end of the month. Officials said the capacity will be increased by co-opting more private and even smaller hospitals and expanding the existing field facilities. “Currently, 483 of the 507 ventilators are occupied. This also means that 1.79 per cent of the total 26,897 patients need ventilators. By this logic, by month end, if we are preparing for 58,000 active cases, we should have at least 850 ventilators,” added the official.The presumption is that over 39,000 patients would have recovered by June-end, up from the current figure of 24,209. The estimate is that of the 58,000 active cases, 26,000 will be asymptomatic and 19,000 patients will be treated in Covid centres and hospitals followed by nearly 3,000 in ICU and 10,000 in home quarantine. However, another BMC official said, “The exact trend will be known by June 23 or June 25, by when the impact of relaxations of lockdown will be fully felt.”Dr Ramesh Yadav, a private health consultant, said, “BMC should also consider that several congested areas in the city have been breeding grounds for seasonal infections such as malaria, dengue and typhoid. We should also prepare for a number of other viral infections, along with Covid-19, with the onset of the monsoon.”Meanwhile, 2,42,923 tests have been conducted in Mumbai so far and BMC has traced 9.91 lakh high- and low-risk contacts, as of June 10. BMC has screened 76.84 lakh citizens, including 3.27 lakh senior citizens.Moreover, citizens can now get updates about the waiting period or availability of slots at crematoriums on BMC’s helpline 1916. The civic body in a statement on Friday said citizens can avail real-time updates, which will be obtained from the control room.BMC also issued a statement that Tata Memorial Hospital in Parel has so far treated 176 patients suffering from both Covid-19 and cancer at the NSCI Dome Corona Centre in Worli. Of them, 126 have recovered and no deaths have been reported so far.Also, with the rise in cases, six areas in P-N ward, which covers Malad, have been declared restricted zones, where only essential shops can remain open. According to BMC data, as of June 11, there are 1,683 cases in P-N ward.Daksha Patel, local BJP corporator from Malad, said, “Areas such as Kokani Pada, Pimpri Pada, Appa Pada, Kranti Nagar, Shivaji Nagar and Tanaji Nagar that have a huge slum cover have been declared restricted zones. This is expected to bring down the number of cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-lakh-cases-in-mumbai-by-june-end/story-h2AgFbqZmFbRqD6s6l8xbI.html
13-06-2020||India||Chinese diplomat tweets a twist to Ladakh standoff, sees link to Article 370||The spokesman of the Chinese embassy in Pakistan created a flutter in diplomatic circles by appearing to suggest the standoff between Indian and Chinese border troops was linked to New Delhi’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status last year.Wang Xianfeng, whose Twitter bio describes him as press officer at the Chinese mission in Islamabad, included in his tweet a link to an article by a scholar from an influential think tank affiliated with China’s ministry of state security or main intelligence agency, which also suggested a connection between the border tensions and the change in Kashmir’s status.“India’s actions of unilaterally changing the status quo of Kashmir and continuing to exacerbate regional tensions have posed a challenge to the sovereignty of China and Pakistan and made the India-Pakistan relations and China-India relations more complex,” Wang tweeted.People familiar with developments said Wang is responsible for liaising with the Pakistani media. Though the tweet could represent his personal opinion, this is the first time a Chinese official has sought to link the border standoff with the change in Kashmir’s status, including the creation of the union territory of Ladakh, which particularly angered China.India and China are currently engaged through diplomatic and military channels for an “early resolution” of the border standoff after what Indian officials have described as a “limited military disengagement” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, the focus of the tensions.When India scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 last year, the Chinese foreign ministry had issued two statements criticising the development, including one that focused on the splitting of the state into union territories.This statement, while urging India to be “cautious” on the border issue and to avoid “actions that further complicate the border issue”, said: “China has always opposed India’s inclusion of Chinese territory in India’s administrative jurisdiction in the western part of the Sino-Indian border.” This was a reference to the area in Ladakh that New Delhi claims but is controlled by Beijing.Wang’s tweet linked to the article by scholar Wang Shida of the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, which began by saying India had since last August “taken constant actions to unilaterally change the status quo of Kashmir and continued to exacerbate regional tensions”.The article, titled “India blinded by ‘double confidence’”, said India’s move to change the status quo in Kashmir “constitutes a serious threat to regional peace” and “posed a challenge to the sovereignty of Pakistan and China”.“On the Chinese side, India ‘opened up new territory on the map’, incorporated part of the areas under the local jurisdiction of Xinjiang and Tibet into its Ladakh union territory, and placed Pakistani-administered Kashmir within its so-called union territories of Jammu and Kashmir,” the article said.“This forced China into the Kashmir dispute, stimulated China and Pakistan to take counter-actions on the Kashmir issue, and dramatically increased the difficulty in resolving the border issue between China and India,” it added.The article noted that China’s foreign minister Wang Yi had conveyed his country’s position on these issues to external affairs minister S Jaishankar when he visited Beijing last year – that “India’s moves challenged China’s sovereign rights and interests and violated the agreement on maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border areas between the two countries”.At the time, Jaishankar had informed the Chinese side that India’s action was a purely internal matter with no consequences for the country’s external boundaries.Amitabh Mathur, a former special secretary in the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), questioned the timing of the Chinese official’s tweet and said it underscored the complex issues involved in the ongoing standoff.“It seems as if the Chinese are leaning on us and the situation isn’t as simple as some are making it out to be. It’s also strange that such a tweet emanated from a Chinese official in Islamabad. There is a Pakistani connection to it and it’s almost as if the Chinese are trying to reassure the Pakistanis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-diplomat-links-ladakh-standoff-to-scrapped-art-370-creates-a-flutter/story-Jn0zkpbBFql6pcsdfKe82K.html
13-06-2020||India||In tune with Centre’s plans, Delhi, Maharashtra, TN say will not reimpose restrictions||India may have added over 100,000 new cases of coronavirus disease in the past 10 days but there are no plans to impose a stringent nationwide lockdown again, top officials involved in managing the pandemic said on Friday. Their comments came even as the three states worst hit by the pandemic, Maharashtra, Delhi, and Tamil Nadu, ruled out any reimposition of lockdown measures. After 68 days of a nationwide lockdown, India is now in a phased exit from restrictions on movement and businesses, a period the home ministry terms Unlock 1.0. On Friday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that the lockdown will not be reimposed in Delhi. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray too ruled out re-imposing a hard lockdown. And the Tamil Nadu government told the Madras High Court that there are no plans to impose a complete lockdown either in Chennai or the rest of the state. There has been buzz on social media that all three states could see a reimposition of the lockdown because of the spiraling cases. On Thursday, India registered 11,199 cases, the highest ever on a single day till then. Of this, 66% of the cases came from the three states. On Friday night, out of India’s total cases of 309,324, the three states accounted for 178,663. Central government officials too, insisted that there is little possibility of any immediate roll back of concessions. They, however, added that if the states collectively raise such a demand, then the Centre might consider reviewing its approach. “But as of now, there is no discussion to review the current guidelines,” said one official who asked not to be named. They also point out that states have enough power to declare containment zones and take measures to curb the spread of the disease in hot spots. Maharashtra chief minister Thackeray said the government was easing the lockdown restrictions in phases to restart the economy. “Some television news channels and social media platforms are speaking about lockdown being reimposed and closure of all shops (in the state). But the government has not taken any such decision,” he added in a statement.Union government officials said there is no proposal as of now to discontinue economic activities as it may hamper livelihood of millions of Indians.“We already have a huge issue in hand on how to help the millions of migrant workers who have returned to their villages,” added a second official who asked not to be namedAnd far from asking for a reimposition of the lockdown, some states want more activities to be opened up, the first official said. “Some have asked for more relaxation such as opening of suburban and metro trains and more public transport.”  “We are easing lockdown restrictions in phases to restart the economy. But lifting of restrictions does not mean unnecessary crowding and violating discipline of physical distancing and hygiene,” Thackeray said.A third official said on condition of anonymity that states can, if they so desire “ even extend lockdown.” On May 31, a day after the Centre announced significant relaxations under “Unlock 1”, the Maharashtra government had extended the lockdown till June 30, but announced a slew of relaxations and phase-wise resumption of activities. All markets, market areas and shops, except malls, were allowed to reopen in the state from June 5 on the odd- even basis in non-containment zones.The state also allowed private offices to operate with up to 10% of their employee strength as per the requirement from June 8.(with inputs from Delhi and Mumbai bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-tune-with-centre-s-plans-delhi-maharashtra-tn-say-will-not-reimpose-restrictions/story-7CXwS1WDrmmZhNlCtfOBnM.html
13-06-2020||India||Over 2,000 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, deaths up by 129||New coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections crossed the 2,000 mark for the first time in Delhi and the death toll rose by 129, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin on Friday that showed both numbers to be at their highest for a single day.The national capital now has 36,824 cases – up by 2,137 from the day before – and 1,214 deaths, which translates into a case fatality rate of 3.3%. The latest cases came from 5,947 samples, a test confirmation rate of nearly 36%. This proportion was up by one percentage point from a day earlier, after having rise close to 5 percentage points for two days before that. Across the country, there have been 309,324 cases – less than half of which are active – and 8,882 deaths. The average case fatality ratio comes to 2.9% nationally.The steady increase in numbers comes during a week when the city has opened up considerably, and the state government began unprecedented preparations to add 100,000 beds in makeshift hospitals in stadiums and community halls.Experts said the spike is to be expected. “This is the nature of the disease, it will spread. But, there is no need to panic unnecessarily. Even if we assume a low number of 10% of the population getting the infection, it still means 20 lakh people will get infected in Delhi with a population of two crore.However, most of the infections will be mild. Our focus now has to be on not creating panic but ensuring people who need treatment, get it,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department on community medicine at Safdarjung hospital. “People should observe all safety measures like washing their hands frequently and wearing a mask in public,” he added, urging for precautions to be taken.Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Friday constituted a high-level expert committee which includes ICMR director general Balram Bhargava to suggest effective steps to deal with the pandemic. According to the bulletin 58 of the deaths added to the tally were confirmed after a review. The city’s chief secretary put in place a new standard operating procedure requiring all hospitals to report their Covid-19 death to the integrated disease surveillance programme by 5pm every evening. In the one month it took for the city’s mortality rate to increase three-fold, the number of cases increased almost five-fold.The health bulletin data shows there are 22,212 active cases or those living with the infection. Of these, 24% people are admitted to city hospitals. This is the first time the number of people hospitalised with Covid-19 in the city has crossed the 5,000 mark. A second expert added that the trends suggest there is community transmission of the disease, when the source of infections cannot be traced. “Currently, there is a rising trend in the number of Covid-19 cases. There is definitely community transmission otherwise how can so many cases be reported in a city in one day? Now, all that the government can do is test people and isolate them so that they do not spread the infection to other susceptible people,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-000-new-cases-in-delhi-deaths-up-by-129/story-nkFwioKEWmy5pxmNXX3gyJ.html
13-06-2020||India||Odisha govt’s stamp for migrants leaves them with blisters, skin rashes||The Odisha government’s decision making it mandatory for all those returning to Odisha from outside the state to be stamped on the right inner forearm with indelible ink has left many people with burnt skin and rashes.Last month, the state government had ordered that all those returning to the state will have to be stamped with indelible ink on their right inner forearm at the border check point, receiving station, temporary medical centres and designated quarantine centres. The stamp showed the date of arrival with the slogan “I am also a Covid-19 fighter”.On April 29, Panchayati Raj secretary Deoranjan Kumar Singh in a notification had ordered application of indelible ink on any finger on the left hand. The indelible ink mark was expected to last for three days when applied on the skin. However, 4 days later the decision was tweaked and a decision to stamp on the inner side of the right forearm using indelible ink, was taken. However, since then there have been numerous complaints of returnees suffering skin rashes and burns after they were stamped with indelible ink.Sristi Ray, who is doing her MA in English from Delhi’s Ambedkar University, had arrived at Bhubaneswar Airport on June 10.After her arrival at the Biju Patnaik Airport at Bhubaneswar she was stamped for quarantine. Soon after the stamping, she had an infection on her skin with blisters erupting. “The ink is of extremely bad quality and does not seem to be made for topical use,” she said.Similarly, Prakash who travelled from Pune to Bhubaneswar on June 7 and got stamped with the indelible ink at Bhubaneswar airport too suffered skin burns. “I think the ink contains some acid content which resulted in the skin burning after one day,” said Prakash. Another traveller Rajesh Kumar, who landed at the Bhubaneswar airport on June 5 too complained of skin infection. Officials in Panchayati Raj and the housing and urban development department did not comment on why some people were getting skin rashes after being stamped with indelible ink.Dr Satyadarshi Patnaik, professor of dermatology at the MKCG Medical College of Berhampur said it was basically an allergic reaction of the skin towards such ink. “As the indelible ink contains silver nitrate, there is possibility of it causing some reaction on the skin of people who are sensitive to chemicals. Anyone who gets such rashes should see a dermatologist,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-s-stamp-for-migrants-leaves-them-with-blisters-skin-rashes/story-elm6tHvftSiMBXNiXp6fUK.html
13-06-2020||India||Fewer deaths in Mar-May this year versus 2019: Delhi civic bodies||Delhi’s three municipal bodies have reported 36% fewer deaths in March, April and May this year according to data given by the municipalities. According to data accessed by Hindustan Times from the corporations, the three civic bodies recorded 28,170 deaths between March and May in 2019. However, in the corresponding period this year, the agencies recorded around 10,000 fewer deaths —17,902, according to the corporation’s records. This number includes those who succumbed to the coronavirus disease, a number the state government put at 1,214 on Friday, as against the 2,098 claimed by the municipal bodies. The three corporations recorded 9,396 deaths in March 2019, and 8,718 this year — a difference of just 678. In March 2020, the North corporation recorded 3,702 deaths as against 4,359 last year.The South and East corporations recorded 3, 232 and 1,784 deaths in March 2020 respectively. In March 2019, the South body reported 3,508 deaths and the East corporation’s tally stood at 1,529.However, Delhi was under lockdown from March 22, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had declared a janta curfew. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had ordered a week-long lockdown later that evening, and on March 24, the Prime Minister declared a nationwide lockdown. In effect, Delhi was locked down for 10 days in March, and then for all of April and May.April this year, for instance, saw nearly half the number of deaths as April last year, 4127 as against 9498. Last April, the North body registered 3,891 deaths, the east body registered 2,085, and the South body added 3,522. This April, the North body recorded 2,079 deaths, the East one 668 and the South body 1,380. The agencies’ records saw deaths drop by nearly 45% in May this year. While there were 5,057 deaths in May this year, last year saw 9,276. Civic officials said one reason for the sharp drop in reported deaths may be the nationwide lockdown itself. They said there were fewer road accident fatalities due to the lockdown, as well as fewer institutional deaths of people from outside Delhi, and a drop in food poisoning, water and vector-borne diseases.Delhi traffic police data shows that between March 25 and May 27 this year, 39 fatal accidents were reported in the national capital, whereas before the lockdown from January 1 to March 25, there were 294 fatal accidents. Traffic police estimates also show that before the lockdown, between 120 and 150 fatal road accidents were reported in the city every month on average .“As people were not allowed to step out, there were very few road accidents. Deaths due to road accidents account for around 25% to 30% of the total deaths recorded in Delhi,” said Jai Prakash, standing committee chairperson, North Delhi Municipal Corporation.He added, “Initially, out-patient departments in hospitals were also suspended, and non-Covid patients were not being admitted, so deaths were not reported from that section too. The number is low due to all these factors.”With interstate movement into the Capital restricted for a considerable period, the number of patients coming from other parts of the country also saw a decline.Dr PK Sharma, a former municipal health officer at the New Delhi Municipal Council and an epidemiologist, said, “Those who die in Delhi, irrespective of the state they belonged to, are issued death certificates by civic agencies here. Due to the lockdown, there were fewer people who came to Delhi for treatment. This is also a reason why the civic agencies reported fewer deaths during the lockdown. As people were restricted to their homes, deaths due to food poisoning or gastroenteritis, water-borne and vector-borne diseases could have registered a dip.” “Fewer deaths were reported in 2020, between the months of March and May as compared to the same period in 2019. This is because traffic movement was completely restricted during the nationwide lockdown, so the number of deaths due to accidents was almost negligible in this period. We issue certificates only against deaths which are registered with us, and it is possible that some may not have been registered with us,” an SDMC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fewer-deaths-in-mar-may-this-year-versus-2019-delhi-mcds/story-N7V5fUp7hRhMRvXXVeZ6bI.html
13-06-2020||India||Supreme Court is concerned over dip in Covid-19 testing figures||The Supreme Court on Friday expressed concern about the decline in the testing numbers for Covid-19 in the national capital.“We have noticed that the Government App of Delhi (Delhi Corona app) itself indicates that the testing of Covid-19 patients has gone down in the month of June as compared to the month of May,” the court stated in its order in a suo motu (on its own) case.It also drew a comparison with two other states, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, which, it pointed out, were testing far more. “On May 27, 2020, the number of samples tested is 6,018, on June 9 the number is 4,670, on June 11 the total testing in Delhi is reported as 5,077 whereas in the State of Maharashtra it is 16,000 and in the State of Tamil Nadu it is 17675,” the order said.To be sure, with 277,246 tests done till Friday, Delhi has conducted 14,003 tests per million of its population, higher than Tamil Nadu’s 8,902 and Maharashtra’s 7,600. Delhi’s population, at 20 million is also much lower than Maharashtra’s 122 million and Tamil Nadu’s 75 million. “We do not understand why the tests have gone down in state of NCT [national capital territory] Delhi. Non-testing of the patients is not a solution to the problem rather increase in the testing facility is the duty of the state, so that people may come to know about their health status regarding Covid-19 and they may take appropriate care and treatment of Covid-19,” the order said.The top court made it clear that non-testing of suspected patients is not a solution to the problem and testing numbers should be increasing considering the fact the number of patients is on the rise. States should ensure that there should be steep increase in the testing both by government hospitals and private labs and whoever desires to get tested should not be denied the same on any technical or any other ground.“The States may consider simplifying the procedure so that more and more tests be held to benefit the patients,” the court added in its order.The court also pulled hospitals across the country for the insensitive manner in which they were treating Covid-19 patients and the bodies of the victims, while issuing notices to the Centre and five states — Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-is-concerned-over-dip-in-testing-figures/story-HysGvMuVvjjt0Q87fRAGYM.html
13-06-2020||India||Treatment of the dead in Covid-19 hospitals deplorable: Supreme Court||An angry Supreme Court on Friday rebuked states and hospitals across the country for the callous and insensitive manner in which they were treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients and the bodies of those who had fallen victim to the disease, issuing notices to the central government and five states — Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat — in a suo motu (on its own) case initiated by the apex court.It was especially harsh on the Delhi government and the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) hospital in the city-state, referring to the condition of patients in the hospital as “pathetic”and its wards as “deplorable” . “The duty of the state of NCT Delhi does not end in informing the people that it has arranged 5,814 beds in government hospitals and 9,535 beds including private hospitals. The state and its officers are duty-bound to ensure that patients are taken care (of)... and hospitals have necessary infrastructure and staff,” it said in its order. A Delhi government spokesperson said the administration accepted the Supreme Court’s observations with utmost respect and with absolute sincerity. “The Delhi government is determined to provide health care for all and to ensure best possible treatment to each Covid-19 patient. But if there are any gaps that still remain and is brought to our notice, we will act on them sincerely and immediately.”The spokesperson said it was an extraordinary situation and the Delhi government was trying its best. “The front line workers in our hospitals, our doctors and nursing staff, are working day and night to serve the people...”A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan asked the five states to submit detailed status reports on the government hospitals treating Covid-19-infected people, patient care and details of the staff and infrastructure in the hospitals before June 17, when the case will be taken up next for hearing. “Covid-19 patients are treated worse than animals. In one case, a dead body was found in garbage,” the bench, which also comprised justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MR Shah, remarked during the hearing of the case.The Supreme Court registered on Thursday the suo motu case over issues surrounding the treatment of Covid-19 patients and handling of the bodies of Covid-19 victims in hospitals. Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde took cognisance of media reports highlighting the issue and assigned the matter to the three-judge bench.“We direct that the chief secretaries of the states shall immediately take appropriate notice of the status of patients’ management in the government hospital in their respective states and take remedial action. Status reports with regard to government hospitals, patient care and the details of the staff, infrastructure, etc. should be brought before the court so that appropriate directions can be issued by the court as found necessary on the next date of hearing,” the order passed by the court said.The bench also expressed concern over reduced testing of samples in the national capital and described the situation in Delhi as “horrific”.LNJP hospital is a dedicated Covid hospital with 2,000 beds out which only 870 beds are occupied.“The patients are in the wards and the dead bodies are also in the same wards. Dead bodies are seen also in the lobby and waiting area. The patients were not supplied with any oxygen support or any other support, no saline drips were shown with the beds and there was no one to attend the patients. Patients are crying and there is no one to attend to them,” the court noted in its order.The court issued notice to LNJP Hospital as well. The director or medical superintendent of LNJP Hospital has to offer an explanation about the state of affairs in the hospital highlighted by the mediaCommenting on the court’s observation on the LNJP health facility, the Delhi government spokesperson said it was the biggest Covid-19 hospital in Delhi and “right now around 2,000 beds are operational there for the coronavirus patients”. “Many critical patients from the central government and the private hospitals in Delhi are being referred to LNJP Hospital for better medication. So far, over 2100 patients from LNJP hospital have successfully recovered from Covid-19 infection and returned to their homes,” the spokesperson said.“National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) is an autonomous body and their team visited the LNJP hospital on Thursday. They expressed their satisfaction after scrutinising facilities at the hospital. We will appraise the honourable Supreme Court about this as well,” the spokesperson added.According to the Delhi Corona app, there are 5,814 beds for Covid-19 patients in Delhi’s government hospitals out of which only 2,620 beds are occupied. Despite that, patients suffering from Covid-19 are running around desperately for admission in hospitals.“The large number of beds in government Covid-19 hospitals being vacant in a situation where patients suspected of Covid-19 are running from pillar to post to get admission in any hospital tells about the mismanagement and sorry state of government hospitals in Delhi,” the order said.The court’s order also mentioned “the grim situation in other states also, more particularly, in the states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Gujarat.” The court also took note of the insensitive manner in which bodies of Covid-19 patients were being handled by hospitals in violation of a directive issued by the central government on March 15.“The patients’ relatives are not even informed for several days about the death of the patient as has been reported in the media. It is also brought to our notice that the details of cremation as to when the dead body will be cremated are not even informed to their close relatives due to which the families of the patients are not even able to see the dead bodies or attend their last funeral rites,” the order said.In a text reply, Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary and member of Maharashtra’s task force to handle the Covid-19 crisis, who is authorised to speak on behalf of the government, said, “We can comment when the state government examines the order and decides on an appropriate response.” In West Bengal, senior Trinamool Congress leader and minister of state for parliamentary affairs Tapas Roy said, “The Supreme Court did not make any observation on West Bengal. It has served a notice to the state, seeking its reply. The court’s observations were related to Delhi and Tamil Nadu.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Bengal was critical. “The Bengal government does not wake up as long it is not pulled up by the judiciary,” said BJP state president Dilip Ghosh. A senior official from the Tamil Nadu directorate of public health, who did not want to be named, said: “We keep on expanding services based on the expected numbers. There is no shortage at any point of time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/treatment-of-the-dead-in-hospitals-deplorable-sc/story-bMA2ciV0KSeHcG6JpugE9H.html
13-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases hit 300,000 mark||India became only the fourth country in the world -- after the United States, Brazil and Russia -- to report more than 300,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, 103 days since the start of the outbreak in the country, with the latest 100,000 cases added in just the last 10 days, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.The country reported 11,172 new cases and 384 new deaths on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 309,324, and deaths to 8,882.More than 57% of all cases in India can be traced to just three states – Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu — a fact that highlights how the spread of the virus in the country has largely been centered in a handful of hot spot regions.While the last 100,000 cases surfaced in only 10 days; the previous 100,000 cases took 15 days; and the first 100,000 cases took 78 days. A little under a quarter of all cases have been reported just in the last week, with the total cases doubling over the last 17 days.An identical trajectory is also seen in the number of fatalities with more than a quarter of deaths coming in just the past week. At an average, 329 deaths have been reported every day in the past week. This number was 238 in the seven days before that. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the country stood at 2.9%, significantly lower than the worldwide figure of 5.6%. As of Friday, 154,150 patients had recovered from Covid-19, which means that nearly half (49.8%) of people who had been infected have since been discharged from hospitals. In fact, just this Tuesday, the number of recovered patients in the country outnumbered the number of active cases for the first time. As of Friday evening, there were 146,292 active cases in India.In terms of the areas in the country that have become the hot spots of the pandemic, we see that Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu – the three worst-hit states – account for more than 58% of all cases. If one includes Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh into the mix, it would account for nearly three out of every four cases in the country.Globally, more than 7.3 million infections of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, and 420,000 deaths has been reported since the virus was first reported in the central Chinese city of Wuhan at the end of last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-cases-hit-300-000-mark/story-n07v2KBTzwslzt6tZd6A6J.html
13-06-2020||India||Employers, workers can negotiate lockdown wages: Supreme Court||Private establishments, industries and employers are at liberty to negotiate with employees and arrive at a settlement regarding payment of wages for 50 days or any other period during which their establishments were closed due to the lockdown, the Supreme Court held on Friday.Such settlement arrived at by the employers and employees will be valid and can be enforced under law despite the March 29 notification of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) mandating payment of full wages to employees for the period during which the establishment was closed, a three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan clarified.“Both industry and labourers need each other. No Industry or establishment can survive without employees/ labourers and vice versa. We are thus of the opinion that efforts should be made to sort out the differences and disputes between the workers and the employers regarding payment of wages and if any settlement or negotiation can be entered into between them, it may restore a congenial work atmosphere,” the court said, explaining the rationale behind Friday’s interim order.Various private firms and associations had approached the Supreme Court challenging the March 29 notification by the MHA stating that the obligation to pay employees arises only when work is actually done.“An employer and employee have reciprocal promises whereby the right of an employee to demand salary is reciprocal to performance of work by such employee. The employer has a right to not pay if no work is done,” the plea by the Hand Tool Manufacturers Association, an association of around 52 firms based in Punjab, said.The notification issued by the MHA on March 29 stated that employers must pay wages in full to all their employees even if their establishments are closed due to the lockdown.“All the employers, be it in the industry or in the shops and commercial establishment, shall make payment of wages of their workers, at their work places on due date, without any deduction for the period their establishments are under closure during the lockdown,” clause (iii) of the MHA notification said.The notification was later withdrawn by the Centre on May 18, thus remaining in force for 50 days.The Supreme Court in its order passed on Friday did not decide the validity of the notification itself, instead posting the case for a detailed hearing on that aspect in the last week of July. The central government through its top law officer, attorney general KK Venugopal, defended the notification stating that it was intended to alleviate human suffering and will not come in the way if employers and employees wanted to negotiate payment terms.“Government of India is interested in economy restarting, industries restarting. It is for employers to negotiate with employees as to how much wage could be paid for lockdown period, we will not interfere,” the attorney general told the court during a hearing on June 4.However, various industries, traders and their associations, who are petitioners before the apex court in the case, countered that by arguing the workers will not come to the negotiating table as long as the government notification mandating payment of full wages is in operation.The bench had shared the concerns of employers during the hearing stating that mandating payment of full wages during the lockdown could adversely impact industries. The court on June 4 granted protection to employers from any coercive action for violation of the MHA notification. That protection was extended by the court on Friday.The court said employers, establishments, industries and factories that were working during the lockdown period, though not to their full capacity, could also resort to negotiation with their employees.“Private establishments, industries, factories shall permit the employees to work in their establishment who are willing to work, which may be without prejudice to the rights of the employees regarding unpaid wages of above 50 days,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-wages-can-be-negotiated-sc/story-giEkQiO1aSmleNLUJFmSSJ.html
13-06-2020||India||India, US in war of ideas with China: Ex-US diplomat in chat with Rahul Gandhi||Former top United States (US) diplomat Nicholas Burns on Friday dismissed suggestions China is winning the battle against the coronavirus, saying the country has a “fearful leadership” intent on preserving its power and incapable of accommodating the Chinese people’s desire for freedom. Democracies such as India and the US are waging a “battle of ideas with China” and should work together to “make it observe the rule of law”, he said during a video conversation with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. The conversation was part of a series between Gandhi and global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences. As under secretary of state for political affairs during 2005-08 and the state department’s third-ranking official, Burns led negotiations on the India-US civil nuclear agreement. His remarks come in the backdrop of a weeks-long border stand-off between India and China and intensified rivalry between the US and China. Responding to Gandhi’s question on why there has been almost no global cooperation on the Covid-19 crisis, Burns said: “It is a terrible disappointment to me. I’m sure it is to you…this crisis was made for the G20. It was made for Prime Minister Modi and President Xi Jinping and Donald Trump to be working together, all of our countries, for the common global good.”This hadn’t happened, he said, “because Donald Trump doesn’t really believe in international cooperation. He’s a unilateralist…And Xi Jinping chose to compete with Trump.” He added that the US and China were at the “heart of the problem” and hoped they will better work together more effectively in any future crisis.Burns said: “I think a lot of people right now are saying…China’s winning the battle of the Coronavirus, that it’s gaining hearts and minds. I actually don’t see that.“He added that China certainly had “extraordinary power”, which was ”probably not equal to the US militarily, economically, politically yet”. “But it’s gaining, no question about it. What China lacks is the sophistication and openness of a democratic country like India or the US.”Describing China as an “authoritarian country” without the “self-corrective part” of the national DNA seen in India and the US, Burns said the leadership in Beijing is “fearful”. He added, “Fearful men trying to preserve their own power, increasing the grip that they have on their own citizens. Look at what’s happening in Xinjiang…and in Hong Kong.”He said he worried that the “Chinese system is not going to be flexible enough to accommodate the desires of the Chinese people for human freedom and liberty”.The governments of India and the US should together promote democracy, freedom and rule of law around the world, said Burns, who served in the US government for 27 years. “I think it is a powerful idea that Indians and Americans can bring together to the rest of the world. Again…we are not looking for a conflict with China, but we are waging, in a way, a battle of ideas with China,” he said.Gandhi said the partnership between India and the US worked because both were tolerant nations but that DNA of tolerance has now disappeared. He also said the India-US relationship used to be a partnership but now seems to have become “very transactional and episodic”.“I think why our partnership works is because we are tolerant systems. You mentioned that you are an immigrant nation. We are a very tolerant nation. Our DNA is supposed to be tolerant. We are supposed to accept new ideas,” the Congress leader said while responding to Burns, who insisted India and the US share many traits.“We are supposed to be open but the surprising thing is…that open DNA is sort of disappearing…I say this with sadness that I don’t see that level of tolerance that I used to see. I don’t see it in the Us and I don’t see it in India,” Gandhi said.The discussion also focused on the Black Lives Matter protests in the US triggered by the death of George Floyd, which Burns described as “horrible”. He added, “And millions of Americans are protesting for our rights the way you have in India. And India and the US share many traits as we both have liberated ourselves from the British in different [eras]….The US is in a deep political and existential crisis that has gripped us all.”Gandhi criticised divisions in both countries, saying they weaken nations. “When you divide African Americans, Mexicans and other people in the US, so you divide Hindus and Muslims and Sikhs in India, you’re weakening the structure of the country. But then the same people who weaken the structure of the country say they are the nationalists,” he said.Burns described Indian Americans as the “secret weapon” in the bilateral relationship and said the two sides should keep their doors open to each other and lower restrictions on the movement of people. Barriers should be kept low for schemes such as the H-1B visa programme as India can supply the engineers needed by the US, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-in-war-of-ideas-with-china-ex-us-diplomat-in-chat-with-rahul-gandhi/story-GDZ1hUWNxvT3KVdNpyNv5N.html
13-06-2020||India||Gujarat Congress seeks EC action over BJP’s ‘abuse’ of power||The Congress on Friday asked the Election Commission (EC) to take action against “misuse and abuse of official machinery by the ruling party to harass” party legislators in the run-up to the Rajya Sabha polls. In its representation, made by senior Congress leaders Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Shaktisinh Gohil, Rajeev Satav, Ahmed Patel, Amit Chavda and Randeep Singh Surjewala, the party has asked the EC to take note of the FIR filed against its Gujarat MLA Punjabhai Vansh. “This is a blatant use of police machinery,” states the representation, a copy of which has been accessed by Hindustan Times. “We strongly apprehend that anyhow, with illegal aid of the police, the ruling party is likely to prevent the MLAs from reaching the place of voting. It has also come to light that the ruling BJP intends to reopen old cases and lodge false and frivolous cases against INC MLAs with an intent to impede voters’ rights in the elections,” it adds.The party has requested the EC to not allow the state government to file any more cases without its approval. “We also request the EC to intervene and direct that no MLA should be harassed and/or arrested,” said Congress. “The Commission has already appointed a very senior former IAS officer, Raghav Chandra, as observer to ensure free and fair elections in the state,” said an EC official. “EC is determined to conduct free and fair elections but we can’t intervene in this, matters of jurisprudence are a separate thing. But to ensure there are no apprehension we will keep a watch and take adequate action as and when necessary,” the official added.A second official at the Commission said that a report has been sought from the state government and it will be assessed.The two parties have been at loggerheads over 24 Rajya Sabha seats, including the 18 for which elections were initially slated to be held in March but were pushed to June 19 due to the coronavirus crisis. The Congress, earlier this week, alleged that the BJP was trying to poach its legislators in Gujarat and Rajasthan. Subsequently, it moved its MLAs to resorts. “If people wish to leave a sinking ship, should the BJP be blamed for it?” asked BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli. “With regard to the petition, the EC is a constitutional body, it will adjudicate on law and not on the basis of what Congress desires and does not desire.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guj-cong-seeks-ec-action-over-bjp-s-abuse-of-power/story-vszAbqcwW8cPVI2NXh7REI.html
13-06-2020||India||UP refuses to open borders with Delhi for now||Restrictions on travel between Uttar Pradesh and Delhi will continue to remain in place considering the spike in Covid-19 infections in the national capital, the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government told the Supreme Court on Friday.The UP administration said it will allow essential services, medical staff, media personnel and advocates to travel between the two states, and added that it was not in a position to open the borders at Noida and Ghaziabad immediately.“There are only (about) 1,000 Covid cases in Noida and Ghaziabad. In Delhi, the total deaths due to Covid is more than 1,000, while it is just 40 in Noida and Ghaziabad,” advocate Garima Prashad submitted on behalf of UP.Haryana, meanwhile, informed the apex court that it will allow travel without restrictions to and from Delhi.On June 4, the Supreme Court asked Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to set up a uniform system for hassle-free movement within the National Capital Region (NCR), a move aimed at clearing up widespread confusion among thousands of commuters.The court was hearing a petition seeking free movement within NCR, an area that comprises the territory of Delhi and districts in the surrounding states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The cities of Gurugram and Faridabad (Haryana), and Noida and Ghaziabad (UP) fall within the NCR.The petitioner in the case, Rohit Bhalla, a resident of Gurugram, pointed out the troubles commuters were facing at the borders due to state-specific rules. He said measures adopted by states were disproportionately impacting citizens in NCR and violating their fundamental rights, including the right to movement under Article 19(1)(d) and the right to carry on with trade or occupation under Article 19(1)(g).The absence of a common pass system was another aspect which Bhalla pointed out in his petition. A three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, in its June 4 directive, asked the central government to convene a meeting of officials from Delhi, UP and Haryana and come up with a common portal to facilitate interstate travel such as the one between Delhi and Noida or Delhi and Gurugram.A meeting of officials from the three states was convened on June 9, and Haryana agreed that there will be no restrictions on interstate travel. UP, however, had a different take.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the central government, said on Friday he will file a status report on the meeting of June 9. The top court adjourned the matter for June 17 after recording the UP counsel’s submissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-refuses-to-open-borders-with-delhi-for-now/story-AUBQ97N8qsaescYQtEVtCM.html
13-06-2020||India||1 Indian dead in Nepal border firing; 3rd incident after India eased lockdown||One Indian national was killed and two others were injured when Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF), which guards the country’s open border with India, opened fire on a group following an altercation inside its territory near the border in Sitamarhi (Bihar), security and government officials said .The incident does not seem to be linked to the recent friction between India and Nepal over the latter redrawing its map to claim territory that India has always claimed. One official, who asked not to be named, said this is third such incident in the last one month on the border when Nepal’s police force has fired to disperse people, particularly after India started easing its nationwide lockdown – first on May 17 and then completely on June 1. Nepal has announced a lockdown in the border region till June 14. Due to coronavirus disease, the free movement of people between India had Nepal stopped over the past three months with Nepal APF increasing the number of posts to stop Indians from entering its territory. Only those on a list shared by local administrations from both sides were allowed to travel to and fro; cargo movement was also allowed. With India easing its lockdown, the officials explained, Indians in border villages have been trying to go across the border as they used to, and the APF has been intervening to stop them. Without sharing details, the first official added that “on two previous occasions, the Nepal APF fired in the air near the border to prevent people trying to enter its territory.”Another official who asked not to be named said that Vikesh Yadav (22), who was killed in firing on Friday morning near Lalbandi-Janki Nagar border, and the two injured Uday Thakur (24) and Umesh Ram (18) , were not in the list of persons shared by the local administrations. They were accompanied by others from their village and stones were thrown at the APF, the second official added, citing preliminary reports.“Nepal APF has informed us that the villagers tried to snatch weapons from them but there will be an enquiry by them and by us also. As of now, everything is peaceful and locals have been told not to violate the lockdown imposed by Nepal,” said this person.The incident comes at a time when both countries are locked in a diplomatic dispute over territory following a map issued by Nepal that stakes claim over Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. India’s ministry of external affairs said “such artificial enlargement of territorial claims will not be accepted by India”.India maintains that these were part of Uttarakhand while Kathmandu, in its recent map, had shown them as part of Western Nepal.Kumar Rajesh Chandra , Director General of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), India’s force on the borderexplained that the local incident took place around 8.40 am in Nepalese territory when members of a family, some of whom reside in Nepal (and some in India) were meeting near the border. “The Nepal APF objected (to them being there) saying there is lockdown in Nepal till June 14 , leading to some avoidable and instant altercation. Nepal APF has said that villagers became aggressive and they had to open 15 rounds of fire. This is being investigated.” Chandra added that situation is now normal and local commanders on both sides are in touch. He said SSB has submitted preliminary findings to the ministry of home affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-indian-dead-in-nepal-border-police-s-firing/story-1ib1ttriLvMMb8xXk5PzoM.html
13-06-2020||India||Covid-19: India-specific clinical score may predict risk||Some members of the national task force on Covid-related matters have proposed an India-specific clinical score to identify people with coronavirus who are at a higher risk of developing severe disease or dying, which will help in picking up warning signs early and saving lives.While doctors have been using their clinical acumen to determine which patient could turn serious, the national guidelines will be standardised, looking at the overall evidence generated from the country.“Some of us have been asking for analysis of India data and surveys to develop our own clinical score. It will require a set protocol that the task force is in the process of forming. However, no final decision has been taken on it yet,” said a member of the task force, who did not wish to be identified.Among the risk factors that have been seen in Covid patients in India that likely led to the disease turning severe is more than one co-morbid condition such as diabetes and hypertension, chronic kidney disease and obesity.“This is what is being usually seen but there could be other conditions that are specific to our patients. Hence, more evidence needs to be looked at comprehensively from hospitals across India to zero in on all those conditions that lead to a higher risk of Covid patients developing serious illnesses and not recovering as well. This will help further improve our case fatality rate,” said another member, requesting anonymity.“CDC has also come out with a list of high-risk conditions among Covid patients, and it makes sense for India also to come up with a list of our own, based on how our patients behave,” the member added.The US CDC (United States Centre for Disease Control) has enlisted 11 conditions that can lead to severe Covid disease.The conditions are asthma, chronic kidney disease with dialysis, chronic lung disease, diabetes, haemoglobin disorders, immunocompromised condition, liver disease, people aged 65 years and older, people in nursing homes and long-term care facilities, serious heart conditions, and severe obesity.A study published in JAMA network last month also endorsed creating a clinical risk score to “help identify patients with Covid-19 who may subsequently develop critical illness.”Experts say it will also help in rationalising resources now that cases are rising in India.“With the number of patients rising, this is also a way of rationalising how to use the medical resources in the best possible way, as people shouldn’t be occupying beds unnecessarily. Those who need it must get it,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.The clinical score, he says, will also help doctors in taking note of patients with non-specific symptoms.“Not everyone is landing with cough, or breathlessness, some are also coming with loss of smell or diarrhoea, so if there is a set list that doctors can refer to then it will improve patient selection at the time of triage, especially in smaller towns or remote areas,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-specific-clinical-score-may-predict-risk/story-AagORl7PtVgMGKgy2NAbcN.html
13-06-2020||India||PM Modi to hold meeting with CMs next week||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to hold a video conference with all chief ministers next week, for consultations about emerging from the lockdown and the increasing number of coronavirus disease cases across the country. The meeting, sixth since the PM announced a national lockdown on March 24 to arrest the spread of the virus, will be held over two days – June 16 and 17 – to cover 21 CMs on day 1 and the remaining on the second day. According to the schedule for the meeting, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will begin the consultation process on Tuesday afternoon and Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik will be the last to address it on Wednesday evening. HT has reviewed the schedule.“The Prime Minister will listen to us,’’ said a state minister who did not want to be identified, when asked about the agenda of the meeting. The last meeting was held on May 11 ahead of the deadline of the lockdown, and chief ministers had asked for greater autonomy to decide the future course of action to deal with the pandemic. Since then, each state has taken its own decision about restrictions, with the Union ministry of home affairs laying out broader guidelines. For instance, while announcing the `unlockdown’ towards the end of May, the MHA allowed inter-state movement of passengers but left each state to decide whether they wanted to go ahead with it or not. While Delhi allowed it, Haryana was initially hesitant and Uttar Pradesh still restricts movement from Delhi.The meeting comes at a time when the number of infections has been on the rise, especially in metros like Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. “We will know more details tomorrow but we are expecting him to discuss ‘unlocking’,” said an official associated with a Chief Minister’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-meeting-with-cms-next-week/story-av8ubNiD97Q8TlDMGRn9jP.html
13-06-2020||India||Rajya Sabha asks MPs to cancel railway tickets in time||A sitting lawmaker of the Rajya Sabha didn’t use 85% of his booked rail tickets in a month -- but the Upper House had to anyway pay the bill because he didn’t bother to cancel.The fact came to light during the Rajya Sabha secretariat’s analysis of train booking by members as part of an effort to curb wasteful expenses. House officials on Wednesday informed Rajya Sabha members that if they don’t cancel their extra tickets, cancellation charges would be recovered from them.Another former MP, the analysis revealed, booked 63 train tickets in just over 23 days but used only 7, wasting about Rs 1.5 lakh of the secretariat.Parliamentarians are entitled to travel at any time in a train in first-class AC or executive class. The member can also be accompanied by one person in air-conditioned two-tier, while travelling by rail, according to the official handbook of MPs.While the number of air tickets for an MP is capped at 34 in a year, there is no such restriction on train tickets. “An MP or his aide might book several tickets on different dates or trains and finally travel as per their convenience,” said an official.Even as the Rajya Sabha secretariat acknowledges the workload of MPs—visiting their constituency, attending social events or parliamentary meetings and other duties as a political leader—they are worried about the wastage of unutilized tickets.“A former Rayja Sabha member made 63 train bookings in just one month but availed only 7. The secretariat had to pay for all 63 bookings even as 87% of the bookings were just wasted,” said an official.Made over 23 days in January last year, these bookings cost a total of Rs. 1.69 lakh. “The fare for his actual travel stood at just Rs 22,085. But the secretariat paid an extra amount of Rs. 1.46 lakhs,” said the analysis.Indian Railways raises its bill every January for all the bookings done throughout the calendar year. For 2019, it submitted a total bill of Rs 7.8 crores to Parliament of India, out of which one-third is to be paid by the Rajya Sabha and the rest by the Lok Sabha Secretariat.Officials fear that out of these tickets billed last year, a large part may have been unutilized, yet not cancelled.To put an end to this practise, Rajya Sabha secretary general Desh Dipak Verma issued a note requesting members to cancel extra tickets in time.“Multiple bookings are being made by some members in various trains departing from same/different stations to different destination stations for the same day. Rajya Sabha Secretariat has to make payments to the Ministry of Railways even for those bookings which are actually not utilized by the members,” Verma wrote.Reminding MPs of unnecessary expenses, especially at a time when Indian Parliament is undertaking drastic measures to cut costs, Verma said, “In case of non-cancellation of bookings which are not actually utilised by the members, the amount of fare of such bookings shall be recovered from the members.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-asks-mps-to-cancel-railway-tickets-in-time/story-Cxb2dHCMMZolKKldly5pTL.html
13-06-2020||India||Four states impose weekend curfews to contain Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Odisha and Uttarakhand will impose strict restrictions on weekends though businesses and other activities will continue to be allowed on weekdays as states look to kick-start the economy and contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the same time. In these four states, only essential services will be allowed on weekends and people will have to stay indoors — restrictions similar to that during the hard lockdown imposed on March 25, according to government orders. In some cases, the restrictions will be restricted to certain districts or worst-hit areas.“All citizens, except medical staff and essential service providers, will be required to download e-passes from the COVA app (Punjab’s coronavirus alert app),” chief minister Amarinder Singh said at a video conference on Thursday. A day before that, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik decided to impose a weekend curfew in 11 districts, including in the worst-affected Ganjam. Madhya Pradesh health minister Narottam Mishra, too, said a weekend curfew will be imposed in state capital Bhopal.“We cannot close down everything for a long period. It has a very adverse impact on the economy and the livelihood of the people. But we have decided to impose stricter restrictions in Dehradun,” Uttararkhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Wednesday.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and Kerala’s Pinayari Vijayan did not impose any weekend restriction but appealed to people to stay indoors on Saturday and Sunday.“Travel only if it is necessary. Stay indoors and stay safe,” Yediyurappa said on Friday.Vijayan said curfew-like restrictions will be imposed in the containment zones, which have strict perimeter control and are considered the epicentres of infections.In a related development, Kerala decided on Friday to shut the Guruvayur Sree Krishna temple after a spurt in Covid-19 cases in Thrissur district, where the famous shrine is situated. “Many areas in Thrissur have reported a spike in cases. In the prevailing situation, it is good to avoid crowding. The suggestion came from the temple board and the government approved it immediately,” said state minister Kadakampallly Surendran.Unlike several states, Jharkhand has decided not to open malls, cinema halls, religious places and dine-in restaurants despite a central government order allowing these business and activities from June 8. Also, the Mizoram government decided on Monday to impose a complete lockdown for at least two weeks.“We cannot allow public gathering as a large number of migrant workers from states with high number of Covid cases are returning. We will not open the places of gatherings till cases start coming down,” said a Jharkhand government official who did not want to be named.Several states have decided to begin house-to-house surveillance and testing of every person in containment areas. Also, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan have issued directions aimed at putting strict travel restrictions on interstate borders.Some have not yet allowed free movement on borders even as several states have done away with travel passes. “We are continuing with the pass system for interstate travel as it helps to monitor those coming into the state,” said a Himachal Pradesh government official.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-states-impose-weekend-curfews/story-v9sgUAFq9PxVRTOS79hpxJ.html
13-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu gets new health secretary as death toll comes under scanner||Tamil Nadu on Friday appointed current revenue administration commissioner J Radhakrishnan as the new health secretary, transferring Dr Beela Rajesh to the commercial taxes and registration department, a day after the state’s data on deaths due to the coronavirus disease came under the scanner. The move also comes at a time when a multi-disciplinary team appointed by the Centre to study the state’s low mortality rate, among other parameters, is expected to submit its report to the Union health ministry. It had visited the seven worst affected districts in the state, including Chennai, earlier this month.Other appointmentsMay 9: Madhya Pradesh Pallavi Jain Govil transferred to general administration department. Replaced by Faiz Ahmad KidwaiMay 12: West Bengal Vivek Kumar transferred to the environment department. Replaced by Narayan Swaroop NigamMay 20: Bihar Sanjay Kumar transferred to the tourism department. Replaced by Uday Singh KumawatMay 29: Nagaland, Principal secretary health Menukhol John transferred to education department. Replaced by Ahola Those.June 12: Tamil Nadu, Dr Beela Rajesh transferred to Commercial taxes and registration department. Replaced by J Radhakrishnan“Our concern is to prevent and contain the disease. If it spreads, we should not lose lives. In that context, Tamil Nadu emerges as the best in the country. This visit will offer us insights which can be emulated in other states,” Rajendra Ratnoo, the nodal officer in the central team coordinating between the Centre and the state, said. The team is also expected to assess gaps in the state’s response to the pandemic, and recommend areas of improvement.Earlier this week, the TN Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine found that the death registry maintained by the Greater Chennai Corporation had recorded 236 deaths that were not added to the state’s tally. A nine-member committee has been formed to reconcile Covid-19 related deaths for Chennai.When asked whether a rectification of Covid-19 death numbers would affect the report, Ratnoo said, “We have asked the government to share all the data with us which we will analyse again after it’s updated.”As of June 11, Tamil Nadu (38,716) had the second highest number of cases in the country after Maharashtra (97,648). While Chennai accounted for 70% of the caseload in the state, other affected districts include Chengalpattu, Kacheepuram, Thiruvallur, Ariyalur, Villupuram and Cuddalore.The central team, which included two doctors from Puducherry’s Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, arrived at the capital city on June 4 and travelled to the worst hit districts over three days to study the measures undertaken by the state to tackle the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, including testing levels, containment strategies, quarantine facilities, treatment and clinical management.The team is currently analysing the data and will submit the report soon, Ratnoo said.The Centre has deployed a three-member multi-disciplinary team each in 50 districts of 15 states with a high burden of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for direct monitoring of the situation, and assist in the management of the pandemic.TAMIL NADU’S TESTING LEVELSTamil Nadu also registers the second highest tests per million among the 10 worst affected states in the country. While the national average is 4024 tests per million, Tamil Nadu conducts 8662 tests per million. The only other state that tests more than it is Delhi, which had 34687 cases as of June 11, and a testing average of 13703 per million.According to experts, the state’s public healthcare system that has been in the making for decades is responsible for the robust testing mechanism in place. A turning point was the swine flu outbreak in 2009 when laboratories with RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction) facilities were increased across the state. This existing infrastructure resulted in approvals for 77 government and private labs to test Covid-19; one of the highest in the country.“Years of work in strengthening our system is yielding results now,” says Dr K Kolandaswamy, who retired as Director of Public Health on April 30. “Availability of equipment, knowledge of testing, trained manpower helped us to quickly expand efforts during Covid-19.” RT-PCR machines were also mobilised from medical colleges and departments of animal husbandry, agriculture, biotechnology and fisheries.This allowed the state to scale up testing during outbreaks such as when attendees of a religious conference in New Delhi returned to the state in March, or when the Koyambedu wholesale market in Chennai emerged as a hot spot.The state scaled up testing to thousands of samples everyday after it mismanaged one of Asia’s largest wholesale markets in Koyambedu located in the heart of Chennai. From this epicenter the infection spread rapidly across Tamil Nadu and all the way to Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. This compelled extensive contact tracing and testing to contain transmission. More than 3,000 positive cases have been linked to the market and officials say it has been contained. Now, efforts are underway to trace domestic and international travellers using air and rail.“Koyambedu market was our most massive and difficult contact tracing exercise,” said a doctor, who did not wish to be named, at the emergency control room in Chennai from where he oversees contact tracing for the entire state. From mapping international co-passengers to watching wedding videos to track guests, this team coordinates with the state’s health, police and revenue departments, as well as the control rooms in all districts.In one of the earliest cases in March, contact tracing found that a staffperson at Chennai’s Phoenix Marketcity had contracted the virus from a Kerala-based customer who tested positive on landing in Sri Lanka.At a hyperlocal level, contact tracing helped contain transmission at a single street in Chennai in May. A volunteer who distributed food to residents in his neighbourhood was the primary source. A flow chart of the locations he visited and all people with whom he had interacted was prepared. Health workers went door-to-door and police rang up contacts to check for symptoms; 42 cases were reported solely from the street of the volunteer’s residence. A week later it surged to 88 including adjoining lanes. All patients have now recovered. There are 360 containment zones in Chennai currently.“There is an intense street specific approach being taken to root out coronavirus by tracking, tracing, isolating, testing and treating the patients,” J Radhakrishnan had said earlier this week. “The high numbers are an opportunity to bring out positive cases and their contacts so we can limit the spread.”Radhakrishnan, a 1992 batch IAS officer, was appointed as Special Nodal Officer for Greater Chennai Corporation to coordinate coronavirus-related issues with the civic body chief on May 1. “We are looking at team work, interdepartmental coordination and cooperation from the public,”Radhakrishnan said after taking charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-replaces-its-health-secy-after-death-toll-discrepancy/story-uPFlVCpQroS2tsruwfu7NI.html
13-06-2020||India||Don’t stop people, goods vehicles on national, state highways: MHA||The ministry of home affairs on Friday wrote to states that the 9pm to 5am night curfew announced as part of its Unlock-1 guidelines on May 30 did not apply to passenger transport and movement of goods on national and state highways, officials said.The Centre has objected to states restricting movement of such vehicles on highways during the night curfew. In a communication to all states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla also said the purpose of restricting movement of individuals during the night was primarily intended at preventing congregation of people and ensuring social distancing, but not hampering supply chains and logistics.“I would like to clarify that the purpose of restricting movement of individuals, except for essential activities, between 9pm and 5am, is primarily intended to prevent congregation of persons and to ensure social distancing,” Bhalla said in his letter.“The restriction does not apply to instances of loading/unloading of goods (as part of supply chains and logistics); buses carrying persons and trucks and goods carriers plying on state and national highways; or persons travelling to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and flights,” he added.He advised the states’ governments not to prevent such movement.The current lockdown measures are restricted only to containment zones across the country and will continue till June 30. A large number of social, economic, religious and sports activities have been allowed as part of Unlock-1.Key activities which have opened in the past 12 days include hotels, shopping malls and the dine-in facility in restaurants, which were closed since March 24. However, international flights, Metro rail services, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums and assembly halls are still banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-stop-people-goods-vehicles-on-national-state-highways-mha/story-SlndF6DfsofBRqaHGHFAUI.html
13-06-2020||India||Millions of children may be pushed to work due to Covid-19||Millions more children the world over risk being pushed into labour as a result of the crisis caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic , which could lead to the first increase in child labour in 20 years, according to a new report released by UN agencies on Friday.Child labour has declined by 94 million since 2000, but job losses and rising poverty because of the lockdown and sickness is likely to force more children to seek exploitative and hazardous jobs as families use every available means to earn some money and survive, said the joint report by Unicef the and International Labour Organization (ILO) released to mark the world day against child labour, June 12.Studies in the past have found that a one percentage point increase in poverty leads to at least a 0.7 per cent percentage point increase in child labour, said the report titled Covid-19 and child labour: a time of crisis, a time to act. Temporary school closures to prevent the spread of the disease are currently affecting more than 1 billion students in at least 130 countries.Even when classes restart, some parents may no longer be able to afford to send their children to school. Gender inequalities are likely to grow more acute, with girl children particularly vulnerable to exploitation in agriculture and domestic work.“We need to make sure that children are kept in schools and use proactive approaches to get them back to school, particularly in the aftermath of the lockdown when schools were shut. Social protection and cash transfer programmes for families that have been affected the most is essential to help them provide for the basic needs of their families,” said Soledad Herrero, Unicef’s chief of child protection in India.Around 10.1 million children, 3.9% of India’s 5-14 year-old population of 259.6 million, are employed either as the main worker or as marginal worker, according to the Census of India 2011, which recorded a 2.6 million decrease in child labour since 2001. Rural areas accounted for most of the decline as the number of child workers increased in urban areas, indicating the growing demand for child workers in menial and underpaid jobs in the cities, according to ILO.“Children are the worst impacted in any form of disaster. Covid-19 will be no different. If past trends are to repeat themselves,I believe that millions of children would be forced into child labour across the country. One prevailing perception that will go against children is that children are not being affected by this virus as compared to older people in the family. This will work as a push factor for children to be sent to work, whilst older people will remain at home with the fear of infection,” said Anindit Roy Choudhary, director of programmes and policy impact at the child rights organisation Save the Children (India).Vulnerable population groups – such as those working in the informal economy and migrant workers – have suffered the most from a Covid-19-induced economic downturn, which has increased unemployment, caused a general decline in living standards amid insufficient social protection systems, among other pressures, the report said.Financial distress also increases the risk of child trafficking. “Families, migrant or otherwise, have lost livelihood and economic deprivation has hit families majorly all across. This this will create opportunities for traffickers to recruit children into commercial sexual exploitation, child labour, etc,” said Roy Choudhary.Social protection, easier access to credit, job creation, frequent labour inspections and tighter law enforcement, and measures to get children back into school, including the elimination of school fees, can help mitigate the crises. “We need to work very closely with the family to support the integration of the children in school and some sort of vocational training. Families, communities and businesses have to be on board, including all levels in the private sector, so they feel the pressure to do the right thing, and work with customers to ensure the law is enforced,” said Herrero.“Social protection is vital in times of crisis because it helps those who are most vulnerable. Integrating child labour concerns across broader policies for education, social protection, justice, labour markets, and international human and labour rights makes a critical difference,” ILO director-general Guy Ryder said in a statement. Unicef and ILO are developing a simulation model to look at the impact of Covid-19 on child labour globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/millions-of-children-may-be-pushed-to-work-due-to-covid/story-8m1Z3Tqe9DxfC4Zq2wQDcJ.html
13-06-2020||India||Govt extends deadline for defence equipment||The defence ministry on Friday announced that it had extended the delivery period for all existing capital acquisition contracts with Indian vendors by four months because of supply chain disruptions caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). An order passed by ministry’s acquisition wing and approved by defence minister Rajnath Singh notes that “force majeure shall be applicable for a period of four months i.e. 25th March 2020 to 24th July 2020,” said a defence ministry statement. A force majeure refers to unexpected circumstances that prevent someone from fulfilling a contract.The duration of the force majeure will be excluded while calculating the delay in delivery of the contracted equipment/service and imposition of liquidated damages (compensation that may have to be paid for breach of contract), the statement added.“This measure would bring a big relief to the domestic defence industry whose production schedules have been adversely affected by the Covid-19 situation,” a defence ministry spokesperson said.Foreign vendors can directly approach the ministry, which may consider cases on the basis of the situation prevailing in their respective countries, he added.Deliveries that are in the offing include more locally-made artillery guns, light combat aircraft in the more advanced ‘final operational clearance’ configuration and smaller boats.“The extension of the delivery period due to the Covid-19 pandemic is a positive and expected move. The Indian industry had sought some extra time as supply chains have been disrupted,” an HAL official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-extends-deadline-for-defence-equipment/story-wqQCQwQBIk1UxOeiQ4i0NM.html
13-06-2020||India||Supreme Court calls for finding middle path between ecology, development||Saving the environment should not come at the cost of economic development, the Supreme Court said on Friday, adding that a balance should be struck between the two.The observation by the top court came on a plea filed by a lawyer, Abir Phukan, seeking a ban on mining in the Saleki forest reserve, situated close to the Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary in Assam. The area falls in the elephant corridor and in this region, state-owned Coal Indian Limited (CIL) has obtained approval for mining from the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) in April this year.The Centre, represented by additional solicitor general (ASG) Vikramjeet Banerjee, opposed the plea ,claiming that the environmental impact had already been assessed by the NBWL.Faced with conflicting positions, the bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy said, “We are conscious of the fact that our orders in favour of environment affect economic development adversely. There has to be some method by which economic development is not retarded as this has a direct impact on poverty in the country.”In the past, action taken by the court to protect the environment has faced criticism, for instance its decision to ban diesel vehicles to curb air pollution. Walking the tightrope, the bench said that it was aware of the constitutional duty to protect the environment but at the same time, it cannot be oblivious to the economic impact.The court issued notice on the application moved by Phukan and directed ASG Banerjee to come out with a proposal for an alternative site in three weeks. The petitioner was asked to add North Eastern Coalfields,a unit of Coal India, as a party to the case. The standing committee of NBWL gave approval to North Eastern Coalfields on April 7 at a meeting conducted through videoconferencing. The total lease area of 98.59 hectares is situated within a 10-kilometre radius from the boundary of Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary.The petition pointed out that on August 29, 2019, the standing committee of NBWL had advised a cautious approach, suggesting that the views of wildlife experts be to sought to assess the impact of the proposed mining in the elephant corridor, considering the area’s rich biodiversity. The petitioner claimed: “While several measures would be warranted to create jobs and lift the economy, it is submitted that all such measures should be premised on principles of sustainable development highlighted time and again by this Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-calls-for-finding-middle-path-between-ecology-development/story-CpHaXzfGDErvxNSmpkoN3K.html
13-06-2020||India||Monsoon arrives, to keep date with Mumbai in 48 hours||Under the influence of a low pressure area which is lying over the Odisha coast, the monsoon has surged and covered the entire Bay of Bengal, northeast India, some parts of Arabian Sea. Goa, and parts of Maharashtra, according to India Meteorological Department.Conditions are favourable for monsoon to advance into many other parts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, in the next 48 hours. It will also enter West Bengal and Odisha. “The monsoon has strengthened its pace because of the low-pressure system which developed over Bay of Bengal. In fact, by early next week, it will enter Gujarat, covering many parts of central India. This system has helped the monsoon move at its normal pace. It’s too early for us to tell if monsoon will arrive over Delhi on its normal date, June 27,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.Monsoon rains till May 12 are 34% in excess with northwest India recording 42% excess rains, central India recording 95% excess rains, south peninsula 28% excess and northeast India 4% deficient. Due to the low pressure area, scattered heavy to very heavy with extremely heavy rainfall in some areas is likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Telangana, Coastal Karnataka, Vidarbha and Konkan and Goa in the next couple of days and some heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over interior Karnataka, interior Maharashtra and Odisha on Saturday.Parts of northwest India will also get thunderstorms over the weekend. “This is because moisture laden easterly winds are blowing over northwest India and a western disturbance is also impacting the region. So intermittent thundershowers can be expected for the next 2 to 3 days,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-arrives-to-keep-date-with-mumbai-in-48-hrs/story-lHNrGsUlGxDx4PtnMpT4dJ.html
13-06-2020||India||PM Modi to meet chief ministers on June 16, 17 amid spike in Covid-19 cases||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be meeting chief ministers over two days next week- June 16 and 17- amid concerns regarding a spike in coronavirus cases across the country. As the fourth phase of lockdown was drawing to a close, it was home minister Amit Shah who held a meeting with chief ministers to deliberate a way out and seek their views. On all earlier occasions, the PM had fronted the talks. Once again, Modi will be meeting the chief ministers as the coronavirus crisis get grimmer.Addressing the Indian Chamber of Commerce on Thursday, PM Modi stressed that the Covid-19 crisis has to be turned into an opportunity and push India towards a self-reliant path. “Every citizen of this country has resolved to turn this crisis into an opportunity. We have to make this a major turning point for this nation. What is that turning point? A self-reliant India,” said the PM.  Coronavirus cases in the country crossed the grim milestone of three lakh cases, barely two weeks after the Centre announced lifting of the nationwide lockdown in phases and dubbed it Unlock 1, on Friday evening. With an “economic focus”, the ministry of home affairs, just before the close of lockdown 4.0, announced that all activities will be opened up in areas outside the containment zone and presented a three-phase plan. A lockdown will, however, remain in place in containment zones till June 30.Maharashtra has the highest Covid-19 positive cases in India with 1,01,141 patients, followed by Tamil Nadu with 40,698 and national capital Delhi with 34,687. India now ranks the fourth-highest in the list of nations hit hard by the highly infectious disease.Some commentators say that India went into lockdown early. Other countries, they say, lifted their lockdown when their disease curve had started to deflate, but here the restrictions are being eased as the curve is going up exponentially.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-chief-ministers-on-june-16-17-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-NfrdSrgsLdDovYdH860teJ.html
